Technology is a trip, huh? You guys, it's I mean, I got to think I'm I'm 52 and even this a lot of you guys are like, "So, it's just a sure mic and there's a roadcaster duo sitting right over there that helps make this all sound much better so I don't sound terrible in this room." And bunch of TVs and cameras, ring light, all this stuff, right? And a lot of people just go and but you got to understand like that phone right over there over my shoulder is a personal recording studio among many other things that it could do. That was some Star Trek stuff when I was a kid. Like it was never ever I I couldn't even comprehend the things that I can do now with technology. But it still doesn't do one thing very well and that is real quality control. But let me explain because I I actually had this thought. I said it to Brandy. I got up I don't know you hit you hit about 40 45 you get up and pee a lot right by the way some physiology 101 high carbs sugar anything like that all day or before you go to bed you need your little fix that's going to make you get up and pee insulin sensitivity and diaresis and and a lot of physiology behind it but the bottom line is you're going to get up to pee try not doing that and you'll be blown away you won't get up to take a leak I promise unless you take something like dandelion root or heavy hitters like ferosomide like lasix or anything that case Well, you're just telling your body like just so you know, Lasex, right? Real quick, it's what's called a loop diuretic and you excrete about 50% of the filtered load, which means half of what passes through the kidney, the loop of henley, all that stuff anatomically gets sucked out. Yeah. I just And it I mean, even potassium sparing, they put you on slow K, which is a potassium supplement. You guys got to think about what you put in your body, man. I'm just going to leave it at that because there's a lot of empty bro science in the in the internet and on social media where people will come. I get peppered with it all the time. I get challenged all the time. I don't care if you challenge me. Challenge me all you want if you like to lose. And you can spot the AI idiots. You can spot the bro science guys that are challenged by what I say and don't like it. So, they quickly feed it into some kind of algorithm that spits out an answer. And my answer is always the same. Go live. Go live with me right now. Don't no prep work. No hesitation. Go live right now. Well, I don't care if you're driving. Just go live. Crickets. But it's it's because my knowledge is in my head and I don't I know what I don't know and I know what I know. But I've been at this for 30 plus years and I'm a knowledge junkie, but I also understand quality control for myself. Like where's your personal quality control? That's that's the issue I think. And so that's where I was going with this getting up to go take a leak in the middle of the night. And I actually said it out loud. So, I don't know if this is something you guys do, but I've done this many, many times where I've had a thought. The thought was fantastic, and it would have been a great podcast, book, video, explanation, help, idea, business idea, all kinds of things. And I I thought for sure I was going to remember it. And I went to bed. I went back to sleep. And I got up the following morning and knew that I had an idea. I just couldn't remember for the life of me what idea that was. So, now I either write it down. I have a little journal next to my bed. It's not for anything other than well what I do thanking God and writing down my three tasks. But I also write down what thoughts cross my mind so I don't forget them. Dad always said short pencil much better than a long memory. So just write it down. And I don't type it into my phone. I just write it down. But I didn't feel like doing that last night. So I said it out loud a bunch of times while I'm standing there taking a leak. So there's an image for you me just saying two words. Quality control. Quality control. Quality control while I'm taking a leak at I really don't remember what time it was. It was early in the morning. I have no shame. I also don't really care. It worked. Clearly, I remembered. But I mean, where's your personal quality control for yourself? Understand that this is actually a huge topic that most people are probably going to glaze over because they well, they don't think it's important. I'll prove that it is. And I don't mean quality control like three-letter agencies or some guy in a lab coat stamping approved on your box of Oreos or Talente ice cream or whatever it is you eat. I don't mean the Instagram bro with the big giant vein you could tow a car with on his forehead screaming at you about whatever grind set or how he's right and you're wrong and doing it while he's driving and giving you one of these looks you know one of those goofy like I mean you you your own conduct your own knowledge base your the life that you're living how you interact with everything around you that's what I'm talking about because honestly social media has created this lit I noticed it today there's an insta bro that was an absolute muppet and you could spot this chat JP PPT answer a mile away and here's how you look. Watch, I'll prove it. Look at anybody's account and how they conduct themselves in their account and then look at their answer. And if they don't even sound remotely close, like their syntax is off, their communication style is off. It doesn't even match at all. You know where it came from. You can spot them a mile away. I just out of the time. I just don't care. Even my wife will will say, "Oh, that's a that's a canned response." I just don't care. But this was instant argument and like a milelong paragraph, right, with just perfectly well articulated. You could I make mistakes all the time. You guys follow me. I jack up my stuff. I had a shaky camera like I had Parkinson's yesterday because I forgot to turn on uh image stabilizing when I made my videos. So for all of you guys listening, I'm sorry you guys felt dizzy and twitchy and thought you were about to have a seizure watching my video. I'll make sure it's not like that today. It's because I shifted the order of operations that I had my tech do for editing and it just didn't work out. Lesson learned. But again, lesson learned. I don't care. I have no shame. I have no ego that's like, make up some excuse. Oops. Information is still sound. Turn off the video and just listen to it. You'll be okay. But social media has created this this endless supply of quality control agents that just patrol the internet like their really poorly paid TSA agents with massive insecurity complexes. And they you know what they you know what they do here? I'll tell you. They frisk your words. That's how it is. They strip search and cavity search and frisk your damn words. And they demand that you prove why your world view isn't problematic or offensive. Meanwhile, their entire life their own is just falling apart. And it's that insecurity that prompts people to quickly jump in and give themselves selfworth because they challenge somebody that they have no business challenging. But that's where we are. We live in a world where everybody's a fact checker. Nobody is a fact holder. And I think that lends itself to a lot of problems because I mean really social media didn't invent stupidity. It's everywhere. But the internet and social media extended it, right? Like that's it just extended the reach of being an imbecile. The bro science belief system is so embarrassing. But now you sprinkle in some AI into that equation and you've got embarrassment on gear. I don't know what else to tell you. Like suddenly the comment section is full of like I said perfectly articulated, beautifully structured paragraphs. Your English teacher from college would have read that and gone, "Wow, that is some that is some Shakespearean writing right there. You sound fant not a mistake to be found. Short, well articulated sentences." I don't know how many run-on sentences I've written, but it's a lot. I don't put punctuation on half my stuff just because I don't. If you listen to me speak and the people that come into my mentorship, one of the most common things they say is, "Holy crap, you really are like this." I don't know how to be any other way. So, it's just easy for me. But they they write these beautifully structured comments and replies and they think they sound intelligent, but it's it sounds like AI that's just been fed nothing but caffeine and modafanil like all day. and they then they copy and paste that into their profile or a comment and they strut around like they've got this IQ that would make Einstein look like an idiot and Elon Musk start asking questions and everybody and Stephen Hawking look like an imbecile but they got the body of I would say Arnold but some of you guys would be like dude he's old in his day he looked jack so they they look like some well-carved out Greek statue listen I I think AI is incredible I do I do I think it's probably the coolest thing I've ever seen I'm 52. When I was a kid, AI was, you know, a talking toaster in Jetsons and Rosie was the robot that made beeping sounds and that's it. But now it's we're talking generating code, writing books, diagnosing medical images, never my problems, better than a lot of radiologists and and physicians. I think it's amazing. I think it's incredible. I think it's frightening what it can do in a way that it can be easy to dismiss what you should know based on the fact that you have access to something. And to me, I think it's the people, it's the idea that you buy a book with the solutions in the book, a paper book, hard cover, whatever, and it sits on your shelf and you never read past the first chapter because you plate yourself saying, "I have access to the book, so I can get the knowledge anytime I want. I read a little bit, but you know, I want to I want to go be entertained instead." And that goes the same for podcasts and videos and save anything. You save these things really listen to me cuz I've done this. You save these things with the the intention is good but with the intent to do something about your life or apply some solution or whatever it is you learn or learn something new but then you never get past the struggle of beginning that new thing but you tell yourself it's okay because you have access to it anytime you want and then you're 75 and you still haven't done it. So I I think the issue becomes that the quality control problem didn't disappear. It multiplied and maybe this is just too deep of a podcast. It's just me talking, but it multiplied in it's like there was this episode. No, I'm not a Star Trek guy, but I think it was they were called trebles or tribles. Somebody will correct me, I'm sure, because the internet fact checkers are in full swing. But I remember they just multiplied like crazy. It was like Gizmo when he got wet and popped off all the That's how it's just multiplying. But they're all bad now. The same guy who couldn't pass Listen, I see this. I see these guys. The same guy who couldn't pass 10th grade bio is dropping AI written essays and comments about endocrinology and research and when you push back they tell you you just don't get it or they get drop another one and they're so easy to spot but I I think these guys are so delusional just understand like I understand human biology and biochemistry and endocrinology and neurology and anatomy physiology psychology business growth branding all exceptionally Well, because you can just look at my whole life. I'm very transparent. Good or bad. You guys have seen me [\h__\h] up. You guys have seen me get crushed. You've seen me make bad decisions. You've seen me make great decision. You've seen it all. I don't have time to shroud things. I just don't have time for that because the amount of effort it takes to bury and hide and try and become somebody you're not. Not in an effort to become a better version of yourself, but just to stay who you are, but show this representative to the world. I don't have time for that garbage. So, I just spit knowledge on what I know and I shut my mouth about other like I don't just so you know I I don't know enough to talk with certainty about every other subject on earth other than what I just listed. That's why I have quality control for myself. I don't spart I don't start spitting out halfbaked opinions on I don't astrophysics or global economics unless I know enough to stand on a stage in front of a thousand 5,000 10,000 a million people and just drop knowledge bombs without breaking a sweat and getting nervous. And most people online, they they don't have that self-control that that quality of quality control. Their quality control is non-existent. And they think Google and and chat GPT are the same thing as knowledge. How how like go a little deeper on that. Really think about what I'm saying instead of you getting offended or pissed off or getting in my comments and whining like a toddler. Listen to me. Why do people desperately police others instead of themselves? Because it's easier. Casurelius had it nailed 2,000 years ago. People are ruthless with others but tolerant of themselves. Psychological projection 101 right now in 2025. When you attach personal value to what somebody says, anything that challenge you challenges you. It feels like an attack. That is massive insecurity dressed up as virtue. I guess it's not quality control. It's emotional immaturity. It's acting like a child. Listen, neurologically, I can't even explain it this way. Neurologically, think about it here. Here's what's happening. your your amygdala. It's a fun little word. It's this little diamond shaped fear center. That's all you have to know. Amydala, fear center in your brain. It lights up when you get challenged. Now, your prefrontal cortex is is the part that is respon I'm giving you a basic neurology lesson so you understand this even this like I want you to get this stuff. So, your prefrontal cortex is the part that's responsible for rational thought, right? It's what gives us all this ability to do these things and actually make good decisions instead of being impulsive. It shuts down when your amydala gets punched in the sack. So instead of thinking, you start defending and your Here's what happens though. Your This is all self- fueling. Your endocrine even cell system jumps in with cortisol spikes and adrenaline dumps giving you that fight, flight, or freeze response. Except you're not fighting lions or soldiers or gladiators. You're fighting Instagram comments with somebody that challenges your ideology. Think of how pathetic that is. Your nervous system designed over thousands of years to keep you alive is being hijacked by a comet thread. If you had quality control, you'd catch yourself in the act and then you would stop and pause and look at yourself and think, "I'm probably being an idiot." And then you'd ask, "Am I triggered because they're wrong?" Even then, that makes no sense. Or because they might be right. And that scares me and my belief systems and my weak little support scaffolding that I have running in my mind that I've been telling everybody else about how smart I have, my my self-proclaimed expertise. But in order to do all of what I just said, that requires discipline and discipline is in short supply. Everybody talks about, like I said at the beginning, the grind set and the discipline and all that, very few people are actually doing it. They talk about it and then they fall back on the things they did in high school going, "Yo, well, I was a quarterback in senior of my high school year and I won the big game." Dude, you're 47. Let it go. Listen, here's here's how I look at it. Again, this is just my opinion based on being alive on this planet. Quality control is only valuable in two scenarios. When it's directed at yourself, I guess asking, am I living up to the standards I claim to have? Am I knowable enough to speak about the area of expertise that I claim to be or that I have? Am I disciplined enough to execute all the things that I talk about and do all the actions required versus just talking about them? That's the first one. The second one is when someone else's misinformation causes harm. Oh yeah, that's a big one for me. Peptides, for example. I should probably put some caveat in here that's statement that says this is just for research and it's all hypothetical and I'm not diagnosing or treating or prescribing or anything else. There you go. I just said it. But quality control is crucial. I almost died because of lack of quality control with people going trust the science, but the science is broken. Um, let me back up. The science isn't broken. The application of the science is broken. Using it, they've weaponized the science against all of us, praying on the ignorance of most people who don't know everything about everything, which none of us do. There are so many things there are so many things I have no idea what I'm talking about, so I just don't talk about them. But when somebody else's misinformation causes harm, peptides, for example, and I don't mean the peptides themselves causing harm before somebody says, "See, I knew it. I knew they caused cancer." No, that's not what I'm saying. I'm saying that when it causes harm because somebody relies on what you told them it's going to do and it doesn't and they believe you and they give you their hard-earned money or their time or they act differently based on what you told them or what you sold them. BPC, TB-500, GHKC are a great example, my Wolverine stack. And then if you add in PEG MGF right for local and you add in CJC and I Pamarellan all of those things you combine all of that and even throw KPV and MC in that group. It would make you that right there like I should do a post on that stack is like Wolverine 10X. Some of you guys are going to rewind that and try and write it down and then you're going to hit hit me up for dosages. Tell me I'm wrong. I'll I'll give you everything I got hypothetically for human equivalent dosages at some point. Not in this podcast cuz I have other things to do. But I always make good on what I say I'm going to do. I don't know if you guys have figured that out or not. I haven't missed a day in the doing podcast and I do what I say. That alone screams credibility and ethics and integrity. But peptides if somebody takes the Wolverine protocol to heal an injury I can use myself. Let's say actually let me back up. Look at the I I wanted to finish the story about the being a victim of misinformation and bad information about what you should take. Remesae remesae kills people. period. It's got a higher mortality rate than what it is given for Ebola and it has a 54% mortality rate not Ebola rema and people die on day nine and the protocol is 10 days long. Well, my system was getting better until they and I am fully aware of my own fault. I went okay. I was clutching to life and terrified and angry and bitter and I wanted to see my wife and kids and spend my life with them, not just go, I want to see them one more time. I wanted to get better and I wound up taking it and that and monoconal antibodies the monoconal antibodies are gangster but they started doing those out with an eyropper as well not with me shortly thereafter but rememes my wife went 100% by the way God told her to do this got in her head and said you need to make sure this guy's still around I have work for him to do it's up to you and she went down the rabbit hole in rememir even wrote it in my chart I don't know how many pages my chart is almost 200 pages it's a lot of nonsense and one of the things they wrote was wife is combative researched on Google about remmes went against doctor's orders basically checked husband out right and then they took nine hours to check me out left me sitting there just kept lying can't do this can't do that can't do this can't do that think about that it's like trying to get permission to take your money out of a bank and it's your money why do you need permission to take I don't care if you go well actually that's pretty valid if it's my money give me my money if I'm in the hospital and I want to leave get out of my way quality control But that's what I mean about the science or um the lack of quality control and the it's almost like bro science. It's just very well articulated fancy word biochemical bros science cuz none of it worked. And you all know that. And if you don't, you probably shouldn't be listening to me cuz you're not going to like me at all cuz I'll just keep telling you the truth. You don't like when the truth is challenged because you hide behind your own lack of accountability and your own desperate need to blame others for where you are. That's an interesting paradigm. So peptides, there's another one. I tore my shoulder. suppinatus. It does the first 15 degrees essentially of shoulder abduction and abduction adduction, right? Just keep it in mind. There you go. There's your biomechanics lesson for the day. And I had three orthos tell me, "You're going to need surgery." And I said, "Not a chance." Because then I sit there with a wedge and clamp down and I never recover. Your shoulder is never the same. Before somebody gets in and starts paring some study in my life about how I'm wrong, I'm not wrong. I've been a doc for a very very very long time and seen million over a million people and it's because I base my knowledge on the expertise I really have not what I happen to see on social media but I did BPC TB I didn't even do GHK-Cu didn't even think about the copper I just did thyus beta and BPC 12 days later I was doing handstand push-ups the reason I'm saying that is because had I listened to the people who were so-called experts I would not have I would have an issue right now. I would have some kind of mechanical issue and because it'll never never heal the same. Never mind the shoulder is such a shallow joint with that glenoid labum there. It's just this little rubber band that keeps the the head of the humorris anchored in that glenoid fawsa. It's so shallow it can slip around all the all over the place and it's not attached to anything. It's attached to the scapula. Scapula floats around on the rib cage. So, it's why I tell people the scapula is the shoulder and the shoulder is the scapula. Biomechanics. But the reason I bring this up is because had that not been real BPC or real TB-500 or had it been oral, save it. Save it. You can argue all you want. Get into chat GPT and it'll tell you exactly what you want to know and in the direction that you want it to go. Just to be clear, but it will not give you facts. It'll give you the facts you ask for. It's not the same. But oral peptides are completely demolished no matter what in your GI tract. Period. Peptide bonds are weak. So remember, peptides, not SARMs or SERMS or secrets. Those are different. They're not engineered to withstand the hostile environment of, you know, the boot camp, your sewer system that you have inside you. They're just not the chemical that your body attacks with the proteolytic enzymes and all of it. It drives me nuts when people go, "Well, my physiology is different." And then they try and bro science their way out of it, and they're wrong. And they're they're just plain wrong. And you can smell it a mile away when they start trying to sound like something that they have no business being an expert in in whatsoever. And like I said, there was this dude on my in my feed. And I just finally went, "Okay, you're the best. You win. You win the chat GPT. You're the best at the chat GPT." And then I went, "Go live. Just go live right now. Go live." Because if you know things so well and your knowledge is so vast and it's so easily accessible, going live wouldn't be a problem. I could do it all day long in an area that I'm an expert. Absolutely. I there's no I'll do it right now. I could do it right now in the middle of this podcast on anything. Any anything that has to do with biochemistry, chemistry, physiology, endocrinology, human anatomy, neurology, it name it. Business, branding, all of that. Psychology, because I that's where I that's my area of expertise. You ask me about litigation, civil litigation, not a clue. Engineering, nope, not a clue. I understand math really well, but that doesn't make me an engineer at all. But that's where people get tripped up because their ego gets in the way and go, "Oh, yeah, bro. I know. Quick." and then they just get all hostile. But if you give somebody a peptide, this is why I said there are two scenarios where quality control is crucial. And number one is when it's directed at yourself and are you living up to your standards that you claim to have and are you knowledgeable enough to speak about all the things you claim to be an expert in and then disciplined enough to actually do them. And the other one is if misinformation from you and your big damn mouth is going to cause harm because your ego is so fragile. And peptides are a great example because if anybody buys an oral peptide, I don't care if it's been pegalated. I don't care what's go I don't give a crap. I don't care if they've snacked it. I it doesn't matter. It will get demolished in the GI tract. His bio the bioavailability is near zero. And unless your physiology is radically different than any other human, there's no amount of answers you can come up with that are going to they might sound well articulated, but it won't matter because physi biology is on my side. So the interesting part about that is is that all those people and if you are one of those people, I'm actively hunting you because had I taken something that wasn't TB and BPC, my shoulder would have healed as well as it could on its own. But the injury wouldn't have healed properly. It would have caused me a lifetime of problems, if not caused me more injury because I was under a placebo effect thinking it was working. So I know it's supposed to hurt, but I'm going to get stronger. [\h__\h] That's what I'm talking about because it bugs me. So, every one of you guys out there that sits there and pedals your information that you glean off of chat GPT or reading articles or headlines or whatever, wherever Reddit threads, whatever nonsense you come up with, think about how fragile your useless little [\h__\h] up ego is when you get challenged by somebody that actually knows what they're talking about and you think you have to stand up and challenge back because you're so fragile. But your words and your facts, if somebody listens to you, are going to cause potentially irreparable harm to somebody. [\h__\h] you. I'm hunting you because I've been on the receiving end of that idiocy. Rammes desae. I almost died. If you don't know, look it up. Watch me. 4 years. You can see my whole transformation right all the way back from coming out of the hospital missing a cylinder that long. So, I just don't have tolerance for it. And the issue is the peptide space is crawling with bro science. These guys paring nonsense, you know, bath salts. Like, that's literally what you may as well be talking about. And then a guy like me or um Dr. He's cocky. He's egotistical, but he's not an idiot. When he opens his mouth, it's right. He's condescending, but when he talks about something, he is correct. So, when he shows up and he calls out, "That's bullshit." You know what happens? The mob freaks out. And not because the facts were wrong, but because their fragile little egos got all punctured and filled full of holes because somebody with knowledge, real knowledge, went, "You're wrong." See, listen. If I can't sit in a chair with nothing but my brain and debate with full confidence, I shut up. That's quality control. But if if I do know the subject, like I said, biology, neurology, endocrinology, psychology, physiology, all of it. I'll talk, debate, argue because I know the knowledge is mine. It's here. I don't need a box to tell me what I know. I know. It's internalized. I don't need Google mid-sentence to remember what I was going to say conveniently. And so I think the issue becomes that's where the expert but there's no real experts then right because if they can't act with quality in various situations to give you an answer that's going to help you then they're doing harm. I mean here's the look look at it here's the inverse Tom Brady right arguably the greatest quarterback in the history of the game. He shares his psychology, his training, all the things behind his drills, everything he's done behind his success, and some internet troll idiot with 45 followers tries to factcheck him on throwing mechanics. That's not quality control. That is a loser trying to inflate self-worth by challenging actual greatness. It's not about the truth. It's about your ego. And even that statement is going to set somebody off. I mean really go go deep into look at the knowledge or the the biology the neuroscience I guess would be more accurate of what knowledge even is just look into the biology. Knowledge isn't information. Knowledge is retention plus application. We don't have a knowledge problem. We have an application problem. And then that's self-propagating because that application comes from actually learning things and retaining it versus just pariting information. Your hippocampus stores memory. Your prefrontal cortex applies it. If you don't retain it and you can't apply it under pressure, you don't know it. That's why I laugh when somebody flexes in my comments by pasting a perfect AI reply. My [\h__\h] is filled with mistakes. Just watch my video yesterday. Listen to this. I don't know how many times I say or like or whatever. I don't care. I just don't care. It's like the gym. Reading about lifting weights, I don't know if you have figured this out yet, doesn't build muscle. Neither does reading about jiu-jitsu. doesn't make you good on the mat. Your endocrine system won't release testosterone and growth hormone because you're highlighting paragraphs in starting strength and getting stronger and growing muscle. Physiology doesn't give a crap about your emotions or your intentions. It cares about stress and stimulus and adaptation and execution and suffering and struggle and pain. The same with knowledge. You want expertise, you have to stress that fat ball in between your ears, your brain. You have to debate and teach and argue and explain without any notes and actually retain it and do something with it. That's how you wire synapses. This is basic neurology. That's how you wire your synapses. You strengthen that instant recall and you can actually integrate the knowledge into your nervous system. Otherwise, it is just trivia where you need a card and trivia is useless when it comes to execution. If you have to look at a card that says 1 + 1 is 2 and you don't understand the concept of addition, then when someone goes 3 + 1 is 4, you look at it and go, I don't understand how to do this. Yes, it's that simple. Most people online don't fail because they're dumb. They fail because they're lazy. Just so you know, because they're outsourcing thinking. They lean on AI. They parrot headlines. They mimic all these influencers thinking that they're experts because they have a lot of followers. I don't give a crap if you have 100 followers or 100 million followers. I don't care how many followers I have. I've never cared. But they never ask themselves, "Do I actually understand this well enough to explain it from scratch to anybody asking me a question in a room full of [\h__\h] people where I have no access to any internet? It's just me and a light and a microphone. It's the Dunning Krueger effect in action. People with the least competence thinks they're think they're the most competent." Physiologically, here's why. Your brain rewards novelty with dopamine. Oh yeah, that's social media, baby. that little buzz you get when you read a new fact and you assimilate it, that little hit, but that's not that's not mastering the information. That dopamine hit isn't mastery. That's dopamine. That neurotransmitter is is tricking you into thinking I learned something when all you did was scroll. So without any real discipline, without any personal quality control, you get addicted to the illusion of knowledge until you're hardressed to recall it and then you don't really have it. And then you defend your empty knowledge, that vacuous ball, like just this vacuum in your head, little clown pulling levers because you actually started to believe that you were intelligent. And if somebody gets mad, I'm not calling you stupid. I'm saying if you think that that's intelligence, intelligence, I'll explain it very easily. If we, you and I, whoever's listening to this, both read the same thing and learn the same thing and I apply it and it takes me two times to get it and it takes you 40. I am more intelligent than you are. Don't get mad about it. Those are facts. And you can, well, I don't think that's accurate. What? Argue all you want. I'm still right. Think of think of I want you guys listen. Think I do this. Anytime I see a comment in my in my feed or anywhere and I just look at it, I shake my head going, "Oh, dude, that's I know you don't even understand half the words you wrote." And it just makes me laugh cuz I just don't care. But if you think of how stupid the average person is and realize that half of them are stupider than that, that should make you look at the world a little differently. And if you don't, scroll Instagram, you'll see exactly what I mean. people who couldn't pace who who couldn't pass rather basic biology now getting in and correcting doctors and endocrinologists and physiologists and people that are experts genuine experts people who couldn't manage a hundred bucks in their damn bank account are going into Warren Buffett you know Dio Musk and giving them criticism about their money and my favorite is when people crit they they criticize athletes I see it all the time you guys know what I'm talking about cuz some of you actually do it. You get on and you criticize an athlete for what they're doing, but they're the ones on the field, not you. And you call them lucky, but you have a big giant belly. You got a dick-doo. You haven't Your belly sticks out further than your dicky do. And you brag about how much you would know and if you were in their position, you would crush. But you can't throw a football 10 yards and you're correcting Tom [\h__\h] Brady. That's not quality control. That is clown school. In the internet, it's a circus where you guys all give each other PhDs. Just a big circle jerk for how intelligent you all are. You need some quality control in your life. You need personal quality control. Your own little inner agent that stops you from puking out nonsense that you just don't understand. And I mean, for me, honestly, if it means I can't sit here, it this is my this is my standard, my bar. If I can't sit here right now in this chair or or any chair for that matter anywhere and explain biology, peptides, business, physiology, psychology, human conduct, anatomy, biochemistry, regular chemistry without some well-written script without a Google tab open somewhere. I shut up. That's my standard. That's emotional maturity and application of real knowledge. If more people had that standard, we wouldn't be drowning in this fake expertise problem we see online right now. We wouldn't have bro Science gurus poisoning the health space or trolls challenging experts, which always makes me laugh. Like even when people challenge me, that workout, oh, bro, what an easy workout. I'm not doing it to get your approval. I post a workout for me to make sure that my family I see what my family sees, so I make sure I'm doing exactly what I think I'm doing. But I always offer a challenge. My gym's open anytime, 24/7. Come on by and work out. I promise you will need to call an ambulance because I will take it further than you. And then I will get up tomorrow and do it again. And all the big talkers, bro, you're lucky I don't show up. I demolish you in a workout. Why aren't you here? Go live with me with your massive vault of intelligence and accessible information in your brain. Crickets. Like if if people had a standard of like their own quality control that just like I said that little internal agent that kicks in and says no no no no. We'd have people who understand that mastery isn't about looking smart at all. It's not. It's about being disciplined enough to say I don't know. I don't know enough yet. There's so many things I actually say that. No idea. I've even said it in my comments. I don't know what to tell you. I don't know. Maybe try. What do you got to lose? So I mean full circle. Where's your your personal quality control? not your neighbors, not whatever comment triggered you, not somebody's post where you didn't like what they said and so you were under a belief that it was one way and then you see a post and it proves that it wasn't. So you quickly get in the comment to try and defend your ego, not your knowledge and not the internet, not your wife, not your dog, not your husband, not your kids, not their quality control, yours. Yours because the world doesn't need another AI generated expert. It doesn't. It needs real expert. It's thirsty for it. hungry. Do you know that I come out here every single damn day because I genuinely want people to have the information to make a great decision so they can go further in their life than they could have gone without what I give them. It's that straightforward because the world doesn't need any more insecure little baby trolls pretending to know more than Tom Brady or me to be honest or anybody. You guys are all a bunch of fairies that attack people because they challenge your weak belief system because deep inside you know that if you were put on stage, you couldn't back up anything you're talking about. The world needs people who shut the hell up when they don't know and speak with conviction when they do. That's it's that straightforward. That's quality, right? That's control. and and that if you actually drill down on that and practice that's going to separate you from the 99% of the noise that is polluting the entire [\h__\h] planet. I think if you want to change really if you want to change your life which you should I have a badass life and I want to change my life. I just do what Peterson says. Aim up. But if you want to change your life, stop factchecking the damn world and fact check yourself, you toddler. I got to go. Hope that helps. Never miss.