Again, one of these days where I sat down with a totally different intent for a podcast, but I was talking to my wife, Brandy, and so I'm looking up at the top right of my corner, by the way, to make sure this is uploading the way it's supposed to. It's been sketchy internet lately and I have multiple sources of internet here at the house and sometimes normally Starlink is like unbreakable and I I that's worked in the most adverse conditions and always lightning quick and uh and then I have fiber as well and that for the most part is sporadic at best but lately all internet. So I don't know you guys listening let me know if you guys have had some weird internet. I live uh just east of Dallas in Texas and let me know if you guys have some weird internet. Like who knows what the gremlins are doing or whatever else is happening in the world. I'm not going to go down that rabbit hole right now, but I've been seeing Oh, I just sometimes it it's so frustrating to see these Insta bros talking. If you're one of those guys, man, shut up. You're misleading people. Do you know why this gets me so upset? I'm going to talk about the ultimate glow up and and I even hate to say that, but this is the like I'll give you all the information. break it down with biochem and physiology and I got zero tolerance for [\h__\h] because I'm seeing it everywhere. And people that are claiming to be experts have no expertise and they have no business saying they are. And so I just come out and I help you. And if you like my stuff, great. If you don't, great. Either way, I really don't care. But I'm also going to tell you the truth whether you like it or not. Physiology doesn't lie. It's it's about as dishonest as gravity. It's always there and it is always irrefutable. But these these peptide gurus, there's a couple of guys, man. on this one. Baseball hat, beard wear, beard dude, and this this IFBB pro bodybuild. Like these guys, they're full of crap and I just can't get my head around why other than greed. So, I'm going to disrupt the whole thing and help you guys because I've seen so many like my wife is going to be 46 and pmenopause and menopause is real. I don't care what someone says and makes a comment about their spouse. You don't know. But it's like walking around with a moody campfire next to you a lot of days. And I can't imagine how uncomfortable that is. But on the flip side of that, if you don't understand physiology, throwing peptides at it and sarms and serms and weird supplements that really do nothing for the most part. Those supplements are bunk. I don't care who sells it, who makes it. I'm most of them are bunk. And but that doesn't help because the human physiology works in concert with itself, which means when you change one thing, it's going to affect an entire cascade of events. So when someone says and this is a blanket statement for all of you guys. If you go well I can't do all eight. There are eight things involved in virtually eliminating berry menopause and uh let me say this before somebody loses their freaking mind. This isn't meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, advise and this is purely hypothetical, educational and all experimental on mice. If you know, you know. Anyway, back to the show. If you if you only take one, that's like saying, "Do I need all four tires on my car and I only have like it's not possible." And I it's that is a pharmaceuticalbased assumption because you can take an Advil for a headache except the issue becomes you didn't address the cause of the headache or the systemic inflammation or whatever or the fever or whatever it else it is that you have going on in your system. So the problem is still there. You never really did anything. and you just changed how you feel, which is a very easy thing to sell. So, when someone comes out and says, you know, here is this 5 amino 1 mq and it's oral. That's paper weight. And I've seen it. Oh, I'm going to take that. That's going to be great for for my glowup stack. It's it's oral. It is garbage. Pure garbage. You know, should I just take NAD+? If you're going to take that by itself, take nothing because it's not going to have In fact, it's going to disrupt your your hormones so much and your system so much. And if somebody goes against this, bring it. Go live with me. Like I said, I'll set your skull on fire because it's not possible to piece together human physiology when your system is designed to work as one. So, listen, I I could do this all day. Let's let's talk about the big lie that is shoved down every woman's throat on social media right now is the just take this one magic peptide. I saw this. just take this one peptide, you know, maybe go hit the sauna, drink a little of this mushroom tea or coffee or whatever it is you guys are selling and your glow up, your pmenopause, your age reversal, guaranteed. No, no, it's not. No, it's not. That's not science. And there's a lot of mistakes that science makes. Believe me, science is just disproving what came before it. And and I mean by that, by that I mean disproving the science that came before it. you know, they think this and then they find out something and they disproves the original science and they just keep going through that cascade. So science isn't this irrefutable absolute method of thinking or it's all theoretical because there is going to come something in 10 years that disproves what you know now. And so the reason I'm saying that is the one thing you can't disprove is physiology, endocrinology, neurology, human biology, you know, all of those things. That's just how the system works. But that's why I'm very hesitant to say science. But this this wishful thinking [\h__\h] with a shaker bottle and a and a shirtless selfie, that's who's selling you this stuff. That's not a protocol. That is somebody on Instagram or Tik Tok or Pinterest or wherever they are pretending to know physiology and then pretending to sell you some. So, if you're a woman and you're 30, 30 plus and you're trying to get your body and your skin and your energy and listen, I know your sanity all put back together and you're listening to a guy who sells glow stacks while flexing in a backwards hat that says, you know, savage, you're being lied to, man. And I don't even think it's malicious. I think these [\h__\h] are just ignorant because they don't understand a human being. They don't understand you. I could apply this to men going through andropause. Yes, real thing. I could go through anything and still pick this apart from physiology. Because when you understand the basic system, it's like somebody that's an expert in chemistry. If you understand understand structural and physical chemistry, you have a basis to understand all chemistry. The same thing goes with physics. Same thing goes with mathematics. So, this is where the struggle begins because I think, sorry, I have a little bit of an allergy issue. Here's a peptide for that. But I think the issue is they don't understand anything. They pair it stuff they see and then they want to feel important and they think because they have muscles or a pro card they are. You're not add value then you become important. They don't understand what happens to the female system when hormones tank when growth hormone flatlines when mitochondria the little furnaces inside your cells the the symbiotic relationship that you have right with the mitochondria in your cell when they when totally collapses when cortisol goes through the roof. When your nervous system goes from stable into pure like category 5 hurricane, they don't know because they don't really care. They care about you buying their product. You know what's interesting? And I'll say it again. I have a m This isn't a pitch. You just hear it. I have a mastermind. It costs if you buy it on my webinar significantly less, but even if I say the webinar price, it's $4,997. It's five grand and it used to be $1,500. I got rid of that. It's a $25,000 mastermind and that's what people pay if they just called me right now and said, "Can I join?" But my one-on-one is a significantly a large amount of money. My cure program is $100,000 for a h 100red days. It's not designed for people to come in and go, "Well, how am I supposed to afford it?" If you have to ask that question, I'm not for you. That's okay. But that's also why I come out here and I put this stuff out. But if you want me to walk through your health for a 100 days and you come out the other side running at 100%. It's $100,000 and it's 100 days. And you have to listen to every single thing I tell you to do. And you can't lie to me about anything. It's that simple. There's no guarantees. Nothing. You do what I tell you to do and you and But here's why there's no guarantees. I am the guarantee. I'm not some guy that stands on stage and flexes. Listen, that's a ton of discipline. That's not what I'm saying. I'm not some Insta bro that all of a sudden decided to become an expert on peptides that really knows two things, jack and [\h__\h] or some, you know, acupuncturist or some naturopath that just goes, "Listen, I decided to dabble in it and I do pretty good, bro." No, you don't. You don't understand physiology. That's what pisses me off because I almost died in the hospital as a result of people giving me medications and treatment that was intended to kill me because they're ignorant. And the person that saved me was my wife. So this stuff I very hits very close to home. So when I see this stuff, if you argue with me, understand you're are go ahead. You're arguing with the full force of everything I [\h__\h] got because I almost died because of ignorance and people being arrogant and not caring and giving me things because they fit in a box, not because my physiology demanded it. That is a dangerous That is not healthcare. That's money care. So yeah, Insta Bros piss me off bodybuilders with affiliate codes and trust me bro science. I don't care how big you are, how wealthy you are, or who you are. If you're telling people one thing and it doesn't match physiology, I'm going to bury you because you don't care about the people you're talking to and I was on the receiving end of that and it almost cost me my life. That's why I'm this passionate, if you want to call it that. I'm not passionate. I'm disgusted with the current state of healthcare. So, I'm coming out here to disrupt the whole damn thing and give you guys all the answers. How's that? So, these guys aren't biologists. That's why they're dudes with abs and biceps. I I really don't know. But let let me let me explain this. if you are a female because this is a struggle because I see all the products being marketed. How how easy does it look that you could take this one little pill or get this one little injection and all your problems go away? Yeah, right up there with statins, the most prescribed drug on the world that harden your liver without getting into the fancy aspect of the physiology. They're they shorten your lifespan by about 20 years. Sign me up. You're supposed to have cholesterol well over 300. Just so we're clear. I don't care who you are. And if you go, "Oh, you lost me, bro, when you said that." Go to 160. that enjoy Alzheimer's and dementia and all the other catastrophic hormonal issues you have because your hormones are built on what [\h__\h] backbone of cholesterol. Dude, I could do this all day. You ask me questions about being an attorney or an engineer, I know precisely nothing but the human bi the human body, human biology, chemistry, biochemistry, physiology. I never miss because I've been the product of bad knowledge. So, let let me explain this for all the women out there that are struggling with this with with their hormones and being told one thing and and not getting any results. You're not lazy. You're not broken. And you're absolutely not nuts, no matter what people tell you. Cuz I'm sure somebody's spouse is like, "Oh, you're just being crazy." No, you're not. You're running outdated software on a system that's no longer getting the right signals. So, it doesn't matter what drugs you get or what HRT you get or whether they pull your ovaries out. God, please don't do that. Here's what it means in real world, real time physiology. And I said this in my post today, and that's the only reason I'm even doing this cuz Brandy went, you know, it' be a good idea if you explained this. All right, let's do it. It's how much I respect my wife. So, here's what happens. Your estrogen tanks, which means collagen production drops. Your skin gets thinner. Joints hurt. Fat stores around your waist instead of your hips. Your progesterone just waves bye-bye. And you lose GABA modulation. You get mood swings and anxious. And your sleep is all but recover. Like, you get no sleep. None. You're all over the place. You wind up sweaty and then freezing and then sweaty and then freezing. And I'm not wrong. I've seen this. I don't need to sleep next to everybody. I know because I'm next to my wife. Your testosterone flat lines. So, you lose anabolic signaling. That's a bad thing because your drive dies, your muscle atrophies, energy tanks, your libido goes the way of the dodo. And that's just a hormonal side. And so, if you go deeper, your growth hormone fails. So, now there's no collagen turnover, no cellular repair, and no neurogenesis. So, your brain isn't even doing what it's supposed to do. IGF-1 declines, so protein synthesis drops, bones get weaker. So doing weightbearing exercise isn't the answer because there's more things going on. Yes, Wolf's law, the pisoelectric effect, all real. Bones remodel according to stress to make it a very simple explanation. But that doesn't matter when the system isn't working and recovery takes forever. So you do a workout and you're still hurting from it. A month later, your melatonin crashes, which means your circadian rhythm, your sleep wake cycle, never mind hormone pulses. Everybody hears circadian rhythm and they go, "Yeah, my my sleepwake cycle. I know all about that, bro." No, it's not. It is hormone pulses. the way your body is designed to pulse them at certain times to heal and recover. Like when you sleep, that rhythm gets wrecked and your sleep turns into garbage and your cortisol skyrockets. So now you store belly fat like it's your job and you feel like you are 24/7 survival mode. And underneath all of that, but we're still not done. If you remember what I said at the beginning, underneath all of that, the mitochondria, the literal power plants inside your cells run on fumes. So, you go from from a Ferrari to a push mower. You just you don't function. That's why this is here's what happens. That's why because the symptoms are always the same. And I get calls from you guys all the time. All and I love it. Or messages from you guys all the time. Bring them. I can only answer so many, but I try and answer everybody. I really do. I just I get about 5,000 messages a day now, especially now over the last two months. I'm getting bombed and I love it. Send them all to me. Everything you got. You ask me a stupid question like, "Are dolphins gay sharks?" I'm gonna just use you as somebody to mock on one of my posts because you're an idiot. But if you ask me a real question and you're struggling and nobody's giving you an answer, I'll do my best to answer. Like I offered a lady to come into my mastermind call, my Q&A call on a Monday. She no showed me, which pissed me off because she has a cancer problem with her dad. And I'm like, come on. You can come for free to this Q&A. Don't all of you guys flood my Q&A thinking you can come for free because you can't. You should pay. Why shouldn't you? I would pay for your product. The best thing you can do in business is buy your friend's stuff at full price and leave them a gangster review. So, if you're not willing to do that, you are abusing their time and you have no respect for your own. But here's what happens with women. To come back to this, they gain fat, but just they're eating the same damn thing. Lose muscle and actually working out more, sleeping 8, 9, 10 hours, and waking up exhausted. Your libido ghosts you and your husband's going, "Hey, can we, you know, get a little freaky tonight?" And you're like, "I I have no desire." and all that internal glow. Yeah, that's gone. And there's more. Believe me, I could I could just This is a list I could spend 45 minutes making because it's that bad. And it's not normal. When somebody goes, "Oh, that's just normal. You should do that." I'm going to tell you right now, my grandmother died in her 90s and I guarantee you when she was 90, she was just as savage as she was when she was 25. Because I saw her, she was a beast. So, it's not normal. The problem is normal are men having the testosterone levels, 22-year-old men, of 65year-old women, and that's being labeled as normal because it's gradually being rewritten in all the books. Screw all of you that are doing that, man. Here's here's the insult to this injury of women falling apart and being told it's normal. Just take this pill. You're you're sold this one vile fix it by somebody who has never even said the word hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis without stuttering and stumbling, let alone spell it. Stop listening to these bozos, these instab bros. They're not evil. They're not. They're just absolutely clueless warrior. Dude, don't get me started on that, knucklehead. I know so much. No, you don't. You rub your wife's belly in your kitchen going, "Look how awesome. You want to see what my bride's on? Look how awesome." But you don't know anything about physiology, so you're a liar. I hope you hear this. By the way, there's a whole bunch of these people I could do this with. And if you know who that is, great. If not, I don't really care. It just irritates me. You treat your body, these guys, they tell you to treat your body like it has one button and then that'll cure everything. And they're the ones that are pushing it and they're the ones that are making the money. But you're not as your body is not a button. Like I said, it's a concert. It's like the whole freaking orchestra. And when you age, most of the instruments just stop listening. They still play. They just don't listen really. And here's the punch line. You've got seven biological systems that need simultaneous repair. That word simultaneous. So, this comes back to all of you people. And I love it. Ask. I'm just going to tell you the same answer. If I had to only pick one, Dr. T. Spartan, what what one would that be? None. Because it goes back to going, "Well, if I only can put one tire on my car and the rest can't go on, which tire should I put on?" None. You can't drive the car. That's how it is. So, you are being told by any I don't care who it is. If they said, "This is a one-sizefits-all. take this pill, this injection, this cream, whatever it is, not going to help. Rubbing a cream on your vagina, a bio identical hormone is still missing. Six different things that need to be addressed. You are addressing one. Endocrine system, nervous system, metabolic engine, muscular system, skin and connective tissue, mitochondrial biology, and gene level signaling. All of that needs to be addressed. That's that's seven. You can't fix that with two peptides and a bro discount code or some cream you rub in your crotch. You you need a systemic reset because the signal's fuzzy. So, I'll break it down exactly how if I was going to do it hypothetically, this is what I would do. And there's no [\h__\h] no hacks, no fluff. This is as gritty and raw as it gets. Yes, I'm a doctor that curses. Get over it or don't listen to me. I'm trying to help you, but I also don't have patience for stupidity. This is just real targeted science and breakdowns for the female body. Are we good? All right. So, the first one is the one everybody hears this and it it's it's not what you think it is. And the more I I'm doing a whole post on this in probably I was going to do it tomorrow, but I'm going to do it probably Monday. I don't know, maybe I'll surprise myself, but it's a whole breakdown on reddatride and what it really is cuz you guys think it's just a fat loss peptide. Holy crap, it's not even close. It's so much more. And reattach is like endocrinology meets neurology meets metabolism. It's not a fat burning peptide. It's a operating system upgrade in so many like never mind and I'll go over the basics GLP-1 GIP and glucagon right we know this already three receptors three levers it means it doesn't just suppress the appetite it retrains your brain and your pancreas to rewire metabolic output okay great what does that all mean I'll explain the things that it should do and it does this is what everything else is missing this by the way so if your FNP or your naturopath or your health bro or Insta guru coach says is that Oz Peak and Turzepide, Ozan Peak and Monuro, right? Sema and Turza do any of this. You can absolutely refer to this right now and then call them a liar and leave and never buy anything from them again. Never listen to them again because they don't have your best interest in mind. It's like just so you know, I mean, I had product that I was I have a ton and I was going to sell it and I went, "No, this is garbage." Tossed garbage. I'm not going to sell it because it's going to hurt people. It doesn't have the benefit. And you know what? I actually give a [\h__\h] So when people go, "What makes Elite better?" Because I actually care because myself and Sean actually give a [\h__\h] about people. And this is all white glove, baby. Which means I don't want to sell to people that go, "Where's the cheapest? What's the promo code? What's the discount code?" And then hammer me with nonsense because they're not willing to listen to what goes into the program and into what's involved. So you do what you want with that. I'm here to actually help people, which is why usually I make a lot more money because I help people for real. I don't help my bank account. You are a product of services rendered. That's the quality of your life. The money you have. Don't help people. Don't complain when you have no money. Help a ton of people. Zig Ziggler. You can have anything in life you want provided you help enough other people get what they want. So this is what it means to work with with uh Reddit truth tide. Improves your insulin sensitivity. It repairs the hippocampus. This is and most people don't even know this, which is memory, mood, cognition. It's damaged. It's trashed. It lowers neuroinflammation brain in the hypothalamus which controls hunger and your thyroid and your energy. You see how this is all paired. This is why you need this concert of events to occur, right? It boosts thyroid efficiency, right? Thyroid and parathyroid lowers body weight and improves the way your body partitions nutrients. Well, more like fuel, right? Because that's how your body breaks everything down into this broth and then it sorts it all out. So, it it just it it improves the way you partition your nutrients in a way that you were when you were younger. What that all means is this. You stop being hungry for absolutely no damn reason. You burn fat instead of storing it. And your brain and hormones start talking to each other again. Cuz right now, you are a bunch of knee-jerk reflexes based on things you've shoved in your bar hole and chemistry that's been put on you, put in you, or whatever it is, and none of it's working right. So, that's red a true tide. The second one is ostine. And what's interesting is people look at this. It's a SARM, right? Selective and receptor modulator, right? So it's works with the muscular system. Remember I said there's seven muscular system, bone density, and inflammation. That last one is a big deal because if you remember what I said, systemic inflammation is like that's cancer. It's the easiest way to explain it. Metabolic dysfunction, systemic inflammation, and disregulated immune system equals cancer. Why you even going to go down that road when you can solve it? So ostine is a SARM, right? And I explained what that is already. It's selective. That's the key word to all of this. It binds to muscle and bone androgen receptors only. That's it. No reproductive tissue binding. So that means you don't sound like a dude, look like a dude, grow hair in your face, argue with your neighbor about their car, and you don't have any weird hormonal side effects, and your clitoris doesn't look the size of your thumb. Right? So, and listen, if somebody goes, "Dude, it's anatomy." Oh, no. What? I say the word penis, too, and people freak out. You guys are weird. But here's the reason it works. because it increases muscle protein synthesis. If you understand how TRT works, this is for women. This is why I don't advise women going on testosterone because it has not unless you want your clitoris to turn into a penis and knock yourself out. If you're into that, you do it. But here's why Austrian works. Increases muscle protein synthesis. It inhibit inhibits catabolism. It's muscle wasting, right? Which happens as you go through pmenopause. Never mind if you're going through Never mind Ozique and Monero that are all muscle wasting. Argue with me. I dare you. Physiology is on my side. It strengthens bone, specifically mineral density, right? Because it modulates something called an osteoblast, which controls bone formation. It reduces systemic inflammation, which I already said is paramount for your health, and it improves glucose uptake in the muscle specifically. So, not only do you keep your muscle, you improve blood sugar, reduce joint stress, and burn more calories while you're sitting on your couch. I'm pointing over there because there's a couch over there, by the way. Well, easiest way to look at muscle is it's metabolic gold. This is how you earn it all back. You should have muscle. Any woman that goes, I should I don't want to be muscular. I just want to be skinny. Yeah, but you're costing yourself. You don't have to be jacked and huge, but you should have muscle all over you because it does the work to keep you. It allows you to take a hit. It's the easiest way to explain it. Uh the next one is MK-677. And man, I got static from Instant Bros on this one because they're like, "Oh, that's not there's a way better one. You should use Tessa or or Hexa or SEM." No, you shouldn't. You shouldn't. I'll explain why. I'll go right down the rabbit hole on this because some people went nuts on this and went, "No, that's it's not innocuous. It's actually got some really bad points." No, it doesn't. Unless you're dosing it like a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] This is all based on hypothalamic signaling. So, growth hormone, IGF axis, and neuroplasticity, right? That whole system and setup is designed to function a very specific way. When you mess with it, nothing works. MK-677 is not growth hormone. It is a growth hormone secret, which means it mimics something called ghrein to be specific. and it binds to the GHSR receptor in your brain. I've talked about this before at crazy detail. I don't want to do it again. That signal tells your pituitary gland to secrete natural pulsatile growth home hormone. Remember what I said, sleep matters. Here's why this is so critical in remember if you guys are are taking away pieces of this and missing the entire system. That's why you're going to struggle. You have to look at this as one giant synergistic organism, which is what you are. And you have to go, all of these moving parts need to work in concert, otherwise nothing works. Drive around with the E bra on and see how well you do. You won't. So, here's what happens. It increases IGF-1, which is the most anabolic molecule in your body. Most people don't know that either. Find an instab that knows that. Most of them, they don't. Deepens something called slowwave sleep. That's the delta sleep, which is where all of your recovery happens. Hold on. I got to drink some coffee. Oh yeah, I'm fired up as hell on this one because I'm tired of the nonsense out there. So, I'm just going to disrupt all of it. It boosts neurogenesis, which is the formation of um new brain cells. Remember I talked about synatogenesis with dhexa the other day about the limitless stack that some knucklehead was saying a fencing and dhexa. It's like limitless. It gets rid of it's it takes the place of aderall. No, no, and freaking no. That's why you need to watch that episode as well. Um MK-677 enhances collagen synthesis. So, I'm talking skin, joints, gut lining, anything that involves collagen. And no, taking scoops of collagen is not it's just not going to help you. I'm going to tell you that right now. I there's so much research that says no. It restores your growth hormone. This is why it's a big deal without suppressing the natural output. It's indogenous. You make it yourself. And unlike HGH, like injectable exogenous, right? MK-677 works with your body. It doesn't override it. That's a problem with a lot of things is overriding the system because like I said, it's like coming in with a wrecking ball or a sledgehammer and making your body do something that it's not designed to do. and it disrupts homeostasis which is going to be part of the problem. Remember everything works. It's like synchronicity, right? This is recovery, sleep, fat loss, age reversal, all of it because of MK-677 through your own biology. And listen, let me I'm going to have to address this because I already know somebody's going to go nuts about MK-677. It's going to be some I don't know, some guy doing curls in front of a mirror. It's not the problem. MK is not the problem. ignorance of human physiology is it it is because it doesn't wreck there. Oh, it wreck wrecks insulin. No, it doesn't. No, it doesn't. Not even close. It doesn't wreck insulin at all. It raises growth hormone which temporarily shifts glucose usage and you pair it with reatride which is the first part of this entire protocol and that's completely mitigated. It's neutralized. It's not possible. In fact, reatride is aggressively managing that and then solving it and then curing it. It doesn't kill testosterone either. that is dose dependent and irrelevant in women who are stacking it smart. If you're dosing it like some bodybuilder from the 2000s, then of course you're going to have problems. Don't be an idiot. Nobody should do this. This is why it matters who you listen to. And appetite, yep, absolutely. Cranks up your appetite. It's not catastrophic, but that's a feature in pmenopausal women. Even women that are trying to lose weight, whether you think so or not. You're not eating enough and you're not doing it the right way. That's the problem. And I can give you all the diet plans here. You want a diet plan, you want to bypass all this. Take your body weight and pounds, times it by 12, eat that amount of calories every day. Never go over that. You will lose weight. The problem is you're not going to do anything. You're not going to do it and you're not going to do the other things that matter. So, I just gave you the solution. Most people are going to go, "Wait, what was that?" And then you're never going to do it. It's like this. I had a lady send me a message. I just don't know if I'm ready to take eight different things right now. What if I had to take one? What one should I take? None. None. Cuz then you don't want to fix the system. You want convenience. I want to fix the system. Remember four years ago, I was in a wheelchair at 150ish pounds, struggling to stand up, broke and hating every aspect of my life enough that it didn't matter what was required of me to change it. I did it because I looked at my wife and my kids and I said, "Not a chance am I going to let them down." So, if this was part of it, I would take a hundred injections during the day if they were going to help me be healthier and stronger and fix my system. So I don't I can't comprehend the convenience thing because the convenience is I'm alive and I get to do the things that help other people and MK-677 just to come back because I could do this all over the place right now. It doesn't kill testosterone again dose dependent and irrelevant in women that are following a protocol like this one stacking it smart. So just keep that in mind. And the here's the issue. Appetite that's why I just said it. Appetite it's not a bug. It's not a bug man. It's undereating hormone crashed women who haven't absorbed a full meal in a decade. You need the food. No other peptide raises IGF-1 this consistently without a needle. None. Zero. Find me one. You can't. So, I'm not even going to bother putting that challenge out there. Skin, muscles, fat loss, recovery, cognition. MK-677 hits every single one of them. Checks all the boxes. There's no better choice in this protocol because they work together with everything else. Does that like I hope this makes sense because otherwise you're going to wind up screwing things up. The next set of this is this uh CJC-1295 and a Pamearellin. You pair them together for a reason and I'm not going to get into it right now, but circadian rhythm regulation and growth hormone restoration and tissue tissue regeneration. It has a few other things that it does, but those are the three heavy hitters. These two together are what create your natural GH growth hormone pulse rhythm. Right? So I am a rapid GH pulse without a cortisol spike. Important. and CJC1 1295 with with DAC by the way it's less people don't use it right when they when it doesn't have it and they have to take it twice a day and there's all this stuff CJC-1295 with DAC it's a longer acting signal to sustain that elevation that's why I explained it where it says or Pamarellin says hit the gas right pump out the GH and then CJC says now hang out right and I had people ask me that because they went well one is It's contradictory. No, you just didn't read it right. And maybe I didn't explain it right. Whatever. Sometimes in my brain, well, it just does the right thing. I'm not going to sit here and talk poorly about myself. I kick ass. Here's what these two things do. They stimulate growth hormone and IGF-1 without desensitizing the receptors. So, you don't have to scrape receptors or take time off because you have such a downgrade or a suppression in your system. They improve deep sleep, which you already know that delta sleep is when all healing occurs. All of it 100% repair skin, tendons, ligaments, boost fat oxidation during rest. Uh it resets that circadian rhythm from you want to know where supermic nucleus. That's in your hypothalamus. There's your fancy words for the day. But it does it via that. So you don't need melatonin gummies. You need to stop fighting your body's own damn clock. This pair restores the daily biological rhythm that your body had before modern life and cortisol and frustration and probably too much alcohol and chaos all broke it. So there's two ways of looking at the decline of the hormonal and the physiological system, the body, human biology of of a female as as you age. One is to go, how do we cover up the noise, but then nothing gets fixed? And you just have to turn up the volume all the time until you look in the mirror one day and you go, "Wow, I am a 55year-old woman, 80 lb overweight in a mumu, tolerating where I am because everything I've tried hasn't worked." And I have been like sisphus pushing that stone for the last 20 years. and everything everybody has told me, including doctors, friends, family, so-called experts, and bro science idiots. And none of them have helped me. You can do that or you can just right out of the gate start doing the right thing and never have to deal with that. GHK-Cu copper. This is critical. This is probably one of the most they're all critical. They have to work. I can't favor one. This is genetics and it works at a genetic level. So, it's genetic signaling, tissue regeneration, cosmetic restoration. Yes, look beautiful everybody. Glow, right? This peptide is naturally present in your blood in the plasma and it floats around when you're young and it says fix this, heal that, you know, repair this. It binds with copper and it enters the cell and it activates something called gene transcription. I guess none of this really matters, but I want you guys to understand some of the physiology behind it. So when someone says it does this, you can go actually that doesn't make sense. The Spartan said it does this. Dr. T, I think knows more than you. Yes, I do. Because I actually care more than you. That's why I didn't learn this for me. I learned this to help you. And I'm always doing this. If you saw just how much I read. Anyway, here's what the GHK case the copper does. It upregulates or it upregulation of collagen and elastin genes. So, it tells them to start cranking harder, right? Hits the gas. Hair follicle stimulation. No, I'm not talking about growing stuff in your pits and your groin and your legs and out of your ears where it normally is in abundance. Hair on your head. So it's, you know, I watched this show called Man with a Plan and with Matt Leblanc, Kevin Neely, Nean, the guy from Happy Gilmore. I think it's I think it might be Kevin Neely. Anyway, he's funny and his wife Marcy, she gets made fun of by Andy, which is Matt Leblanc's wife, and she calls her doll hair. She's like, "You got doll hair." And she goes, Marcy gets all upset. And Don is Matt's brother, is Adam's brother in the show, and he goes, "You got hair like a yak." So that's what it does. Follicle stimulation gives you yak hair on your head, long luxurious hair. It's what you want. You ever see my wife? She looks beautiful. The end, right? Dermal remodeling, right? So, it fixes all those lumps, bumps, and goofy things on your skin, on your face, wherever they are. DNA repair mechanisms. So, when your DNA is transcribing, and I haven't even gotten into epitolon and how it affects timmerase, which is affects telomeres, which is the endcap, the aglet on the end of DNA strand when it divides. And I'll explain that in a minute. But this aids in that. This copper aids in that. Remember, and I said the other day, this is like the armor around neurons. So, it's not just, this is why I'm explaining this. It's not just affecting one thing. It's not, your body isn't onedimensional. It's a it's a constantly evolving system that between epigenetics and systemic function. It is doing things at light speed 24/7, 365. So, this is important. It reduces GHKC, reduces pro-inflammatory cytoines, all the stuff that makes all that systemic inflammation. And it cranks up wound healing in your skin. This stuff's next level. It's not skin care. GHK-Cu. It's not. Copper is not. It is molecular conversation and communication. It tells your cells, "Hey, listen. Why don't you start acting like you're 25 again? Huh? Can we do that? Is that cool?" And then they listen. They listen because you don't I said this in my post. You don't get Botox because your skin is getting old. You get Botox because your skin stopped listening. Not the same. So, you don't have to freeze your face. This makes your skin listen. BPC1. Man, I love this peptide. Gut brain access, HPA regulation, systemic healing. This thing is This is gold. I love this thing. It should be part of every single stack to be honest. But it's it's known as body protection compound BPC from gastric juice. Everybody knows this and everybody thinks they're an expert, but that's where the knowledge stops. But why does it matter? Because your gut is your command center. I love when people talk about the microbiome that actually know what they're talking about because they're right. They're right. Just to be clear, they're right. The people that talk about the microbiome and aren't think that you can sprinkle a little powder on your food and it heals it. They're wrong. Eating yogurt doesn't heal the microbiome. This BPC will, by the way, your gut is the command center of everything. It's like the second brain. If it's inflamed, everything else in your body breaks down. Brain function, hormonal signaling, immune response, serotonin, um, nutrient absorption, recovery, all of this. If your gut doesn't work, nothing works. BPC-157 heals the entire GI tract. Here's why, though. And I'll explain exactly how it does it. Antiogenesis, it forms new blood vessels, reduces leaky gut and uh permeability issues. It modulates the dopamine serotonin access. Yes, that's important. And it handles enhances, for lack of a better word, muscle and tendon repair in a way that I can't even explain. It's so fast. 12 weeks I had a super spanatus tear from me being I just lifted too much for my ability. And if you know, you know. When you're lifting, it was a snatch. And my snatch form is terrible already. And it's just because I'm stubborn and I like to muscle it instead. But I I did a snatch and I added 10 lbs. I think I went from 215 to 225. And 215 was a struggle, but I went I have a little more in the tank. Well, if you know and you lift, adding 10 lb is insane. I should have added one. No, I was greedy. So, I did it. Heard it snap. Felt it. Bar fell down. The next day, I could raise my arm about an inch and it just caused nothing but problems. And I had three orthos tell me that I needed surgery. And there was no other way. Well, shoulder surgery for the most part locks you in a wedge and puts you in this position and then you're screwed for life. I don't care what anybody says unless you have to have a replacement because you've reached the end of your rope. But I went, "Nope, I disagree." So that's when I became an expert. 12 weeks later, I was doing handstand push-ups and one ortho. The other two wouldn't even see me after that cuz I didn't let them cut me open, which is hilarious to me. Stomping your feet and getting mad because I wouldn't let you destroy me. Yeah, you can go f yourself if you're a dog. Above all, do no harm. The end. The one ortho went, "Whatever you're doing, man. Keep doing it." It's just like when I came out of surgery and I went for my follow-up after they took the lung out. And the surgeon went, "I've never seen this. I've been doing this for 9 years. I've never seen this." And that's when I said, "Can I take a picture of that?" He goes, "Yeah, absolutely." Goes, "This is crazy." He goes, "This is the most amazing thing I've ever seen because I take care of the system. I know what I'm talking about, you guys. So, if you go, I don't know if I should pay this guy. I don't know if I should call this guy." Don't. That's okay. I'm not going to lose any sleep over it. But I want you to be healthy. But it's not a matter of what I want. It's what you're willing to do. But no gut, no gut function, no glow up. That's how you start building this entire program from the foundation up. And if you remember, I talked about a pitilon. All right, so let's get into it. Telmir repair, mitochondrial integrity, and pineal activation. Right? Aging. Aging isn't wrinkles. It's shortening of the telomeres and cellular death. Aging is a it's the wrong word. Epitoolon activates something called and I said it earlier timmerase which is the enzyme that repairs the caps at the end of your DNA. So specifically, let me explain what it does so you have something to put in your pocket and use for later. It slows cellular aging. It restores melatonin from the pineal gland. Normalizes your circadian hormone pulses which you already know the pulses matter. 70% happens when you're sleeping. All those pulses are how you heal and recover. Supports mitochondrial health. little furnaces inside that um remember ATP that's the currency that energy is the currency of your entire body ATP adenazine triphosphate breaks the bonds adenazine diphosphate break the bond adenosine monof phosphate every subsequent bond it breaks is a little less energy release so you want that triple bond which is also by the way how creatine works it adds a phosphate so it create it allows you to have more ATP most people aren't even saying that they're just going you should take 5 milligrams of creatine why Why I'm the why guy? I want to know this epitoolon reduces oxidative stress which is the presence of free free radicals and cell and it reduces cell death apotosis right so think of think of epitoolon as your personal insurance program your insurance plan against time doesn't prevent aging and nothing does it just tells your body hey uh we're not done yet you cool with that but here's the difference this is why this layout will always win there is no variation of this that's not going to or that is going to win. No variation of this is going to win. None. This is the only variation that wins because it's built around your physiology. And here's the difference between this and all the other nonsense you're seeing online. And you choose. I'm not here to convince you, to sell you on anything. I'm here to give you information so you decide. They're guessing. I'm not at all. They're pushing one button and I'm rebuilding the entire friaking machine. I'm not selling some fat burn mushroom tea. I'm telling you how to restore all of your systems. upgrade your OS operating system. So, not fat doesn't stand a chance, but nothing else. Like all the aging goes hustla bye-bye. This the stack doesn't target symptoms. And I think that's where there's a big disconnect with people is they go, "Well, what what does it do?" It restores your operating code. Endocrine rhythm, metabolic function, gut brain access, muscle preservation, skin signaling, mitochondrial energy, genetic repair. It's not a stack. This is a metabolic, not even a biological operating system upgrade. It's like installing new software that tells your system, "Hey, you know, all those little corners of cool things that we had turned off, here's how you turn them on." And that's why it works. That's why it works. So, if you're a woman over 30, you're tired of doing everything that's pissing you off and not working. You're still bloated and f and inflamed and exhausted and you never are, you know, in the mood with your husband. You're not broken. Like I said, you're just running a Ferrari on lawnmower protocol and that knucklehead giving you advice who's telling you, "Let me show you I know more than he does." Put them on live with me or just ignore him and stop or her. Stop listening to them because they've never read a study. They've never learned receptor biology and couldn't spell glucocorticoid if you spotted him the first 10 letters. That's how well I know these people. But now you know better, so you can decide. I mean, you know the real system and the physiology and you have a real road map to do whatever you want. But you have to stop buying science fiction and start rebuilding your freaking biology because if you're going to fight aging, then you better show up with more than just I like their abs. They got a cool hat and some vibes. Otherwise, you're going to run into problems, right? And I thought even like I'm thinking some of these bros, I don't know how long I've been in this already. Son of a [\h__\h] Already a while. 45 minutes right now. I guarantee you there is somebody that's just frothing at the mouth just trying to light me up in the comments section. Bring it. Bring it. these guys that you don't need all that, bro. Just fix your gut, lower your cortisol, and fast for 72 hours. This I heard this too actually today was that stack is overkill. I just use B12 and I drink bone broth and um I sleep great. I feel awesome. Really? Okay. Like the stuff even that I'm just thinking about the stuff I hear in my comments. I can't I can't I can't It just makes me crazy when I hear what you guys. That's not how peptides work, bro. I saw a real where this guy explained it and he shredded. He looks better than you. Okay, make it makes you guys make it make sense. Make it make sense. I will break this down. Listen, I'm going to go further. Let's let's keep going cuz I'm going to run with this. This [\h__\h] makes me happy. I'll break this down so even the biohacker with his vape pen can can keep up. I won't even use a whiteboard. How's that? Here's here's this one. Somebody goes, "That's too much. Just pick one." Wrong. Hold on. I'm going to drink some coffee. I need to warm up for this one. You just need one, bro. Just pick one. Wrong. Picking one is why none of this is working for you. That's why nothing in your system works. cuz some bro or insta sister I really have no idea some self proclaimed expert. That's like fixing one wire in a total Tesla and wondering why it doesn't drive. You're dealing with I can't. Right. Just pick one. It'll work wrong. It doesn't work like that. Picking one is why it doesn't work. I just can't I can't get this stuff off my chest it fast enough cuz it's so imbecillic. This you can't. Could you imagine? Could you imagine? I'm going to fix this one wire in a Tesla. And why isn't the stupid thing driving yelling at the mechanic? When it's totaled, you're dealing with systemic breakdown across multiple biological domains. Make it make sense. Hormones, neurotransmitters, growth factors, metabolic regulators, sleep architecture, mitochondrial decay, tissue regeneration. Pick one. Pick one. That's like saying just charge the phone when the screen's cracked, the battery is dead, and the motherboard is on fire. Your biology is interconnected. If you don't rebuild the system, you keep re you can just keep chasing symptoms. I can't I see this all the time. You insta bros, stop posting stuff. You're just screwing people up. This one is too against the the rea. The people that go against rea. I've seen great results with just semiglutide. You also saw a 20-year-old go viral for eating one meal a day and walking backwards uphill. Congratulations. Semaglutide is a GLP-1 agonist. You cannot use it in this stack at all. It suppresses appetite and slows down gastric emptying. That's it. There is no other. There are no other neurological benefits. There are no systemic no hipp like nothing. It doesn't repair your gut. It doesn't restore growth hormone. It doesn't fix your circadian rhythm. It doesn't rebuild muscle or hair or metabolism or mood or your frigin mitochondria. You can lose weight on heroin, too. You know that. But that doesn't mean it's a good plan. A result is not a solution. Just so you understand. I think I've had sometimes I cite science and studies. I'd read more than I care to sometimes, but when I hear somebody say, "I only trust the science." Perfect. Let's dance. Let's go there. Every peptide I list has multiple I love this. Bring it. You didn't. What science? Okay, I just love this. Is one of my favorite ones, dude. I will burn your eyes out. Every peptide I've listed has multiple peer-reviewed NIH funded PubMed indexed studies on their mechanisms on their benefits and safety profiles in both neurine and human models. Now what? Well, let's be honest. You're not reading studies, are you? You're reading someone else's Instagram caption about a study they didn't read either. You don't need a PhD to use a peptide, but you do need more than a podcast and a scoop of collagen to understand how GH signaling works in a hormonally declining female endocrine system. So, let let's not I need to stop. Let's not pretend we're doing science if you get your protocols from a gym locker room or some Insta bro with an affiliate code. It's like actually I should actually pull it up. I had some guy go I fixed my whole system, my endocrine system. I have patients. They called them patients and I looked what they did. You don't have patience, idiot. You have customers. I fix my my clients with cold plunges and real breath work. How about you try that, bro? Instead of pedaling your drugs. First of all, peptides aren't drugs. And second of all, cool story because that's all it is. Cold plunges stimulate norepinephrine. Breath work calms the vagus nerve. That's great for stress management. They're not rebuilding telomeres. They're not reactivating growth hormone release. They're not repairing your hypothalamus. And they're not reversing mitochondrial dysfunction. That's the equivalent of putting Freze on a dumpster and calling it clean air. Again, treating symptoms, not causes. I think one of the ones I hear a lot are people are afraid of needles. And I'm just rattling things off that I've thought about in my comments. Injectables are too scary. I don't trust them. I'll just take it orally. Stop. Just stop. Stop. Listen, you can't. Peptides are fragile amino acid chains. They're destroyed, absolutely obliterated in your stomach by this thing called hydrochloric acid. Never mind the pepsin and the enzymes before they ever reach systemic circulation. It can't happen. They are absolutely It is impossible. Physiologically impossible. Taking oral peptides is like mailing a chocolate bar through a volcano and expecting it to arrive frozen. If you're afraid of a tiny little insulin syringe that could save your skin, your sleep, your gut, your brain, your life, your hormones, your endocrine system, everything. You don't want change. You want comfort. That's just fine. Just don't confuse your fear with a flaw in some protocol. especially this one cuz it's not true. You're the problem, not the protocol. Take all the orals you want. Enjoy pissing your money away. I heard somebody say this and they argued, "Oh, they got mad because when I said read a true tide trumps Ozik and Mjaro any day of the week in every category, you're just trying to sell people stuff, bro." No, I'm really not. How many times have I pitched anything in this? I haven't. I'm trying to stop people from wasting years of their life on fantasy biology sold by shirtless influencers with a discount code and zero understanding of the pituitary axis. This isn't affiliate marketing. Literally, this is a wakeup call. Like, if you go, "What if this doesn't work for me?" You know what definitely won't work? Doing what hasn't worked for the last 5 years. Again, with slightly better branding. So, you can either keep trying random hacks and blaming your metabolic problem on your grandmother, or you can fix the biological systems that were never built to survive modern stress, modern food, and all the modern misinformation on social media. This isn't perfection. This is very strategic. It's precision. That's the difference between what this is and whatever is going on out in the internet world. Because if you're if you're still in my comments right now after all of this arguing for your limitations, congratulations, man. You've built a belief system around being a freaking loser. But if you're ready to win and you want to actually make this happen, I just gave you the blueprint. I solved all of your problems. You don't need another opinion. Knock yourself out if daddy told you why you should just probably get 10 other opinions. I gave you the answer. How many more times do you want to hear the answer? What that means is you want something easier. This is the answer. You need a biological operating system rebuild designed for a hormonally unstable, metabolically suppressed, logically inflamed body, which is exactly what every woman over 30 is fighting. You're welcome. Listen, I want you to win. You have to make the decision who you're listening to to get there. So, let the influencers keep selling their little magic pills. I'm going to be over here building on your biology and just knocking it out of the park. Put points on the board for you. I got to go. Never miss.