Sunday. Every day is kind of my f favorite day, you know, but Sunday's a fun day cuz I if you guys know, if you follow me for any amount of time, I do a webinar on Sundays at 4:00 Central, Texas. Links in my in my social media and you can join. It's free, but I drop bombs. And today was fun. I had a good crew. And yeah, there's a pitch in there. It's to join my mentorship, but I actually want to help people during the webinar. It's not a giant pitchfest and ask anybody that's ever come. The pitch is probably about a minute and a half long and then I just get right into solving problems. But today was a good crew, man. It was a good crew. You know, I started thinking about something and I'm going to make this quick cuz I have a lot of stuff to do yet tonight. It's quarter to shoot. It's quarter to 7 already. You know how you cure any like I'm going to I will I'll tell you how to cure any health problem, any money problem, any marriage problem. I will. And this is real. It's not one of these fluffy things. But you just have to bear with me till the end of this podcast. You ready? Change your psychology. And here, listen. Right there is where I mean, right this exact second is where I lost probably 90% of the people listening to this like, "Oh, here we go." People just mentally checked out because the minute you mention psychology, everybody hears self-help, guru, insta coach, all that stuff. And ironically, that is the exact reason why people never ex escape the problems that they have created for themselves in the first place. You put yourself where you are. If you're still here, psychology first, ecology first, solutions second. That is the hierarchy. No matter how you want to spin it, I'll I'll prove it to you. I'll be as blunt as I can. Your psychology puts you where you are. And your psychology is the only damn thing that can get you out. Listen, here's why. I can hand you, this is fun for me. I can hand you literally put it in your hand the ultimate blueprint that guarantees I don't know a million dollars a year in net income in your pocket in your bank account in your life working one hour for the rest like one hour a day for the rest of your life and it won't matter won't matter until you decide to actually do it is worthless that's the insane part people beg for solutions for the secret for this magic bullet or whatever BS you guys have been sold And then they're handed the I the exact thing they asked for and they don't squeeze the trigger. What's What's wrong with you guys? Actually, I think I know why. Because most of you guys are so in love with the [\h__\h] identity you've built around your current problem that you reject the very thing that could fix it. Listen, I will prove it. I will give you answers to your problems that I'll show you how to lose all the weight, make a bunch of money. I will give you a step-by-step play right now on this podcast that actually will work. Start with like lowhanging fruit, which is weight loss. Any monkey can lose weight. I don't care who you are. It's it's weight loss dynamics is the law. That's the physics. It's not magic. It's not some weird cream or some insta bro [\h__\h] you know. And and here's what happens. Everybody a fairy tale. I've heard all of you guys come up with this. And if you guys, well, this guy's harsh today. Yeah, I'm gritty because I'm hungry. I want to go inside, hang out with my wife, and I've been friend of been in front of this microphone for about 4 hours. I've This is what I hear people. I've tried everything. No, you haven't. But you'll still fight me on it. I've tried everything. I just can't lose weight. My body is different. I've been a doctor for almost 30 years, actually, when I did the math with Brandy. So, let me get this straight. You've tried everything. You can't lose the weight. Your body is different. Thyroid? My My thyroid is broken. My genetics are cursed. It must be my neighbor's gluten aura. Seriously, please. You're not special. You're a human being, which means, hey, I got some really good news for you. Just so you know, if you follow the biological laws of being a frigin human being, then you can lose weight the way every other human being have has lost weight. I mean, here's the easiest, most effective way to lose weight without losing a drop of muscle. No gimmicks or excuses, no magic metabolism or whatever it is, some fairy dust from the Himalayas. It doesn't none of it. Just that. You ready? You guys are going to want to write this down or record it or whatever it is you're going to do. Here, I'll give you step by step. Step one, take your body weight in pounds and multiply that by 12. That's your daily calories, period. And if you go, "Well, that doesn't work for me." Yes, it does. Shut your mouth. You just don't know how to count properly. You forgot second grade mathematics. So, I'll use myself as an example. I weigh about 200 lb. So, 200 * 12, 2400. That's how many calories I'm allowed to eat all day. No exceptions. None. Not 2401, not 2406. 2400. If I wanted to lose weight, which I don't, I will eat 2400 calories per day. Done. No more debates about Hashimoto's or menopause or your dad's beer gut. Thermodynamics doesn't care. I don't know how else to drive this home. If you aren't losing weight, then you are not in a caloric deficit no matter what diet you are doing. So that's step one, 2400. I'm using myself as an example. Step two, take that same body weight and multiply it by 1.5 or two depending on how much protein you want to take in. That's your protein target. This is how you figure it out. So, for me, 200. I'm going to go 2 g of protein per pound of body weight, which would make 400 g of protein. And before any of these insta bros rush into my comments and start blasting me with their nonsense, first of all, I am infinitely more intelligent than you are. I have forgotten more than you will ever learn. And your bro science and trust me, bro, [\h__\h] is not going to wash with me cuz I will set you on fire when you start going protein kills your kidneys, bro. No, it doesn't. No, it doesn't. Not unless you already have advanced kid kidney disease, in which case, just to be very transparent, you've got bigger problems than protein shakes, right? Too much protein isn't your issue. Dialysis is probably your issue or the entire protocol I talked about on how to solve kidney failure. Oh yeah, I actually go over that, too. You should just go back a couple of podcasts. I don't know if you figured it out yet, but I actually come out here to help you guys. So, now let's go. Step three, cuz I don't have time to waste here. Step three, multiply that protein number by 4 because protein has 4 calories per gram. In case you're wondering where I'm getting the math from. So 400 * 4 equals 1,600 calories from protein. Now subtract that from the total. The total was what? So 2400US 16 800. That's how many calories I can do whatever the hell I want with. That is 800 calories left over to eat anything. Oreos, donuts, cake, whatever. I don't recommend it. I mean, unless you want to have a brand new set of health problems, I guess. But you could. The point is, you control the calories, the total calories. So, you want to eat cheesecake. As long as it doesn't crest that 800 surplus, that's fine. As long as I don't go over the 24,00 for the day, I don't care. Neither does thermodynamics. Neither does your physiology. You just might create a whole new host of problems if you're eating sleeves of Oreos all day. That's what I'm saying. So, stay under 2400. And I guarantee you, you're going to lose weight at 200 lb if that's what I'm trying to do. Again, using my example, you got your own example to worry about. And because you prioritize protein, you're not going to lose muscle. That's the difference between dieting like an adult and dieting like some Insta guru or Tik Tok fad. This frustrates me. Step four. You want to make this even better? Add one mile of walking every day at a 16 to 17 minute mile pace. That's it. No CrossFit or Iron Mans or Spartan races or 4-hour Orange Theory marathons. Just a damn walk. Now listen, if that feels impossible because your neighbor Ruth keeps baking cookies and fresh bread and it's tormenting the hell out of you with the smell, fine. Then pull in back up. And I have to put this in here. This isn't meant to be advice or treatment or prescription or anything like that. And this is purely hypothetical and educational and just for entertainment. And in a minute, you're going to see why I'm saying it, which is ridiculous that I even have to say that. Now, if this feels all impossible, like I said, because good old Ruth is baking loaves of bread the size of bowling balls and it smells so good and she's got a fan wafting that over to you every day and you just can't hack it because you don't have a shred of willpower whatsoever. That's fine. Add reatide. You're welcome. And and I'll go even further. Hypothetically, if I was going to use reatide, I'd start with 0.25 milligrams per week and titrate up unlike semaglutide or tzepide which are both garbage. garbage. 100% rebound effect and muscle wasting. 70% of what you lose on semiglutide intercepatide is tissue and water. DEEXA scan proves it. For all you knuckleheads that keep getting in my comments arguing that it's not, show me the blood work and get on a dexa and I will prove you wrong every time, but nobody's taking me up on it. So, you want to use reatride 0.25 milligrams per week titrate up as you can tolerate because like I said, semma and tursa waste muscle. Read a true tide saves your lean mass and it shuts down your appetite. Like you almost hate food. You're almost angry at food. So you have to remind yourself to eat. Make sure you're eating good things. And no, by the way, don't DM me about micro doing or switching from semiglutide or tzepide to reagatide. I've already covered all this stuff in my social media. I've answered it at least a hundred times. And yes, you can get it all at my company. By the way, if you're going to go, where do we get it? My company link is in the damn description. All right, there you got it. Solved already. I gave you a solution that will work 100% for everybody. Even if you have type two diabetes, it'll work. In fact, it'll help you if you have type two diabetes because Redat True Tide handles a hypothalamus. And I could do this all day. It is so effective for all of the stuff you got going on. So all your excuses bunk. Cuz here's the truth. It was never the solution that was missing. If you can't lose weight, it was always your psychology that refused to apply it. What do you got now? What do you got now? The same thing goes with money. Everyone wants to make seven figures. I see this all over Instagram. Sevenigure earner. I see this one. I'm not going to say it because I keep talking about him. This guy just irritates me. I want to smack him in the mouth. I'm glad his wife left him. But everybody wants to make seven figures. Oh, it sounds sexy, right? But okay, I'll break it down on exactly how to do it. And it doesn't matter what business you have. A million a year is $115 an hour. Every hour, 24 hours a day, 365 days in a row straight. 15 an hour time 24 time 365 is 1,4640. That's just over a million in 12 months. But here's the punch in the face. Like, here's the rub that most of you guys don't like. You don't even need to be a genius to hit that. You could be some prepubescent myopic idiot sitting on a couch and still do this. It's that most of you won't. You just need to have a problem that's worth solving and the courage to step up and talk about the solution non-stop and then sell the solution. Because I promise you, if there's a solution, people want it cuz they're tired of being lied to. They're tired of buying bro science instab bro garbage. They're tired of buying products that don't do what they say. They're tired of hiring coaches that don't do what they say. They're tired of everything that is just a lie. You actually solve the problem. You will not know what to do with all the money because you're actually providing a service. Don't be a snake. It's that simple. But that this is it. Like you don't need a startup incubator or a Shark Tank audition. You don't need to be begging for funding from your grandmother to start it in your garage. You just need to solve a real problem, package the solution, and then sell it. So, here, I'll help you. I'll even help you to do this. This podcast is literally off the cuff because I'm so irritated at people going, "I can't lose weight. I can't make money, but yes, you can. You're just not applying yourself because your psychology is fucked." Unfuck your psychology. So, ask yourself this right now. Whatever you're Whatever you're doing right now, just drop whatever you're doing and ask yourself, what problem have you already solved for yourself? You trained a dog, built a chicken coupe, beat ADHD for you or somebody else, learned how to do the splits, lost 50 pounds, what whatever. Congratulations. If you have any solutions that you've ever created for yourself, which you already have, now you've got inventory. You have inventory. You have a product or service to sell. Now, write down every step for pick one. Pick one. I don't care which one it is. Pick one that you are going to do for a year straight every day for an entire year. Write down every step start to finish. Don't write it like you are pitching to some VC. Write it at a third grade level because if a third grader can't follow it, your customer won't either. And it's not insulting somebody that's like, "I'm so smart." Nobody cares. It's in order to make it easier for you to comprehend. You just stick out of your ass. Just accept the solution. And then go to Hemingway or Chat GPT. Don't do this in chat GPT. Polish it in Hemingway or Chad GPT. And turn it into a 10 to 30page guide. Now export it into a very well articulated, polished, clean looking PDF. Not like you slapped it together at your kitchen table in three minutes because you want to go outside and play Frisbee with your fat neighbor. Now go to Canva. And there are infinite videos to show you how to do all this stuff. That's why I'm not going into the details. And if you go, "Well, there's a way better way. I can just go to this app and it'll do it all for me." That's exactly why nobody's buying your stuff because it sounds like everybody else's. It sounds like AI and it stinks like crap. You know why people listen to me and pay me? Cuz I don't. I mean, AI will polish something if I need it. I write it because I've actually done it. Bro, that takes so much time. Yeah, but I make millions of dollars a year and I am fit and strong and I have a great life and an incredible marriage to a woman I adore and two great kids and a life that I built from scratch in 4 years after being at the bottom. So maybe you just want to listen to me. Just maybe. Maybe because I'm out here helping you because of the goodness of my freaking heart, not because of any other reason. So maybe the proper response to all of your nonsense is shut your mouth and say thank you. So now go to Canva. Drop this into Canva. Just dress it up. Make it clean. Don't add B-roll garbage you find somewhere. Put your own spin on it. Your own pictures, your own life. Do you know why people buy from you because it's you? So add some pictures. And like I said, I'm not teaching you how to use Canva. There are 10,000 YouTube video tutorials on how to do that. In fact, Canva probably has its own now. I I don't know. My editing team does most of this, but I still know how to do this stuff. Now, here's the important part. Don't outsource the writing to AI. I'm going to drill down on this a dozen times. Use I said it before. Use AI to polish, not to create. Because I don't care if you guys are listening to this, you can smell AI fake from a mile away. Anyone I asked people on my webinar today. I said, "Hey, how many of you guys follow me on social media?" There a bunch of hands, right? And then I said, "Am I the same right now as live as I am on social media?" And they all had a big grin on their face. They're like, "Yeah, this is me. I don't know how to be anything else." which is why I think I'm like if you follow comics cuz my son loves Avengers and and comics and stuff like that. And he says there's a guy, what is his name? Taskmaster. He can copy everybody's moves instantly. Just sees it once and he can do everything they can do. And he said the only person that he's afraid of is Deadpool because he's so erratic. He can't be copied. There you go. I'm Deadpool cuz I'm all over the place. It's like hurting cats inside my head. And yet I have 13,000 plus books in my head. Yes, really. My Audible library is giant and I listen and I read all the I went over this the other day. I'm not going to do it again. So anyway, don't outsource your writing your writing. Don't don't you could smell it a mile away. Just don't do it. People buy from people they trust that actually give a damn about their results. I will use myself as an example. Do you know why I'm out here? How many times am I pitching this product? Any product I'm not. I'm actually coming out here for 234 videos today since January 1st, 2025, helping you, which is always mind-blowing to me that some of you nipple nuts actually have the audacity to go into my comments and say anything other than thanks. I like I actually said to Brandy, I say, I think I'm going to just turn my comments off because I most of the I mean 90% of the comments are great. So, thank you very much you guys. I love the appreciation. But if you're going to drop negative negativity, you're going to ruin it for everybody else because I don't care. Your negativity has no place, no home in the Spartan house. It shouldn't have any home in yours either, which is why you're broke. So that's that's the difference, by the way, between selling crap and building a real business. Get one of this guy I knew, this Cairo, really good, warm-hearted dude, man. Really, he sent he sent everybody a book in this group and it was all about marketing and he open you opened up the book and it might not sound like much to you, but you open the book, it is one page. I remember when I got it, he sent it to about 30 people and it was the ultimate business book and it said care. That's it, man. Care like this. If you don't get it, this is coming from love. It really is. I give a [\h__\h] and I want you guys to win. But you guys have to do it. It's your psychology. There's no magic hack. The magic hack is you looking in the mirror and going, "Hey, bug nuts. Get off your ass and start doing everything until you get to where you want to go and don't stop until that's all it takes. You want the ultimate advice I can give you? Pick a target that you really want that that there's nothing on this earth that you you can't stop like you just can't stop thinking about it because that's how you want your life to look. That's your emerald city. That's the kingdom at the end of the road. Pick that. Design it from A to Z. That's the fun part and that's also the easy part. And then only work on that non-stop before you go, what about having a life? What about going to play Frisbee in the park? What about this? You're not getting what I'm saying. You invest 1 2 3 5 years to build it all. and then you enjoy the other 50 while working on it, not in it. But you have to decide and you have to be willing to struggle and suffer and suck at the beginning. But that's up to you. But you have to set it up where you see this vision for your life and exactly how you want it to be. Not the realistic, not nothing like that. I mean, really, you want a flying car in your garage, then you go, "That's what I want." You figure out how to do it with like a thousand drones attached to your Ferrari. I really don't know. And then that is all you do. And you do it so much, so often, so incredibly deliberate where that is all you see, touch, taste, smell, hear, nothing. That is or that is all you do where it becomes so boring and so monotonous and you just want to quit sometimes every single day, but that is all you think of. You don't need a goal list. You don't need a vision board because that's all you think about. And you do that to the point where all you think about is going to that place. And it would be unreasonable to not reach that place. And you just go until, and by that I mean until you get there, not until you're tired, until you want to quit, until it it's been too long, until it's been too many years. No, until you win. If you put that like resolve in advance to never give up. If you do that, you cannot help but succeed and you are unbeatable because you'll just stay in the game longer than everybody else, it becomes a game of outlasting every single other person in your way. That's how you do this. So, if you're willing to do that, you could literally follow just this one podcast will change your life. So, now you've got this little PDF all polished up and clean with some don't get scrolly writing, just regular Ariel Times, right? Times New Roman, whatever. You got this little sexy PDF. All right, watch. You ready? Step one, set up Stripe. Connect it to your bank account. Hopefully, your bank account has the same name as your business. Otherwise, that's going to cause problems with underwriting with Stripe later when you start to make a million dollars a year and they go, "Hey, we need to do some stuff and see what's going on." That's the issue with Stripe, by the way. Easy Pay Direct, authorized.net, net real pay direct all better choices than Stripe just to be very transparent. But Stripe is instant easy. I can set it up right now and in about 3 minutes I will have money going into my account up to a point until it becomes too much and then they go underwriting needs to look cuz Stripe does the underwriting after everything else does the underwriting beforehand. Also things that most people don't tell you. So you connect it to your bank account with your LLC that you set up in Texas, Wyoming, Nevada, Florida or Delaware. And then you get your free EIN. Do not pay somebody for an EIN. It's free. Go to your bank. And this is the simplest way. I'm not saying it's the best way, but this is the most simple way. Go to your bank. Give them the articles of incorporation. Give them the EIN. Get them to set up the bank account where you have signing power over the bank account. Now you don't have any problems. Now you set that up and connect it to Stripe. Now you have a way to get paid and where the money can go. Open a free Gumroad account. Gumroad gu. Link it to Stripe. Now upload that little sexy PDF as a digital product. It's in the menu. I'm not going to tell you how to do it. It's a monkey can figure this out. Add a cover image from where? Canva. Write a real short, very descriptive, hard-hitting, amazing description. Now, set the price. Gumroad spits out a link when somebody buys it. Well, Gumroad spits out a link first. That's like a buy it link. Share that. Put it in your social media. Put it everywhere. Give it to your friends. Text everybody in your phone. Send every email you've got with that thing telling them what it is. That's it. That is the entire infrastructure of an online business. Now, go to Instagram. Set up an account with your real name. You guys in your stupid cute little names. You know what my name is? Dr. Trevor Bachamire. Why? because my name is Dr. Trevor Bachmire and everybody calls me the Spartan, but it was taken. But I'm promise you I'm the most OG Spartan there is. I am I'm the Spartan G. You want to say that? And then just talk non-stop on social media about everything related to your solution. Whether it's your podcast, make a podcast, get on YouTube, start talking. My YouTube started with one person. My social media started with one person. I just kept talking. Talk about everything related to your solution. Build trust. Make everybody curious. Throw them all kinds of, "Hey, I can help you. Let me show you by actually helping you first." and then they buy your stuff because they actually trust you. Build belief because you you want to sell all your stuff. You want to sell your product. Believe your own [\h__\h] There you go. Care and believe your own [\h__\h] Don't sell people garbage that you don't believe in that you've never really done. I know plenty of people unfortunately who have built significant amounts of money by selling people something to get them somewhere that they haven't done themselves. I just can't do that. My wife says it to me all the time. She's like, "Babe, you know what? We had a seven-figure business before people even talked about it on social media before it was sexy. I had a seven figureure business before there was even Instagram. So, I mean, I know I did this before it was something trendy. Now, well, I'll even go even further to make you you could make money while you sleep. No. If you expect this is going to churn out a million dollars in a month, don't bother doing this. You're just going to be pissed off. In fact, take your hand, fist it up, punch yourself in the face because that's how ridiculously stupid that is. So, now you want to layer in something called ManyHat. If you don't know what it is, look it up. I'm not going to explain it. Create a keyword automation. Keyword is comment. You know what? for answers for the program for my XYZ. So, hey, you wanted my guide? Here you go. Whatever the keyword is. Then they type in that keyword, it triggers the ManyHat automation where you ask them, "Hey, you want, like I said, you wanted my guide? Awesome. Here you go. Click the link." And then you they click the little button which allows ManyHats to send them another message. Hey, listen. This is what it's going to do for you. I hope you really enjoy it. Share it with anybody you like or anybody you love. Click the link. That link takes them to Gumroad. They go to Gumroad and they pay with whatever credit card they have or whatever method they have. Buttons, I don't care. Crypto would be the smartest. Bitcoin would be ideal. Now you're selling. Except it does it while you're sleeping. I go to bed with zero views and I get up with like a million views on something sometimes just because I set it up to make sure people get the help they need cuz I don't have there's not enough Dr. T around. Except yet 99% of you guys aren't going to do what I just told you to do with the weight loss or the or the money. You're not. You're going to come up with reasons why it's different for you and you've already tried that. Clearly, you haven't because just so you know, I'm the guy wearing the $350,000 watch in the couple hundred,000 studio because I've actually done this. And no, it's not a flex. It's to say, listen, I'm the one that's fit. That came from a wheelchair missing a freaking lung. If you look back four years, you'll see it. It's not I don't have this rags to rich's story. I have this gritty it sucked. I hated every minute of it. I wanted to quit almost every day story. So, I don't try and fluff this. I'm just transparent about it. I have the most incredible marriage. If you look at my social media, never mind. Just hang around my wife and I for 5 minutes, you'll know. Adore Brandy so much. She is my best friend. I adore my children. Open Pierce. I love my family so much. It's been 20 years. So, you can listen to me. You don't have to. You can keep listening to the guy that's like, "Check this out. But wait, there's more." And he sounds like a stupid infomercial. But most of you guys won't do it. And because not because the blueprint doesn't work or because Gumroad link is broken or many chats is too confusing or anything like that. It's because your psychology is doing this. It's whispering. Yeah, that's too much effort, man. It's too risky. What if it doesn't work? Which is exactly why you're fat and broken in a crappy marriage and you haven't had sex for a decade. And if you do have sex, you hate it. You wish you could do some other things. Do do you see the pattern? Please, you guys listen to me. Do you see the pattern? Whether it's losing weight or making money or fixing your marriage or getting it, like doesn't matter. The issue is never the lack of a solution. It's that you won't do the solution. You sit there waiting for the weights in the gym to lift themselves. You wait for the business to build itself for your spouse to suddenly turn into a mind readading therapist. It's like I mean you could go so dark and crude you know it's like my wife going well it ain't going to lick itself. I don't know how else to say this. Before you get all offended like you don't. You kidding? I have the most animalistic primal incredible sex with my wife. Why wouldn't you? If you were mar if you're married, why aren't you doing everything you want to do with between the sheets with your spouse? If you want to have all these things in your life, in your house, why aren't you earning all the money so you can do it? Why aren't you taking care of the one thing that allows you to do all the other things? Your health. It's absurd. Nothing solves itself. Yet, most people waste decades waiting for something to change. I mean, you want the hard punch. It's always psychology first, then its results, never the other way around. Listen, I am I am missing a lung. If you don't know, yeah, you heard that right. I'm missing a whole lung. And you know what? I still outperform 99% of people making excuses with two fully functioning lungs and a better life and a better beginning than I had. So don't tell me about your special case. Until you hate where you are more than you hate all of the effort combined that's required to change, you are going to stay exactly where you are, blaming everybody else for where you are. And if you do, frankly, you deserve it. You deserve to stay there. You deserve to stay in the bottom of that [\h__\h] hole because the solutions are everywhere. They're all around you. They always have been. The real prison isn't the lack of opportunity. It's the psychology between your ears. You know, I I mean, I could do this all night because I really want you to win. But here here's the takeaway that would probably help you the best. The thing that you're probably either going to say, "This guy's an idiot." And dismiss it or remember for the rest of your life. There are no missing blueprints. There are no missing diets, no missing business plans, no missing marriage trick or hack, no missing fitness hack, no missing workout. There is only the psychology that you choose. And until you decide to change it, nothing is going to happen. But the moment that you do, everything changes. That's the cure. That's how you cure every disease. In fact, that's the cure for everything. That's how that's how you cure your health. That's how you cure your money. That's how you cure your sex life. That's how you cure your fitness. That's how you cure your marriage. That's how you cure your entire damn life. And if you can't handle that truth, then just stay exactly where you are because the solutions are out there. The problem is in here. I got to go. Never miss.