Almost dropped that. You guys caught that, right? You see this? Yeah. That's not what this entire podcast is about, but I want you guys to see this. And I know if you're like, you've stopped shaking it. There's sensors everywhere. So, I have to make sure that who knows, right? If I'll leave it at that. So, it's Thanksgiving today and I'm going to give you a full breakdown on Parkinson's. And if you go, I don't want to hear this. I'm looking for getting jacked or getting fit. That's fine. Bye. This is for helping people that actually need help, not people looking for shortcuts that they think are going to come out of a bottle. But Thanksgiving, really, I want you to think about that. You should probably look in the mirror. See, everybody's giving thanks for all this stuff and all the people around them. You should give thanks for yourself, man. Because if you're not thankful for yourself, it doesn't matter what you say about anybody else. I'm I all these people. I'm so grateful for you. I'm so thankful for you. Yeah, I like that. And I absolutely agree. I'm very grateful. I'm grateful for everybody in my life and I'm very thankful for you guys giving me the opportunity to help you. But I'm thankful for me for making the right decisions, for listening to God, for following my calling, for tapping into a higher power, and then just sharing it. And if I wasn't grateful and thankful for any of that, I couldn't be grateful and thankful for any of you because I wouldn't be doing anything to help you, and I'd be too busy trying to be someone I'm not. I don't know. I think sometimes we're so caught up in the I I don't I I get messages from people today. Are you having a Thanksgiving sale? You having a Black Friday sale? No. And no. When my prices change, never. They only go up. I just don't see it. I It doesn't matter. Does your value change if you keep putting your stuff on sale? We've taken things that should have a very genuine, sincere meaning and productized them. I had a coach one time. This guy's a nitwit. Train wreck. Everything went sideways in this guy's life. marriage, business, everything. And that was his response. I remember at the very beginning, make sure you productize everything. I don't know. I don't productize anything. What do I say about the black card here? What do I say all the time? Join, don't join. Okay, that's great. Buy from elite. Don't buy from elite. I don't know. It doesn't matter. I want to help. I really I know what my calling is and I genuinely give a crap about human beings and mankind. And I'm out here to actually be a doctor. Above all, do no harm. not above all market to everybody and make as much money as humanly possible. Oh, I want to be just absolutely unbelievably rich. I also want to be insanely athletic and fit. I want to have the deepest connection with my wife and my children. I want to be able to help every single one of you guys that listens to my podcast. So, I have a lot of things I want. None of those are bad. But I also know that I have to care about this person right here giving the podcast and be appreciative and thankful for myself before I can do any of that for you guys. Otherwise, I'm too busy chasing shadows and illusions and delusions on social media. And by the way, I will say this at the beginning. I'm going to solve Parkinson's on this entire podcast from A to Z. They pulled my last podcast. I don't know if you guys noticed that, but that's the only reason I'm doing this again. Like I went through it from A to Z and they pulled it. They they took it off YouTube and the one on the other platform that I'm on, not the one that has no sensors, which is awesome. By the way, I wasn't I didn't even realize I didn't even I know, but I didn't was X. I can talk about anything on X. So, you guys are going to see a whole lot of me there as well. Thank you, Elon. You ever have a health problem, you call me, I'll solve it. And that's the thing, right? I come out here to solve your health problem. And I get a lot of messages from you guys going, "Hey, listen. I watched your podcast, bro. It was really awesome, but you never gave any dosages." And I'm not going to. Very rarely am I going to. Do you know why? Because they get me cancelled. If you want any of that stuff, deep dive, personal one-on-one style, no, not one-on-one. If you want to do one-on-one with me, that's a completely different engagement with me. But if you want one-on-one access to me, listen, even today, Thanksgiving, there's people like, "Oh, I don't work any I don't do anything today." I still went in to my black card community and I answered everybody's questions and I helped everybody. I do it every morning, if not every second morning. Sometimes it's every 2 days, but at the longest it's 48 hours and at the shortest it's 24. I go in the morning. So if you send me information or questions at 4 in the afternoon, I'm not even looking because I have to come out here and do all this stuff and a bunch of other things to make sure people are they have the answers and I'm doing what I'm doing to run my company and I'm still faster than 100% of the other doctors on the black card's worth it. But anyway, I was going to say if you want to join the black card, I'm la I think it was yesterday was the last day I posted a credit card link. I don't take credit cards anymore. And there are people that have still bought. They've gone back and used old links. And if that was you're not going to this very much, but I'm going to refund you and punt you out of my s out of my program because I don't want the problem with credit cards. Credit cards decide whether or not companies Visa, Mastercard, Mavericks, Easy Pay, Lighthouse, all these shady people, they decide. Authorized.net, right? They decide when I get my money. I'm just not willing to do that. Banks are running a close second with that, right? But credit card companies decide whether or not they like your business, want to support your business, and want your business to grow, and they take fees. Now, I don't care about the fees, but I care about them deciding whether or not I get paid. There's about a half a million dollars that's floating around in Easy Pay right now that I don't have. Most people will never see anywhere close to a half a million dollars in their bank account ever. And I'm not saying it to be an arrogant [\h__\h] I'm saying it because that's an incredibly large amount of money. Once you extract yourself, you extricate yourself from the illusion of social media that everybody apparently has a Lamborghini, which is not true. And I think the only reason they're holding it is because they're doing a deep dive on my business. But there's nothing wrong with my business. It just might it might not go along with the FDA or big pharma or insurance companies, and they don't like that. So, that's exactly why I stopped. If you're going, "Why did you stop right there?" Because if I have to eat that, I won't. I'll just refund everybody and kick them all out of my group and start off start by having people send me wires or Bitcoin. You have your choice. Wires or Bitcoin. So, if you want to join my black card, it is $9,997 for the year. I don't do payments. I don't do any of that stuff. There's no sale price. There's no Black Friday. It is that. And that is still incredibly cheap. and it will go up to $25,000 a year in a $2,000 a month maintenance, just a membership fee. Hasn't yet, but it's going to. And that's I'm setting it as January 1st to do that. So, you if you want to get in at 10 grand and you will lock it in at 10 grand, by the way, you will pay 10 grand a year to maintain it. You'll never have a membership fee. You will spend $9,997 a year. Anyone that comes in after January 1st will spend significantly more and I'll still sell a ton of them because it's worth it. That's how good this group is. It's a giant family that I get to be the doctor for. It's like I have my own small town and they all see good old Dr. Trevor because they trust me and I love them dearly. So, I give them all I've got cuz they matter to me. And so, if you want to join the black card and you want real answers and real solutions and you want all that stuff, then 9,997 and you're going to send an email and it's going to go Yeah, the email is different. It's unlocktheblackcard.com and it is apply apply unlocktheblackcard.com. You send an email there and one of my executive assistants or my CFO even will send you an email back with two numbers, an account number and a routing number and it is to local bank Frost I use here in Texas. And you will send a wire and you will get access. If it's to ask any questions, they're not going to answer them because I've talked about the black card so many times. It is very simple. You get 100 calls a year. Every Monday, I do a live Q&A where I solve your problems. Plus, you get access to the entire community, the VIP community, where you can ask me questions every day. It's not one-on-one. The closest thing to one-on-one is me actually interacting. It's really me. It's not AI. And it's really me on the Monday call for about 2 hours. I stay on there. And on Saturday, it is all about limiting beliefs and mindset. That's a 10:00 a.m. call. And Monday is a 5:00 p.m. call. I live just east of Dallas, Texas. Do the math. all my protocols I've used with patients for decades that work very well. That's what's in there. There you go. And if you want to buy from Elite, great. It's all tested, all locally grown, all great stuff. And if not, that's okay, too. Either way, I'm still going to give you solutions. Fair enough. So, Parkinson's, listen, like I said, Thanksgiving, and this is a lot of people said, "Wow, you're still going to do a podcast today?" Yeah, even my son said that. He says, "You're doing a podcast today, too?" That's actually pretty cool. That's the kind of boy I've got. He respects it. I need you to understand something. If you're listening to my podcast to get inspired or to feel good and happy and to hear how modern medicine is winning this war on disease, you're listening to the wrong podcast. You guys, I'm not here to inspire you. I'm here to inoculate you against the lie, the biggest I always talk about this, the lie that you've been sold, that your health is some mystery and it's managed by experts who have your best interests at heart. They don't. They have a business model and I'm going to burn that model to the ground all day for the rest of my life every day until I am not here anymore. And then I will just have other people doing it in my place because I am creating an entire group of people that will go out and spread this like wildfire and make everybody a juggernaut. Prove that what I'm talking about works. I've solved every disease, just so you know. And it's not a it's not a cocky statement. I have. I swear if I don't get a Nobel Prize, it'd just be weird because I did. and I'll prove it over and over again. But here's the thing that they fear the most. Public, irrefutable, unstoppable, as immutable as gravity, biochemistry. So listen, I'm going to talk Parkinson's, right? But I'm not just talking about shaking. If that's what you think the disease is, you lost, right? I'm talking about the most sophisticated and profitable and tragic bait and switch in medical history. That's what this is. And so listen, right, Parkinson's, and I'll go over exactly what it is, how it happens, what's going on, how they solve it, how you really need to, what you really need to do. So to quote speed, right? Pop quiz, hot shot. Like what is Parkinson's? It's a it. And like I said, if you're saying it's a disease that where you shake, right, the rigidity and the tremors, you've passed the third grade health class. That's the indoctrination health class. You've also failed to understand anything. That's like looking at the Titanic, and saying it has a leaking disorder. It's a description of the outcome, not the cause. Here's what it actually is. And I will strip away all the useless jargon. Deep in your brain stem back here, there's this tiny patch of neurons called the substantia [\h__\h] Basically substanti Latin, right? Black substance. It's dark because it's packed with melanin, a byproduct of dopamine production. You see where this is going, right? So the cells are your neurological gas pedal. It's a skinny pedal. They produce dopamine, which is the neurotransmitter that initiates and smooths out movement, right? Just like this, real smooth. It's a signal that turns a thought, raise my coffee like that into a fluid coordinated action like I just did. That's what it does. That's it. Just keep it that simple. Don't get fancy. Parkinson's is the systematic target assassination of these specific cells. They don't just get sick, they die. They undergo something called apoptosis, right? Just programmed cell suicide. And they do that because their internal environment becomes so toxic, so starved, so hostile that death is the only option left. The gas pedal breaks. The signal from your brain to your arm becomes this garbled staticky mess. So the result is the tremor and the rigidity and the slow shuffling gate. That's not the disease, you guys. That's the symptom of a systemwide just like a category 5 failure of your brain. Now, here's how modern medicine and its infinite wisdom, how do they treat this catastrophic failure of your most critical organ, your brain? Watch. They sell you a louder horn. Just visualize this. Listen. Okay. Your brain is a finely tuned F1 car, right? The engine, the mitochondria in your neurons is seizing up. So, the fuel lines are all clogged and the entire vehicle is on fire. And the mechanic looks at it, hears no sound from the horn, and says, "I've got just the thing." and he installs an air horn connected to a dying battery. So, for a little while it honks and it's loud and it gives the illusion of the fix, but the engine is still melting. So, he gives you a second horn and a third and soon the car is silent and it's a burning wreck covered in horns that occasionally make a little sound. That is the exact physiologically accurate analogy for Parkinson's treatment. That's what they do. Look at Let me autopsy this freaking clown car and show you exactly what I'm talking about. The pharmacological toolkit is a master class in iatrogenic illness. That's doctors speak for we made you sicker. Just so you know, when somebody says it's iatrogenic, that's them going, I did this to you. Don't ever think anything else. Don't you dare. So the gold standard that they give you is so aggravating to me. It's called L-dopa. Leodopa. It's a dopamine precursor. It's a it's like a substitute teacher for your dead neurons. The side effect profile is a monument to medical stupidity and insanity. Disanas. Okay, disanas are these violent, uncontrollable, writhing movements. Unfortunately, I am a So, Michael J. Fox, right? Hate even saying it because it bothers me so much because I am a huge Michael J. Fox fan. I've said it before. Secret of My Success is one of my favorite alltime movies ever. Back to the Future. I love all three of them. I don't need you get in the comments tell me which one was better. I don't care. I like Michael J. Fox. The end. This is my house, my show. So, I will just tell you about it. But it's heartbreaking to see all those writhing movements because I know that's solvable. I know if you put Michael J. Fox in front of me and you gave me 6 to 8 months, I know I could solve most of what's going on in him. And the problem is the medical doctors will never let it happen. They'll get in my way and go because they're egotistical because I'm going to steal a patient. That doesn't even make sense. I don't care if somebody's better at what they do and they'll help a patient of mine and they'll do it better than I will. You need to help them right now because I'm looking at them as a human freaking being, not a not a trophy or property. That's what bothers me so much about this. So the drug that you take, listen, to stop uncontrollable movements causes L-dopa, causes uncontrollable movements. That's like fixing a stalling engine by randomly slamming the accelerator pedal. You flood the remaining few dopamine receptors. That doesn't you burn them out. You create this biological addiction. And long-term, just so you know, this is the best part. Longterm leodopa accelerates the disease progression. The dose escalates, the side effects get worse, and now you're treating the side effects of the drug, not the disease. And the patient becomes this pharmaceutical pinball just bouncing all over the place. They all they use something called dopamine agonist, right? Primexylol, Rropinol. These don't give you dopamine. They impersonate it. They're dopamine in a 1986 cheap Halloween costume with a plastic suit and a plastic mask. They trick your brain's receptors. But here are the side effects. This it's mind-blowing to me. They're they're a case study in how little we care about human dignity. Really listen to me. Impulse disorders, pathological gambling patients, often older elderly patients, wiping out their life savings at a casino, hypersexuality, compulsive shopping. We are chemically inducing behaviors that destroy families and lives, sleep attacks, falling asleep behind the wheel of a car, vivid, crazy, insane hallucinations. The drug meant to restore control systematically dismantles a patient's control over their own mind. You guys got to understand what I'm telling you here, please. MAOB inhibitors, they slow the breakdown of your existing dopamine. Okay, great. That's a minor effect. But add the flip side of this, the other side of this equation, which is significantly worse. It's the 8020 rule, right? Insomnia, nausea, insomnia, nausea, and the everpresent risk of hypertensive crisis that if you eat the wrong piece of cheese, I'm not kidding, cheese, or you take a common cold medication, it becomes a pharmacological minefield. you you take the chance of dying dying and you're going come on cheese I don't have time right now to go over through go through all that research but that's how crazy this is comp inhibitors they try and make levodopa so listen to this nightmare they try and make levodopa last longer so you take something bad that's already causing problems and try and make it stay in your system even longer that's like pegalating a skittle skittles are they do I'm not kidding they pegalate skittles the the coating and the colors why do you need that to stay in your system any longer do you ever ask yourself that why do you need a color to stay in your system when we've learned all we've learned about dyes and how catastrophic they are to our system. Just let that land. So anyway, back to this stuff. They try and make the leodopa last longer. And the trade-off is liver toxicity. Eventually fatal liver failure, diarrhea. So you're trading a hand tremor for the distinct possibility many times, by the way, of needing a new liver. Okay, this is the standard of care, you guys. It's this revolving door of toxicity and a treatment plan that reads like a chapter from a medical horror story. Why does this make zero physiologically sense? Because is it is 100% symptomatic. It doesn't address a single root cause. Not one. It's seeing a house that's engulfed in flames and dedicating all of your resources to paint the front door or prop up the mailbox out front with a new, more expensive post. You're ignoring the inferno because the mailbox is the only thing you've been trained to fix. That's the problem. and the arrogance, the sheer unadulterated ego of the medical priesthood. A Parkinson's diagnosis is a life sentence of managed decline. Patients are treated as property of the protocol. Their hope is systematically extinguished. And here's why. Because the average physician's ego is more fragile than the mitochondria in a Parkinson's patient. To admit that the entire foundational protocol is not just ineffective, but harmful is an existential threat to their entire identity. They're not trained to be scientists. They're not. They're trained to be clergy reciting from this holy text written by pharmaceutical marketing departments. They would rather you die a proper death under their care than live a heretical life thanks to a protocol that they didn't sub. They mindset isn't just arrogance. It makes me so mad. It's 100% form of malpractice that costs lives every single day. And I'm going to burn the entire damn thing to the ground. Let's be clear. This is a business. It is a breathtakingly lucrative business. And you know it. The global Parkinson's disease market was valued at over 5.5 billion with a B dollars and it's projected to hit 8 to 10 billion by 2030. That is not a market for cures. It's not a market for cures. It's not it's a remember a cured patient is what? It's a lost customer. A patient on lifelong escalating regimen of levodopa, dopamine agonists, anti-nausea meds, blood pressure stabilizers, and anti-depressants to deal with the psychological fallout of their other medications. That's a revenue annuity. It's a subscription model for delayed health. the incentive structure is perfectly diabolically aligned against a cure. So, how about this? How about we cut through the noise and talk about actually what's happening. Parkinson's is not a disease. And that's the part where people just lose their mind. That's where everybody just signs off and go, "Oh, here we go." It's not a disease. It is a symptom. It's the final grim manifestation of three catastrophic systemic biological failures that I have been talking about non-stop since I became a doctor that have been simmering for decades inside a human being. This is the core of the entire disease. You want to write this down. Failure number one, and I've gone over this so many times, most of you guys should be able to recite this from memory, but it is that systemic inflammation problem, the giant fire. Your body isn't just irritated, it's engulfed. Chronically elevated inflammatory cytoines, IL6, TNF alpha, right? Tumor necrosis factor alpha surge through your system like tiny little biological arsonists. And this fire doesn't respect borders whatsoever. crosses the bloodb brain barrier inside activates your brain's immune sentinels, the micro ga. Man, are you seeing some similarities here? Because they're everywhere. And normally these micro ga, they patrol for debris. And under inflammatory siege, they go full nuclear. They go full rogue and they ramp up and they flood the neural envir environment with more inflammatory signals and they attack the very neurons that they're there to protect. This is neuroinflammation, by the way. It's a toxic breeding ground where neurodeeneration ignites. That's just one. Failure. Two. insulin resistance. The brain starvation crisis where your brain, I've said it and I'll say it again, consumes 20% of your body's energy running almost exclusively on the on one thing, glucose. But when neurons become insulin resistant, yes, brain cells have insulin receptors. People, I had somebody go, "Oh, they don't have Yes, they do. Yes, they do. But they have these receptors. When they're insulin resistant, they can't properly uptake fuel. So they're starving in while they're surrounded and bathed by the very fuel they need. This isn't a side effect, by the way. It's a central failure. Neurons starved of energy can't fire, can't repair, can't survive. insulin resistance is the brain in the brain is is a it's a direct proven driver of cellular breakdown and death. And the correlation is airtight. The mechanism is metabolic catastrophe. And then there's the ATP shortage. That's failure three. ATP, right? The power plants are trash. The nuclear power plants are they're not running. ATP is the currency of life. It's the funding for everything you do. Every transaction in your body, I say this all the time, the mitochondria are the factories that make it. And in Parkinson's, these factories fail. Specifically, complex one of the ETC, the electron transport chain, breaks down. ATP production nose dives, like just tanks and the cell is now bankrupt. No energy means no repair mechanisms, no garbage disposal, autophagy, no communication. And this energy famine forces proteins like alpha syocuclean to misfold and clump into something called Louis bodies. These are incredibly toxic. It's not that these clumps cause the disease. They're the piles of waste that accumulate when the cleanup crew has no power. To make it worse and to make it worse, failing, sputtering mitochondria leak ROS's, reactive oxygen species. So they end up scorching the cell from the inside out. Oxidative stress fries DNA, fries lipids. It just cooks everything. Just think it's like a putting yourself in a microwave. And as the crisis deepens, supplies of very vital neurotrphic factors like BDNF, GDNF, which are the brain's own growth fertilizer, dry up. So the neuron is starved. Watch. It's starved. It's inflamed, suffocating at its own waste, and totally alone. There's your failures. That's the storm. That's the problem. Systemic inflammation sets the SL stage. insulin resistance cuts off the fuel and ATP shortage is what's shutting down the power. And the current treatment ignores all three completely. Yes, it makes me angry. And you know what? Here's the problem. Why isn't this the standard of care to solve these? Easy. Same thing I always say about that. My wife says, follow the money. Three words. 2020 2020 I believe the study in BMJ, British Medical Journal, reveals that pharmaceutical companies fund over, you ready for this number? 70% of clinical trials. You don't fund research into lifestyle interventions, nutrition, or cheap repurposed drugs that address root causes. It's economic suicide. The system is structurally magnificently corrupt, trying to create lifelong customers, not healthy, independent human frigin beings. The research proving the three failure model is not fringe, by the way. It's buried. Studies in nature and cell metabolism, for example, directly link mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin insulin resistance to alpha cyocan pathologies. Research in the Lancet neurology confirms neuroinflammation as the primary driver. You putting this together for Parkinson's. I'll spell it. This is the science that's ignored because it's inconvenient for business. Bad for business. That's why this stuff big pharma is it's very dangerous. This is very dangerous for big pharma because it's going to put them out of business. So here, what's the answer? Make it easy. Stop managing symptoms and start engineering a cure. Put out synergistic systems level stacks that attack every single point of failure with surgical precision. It's not alternative medicine. That's some thing that medical world came up with that went we need to get away from berries and roots and things that come from nature and synthesize them in a lab and then get everybody convinced that's the only way to do it. This is advanced applied human biochemistry. They've just got you thinking that's not if it doesn't have three letters in front of it and an approval stamp that it's wrong. And by by the way, when when somebody says reversal of Parkinson's, I've seen a couple of people posting about how they can reverse Parkinson's. That is the most profitable lie ever sold. It's the magic beans of modern medicine. And I've heard a lot of longevity clinics and longevity docs and wellness docs. You guys listen, you can't reverse a forest fire that's been burnt to ash. You can't reverse a dead neuron. It doesn't work. But check this out. I was going to stop because I'm about a half hour in, but I just want to give you all this because I'm that lit. So, let me get something anatomically and physiologically clear. The adult human brain has extremely limited neurogenesis. Okay? So, you can grow new neurons in the hippocampus related to memory. But in the substantia [\h__\h] right that black area the part of the brain that gets obliterated in Parkinson's by the way the evidence for any meaningful new dopamine neuron growth is it's negligible it's like expecting a new tree to grow overnight in a crater it's a arborist's fantasy it's not going to work right so when some guru some PhD some supplement company some alternative clinic promises something that's going to reverse your Parkinson's or your Alzheimer's or your dementia they're either lying to you or they're dangerously ly ignorant. They're selling you a bunch of hope wrapped up in biochemical impossibilities. But here's what they don't want you to understand because it's not a sexy sound bite. Arrestment and regeneration is infinitely more powerful than reversal. Let me explain. I'll go over real science. You have to look at what you can do. It's not speculative. This is just plain cellular mechanics. Watch. You have to stop the fire. This is the arrestment I'm talking about. This is non-negotiable. You don't rebuild a burning building by starting to you're not down there while the building's engulfed in flames trying to get the building to go back up again. It doesn't work like that. So, let me explain how this works. Target systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation. So, things like and I have to be careful with what I say because they keep trying to cancel me. Compounds like thyosin alpha 1, they don't just suppress immunity, they reeregulate it. They signal the hyperactive micro ga which are the brain's panicked immune cells to stand down. You look at research in nature neuroscience shows that 100% shows that calming your micro gleal activation stops the inflammatory cascade that's killing the neurons. It's like turning off the gasoline pump that's feeding the fire. Well, I'm just getting started. You have to annihilate the insulin resistance with things like retatride. By the way, 2020 2022 study in New England Journal of Medicine shows that these mimedics improve metabolic parameters in ways that no drug can. So for the brain, this means that neurons can once again take up glucose because they're insulin resistant. This changes that like this. Now they're insulin sensitive. The more insulin sensitive you are, the healthier you are. The starvation ends. The energy crisis is over. The cell is no longer digging into its own infrastructure for fuel, which is what happens. Arrestment is the brutal, unsexy work of creating a ceasefire in your biology. It's stopping the bullets from flying. This alone can stop most of the progression of the disease. Full stop. just that and I'm not done. Now you have to fortify and salvage the system and create a functional regeneration. Remember what I said, not reversal, regeneration. So now for the neurons that are still alive and they're struggling, they're sputtering, they're struggling, there's I'm not going to deny that the ones that are starved, the oxygen deprived, the ones that are on the brink of apoptosis, which is the cell death, this is where you have to become a cellular engineer. So you have to address the ATP shortage directly. Methylene blue really lowd dose methylene blue by the way well doumented electron cycler studies in biochemica biohysica actin it's proven to by it's proven to bypass a broken complex one in the mitochondrial electron transport chain and jumpstart ATP production 30 to 40%. So you're not waiting for new power plants to be made. You're not waiting for biogenesis. You're just getting the broken ones online right now and then letting the system catch up. You douse the o oxidative stress at the source. SS works wonders. It's a mitochondrial targeted antioxidant. It doesn't work generally. It embeds itself into the mitochondrial membrane and scavenges the lethal free radicals as they're produced. 17 paper in cell reports shows that it protects neurons from oxidative damage. We're giving the cells a big giant fire extinguisher inside the furnace to put it all out. I need some coffee. You have to provide the raw materials for repair. or cerebral ly is a peptide complex containing actual neurotrophic factors GDNF, BDNF. This isn't a suggestion going, "Hey man, you got to heal neuron." It's a direct injection of the chemical compounds that say, "Grow, connect, survive, get better." Clinical trials, outcome after outcome, improving functionality after stroke, Alzheimer's, dementia. You're fertilizing the surviving neurons. And then you have to the last thing you have to do is get the entire neurological system here into running. You have to set it up to run at capacity. So this is where you go beyond just surviving and going we've gotten this far and this is as bad as it's going to get. We stopped it. Now you have to engineer an environment for optimal function. So you enhance neuroplasticity with things like fennel paracetime hydraide. This is going to make the brain more adaptable which is going to help all those existing neural networks rewire and compensate for the damaged ones. The brain is it's so good at what it does. You just have to get out of the way and let it do what it does what it needs to do with the compounds that are going to help it do that. Not a bunch of crap that gets in the way or causes a bunch more problems like the medical world's doing. You have to support the neurotransmitter systems with precursors like alpha GPC and targeted receptor activation of things like I have to hold it up because I can't say it. This it's going to optimize signaling efficiency of the neurons that are still there. This isn't reversal. This isn't reversal. This is something so much more profound. It's cellular resilience. You're not trying to raise the dead, man. You're creating a biological fortress around the living. The goal is to make remaining neurons so robust and so energy rich, so protected from inflammation that they can now function at 100% of their capacity indefinitely, forever. The symptoms fade, but not because the dead cells come back to life, but because the surviving cells are now operating with such supreme efficiency that they can take the workload, they can take over the the failed parts of the system. The research is out there. that's published in tons of reputable journals. It's just ignored because it doesn't fit the magic bullet drug model. Arrestment regeneration requires a systemsbased approach. Period. It's multifaceted. Not a single pill that you can patent for 100 grand a year. Have somebody on this drug and paying you $100,000 all the time. It's the lie of reversal keeps you chasing a ghost. The science of arrestment regeneration gives you a real active plan that works. It's a difference between wishing you could unburn the forest and realizing you can just stop the fire, nurture the surviving trees, and create a new thriving ecosystem that's even better than the one that was there before. You guys got to stop sitting around praying for some miracle that violates the laws of biology. That's never going to happen. The goal isn't to go back in time and go, I wish I could have or I should have. The goal is to make present biology so secure that the future doesn't really matter because you're going to own it. Like look at the stack is this symphony. It's not this collection of random things that I threw together. It's a very coordinated, very detailed setup. Methylene blue mod C SS31 are going to target the mitochondrial and oxidative stress failures. Red atrutide is going to annihilate the metabolic failure that's just destroying the system. Thymos and alpha 1 and cerebral lysin are going to extinguish the inflammation and provide regenerative support. Right? You with me so far? Alpha GPC and fennel paracetam. And then this thing I can't say it last time they took this video down. Bolster neuronal function and resilience. The current model is a death sentence disguised as compassion. It's profitable. It's a very graceful decline that makes people very wealthy. You can keep being this passive customer. I don't know what to say. In a system that values your dependency more than your health, accept the broken model and the managed decay and the arrogance of a priesthood that worships its own freaking dogma. Or you can just actually start doing things and go, "Wait a minute. This is my body. You have a white coat. You don't own my body. You don't have to listen to me. But I'm just telling you, you can pick up the damn tools of science that have been ignored because they aren't profitable. choose to fight the fire instead of admiring the craftsmanship the craftsmanship of the mailbox outside that they put up while the building is burning to the ground. I don't know. This isn't a podcast about a disease, man. This is a podcast about a betrayal that ends when you decide it does. The mic drop was a long time ago. The floor is yours. You have to decide. Anyway, I got to go. Hope you got something out of that. Happy Thanksgiving.