What's up, Smash Crew? It is uh elbow mobility time. Hey, how about tennis elbow, golfer's elbow, um crossfitter's elbow, um Matty ice elbow. See, it's the truth though. I just worked on him. But you get the the a lot of elbow issues. The problem is is uh two things. One, you got range of motion in the elbow. Let me get down here. Notice I got a voodoo band on my right arm. It's because I'm going to be using it. So, this is going to be like the fastest video on earth because I can already feel my right hand turning purple becoming es schemic and probably going to shrivel up and fall off. But what you're losing is you're losing that end range of motion, that terminal range of motion in that elbow. The problem is elbow issues translate into wrist and shoulder issues because it's one long kinetic chain. So, when you're getting up into the top of a motion, like you're punching out on a snatch or even if you're at the uh top of a muscle up and you're locking out on a muscle up, what's going to wind up happening is you can't get that elbow locked out properly. So, you wind up loading up the bicep which loads up that shoulder because long head of the bicep goes to inf or to the uh u yeah infraoid tubrical and and um short head of the bicep goes to the corocoid process. So, you get all these issues in the shoulder because the elbow can't lock out properly. You can't get that stacking that bone on bone to make that kinetic chain super strong. you wind up being like this. So, I'm going to show you how to peel this away. And then the on the flip side, we're also going to take care of the um the golfers and tennis elbow, all the names you want to give it. Lateral, medial epicondilitis, it doesn't matter. But we need to peel away these extensors on this side and the flexors on this side. So, we're going to do two things. We're going to unlock the elbow and recover that range of motion. And then number two is we're going to peel away this tissue like layers of an onion. Now, one of my friends here, Mary, she made a comment of my little pudge flap right here. So, I want you to take a good look at that. That's because that Buddha band is pretty much choking off all the skin. So, we're going to go this way. Look at this gaggle of girls. They're all getting they're all getting tickets for something. Now, Caleb's not a girl, but uh he falls into the girl category right now because he's hanging out with all the girls. So, what's going to happen is let me get like this right there. So, what you're doing is we're going to be taking the band. And now, I should have put the Buddha band on the other side. So, what I'm going to wind up doing is notice we had feet that run right in front. That's the joy of being a child is you get to do stuff like this. But we're going to take this. We're going to move it over this side so we can get the proper shot. So, if you look as my hand is going numb. You want to take the band. Let me move this just a little bit. I know. Killer camera skills, right? I mean, these are mad skills. People pay big money for camera skills like this. You're going to get your hand in the elbow, okay? Or you're in the band, okay? You're going to lock the elbow out. The band is going to be right above the electronon, which is that part of the elbow. Okay? And you're going to take your hand, you're going to load it up. And then all you're going to do is you're really you're going to almost push the anticubital fossa, this elbow pit right here. You're just going to bend a little bit and push out. Bend and push out. And you're just going to sit here and basically floss this away. You're going to do it once with your hand pointed in. So you're going to floss out like this. Oh, that's grizzly. And with the voodoo band on there, it's really going to clamp down that tissue and take it through full ranges of motion. Peel away all those sliding surfaces. That's one. That is diabolical. Number two is flip the elbow around. Yeah, this is super grizzly. And we're going to do the same thing. You're going to flip the hand around. You're going to catch even a little bit of that radial head in that annular ligament. So, that's two things. So, we're going to do hand this way, peeling it away, opening it up. Hand this way, peeling it away, opening it up. That's two moves. Super super super quick. Now, number three. You like that little gang symbol? could almost do this, right? Boo. Yeah. So, we're going to get on just like that. Sorry about the fly. It's chasing me down. It's hunting me down. I'm delicious. But what you're going to do is you're going to basically karate chop in a peanut. Now, this is a pre-made peanut. You can make these with the cross balls. Just tape them together. You're going to take this. You're going to trap that um ulna. So, basically trap both sides of the bone bone. You're going to get right up to that elbow. But here's the key part. I want you to lean way over this. Turn the palm this way. And then just grind away on this. All the way like that. Just grind away. Move the fingers. Grind away. And then here's the flip side. You ready for step number four? Boom. You just flip it around. How easy is that? And now you're going to hit the flexors. Come all the way up into the top. It's so simple. Remember, it's simple to do, which means it's simple not to do. Last one is, and I'm going to take this thing off because pretty much making my hand go numb. So, check this out. You got the toy stripes. Watch it. I'm going stalk my pry. Come on. That was some funny shizz right there. All right. Now, we want to hit that tricep. Didn't think I was going to do that. This is the bonus. Yeah. You like the bonus features. Bonus features are the best part of these videos. Good. It's almost like I swear to God if uh if I ever went in for like some kind of weird psychological assessment, I swear they would tell me I don't have ADD. Hey, I don't have ADD. I have a de See how you got to get on those kids once in a while for whooping on my video. I have to make them do burpees. So what happens? You interrupt the Smashworks video and you do burpees for like an hour. So we're going to take a band. Now notice I got a heavy band here. So I'm going to raise it up a little higher. You're going to take this. You're going to flip it around up and over. You've seen this one about a thousand times, but it's going to unload this elbow. Grab onto the rig. Pull in. And then just hang out two minutes. Just in case. How long? Two minutes. Peel away that tricep. Unload that elbow. Recover that end range of motion. Next thing you know, your shoulder and your wrists start to feel better. Hey, I'm Trev. Smash works. Boom. Boom. I'll see you guys tomorrow.