What's up, smashers? It is Monday. Guess what? We're going to be going over some uh sticky hips. How's that sound? Sticky hips. So, the problem with the hips is opening them up. And that's that's a common issue because the the uh the world we live live in, everybody is Yeah, I'm hungry. Can you tell? Hangry. No, I'm not hangry. Just hungry. So, I don't know what button I pushed, but I pushed something on my phone and it got all weird. So, if my uh if my video is a little off color, well, my apologies. So, we get in this position where we're all rounded out and our hips get really closed. Now, remember, it takes about not 2 minutes to change the visco elastic properties of tissue. So, the reason I'm bringing this camera over is so you can see what I'm doing. Another J hook, by the way. I don't know what this is. Let me push that. See what happens. see if it fix my uh fix my video. So, uh check this out. US Open. Yeah, it's a jiu-jitsu tournament. Let me try this. It's just getting all goofy. Let's tap that one more time. There we go. You guys see me? Okay, now can you hear me now? Can you see me now? So, what happens is the hips get really closed out. So, what happens? We mute that pelvis. The rectus forous, the soaz, the iliacis, they all get really ropey and really closed down. But if we're in this position for, I don't know, 6 7 8 9 10 hours driving, sitting at a desk, anything like that, what that's going to do is it's going to close up that hip, but the joint capsule takes a beating and it starts to get all thick and nasty in here and it doesn't allow for any elasticity. So, you can't rotate the femur, right? Because that joint capsule is all bound up in the anterior portion of the hip. That labreum gets abused. It winds up dragging that head of the femur towards the anterior portion of the joint, grinding everything around instead of having that nice roll slide glide like we're supposed to have. I'm going to try and fix this. That roll slide glide that we're supposed to have. Um, what happens is it starts to beat up the joint and just ratchet through the tissue. How's that? Does that work better? Yeah, there I am back again. So, we're going to finish up this way. So, that roll slide guide gets destroyed and it just ratchets along the articular surface of the joint. So, the other part is is that we need to open up the adductors. that medial chain gets a little ropey and gummy and it gets forgotten a lot. I'm not going to smash it out today, but we're going to stretch it out and I'm going to show you how to crank out that hip. Really open it up in a super funky way. So, check this out. Just some good stuff. Good right there. So, what you're going to do is you want to use a heavy band for this. You're just going to toss this. Part of me really doesn't want to do this. This right hip hurts. There you go. you know, my my weakness. So, you're going to let the band come out this way, just like this. So, if you can see me, let me slide over just a little there. All right. So, I'm in a figure four. The band is dragging that way. Right now, I'm resisting it. So, I'm going to let this just Oh, peel out. Man, that is just so horrific right now. So, my boy Kyle is in the other room right now. And this would be so perfect for him right now, and he would turn purple just like I am. But if you see, I have the tibia anchored right here. I'm holding with this hand, so it doesn't want to slide up the leg. That's super important because otherwise you're going to wind up cheating the movement. That foot's planted down. This band, load it up pretty good. Good 40, 50 lbs. And let it crank down on that knee. You're going to feel it in that inguinal crease, in that hip crease. You're going to feel the adductors. You're going to feel the high hip. All this stuff. Anything that's sticky and nasty, you're going to feel in this position. Hang out here for how long? Two minutes. That's number one. Number two is even worse. Worse, better. It's all relative, right? You know, this is good mobility when you get up and it freaking hurts. Let's see if I can move the camera back this way. So, you can see I've got a 45 here and I've got a band here. So, I'm going to use this band to crank this hip open from the back. So, it's going to force me open. And then the 45 is going to lay on the uh inside of the knee. And you're just going to lay there. This is one of those super easy mobilities. So, you're just going to step up into the band. Hold the band so you don't catch this in the stuff. So, watch the junk. And then all you're going to do, if I can manage to do this without eating it. There we go. Looks like I need a magical third arm. So, you can see the band is dragging me this way. That's not enough. We're going to take the 45 and we're just going to lay it on that hip. So, the band is dragging the hip into the anterior portion of the socket. It's the only time it's okay. This isn't how we we're going to do any lifts or anything like that. It's just for mobility. Dragging it into the anterior portion of the socket. The 45 is keeping your knee clamped to the floor like gravity. Trust me, if you are able to lift this up and this isn't enough, have your buddy stand on this. You do not want this knee to come off the ground. And then you're just going to hang out here how long? 2 minutes or longer. This is the only time I'll say or longer. Let the band do its work. Let gravity do its work. You got two opposing forces that are doing what they're supposed to be doing. This is a pretty light band just because you know what? I wanted to use a light band. It's easier to get in and out of so I don't look ridiculous on my video. But uh I would use a heavier band than this. Load it up pretty high. Make sure that you can get in and out of it before you do this. So test it out. So band drags the hip forward. It's sitting right underneath the butt cheek. The plate clamping your knee to the ground. Let gravity do the work. Let the band do the work. And just camp out here, baby. 2 minutes. That's all you got to do. That is some super funky, super easy, super smashy hip mobility. That's all you got to do. Look at this 45 chasing me down like it wants to be lifted. It comes again. We could just do this all day till I knock it over. Hey, nothing fancy today. Super easy stuff. Open up the anterior portion of the hip. Peel away those adductors. Free up that hip and get them moving the way it's supposed to. And you know, most of your knee pains will probably go away as well. And your lips will be better. You'll be faster. you'll dump into or you'll jump into a squat clean. It's not going to spit you out of the front. Hey, I'm Trev. Smashworks Monday. I'll check you guys out tomorrow.