Five o'clock on Friday, date night. Listen, I'm going to make this really quick, but thanks for all the feedback you guys are giving me on my podcast. By the way, I uh I'm going to keep dropping bombs for you, give you all the knowledge I can and anything that I think, feel, want to talk about, that I've learned that I want to pass on to you guys. I'm just going to give it all to you. Listen, I started Brandy and I and actually one of my one of my good friends and I, we were all talking about taxes. And let me ask you a question. That's a real question. Do you guys think you should have to pay taxes? Do you guys think that taxes are actually doing what they're intended? Number one, and do you think they're even they have any value? Because listen, let me let me explain something here. This is what I notice. And I've been broke, broker than broke. Lived in my car broke. And I've been incredibly wealthy and never had to look at a price again. And I've been all kinds of things in between. And I grew up broke. My parents had no money whatsoever. They were terrible with their finances. And everything was as cheap as possible. And that just was the way it was. I just swore I would never do that to my family. But listen, you ever notice that the only people, this is the issue I'm having is I see this a lot. You ever tax the rich? I've seen people say that tax the rich. They have the money. They can afford it. Tax the rich. But you ever notice the people that are screaming that are the ones who aren't? They're not rich. They got no money. None. In fact, they're the ones that are complaining that somebody else should take care of them because they're unwilling to do the work. And the ones chanting about fairness are usually the ones losing. So, how about this? Let me tell you. I'll just say it because nobody else has the balls to say it. If you were listen, if you were rich, you wouldn't say that. You wouldn't. You say that because you're not. You say that because you're losing. And it feels a whole lot better for you to yell injustice than it does to yell the truth, which is I didn't do the work. That's the gate. And you know it. You know it. I mean, you need to start looking at the at at your feet, man. Look at ground zero. Nobody hates wealth. Nobody hates wealth. They don't. People don't hate wealth. They don't hate riches. They don't hate wealth. I promise you, I don't care who you are. If you say, "I'm not into money." Oh, shut up. Yes, you are. They hate the reminder of what they could have done but didn't. Because every time they see somebody winning, it reflects their own excuses right back at them. Say what you want about capitalism, but nobody is holding you back from building. No one is physically stopping you from starting a business. Are they tying you down and going you can't start a business and preventing you from doing anything? No, they're not. Nobody is preventing you from getting into shape. Nobody is preventing you from making your first 10k, 1 million, 2 million, 10 million, 5 minute mile. Nobody is stopping you. Nobody. You are the one that is stopping you. And because people hate being reminded of that brutal fact, they project their failure upwards. Must be nice. Bet your assets nice. I've been at the bottom. Must be nice. They had an advantage. That's my favorite one. Tax them. They can afford it. Okay, how about we test that logic? Let's just rip it apart. This is fun for me. Go through the 10 to 20 years of obsession, risk, sacrifice, investment, psychological torment, because that's what it is that it takes to build significant wealth. and then look somebody in the eyes and say, "Sure, take more of my money just because I succeeded where you didn't." You'd never say that. Nobody would. Listen, not unless they hated themselves or they're just bull crap. You only cheer for higher taxes when you're on the receiving end, not the paying end. Which exposes one thing. This isn't a conversation about fairness to you. It's a discussion about your failure. And and here's the lie that people love. If I had what they had, rather this is I hear this all the time. I've had people say it to me. Well, if I had all this time to work out, I would look like you. I'd move like you. But some of us have real jobs. I got one lung. You stupid ass. I have one lung. Four years ago, I lost everything I had with my wife and two children, counting on their husband and father to pick himself up and do the work to put them back on the map. I started at 48 with nothing. I had somebody go, "Well, yeah, but I mean, you were a doctor, so you had to have that schooling." And I haven't used any of that. By the way, don't even get me started on college and the [\h__\h] that is and the waste of time that formal education is and how it is for profit and indoctrination and not for anything else. If you have a college degree and it cost you $250,000, congratulations. You bought a piece of paper and you bought a degree. I know that I have multipleies. So when you guys go, if I had what they had, this is the unfair advantage paradigm that you guys live in. If I had what they had, I'd be where they are. False. False. Listen, absolutely false. I'll give you a great example that I see people talk about all the time. TRT, how about that? TRT. Listen, the first person that ever comes into my feed and goes, "Yeah, the TRT is going to cause cardiovascular problems, liver problems, cancer." None of it. None of it. How about the study that's over a year long? It's got 40,000 men in it. You ask me for the study, I will show you. Until then, Carrie, I'm not here to prove studies or use peer-reviewed research or all the other PubMed BS that certain other people use because most of that is slanted. But over a year, men on TRT, the incidence of disease almost zero injury recovery normal. So don't sit there and try and tell me that it is a catastrophic thing that is going to cause irreversible harm to somebody when they're ripping out ovaries and uteruses in women because they're having hot flashes and not fixing the problem in the women. Instead, they're convincing them that you should take a patch, progesterone, estrogen, t like testosterone. Yeah, you women have testosterone. Big [\h__\h] surprise. And convincing you that you should take proven carcinogenic chemicals in place of fixing your own equipment. I've been a doctor a long time. Above all, do no harm. I'm the 1% of the 1% that actually applies that to every single area of my life. For you and for me, for my family, for my friends, for my business, for my customers, for my clients, my patients, everybody that I love and care about, I apply above all do no harm. Can you say the same thing? Cuz I can prove it. Can you? Cuz if you scream tax the rich, no, you can't. If you say unfair advantage, they're on TRT. No, you can't. Because I see it all the time. I have a great friend of mine. The guy's a monster. So savage. Such a great athlete and a great human being. I'd look like that too if I was on gear. No, you wouldn't. Because listen, that same logic assumes the only thing that is separating you from winning is a single advantage. And the moment you get it, you will instantly dominate. It's not true. It's not true. And you know it. What people are actually doing is this. They're using the advantage of someone else as both the reason for another's success and their own failure. They're playing both sides of the equation against themselves. How can you win if you do that? How how can you ever expect to create a life that you keep complaining about wishing that you had that you think everything is against that no matter how hard you try you never succeed? When you are playing both sides of that equation against you, you're an idiot. You're ignorant. If that's what you're thinking, it's not an objective assessment. It's an emotional coping mechanism. When you do that, you're trying to validate your lack of results by weaponizing the success of somebody else. You're losing. And instead of learning, you label. The fact that I'm even saying this on a podcast is mind-blowing to me. Instead of asking, listen, how did they do that? You know what you say? They cheated. If I had that advantage, I could do it, too. But, you know, you couldn't. Cheating only applies when rules are broken. If TRT isn't banned, and I'm only using this as an example. I could do this with a hundred things. Business, somebody who has a better ad spend, who's better at copyrightiting, somebody who has a degree, somebody who's trained more dogs, somebody who's done more tricks on a motorcycle. I could do this about anything. But using TRT, because it's easy for some of you [\h__\h] that sit there and go, "Well, that's the only reason they're fit and athletic." No, it's not. It's not even close. If you guys are that ignorant that you think you could stick a needle in your ass and that instantly makes you fit and athletic, holy [\h__\h] I have so many things that I'm going to sell you then for gajillions of dollars. Actually, wait, I'm not because I have ethics. But you're going to get taken advantage. You're going to get taken advantage of by so many people because you're that ignorant. If TRT isn't banned, it's not cheating. It's a tool just like weights, just like nutrition, just like knowledge. And let me be crystal clear. The hierarchy would not change if everybody had the same tools. If you put first place to 10th place in any athletic event, any athletic sport whatsoever, any pick one, pingpong, I don't care, and you gave them all the same performance-enhancing drugs. If you gave them all the same testosterone, just be that simple, the order will still be the same. The hierarchy will still be the same. First place will still be first place. 10th place will still be the same person. You guys don't want to admit that a winner is a winner. Period. The advantage is not the advantage you think. The advantage is their psychology. Because it's not going to change because it was never the tool that did it. The order is never going to change. It's the person. It's their damn psychology. That's the real advantage. You want to know the advantage that you keep complaining about not having that somebody else has that you go unfair, unfair, inauthentic? That's not real. At least I'm this. And then you put nobility in there like it matters. Like you're that dumb. I'm not winning, but I'm more noble than you. Yeah, but you're not winning, dumbass. Are you insane? It's psychology. And you have corrupted yours so bad. And then you tap into neuroplasticity and just keep running reps on justification and validation about why you are much more righteous because you're not willing to take the tool that's sitting on the table that's not going to cause any harm. In fact, it's going to cause you to have a better life, stronger life, better health. I could do this all day. How about we just let's here let's pick it apart and build a mental model together. Imagine you give everybody the same opportunity. Okay, walk with me on this. The same capital, same supplements, um same real estate course, same network of connections, so you can take nepotism out of the equation. The hierarchy will stay the same. First place is still going to be the same. Last place still going to be the same guy or girl. Why? Because people aren't separated by opportunity nearly as much as they're separated by capacity. This capacity comes from your self-discipline, your habits, your beliefs, your time horizon. Your pain tolerance is a huge one. And personal philosophy. Do I believe that I am unstoppable or do I believe I go until it starts to hurt? In other words, what's your capacity? It's not a trick question. Your psychology. Here's the paradox. This stuff bugs me because I see you guys do this all the time and get in the comments and just are ripping into people for having an unfair advantage, but the unfair advantage is that their psychology is better than yours. You're just an idiot. And instead, you're fighting to stay at the bottom hating while you're at the bottom, blaming them for having an advantage that you have access to. And now when you have access to it, you go, "Well, I'm much more self-righteous and noble. I would never do that." Because you think that losing is the new winning. Listen, most people are given the opportunity. They just refuse to pick it up. Can you can start a business? Yes. You can replicate a proven model, right? That works. Business, fitness, marriage, all agreed. Yes. Can you invest? Yes. Dollar cost averaging, anybody can do it. Can you get on TRT if you wanted to? Yes. Can you learn skills online for free? For free. Yeah. So, if the tool is on the table and you don't pick it up, it's not the tool's fault. It's your psychy's fault. And when the truth becomes too heavy to carry, what do people do? They attack the person who actually picked it up. Listen, when people encounter an existential threat to their self-worth, they create this shield of morality. Listen, if you can't figure out what I'm talking about, I'll help you. Because some of you guys, this is going to be you. Because it's what it sounds like. I could do that, but I'm authentic. I don't believe in shortcuts. You took a shortcut. That's not natural. That's unethical. You know what the translation of all that is? I'll redefine it so you get it. I'm too lazy to win, but let me reframe my laziness as virtue so I can sleep at night. They weaponize righteousness to protect their ego. How do you not see this everywhere? I will make this so brutal and so simple. You are not more virtuous for staying broke. You sure as hell aren't more authentic for staying weak. That doesn't even make sense to me. You are not a better human because you refuse to pick up a tool that you could have used to help you. In fact, the inverse is much more accurate. You're selfish because instead of leveling up and building something that could benefit not just you, but your wife, your kids, people that love and care about you, you could create jobs for somebody. You could go out and do good with whatever it is you get. You would rather preach morality from a place of stagnation, ignorance, and stupidity. That's not virtue. That is vanity. And it's disguised as your screwed up values. Listen, let me come back to the cuz at the beginning what I started this off with uh tax the rich, right? Like once you get me started, even my wife was like, "Dude, you have so much information in your head. It's a curse. This never stops." So you guys might sit there and go, "Wow, this guy goes off." Yeah, but I am always absorbing knowledge and it sometimes gets frustrating. If you think this is a fun way to live, it's like hurting cats inside my head. But the beauty is I got access to this 24/7 365. So you want to challenge me, bring it. Because I get people that say, "Oh, what about this, dude? I will burn out your eyes." Cuz you know what I'm not? I'm not arrogant. You might think I am, but then you don't understand English very well. Arrogant is I know everything. you know nothing and therefore I can tell you what to do when meanwhile I really know nothing. I am cocky and egotistical, incredibly intelligent in the areas where I excel. If I don't know something, I just go no idea. But where I know I know. So I don't argue things I don't know. I don't debate things I don't know. But if I know and you try and argue against me and you are arguing like a muppet, I'm going to bury you. That goes for all of you longevity doctors from yesterday. I'll say it again. All you longevity gurus and doctors and people putting on red light skull hats and injecting substances into people that you know nothing about and have no business doing and taking far too many blood tests to help people out that don't really help a damn single person. selling them supplements that are natural inside, covered in synthetic coatings, trying to lie to people about peptides that are orally bioavailable, that are not even close, and will not show any bloods. I will go toe-to-toe with every one of you guys. Go live anytime. I don't care who you are. Go live with me anytime. I will set your skull on fire because I know I'm right. So, go back to that tax the rich thing. You want to know what it really is? It is. It's organized resentment. It's an emotional It's like a hissyfitit. That's what it's like looking at my daughter when she was five just freaking out. It's a hissyfitit of people who know they're never ever going to they're never going to step foot in that arena. They know it. They're never going to. So, they scream from the bleachers. They scream from the bleachers that the players should be penalized. And now that's become policy. I can't make this stuff up. This is fact. Just scroll through social media, listen to the news. You know what's wild? You get the news for free, but you have to pay for an Amazon subscription. You ever wonder why? Just let that stick. I'm going to move on. You think taxing the wealthy helps the poor? Really? Are you that naive? You know what I mean? I'm no Warren Buffett or Peter Theal or whoever else is out there with all this money. I make great money, earn great money, and I help a lot of people. And you know what? I'll break my fingers to make you healthy and powerful. I will stay up nights to give you the tools and help you and guide you to become a millionaire. I will have conversations with you and give you exactly what's required to have a fantastic marriage where you guys are both unstoppable together and I will charge you money for it. And if somebody goes, "Well, if if you're so good at what you do and you're such a good person, you should do it for free. I come out here and I do this for free. You pick my brain for free all day, man. You want my services oneon-one. I am incredibly expensive on purpose because I don't want the people that pay me $1,000 because you guys just do nothing but complain. I have people that pay me $100,000 for a cure program. 100 days, $100,000. I give them exactly what I demand of them and then I expect them to do it. And what's incredible is we have set times where we talk briefly. I almost never talk to them. They don't have time to talk to me just as much as I don't have time to talk to them. Here's the tools. Here's what's required of you. Go to work. If you want a cheerleader or somebody holding your hand, you do not need help. You need to change your behavior. And you're waiting for permission and you want somebody to yell at for your own screw-ups. So, you think like you think taxing me is going to help you if you make $19,000 a year and I make 19 million a year. Do you think taxing me helps you? You think taxing the wealthy helps the poor? It doesn't at all. You know what it does? It punishes productivity. That's what it does because it removes the incentive to create any value. It penalizes the people who contribute the most. How much how many how much taxes how many millions do you think Elon Musk has spent in taxes? He is the largest tax contributor in the United States. Single individual. Look it up. I know you guys are struggling to find data. I keep getting in calls and messages and voicemails and emails and DMs from people that buy from Elite going, "Well, I need instructions. I need to know how to do this. What do I do? What's mixing? What's dosing? What do I do? I didn't get any. I expect more help." Uh, federal law prevents me from giving you any advice on how to do that. Welcome to free f freaking speech. Can't give you any advice, man. There's this site. You may have heard of it. It's called Google. That's number one. Number two is all the research is there. Click the link that says research. Magically, it all shows up exactly what you're asking. You're just too lazy to do it. You know what elite biogenics is? It's a white glove. research, chem, peptide, sarm that helps people that really want to do the work and want something actually is what it says. Nobody's cleaner. Nobody has more intelligence backing their company and nobody has a better quality product. But if you want handheld guidance, you need to look it up because it's against the law. So you can keep asking. I'm going to keep going. Too [\h__\h] bad. Look at the research, man. And just so you know, the hypothetical research for your experiment is very clearly delivered. I just click the link. It bugs me because I just can't with some of you guys. Anyway, that's taxing the rich does not help the poor. Let me get right back on this because I could go off like this all day. That's the mood I'm in right now. You you penalize the people that are contributing the most to here to our country and it rewards it rewards the people who believe suffering alone entitles them to to someone else's money. How are you entitled to I lived in a 1991 Acura Legend with nothing. No air conditioning, nothing. I told you I slept with a screwdriver under my hood or under my arm. The driver's window didn't even go all the way up. I had no money. Four years ago, I lost everything, including a dude that ripped me off for almost $2 million. Yeah, I did the math. It was more than a million. It was almost two. And this fat tub of goo actually thinks like he's just mad because I exposed the truth by the way about how much of a derk he is. Oh, this is a bad dude, man. Don't ever do business with this guy. And if you ask me his name, just send me a message. I'll send you his name. Cost me a lung. My self-worth, my physical fitness, my belief in myself. If it challenged my faith, my wife's dream house that I've spent 15 years trying to give her gone. I could have quit and I could have rolled over and I could have said, like I said, I could just be that fat dude on the couch taking 12 different medications, complaining about how I wish things were different and talking about how it used to be, blaming all the people ahead of me that have an advantage. But my kung fu is strong. My psychology you're never going to break. I wear the armor of God. Can't beat. Take it how you want. Believe or don't believe. I know. But if you think that you are entitled to anything I have earned through my blood, my sacrifice, my sweat, my tears, my anger, my sleepless days and nights and weeks and months bulletproof psychology that I have built myself into. You think you're entitled to that? You can go right to hell. You don't deserve anything. If you live in a double wide and can't get your life in order and you keep going, it's someone else's fault. It's got to be the rich man's fault. You are where you deserve to be. And you know what the problem is? Nobody else has the balls to say it because they're so worried that they're going to get cancelled. That's the problem. The truth canled. The truth ostracized. The truth bury it. Except the truth is exactly what you guys need because I didn't have a choice. I had to face the truth. You're missing a lung, Spartan. No, I refuse to believe it. No way. It's somebody else's fault. Doesn't matter if it's somebody else's fault. I could have sat there and wallowed or could I I could have done something. You already know what I did. So, how about this? Let me ask you the question nobody asks. What happens when the wealthy stop building? You ever think of that? What happens when the wealthy leave? They just check out. What happens when wealthy people go, "You know what? I'm done. I'm moving offshore somewhere. I'll bury my money in the backyard. Whatever it is, they What happens when they stop hiring? You guys don't ever play the long game. You guys play checkers. Smart men play chess. You don't just lose the tax revenue. You lose jobs and innovation and the foundation of economic progress. But again, you'd only understand this if you were actually wealthy. Which is why 99% of the people cheering for higher taxes are never going to get there. Because if you understood what it really takes to build wealth, you'd know better than to vote to destroy it. Yeah. Ignorance is fun, isn't it? Listen, I'll leave you with this cuz like I said, it's date night. How many minutes I'm in? 20. 25. This is like another rant like the other day, which by the way, my wife went, I think that might be almost your best podcast. It's so good where I just went off. It was like 2, three days ago, uh, episode 196, I think. It's only 14 minutes, 15 minutes. Because I come out here and I tell the truth, because I know what I say is right. I'm connected to God. God, you need to say this because it's important. And because I actually give a [\h__\h] about you guys. You can take it however you want and go, "This guy doesn't care about me at all. But I'm the only one that comes out here every day going, "How can I give you something to get you up off your ass, to fix your illness, to fix your mindset, fix your psychology, to help your fitness, your marriage, your love, your life, your faith? How can I give you something that's going to help you have the most epic life on earth?" That's what goes through my head every single time I sit in this chair. So to think I'm out here for any other reason, I don't I don't go build my following, build my subscribers to YouTube. Yeah, would I love it? Sure. I'd love to have a ton more subscribers. Not because of any revenue, because that way I'm affecting change in more people and helping them. It's ignorant to think otherwise. I don't build a career off of YouTube. Am I going to complain if YouTube is paying me $100,000 a month? No. but not because of the money, but because I'm reaching that many people and changing that many lives. But most people go, I'd rather be entertained than change because it's easier to hide than to do the work and succeed. Well, listen, how about this? Let me leave it this because otherwise I could do this all day and I want you to win, but you got to decide. Every time somebody points to another person's advantage, they're that's not really what they're doing. They're pointing at their own lack of resourcefulness, their own lack of emotional resilience. Listen, the second that you go, "Oh, I just feel so overwhelmed and I just shut down." You're not resilient. So, if you're going around telling people you're a resilience expert, you need to stop because you're a lie. Until you do that 24/7 365, you're not a resilience expert. find me a day in the last four years where you have seen me break down and quit. You will not. But I can find plenty of people who talk about how resilient they are and how they've rebuilt who have broken down and quit for a for two days for weeks at a time and then blamed. There's nothing resilient if you're like that. You're a [\h__\h] marshall. So, here's what you're really if you're pointing at the advantages of somebody else, because you're talking to a guy who has had no advantages whatsoever. I mean, I had a knucklehead actually tell me, "Well, yeah, but I mean, you lost a lung. You've gone through cancer. I don't have that kind of a awesome backstory. That's an advantage. You treated almost dying as an advantage. All it did was wake me up to go, you need to hit the gas harder, Spartan, because you're going too damn slow. Make more mistakes faster. I make more mistakes in an hour than most people do in a week or a month or a year. Fail faster, move faster, fail faster. You want to succeed, just so you know. But if you're pointing to somebody else's advantage, you're pointing to your own lack of resourcefulness above all else, your lack of work ethic, your, like I said, your lack of emotional accountability, emotional maturity, emotional resilience. You're pointing at your own lack of investment and sacrifice, your own lack of work ethic, your own lack of risk tolerance. What you're really saying is, I want what they have, but I don't want to have to do what they and I'm entitled to what. It's embarrassing. So, instead of improving themselves, they demonize the advantage. You look at all your excuses and you just become morally superior and then you politicize all your failures. It's awesome. Listen, I'll help you out because you can't make this up. You can't. Here's the punch line for all of you guys about ready to spin out in my comments. Any advantage somebody else has, you can acquire. Oh, what are you going to do now? You're going to go, "I'm just morally superior, so I'm not willing to take the tool that's on the table." Because it'll expose that it's not the problem with the tool. It's the problem with your psych psychology, and you're not willing to use it. You can acquire any advantage anybody else has. You learn, you get the knowledge, which improves your skill set, which by default improves your life, health, wealth, relationships. That's what I'm saying. Those three arenas might not happen overnight, might not, but it's a guarantee in time. decisions, sacrifices, singularity of focus. But you've got to drop this victim mindset that you point at other people and go, "You should hurt them because then I'm going to be better." But it doesn't help you at all. In fact, it actually screws up your life. You have to stop thinking that somebody actually owes you something because you hurt. You You know that pain doesn't equal virtue whatsoever. Effort equals virtue. Ownership equals virtue. results earned through discipline and sacrifice and investment of self. That's virtue. I don't know how hard this is to put together. So, go ahead, say it again. Tax the rich. They can afford it. They got an advantage. I don't have it. But when you say it, take your ass into the mirror and understand that what you're really admitting is you're not rich. You're not even close. And based on your mindset, you're never gonna be. Because people with winning psychology don't tear down the ladder, they climb that thing. And if you truly believed in fairness, you would stop pointing fingers and start building something of your own. You would pick up the tools. You are in a time where this machine here in my hand of holding my phone can tell you how to do anything. And if you start coming up with all the reasons why it can't help you specifically, why? and well, it's censored and it's going to only tell me what they want me to know and it's not really going to give me the right answer. How do I know it's going to work and where's the guarantee and what if that person's lying to me and what I spent the money before and I got m I got burned before. The problem is with your psychology again. If you believed that you really deserve more, you'd pick up the tool, you'd execute every single day. You would apply the work and you would change all of your excuses into a skinny little pedal called the gas pedal action. Because listen, here's the truth. No one has an advantage over you. Nobody. They're just willing to do what you're not. And if that truth stings, great. I don't really care. You need more truth in your life. You guys are so busy hiding behind your excuses and your pseudo virtue signaling. I'm so righteous. I'm up on a pedestal because I'm not willing to do what they're doing even though it is a tool. That's like going, "My buddy gave me some information on what stock on Nvidia, let's say, and he told me to invest in it 10 years ago and I dropped $1,000 on it." and you had the access to the same information. Your buddy told you or that same buddy as both our friends and you had a thousand and I had a thousand and both of us had the opportunity and you went, "Yeah, I know, but like I just we need a new TV, so I got to buy this new TV instead." And 10 years later, you have a TV that doesn't work and I have a hundred grand and you go tax him more, [\h__\h] Make it make sense. You have the same opportunities. you just don't like that you have the same opportunities because it exposes if you say you're right. I do. That exposes that the problem has never been the advantage. It has always been your psychology. So, if this thing's good, that means this podcast is working. Maybe you'll get off your ass and actually do something. So, how about you just state your case, claim your space, and go earn your place. Just go earn it. You have a set amount of time on this planet. All I know is this. If you wait till tomorrow to do something, you have one day less. I have no idea when you're going to die. And neither do you. And I do know that when we die, when being of Christ and believing in God, I'm going to an even better place that I can't even comprehend to hang out with the dude that made this all possible. And all I'm going to do is go, "How'd I do, man?" And if he goes, "Ah, you did good. A little rough around the edges. pretty harsh, but you did good, Spartan. That's all that matters. I don't come out here to stand on somebody, to make somebody feel worse, to belittle. I don't. Somebody went, "Oh, you're really angry." I'm not angry at all. I'm disappointed in mankind. And the decisions that people are making based on their emotions, not on where they want to go. So, how about how about just you take all you've got and invest it in all you want that you can do so much good you won't even be able to count the things that are so epic in your life because the number will be so high and then by the way just so you know cuz I don't apologize for where I am anymore I used to be I know I'm sorry I just made some good decisions are you nuts when you get there when you sit in that end zone don't you apologize don't you shrink I know what I earned I'm not upset wearing a $350,000 watch or being in a kick-ass studio or being married for two decades or rebuilding this machine because I didn't like where I was despite all the pain, despite all the hate from some of you guys. Despite all of the people trying to get in my way, poking pins and little Spartan dolls hoping I would fail to make their life feel like it has some kind of worth. I don't apologize for winning. And I come out here every day and I share exactly how I do it. And people still go, "Well, I don't know. Maybe I should think about it a little bit." Then go ahead, think about it. But stop complaining where you are then because you aren't taking the tool. But when you get there, if you win, don't you dare shrink. Don't you donate your [\h__\h] reward to people who booed you while you built it. Because anyone chanting they have an advantage and I don't and you have access to it. Tax the rich from the bleachers have never built anything worth taxing. Period. That goes for everything, not just money. They've never built the body, the health, the relationship, the connection to God. They've never built a damn thing. And yet you have a guy who is fueled and powered by God coming out here every day going, "Here's how you do it for free." Let that land. I got to go. Never miss.