Yeah. You ever just have one of those days? Today's one of those days. Not in a bad way. Just one of those days where I guess the world tests your metal to make sure that you really are everything that you say you're made of. And most people Yeah. They crumble. I I told you. And I'm going to talk about TV500 and cancer. And you guys need to hear this from cover to cover. You need to listen to this entire thing. I'm going to debunk all of it and I'm going to show you exactly how savage TB-500 is, and why the medical world's wrong, the big pharma's wrong, the insurance companies are wrong, why most healthc care is dead wrong, and that this should be the one thing that everybody is flocking towards. And if they're not, you're leaving life on the table, man. You're not taking care of your machine. Like you guys, to come back to what I was saying real quick when I came out of the hospital and missing parts, right? The lung gone and all skinny and weak. I had all of so many people were like, "Oh, bro, I would totally do that, too." No, you wouldn't. No, you wouldn't. And I think that's the issue is everybody says they would until they're asked or they're told or they're forced to do whatever it is, and then they collapse and they retreat and they come up with validations. Why? This one time though is different. You just can't do it. This one time is just when you you can't quite do it. You can normally, but you can't right now. You look for reasons to stay, not for reasons to move. Just think about that with your health, with all of it, with your finances, with your relationship. Whatever you want, you will find a way to do. Which is why a lot of people get exposed. A lot of you insta bros and a lot of you medical doctors, you just bunch of grifters going out and you talk the talk, baby. You talk the talk. But you don't walk it at all. I know I walk it and I show you and I show up and I prove it. In everything I've ever done since the day you watched me open my eyes in the hospital with tubes coming out of me, missing a damn lung, I've never missed. But it's not to brag. It's because it's possible. And most days it's harder than it looks. Which is why 99% will just never do it. They'll say it. They'll talk, run their mouth about it, and I'll get all kinds of people in my comments. All you little toddlers will get in my comments and start chirping about how, "Oh yeah, bro, fought here and I was UFC and I did this." I don't care what you did. I care that when catastrophe crushes your soul. I'm not talking that you came home and found your wife riding the pool boy. That's a catastrophe. You didn't die. Like catastrophic things happen. You do what you say. Do you really have the stones, the chops to keep going? Because I always thought I did. And when I opened up my eyes and I got back in the game and I started doing everything, even coming out here, taking static from you guys sometimes. Now I know I do exactly what I say and I got the stones, but I prove it. So look at I could make a whole podcast out about out of that. I'm just not going to. We have better things to do with our time right now, right? We're 4 minutes in and I've still not talked about TB-500 and cancer. So if you look like you guys have been sold a lie and I've said this a lot but you guys really need to understand this. You guys have been sold a lie and I just happen to it's like I fondle my I can't say it this thing. You guys asking me if this is a condom. What kind of condom is that? Like first of all what kind of paper thin disaster is that thing? But you guys have been sold this big fat fear-mongering lie that is costing you your health and your life and your future and your vitality and your children's children. And like it is act it is potentially costing you your life believing in these lies. And the worst part is the people selling you the lie. If it's you guys selling this lie, you think you're the smart ones, the ones who read the headline and skim the abstract and say, "Oh, this peptide, man, it might cause cancer. This is addictive." No, it's not. This is not addictive. Not at all. Zero chance. Not at all. Otherwise, when's the last time you started freaking out for a tomato? You didn't. Weird. But then the people that sell you this and claim to be the smart ones pat themselves on the back for being so cautious. It's not caution, it's ignorance. Dude, today I just I'm in a mood. Like, I'm just going to burn that ignorance to the ground with a flamethrower of real science, facts, truth, undeniable. Like I don't come out here with anecdotal things. I don't I like my goal isn't to come out here and inform you. It's to weaponize you so you have the intellectual ammunition to never be intimidated by these PhD Insta bros or these whiny people or these pseudocientific fear that is given to you by the people who really know just enough to be dangerous. I want you to see that one of the most power like TB-500 man the most it's one of the most powerful helium molecules ever discovered and you're going to you're going to have it's going to it gets slandered by the very people who claim to want to protect you here. Let me tell you all about why that's a bad idea. You should buy my stuff. How does that I don't come out here and say that's all a bad idea. By the way, you should go buy at Elite Biogenics. It's funny how, by the way, some of you guys ask me, "Hey, bro, where do I go to get peptides?" Elite Biogenics. I own the company. It's not that complicated to put this together. I'm trying to. And if you buy there, great. If you don't, that's okay. I'm not going to get offended. I don't take it as some personal attack like some of you weirdos. You guys are like, that's personal attack. It's not. Then you don't. It's okay. Join the black card or don't join the black card. You get answers. The answers that you guys have been chasing for some of you decades. I have people that that have been trying to get a solution for over a decade getting cycled through all kinds of doctors and health experts and insta bros and insta experts and the bro science. They've been down the Reddit and the Kora and the YouTube rabbit holes trying to find answers because they want a solution and they're just given labels and the next expert and they take the next thing and they've spent hundreds of thousands of dollars and hours on things that have done precisely squat. My job is to give you, my goal is to give you the information so what you do actually has an effect and it's a positive effect. I'm not here claiming to protect you. I'm here giving you the information so you can protect your damn self. Like really the black card. Go ahead, join. 9,997 bucks till the end of the month. Wire transfer only. I don't do payment plans. I don't do zel. I don't wire transfer only. It is my Monday call. You ask all the time, what do I get with it? my Monday Q&A call, which that alone is worth hundreds of thousands of dollars because I solve problems live on the call. You get access to the VIP community. You can ask me questions, type. I'm not going to get on a call with you ever. I had some guy to get on a 15 to 20-minute call with you. No. So, I'll tell you right now, no, zero chance. You're not going to get on a Zoom call with me because you can't figure out instructions. And I will answer your questions in the VIP community. You get access to all the protocols. I don't tolerate BS. I protect my family. Everybody in the black card is family to me. I love them very much and I'm fiercely protective of these people and I will make sure that they always have the answer and I will give them everything I can. I will bleed out of my eye sockets for these people to make sure that they're healthy, strong, powerful and they're juggernauts walking around just taking out zombies, right? That's how they should be and that's the whole point. But I also won't tolerate disrespect or any like Crossley Gracie when I was going to Crossley's. It's like he had a no [\h__\h] policy. I have the same policy. I also have it on my social media and here in YouTube. Believe me, some of you guys in my comments just I don't know how you guys sleep at night. You just look in the mirror and go, "I'm an [\h__\h] and then you go to bed." Like, it's weird. All you do is stink. So, listen. TB-500. I'm going to TB-500 and cancer specifically. I'm going to dismantle the biggest dumbest myth completely. It is a failure of basic physiology to think that it is it causes cancer. The fear is this. TB-500 might cause or fuel cancer because it promotes angioenesis. the growth of new blood vessels and tumors need new blood vessels to grow. Dr. Trevor, okay, on the surface that sounds plausible. It's also intellectually lazy and biologically stupid and completely illiterate. That doesn't make any sense. Here's what they don't tell you. Angioenesis is not some rogue malignant process. Listen, you're doing it right now. It is a fundamental, essential, and tightly regulated process of life. When you cut your finger, your body initiates angioenesis to deliver immune cells and oxygen and nutrients to heal the wound. When you work out and you get all these micro tears in your muscles cuz that's how you grow if you haven't figured that out. Angioenesis is how you rebuild bigger and stronger so you look jacked like me or anybody else. To say we need to avoid angiogenesis because tumors might hijack it is like saying we should ban all cars because bank robbers might use them for a getaway. It's a catastrophic failure of riskbenefit analysis based on profound misunderstandings of human biology and physiology. But here listen go let's go right from A to Z so you guys have the actual information and not go well you're missing parts. What is TB-500? How about that? What is TB-500? So TB-500 is this master regulator is the easiest way to round out what this is called. It's a synthetic version of a very specific fragment of a natural protein in your body called thyos and beta 4. Thymosin beta 4 is found in high concentrations in your blood platelets, wound fluid, a lot of tissues. It's not some foreign weird scary chemical that somebody concocted in a lab. It's you. It's a key orchestrator of your body's innate repair system and it is required for life. Without it, you will not be here. You cannot be here. You will die. So biochemically, yes, it's that big of a deal. So if somebody goes if I don't have I'm not saying you have to inject it to live. I'm saying your body it's your own. It's in you. It's just like modium and people like yeah you don't need that to survive. It's you literally transllocates to the nucleus. It's you. It's part of your This is the issue that people I I see with peptides. Even some of you guys self diagnosing going okay I looked at your stuff and I followed it and I gave it to my grandma. What are you doing? How do you know that grandma? This is why the issue with peptides is such a problem because you guys grab on to what it does and then you're like you start self you start prescribing to your friends based on the symptomatology they have because you think because it that's what it does but that doesn't make any sense whatsoever. You have a perforated ulcer and you hand somebody an Advil for a headache. You're like you have a headache let me give you an Advil. All you did was make that ulcer bleed more and probably killed them. So the problem is you have to know the entire picture. So when I see people I have to be very upfront about this cuz it's starting to bug me is I'm seeing people go out and give advice. I even had somebody say that I'm giving you all the credit man. It's all you. Yeah. Except the problem is stop it because you really don't know what's going on. So when you go hey so what do I give them? What do I get? What are all the things that I should have them take? Nothing. Cuz I don't know what's going on with them. So I sure as hell I'm not going to give you a diagnosis and a treatment plan and a protocol based on knowing nothing because it's third party information. That's a terri I would be the worst doctor on earth if I did that. You know how you find out what you need? Join the black card. Have a real conversation with me this way. Go through everything and then follow what I tell you to do. I promise you. I promise you if I can help you, I will. And I am as binary as it get. I like it is like gravity. I will bleed to make sure you're just start throwing peptides at people cuz you guys treat them like vitamins. Just be smart with your biology. So look at TB-500. just biochemically right what did I call it a master signaling molecule right it's its fundamental mechanism of action is through binding to actin which is the structural protein in every single one of your cells so by regulating actin excuse me TB-500 cell tells you it basically determines cell migration it does more than that but that's it tells your cells where to go right migration proliferation differentiation it's the foreman on a construction site of your body going okay workers you go here, you go there, you build that, you stop building that. That's the easiest way to look at how this functions. So, it's this beautiful orchestra of healing. And it's so effective. It's frightening how well it works. When tissue is damaged, watch. When tissue is damaged, TB-500 is released right away. And it just starts knocking out all these actions. Watch cell migration. It upregulates cell migration proteins like integrans. It literally guides repair cells. What did I say? to the site of injury. It's like a it's like a homing beacon for healing. It's anti-inflammatory. Downregulates the key inflammatory cytoines. NFCappa B, TNF alpha, IL1 beta, IL6. This isn't just masking pain. COX inhibitors, right? Or even worse, narcotics. It shuts down the root cause of the cellular damage. It has, do you understand the difference? It's not going, let's put a blanket over it, but it's still on fire. Let's put out the fire and start rebuilding and replanting the forest. Gioenesis. Yeah. It promotes the formation of new healthy blood vessels. This is critical. Just so you know, eskeeia, which is a lack of blood flow, is the root of most degenerative diseases and TB-500 solves eskeemia. Upregulates survival genes like proteins like AKT, prevents apoptosis, the program cell death. It only does it though in certain situations the stressed cells, but they're salvageable, right? If the tissue is beat up, stressed out, but still can be salvaged, then it does the job. It's not autophagy before somebody say, "You said it's autophagy." No, it's not. But that's the that's how autophagy works. It goes, "Can the cell be fixed? Fix it. If it can't, chop it up into its parts and start using it for fuel." That's how you have to look at your body. It goes, "What's the most effective way to handle the situation I'm in right now?" You always have a best move. Your body is smart enough to know when the best move is. Human beings consciously are stupid and we go, "But I think that's the best move." move and your body goes that that doesn't work like that. So, this is trusting your biology to take care of you better than you know how to take care of you. This is such this reduces fibrosis. Let me tell you what this stuff does to the heart. I'll tell you in a bit. But just it blocks the transformation of fibroblasts into myofibrolasts which are the cells that create scar tissue. So, it doesn't just heal, it heals properly with functional tissue, not just a useless scar. But let me talk about cancer and why it can't cause it. It's just not statistically possible. Just look at to cause cancer. Follow me. To cause cancer, first of all, you need my three biological failures. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, and ATP shortage right off the bat. Otherwise, because that's what's going to tell your biology to select for cells that run only on glycolysis. The Warberg effect, right? 1931 auto warberg. So that means they function even though there is ample fuel and oxygen available. So they can do oxidative phosphorilation. They don't. So they opt to choose because of the inflammation, because of the insulin deafness of this system and because of the ATP shortage. It's very inefficient. Glycolysis is very inefficient. But they select for it anyway because it's the only cell that can survive no matter what in this environment. And that is a cancer cell. So to cause cancer, follow me, a substance, excuse me, has to be genotoxic. It has to damage DNA. It has to cause mutations that lead to uncontrolled cell division. TB-500 has zero genotoxic activity. Nothing. Its role is 100% regulatory and protective. Oh, I got evidence up, down, and sideways. Hold on. Oh, yeah. You come to war with me. I'm going to go all day, baby. 2012 Journal of Pharmarmacology and Experimental Therapeutics looked exactly at this. Researchers showed that TB-500 promoted wound healing but did not induce tumor growth. And they tested it on model. Watch this is the part. They tested it on models where tumor growth was a known risk. And the result, here's the best part, healing through the roof, accelerated tumors, zero, not affected at all. Nothing. Nothing. Another study analysts of the New York Academy of Sciences showed TB-500 again actually suppresses the expression of cancer associated genes. So it promotes healthy differentiated like a healthy differentiated cellular state. The exact opposite of the chaotic undifferentiated state of a cancer cell. The idea that it causes cancer is not just wrong. It's actually ass backwards. It doesn't it doesn't align with how your physiology is designed by God. And it can't fuel it. Like here, watch. When people go, "What if I already have cancer? Won't it make it grow faster?" This is a second layer of stupidity and lies. The evidence says 100% the opposite. There's research in plus one show that TB-500 fragments. The fragment of TB-500 inhibits migration and invasion of glyobblasto cells. Now listen, glyopblasto, highly aggressive brain cancer. Highly aggressive. You marry this with nicotine. By the way, you guys have been looking at health the wrong way. How do I treat the symptoms? The whole point is to make the pathology unwelcome. But if it's there, it's to make it unwelcome again. Not treat the pathology and the symptom, but to make the environment so hostile to the pathology that it can't survive. That's what TB-500 does. It inhibits the migration and the invasion of the glyopblastoma cells. So here's why. It does this. by interfering with the same actin dynamics that cancer cells use to metastasize. It's not fuel. It is a giant roadblock that says not a chance not on my watch. Listen, the angioenesis TB-500 promotes is not this chaotic leaky angioenesis that's seen in tumors. It promotes formation of mature structured and functionally vas like functionally vascular tissue. 2016 people call me. It's funny cuz my cell phone number I'm just looking at this right now so you can see this right. My cell phone was attached because my idiot old merchant services guyy's such a twit. Never ever use lighthouse or black flag or green money because they will just steal your money. He's stolen hundreds of thousands of dollars from me. He's a crooked son of a [\h__\h] And idiot put my phone number on credit card statements. What a coconut. What a buffoon. This can't even go around. So I obviously changed my number. This phone still gets those calls. You can call me all you want. I'm never going to answer just so you know. But TB-500 the angioenesis that it tells your body to do it promotes is very structured right it's very functional. So like I was saying 2016 circulation research it's a paper in circulation research showed TB-500 promotes vascular maturation by supporting parasite coverage which actually stabilizes blood vessels and prevents the pathology that angioenesis tumors rely on the it prevents the kind of pathological angioenesis that tumors rely on. So, it actually gets in the way and keeps the tumors from getting the blood supply whatsoever. Yeah, but it fuels cancer, right? Listen, you guys, the cancer fear is a fairy tale for, and don't take this personally for scientifically illiterate people. I'm trying to give you the literacy. Look at the longevity game, right? So, if it's not causing cancer, which it doesn't, what exactly is TB-500 doing in your system? It's attacking the three fundamental biological failures, which means it can't cause cancer. It can only keep you from getting it. But these are the three biological failures that underly every single age- related chronic disease and every single disease period. To be honest, of mankind, I've proven this time and time again. And I am right. I am right 100% of the time. There's nothing about what I'm saying right now that is wrong. This is so accurate and factual, it's unbelievable. And yet people still go, "Well, I don't know. What about this?" Okay, look at systemic inflammation, right? The inflammaging fire. As we age, our bodies get stuck in this state of lowgrade chronic inflammation. TB-500 is a very powerful fire hose. It's this fire extinguisher. By suppressing NFCappa B, it calms the inflammatory storm at the genetic level. It doesn't just put out the fire on top. It shuts down the source. It protects tissues from the constant damage from this inflammation which causes a whole bunch of other issues like insulin resistance, which is the second part, right? Inflammation and insulin resistance are this vicious cycle. Chronic inflammation disrupts insulin signaling. And studies, by the way, including one in endocrinology, showed TB-500 improves glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. It helps your cells listen to insulin again, restoring the metabolic flexibility required for life and for health. Look at the ATP shortage. Damaged mitochondria produce significantly less ATP, adenazine triphosphate, which is the currency for life. Essic tissues are starved of ATP. So by improving blood flow angioenesis and promoting mitochondrial biogenesis which is the creation of new mitochondria TB-500 addresses the cellular energy crisis. More blood flow means more oxygen and more glucose. So more mitochondria means more efficient ATP production. It's a double hit for energy on the upside of this equation. This is longevity, right? This isn't living longer. It's about living with vitality and function. TB-500 targets the mechanisms of decay and shuts them out. I could go organ by organ on this baby. Look at that. This I'll get specific as hell. This is the stuff that really get this gets me off, man. Look at myioardial inffection. Look at the heart. Myocardial inffection. A heart attack kills heart muscles which are replaced by these stiff non-contractile slabs of scar tissue called fibrosis which leads to heart failure. A study in nature show an actual stud. They do this all the time. And when's the last time you heard your doctor talk about this? You didn't. Study in nature showed TB-500 administration post heart attack after a heart attack in mice promoted the regeneration of cardiomyioytes heart muscle cells and reversed existing fibrosis. It didn't just slow the damage it reversed it. This is a firstline defense because it addresses the core problem dead tissue and scar formation. And yet people go I don't know maybe I should take this baby aspirin every day. Look at the kidneys. Chronic kidney disease is characterized by inflammation and fibrosis renal fibrosis specifically. Research in the journal of the American Society of Nephrology showed TB-500 significantly attenuated renal fibrosis and inflammation in models of kidney disease. It protects the delicate filtered the little filtering units of the kidney from scarring. It keeps the damage from even happening in the first place. And if it is there, it reverses it. I need to drink some more coffee cuz now I'm lit. Baby, I could do this all the live long day. Put me on a stage, baby. I will help you all day. I'll get a box with a microphone in it and I will throw it out to people and go, "Give me your problem. I'll solve it right here on the spot because I give a [\h__\h] about you. I want you to have it all." Good lord. If you guys want me to do that, tell me when and where and I will sell tickets. Yes, you're going to pay to do it. But oh my god, would it be badass? We would have so much fun and then we'll have a rager afterwards. We'll get Skillet to come and perform because I freaking love Skillet. I love Skillet. Just be awesome. Get Jeremy Pivan to come and do some standup. That guy's I love this guy. He's so funny and I just love the guy. I think he's great, right? Get the Rock to come and just do a little pep talk. I don't know, something. It'd just be so fun. Anyway, I'd love to put something like that together and just have the whole house rocking with health and vitality and knowledge and energy and everybody leaves going, "It's the most badass thing I've ever done in my life." Look at the liver. Same story, right? Liver fibrosis and cerosis. Hepatology studies and there's a study in hepatologist a bunch of them actually show TB-500 reduces liver inflammation inhibits the the activation of scar producing cells and promotes hpatocy liver cell survival. It protects the liver from all the toxic insults that we beat the crap out of it with. Look at the brain. Cognitive decline is linked to reduced blood flow and neuroinflammation and insulin resistance. Right? We know all this stuff. This is the stuff about dementia and Alzheimer's and MS and Parkinson's and all the issues with whether it's the micro ga attacking our own cells or the eskeemic issue or the fuel problem or illegod like all the stuff that's going on. TB-500 crosses the bloodb brain barrier and research in the journal of neurot trauma shows it promotes neurogenesis which is the creation of new neurons reduces brain inflammation after an injury. So TBI traumatic brain injuries and it improves functional recovery for stroke victims. By the way this is so profound. It helps reclaim lost brain function. If you've had a stroke, TB-500. When's the last time your doctor told you about that? Never mind cerebral brain food, right? Never mind BPC57, GHK-Cu, which is it's like neuronal armor, right? KPV to help knock down the inflammation. I could do this all day because I want you to win. CoQ10, selenium, magnesium. Jeez, the things you could do, man. The things you could do. And they have these weird people dancing around a fire telling you you have to do this and hold this little glass rod and drink this magic. You're not really drinking water. You're drinking non water. Just drink your freaking water. All I hear is Tony Horton again. I don't know why at P90X I've been on this kick, but he's drink your water, people. Put away your burgers, your Coca-Cola. Oops, I said it. Right. Him and his got to go check on the kids. If you don't like Tony Horton, I don't know. Think maybe you're a communist. Look at the lungs. Opopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a death sentence where the lungs essentially turn to stone. TB-500 antifi effects attack and reverse the process. It maintains the elastic functional tissue necessary for respiration. The alvoli those little air sacks that you take NAC add in NAC an acetal cysteine which they tried to ban by the way which makes no sense to me and it increases the viscosity or it lowers the viscosity rather of the surfactant so the gas exchange is easier. Like this is stuff that nobody talks about and when somebody talks about it they bury it because they heaven forbid you you get out of the managed decline model right? Look at injury. This is healing and injury. This is the classic use from tendonitis to muscle tears to like issues with vision, right? Cataracts. God, it accelerates healing by every single metric. Faster cell migration, reduced inflammation, regeneration of functional tissue instead of scar tissue. This is the most badass component on earth. And people are saying you might get cancer from it. That is insanity to me. Listen, TB-500 is powerful alone, but you throw this together in a team and the syn the synergy is m multiplicative. I'll show you. Watch this. It hypothetically for your kangaroo BPC7, right? The gut protector works synergistically with TB-500 so well, right? BB, BPC-157. We know this stuff. It's my Wolverine stack. BPC, GHK, KCU, and TB. TB watch TB-500 is it's like a band, right? I got TB-500 over here and angioenesis and healing, but it's via a different pathway, right? So watch it does it through something called VEGF. This is massive for GI healing and tendon to bone junction. This is the problem, right? It's almost avascular tendon to bone. You add in if if just healing on its own. You add in TB-500 and BPC57 and you like orders of magnitude increase it your ability to heal. We're talking like Wolverine style. Together it's two married. Just these two alone they cover every single healing pathway that exists. HKCU. This is upregulates 4,000 plus genes, this rejuvenates aged tissue by resetting gene expression from an aged inflamed pattern to a very youthful healthy one. It promotes collagen production. So while TB-500 handles cell migration and inflammation, GHK-Cu copper ensures that the new tissue is built with high quality material. So you're not building this house that looks really great from the outside, but the first tornado we get like here in Texas, that thing and it's not even a big one, just a little rumbler. It just wipes your house out and you're just sitting there in your living room on your rocking chair going, "What the hell just happened to my house? It's gone." This builds it with you have a concrete house made out of cement. Tamarellin stimulates your pituitary gland to produce more of your own growth hormone, which is critical for tissue repair, critical for metabolism, for vitality, for longevity. provides the anabolic background music for TB-500's repair song, right? It's you guys have to start thinking again, like I said yesterday, outside the box, KPV. This thing is an inflammatory assassin. Makes predinazone look like like a girls club. It's this tiny little peptide with a massive anti-inflammatory effect. It targets the IL1 beta pathway. It's like a specialist that allows this is why it allows TD500 instead of to focus on the inflammation. It can focus on the other regenerative tasks and the signals that it's tapping right together. This isn't supplementation. This isn't a bunch of vitamins. This is a systems engineering for human biology. You're addressing inflammation, fibrosis, cellular energy, gene expression, and growth hormone all at the same time. You have to look at the system and understand how it works. No, you can keep going on Reddit and you can keep going on Kora and you can keep listening to these fearmongers and the headline skimmers and the clowns and the perpetually self-proclaimed experts who tell you what you should or shouldn't do and that oral peptides work and if you squirt it in your nose, it's going to be fantastic and marry that to the perpetually cautious who would rather you stay sick than risk a solution that they are too lazy to understand or know nothing about. They're unwilling to do because their arrogance takes them down that road. Or you can actually look at the damn science that I keep coming out here showing you. The real hard irrefutable science that shows TB-500 is one of the most profound regenerative molecules ever encountered on Earth. It does not cause cancer. Period. It's not medical misinformation. It is irrefutable fact backed by real research. It fuels life, reverses damage from your heart all the way up to your brain, from your kidneys to your lungs, everything the tips of your fingers to the tips of your toes. This isn't some weird fringe alternative medicine that people keep trying to do that or explain away. This is advanced health care. This is real healthcare. It's understanding the body's own damn language and then speaking it fluently to command it to do its job. It can't cause cancer, man. It's not possible. The evidence is real. The choice is yours who you're going to believe. But I'm not asking for anything. I'm just giving you the answers. Hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.