You know, sometimes you see things and you think that's the stupidest excuse ever invented. And and they're getting worse. If you look at social media, the number of people coming up with the most ridiculous validations as to why they are where they are doing what they're doing, stuck where they are, all the reasons I can't I can't get my head around it. At 52 years old, I just can't get my head around it. Look, I'm going to talk about testosterone. TRT, testosterone, people on gear, whatever you want to say. I mean, this is the dumbest excuse ever invented. I I just got have to get this out of the way. The dumbest sentence in the English language, I think, just might be, "If I were on TRT, if I was taking testosterone, if I were on gear, then I'd be Jack, too." Really? That's the barrier? A prescription in a syringe, you think greatness lives in a vial? That's like saying if I had a library card, I'd be Einstein. where if if I bought a basketball, I'd be Jordan. It is this lazy lo is lazy loser logic. It's the type of logic that you find smeared across the internet by anonymous avatars that are shaped like bean bags sitting on couches that they haven't moved off since the Bush administration. It's wrong. It is biologically, physiologically, psychologically, it's it's wrong in every direction you can possibly measure. TRT does not make you fit. Testosterone doesn't make you fit. Work makes you fit. TRT just lets you recover from the work. And the people who actually do the work don't need the excuses. They don't need your excuses. I I'm going to dismantle the [\h__\h] out of this because I'm going to disrupt this because I see this all the time. Well, if I was on gear, of course, I'd be jacked. But you're sitting on the couch, you potato. It doesn't matter what you say. And I I'll give you Listen, I was going to say a million, but you're not worth it. You're not worth I'm good for it. You're just not worth it. I'll give you a hundred grand cash. Cash. I will stack it right in front of you. Count them out myself with a big grin on my face. You get three months. Somebody else gets three months. You guys are both the same. Basic same physiology. Like everything. You guys come almost exactly the same. Memorom. I don't care what you are, but you guys are all the same. Same age, everything. Same time, same same family, same structure, same job, same stress. I mean that just to put as many of the parameters together as possible. One of you, you stick a needle in your ass. Do 200 milligrams of ananth or cipionate or whatever it is you want to do. And the and then you just sit on your couch. You do nothing. You sit on your couch. You don't change your behavior at all. You just sit on your couch. You fat lumpy [\h__\h] And the other guys the other guy's going to go out and do all the work. And in 3 months go 100 days cuz I love 100 day cycles for work cycles, right? I just love them cuz in 100 days you can accomplish so much. And in a 100 days, we'll see who looks different, who feels different, who functions different, which one looks like they put in any work, and which one looks like they've just been sitting on a couch. It is the most ridiculous logic. Hell, it doesn't come from a syringe. It doesn't come from a vial. It doesn't come from an eyropper. Doesn't come from a little powder or whatever magic unicorn dust you buy from some bro. It doesn't work like that. TRT, testosterone replacement therapy, is exactly what it sounds like. replacement, not enhancement. And even if it is enhancement, I'm not saying go and take 1,000 milligs a week and even then you cannot sit there and just get jacked. It doesn't work like that. I don't know how many of you guys just flaunt physiology or biology, but it doesn't work like that. It's not superhuman. It's not this cheat code. It is a replacement for what's missing. And by the way, I had a conversation with a couple of people in my group in my Q&A yesterday where their testosterone was so low and their doctors told them it was normal. You're a male and you're at 240. And the doctor went, "Yeah, that's normal." All of you guys need to listen to what I just said and you should freak out. You should have so much. It should just drip off of you as a man. My dad was 60 and you could probably smell the testosterone off of my dad. That's what it's you're a man. Never mind women. You should also have testosterone as a woman. Not enough to make your clitoris turn into a penis or something, but I mean like dude and before you go, he said bad words. No, I didn't. Welcome to anatomy. Grow up. I just It's so frustrating because of the excuses everybody's making and just more and more and more and your egos are so fragile and you get so upset and yet it the problem is never anything else. You just look for stuff. That's like going, "Well, you know what? I You guys make up the dumbest. If I had a big library, I would also be intelligent." No. No. Well, if I if I had if I owned a jiu-jitsu gym, then I'd be a black belt. What if you never train? It is the work that defines the results. Nothing else. Nothing else. When men age or when lifestyle or stress or environment toxins just hammer your endocrine system, testosterone drops. It is just a fact now. It is embarrassing if you look at how testosterone is. And I think a lot of people are starting they're you guys you guys they're trying to normalize these low levels going that's that's the way you should be. You're not supposed to be built like a baby bird. You're a dude. You're supposed to be built with some muscle on you and be able to do hard things and not cry when the artists stop drawing the deer in Bambi. Like you guys need to toughen up a little bit and stop going I'm connected and I'm present. No, you're you're acting soft and gay. Knock it off. Really knock it off. And I come out here and I tell you the truth and for some reason the truth is demonized as well. Oh, listen to this guy. I don't care because you know what the best part about the truth is? You can't screw up your own story. And the truth, tell the truth. My dad used to say it all the time. There's less to remember. When low when you have low tea, just ask yourself if you got any of these symptoms. Fatigue, muscle wasting, low libido, can't get your equipment to work, right? Poor recovery, bad recover, almost non-existent recovery, brain fog, mood swings, you get injured all the time. In short, here I'll I'll spell it out. Does your life suck? You probably got low testosterone. Don't normalize it. That's a problem. That's a problem. And so instead of sitting there going, "It's cheating or it's a shortcut or wherever BS somebody fed you because you read it online or you saw it in a Kora post or on Rumble or something, I don't know, whatever." TRT does not inject muscle into you. It restores your hormonal baseline back to where it should be. It takes you from broken back to a normal functioning human being. You can go through the science if you want. real science, not this stupid bro science that's all over social media or even worse, the CDC science that we've listened to for the last 5 years. Testosterone binds to androgen receptors in muscle cells. So, it increases something called protein synthesis. Then, it enhances red blood cell production through the bone marrow, which helps oxygen delivery, right? More red blood cells. And no, you don't have to bloodlet. And you guys going out and donating blood because you think you have too much blood. Your body knows what it's doing. Even if you have exogenous testosterone, your body knows what it's doing. stasis. It's not going like you're not going to all of a sudden start stacking getting rule formations cuz your blood red blood cell count is so high compared to the plasma volume. You're not going to do any of that. And if you go I know read a guy that read a study that saw it on Tik Tok that got it from Twitter that got it from Facebook that saw that stop stop it with your with your internet research. It doesn't exist. Nobody's died if you go What about Muner and his steroids? It was Lasix first of all and second of all that guy was as ridiculously obsessive with the amount of drugs he took. So no steroids anabolic steroids don't kill people. Peptides don't kill people. SARMMS serms don't kill people. Secretogs don't kill people. Acting like an imbecile kills people. Big pharma kills people. Adverse drug reactions kill people. Adverse medical intervention kills people. But none of the things I said at the beginning kill people. They just don't. So somewhere I I think everybody should buy the anatomy and physiology coloring book. They're two things. You can just get them on Amazon and just read them. Understand the basic workings of you of what you are. Because then you know what? You know what happens? People can't take advantage of you selling you [\h__\h] that isn't going to help you cuz you go, "Wait a minute. If I look at the enzyatic reaction and if you go, I don't have time for learning all that." Maybe that's the issue. You're trusting people that you shouldn't trust. Just a thought. Trust me, don't trust me. I I don't do whatever you want, but I'm also a walking talking billboard for what works. And then I come out here every day whether some I get hate from you guys. I get love from you guys. I get neutrality from you guys. Whatever. None of it matters on all all facets. I don't care about any of those three. I care that I give a crap. But I do this cuz I actually I need to do everything possible before God says you're done here. I need to give all I've got. Which is why I have my mastermind, which is why I have the cure program. It's why it's why I do all this stuff. But I mean, looking just even the science, I I just I can't sometimes it's so frustrating because you you guys latch on to these excuses and go, "Yeah, yeah, I saw this guy, dude. It's totally" and then you get in the comments and just start bitching and crying and whining about where you are as if you have any valid reason to go, "This is why I'm fat, diabetic, broke, miserable, my marriage is gone." Look in the mirror and go, "It's my fault." And if you won't use the tool, you're ignorant. I mean testosterone it low testosterone lowers fat mass because it improves insulin sensitivity and nutrient partitioning. So so does reatride so does m so does a ton of stuff that people take. Modulates neurotransmitters. I mean things like dopamine which increases all the drive and the motivation unless you keep pinging the dopamine signal by looking at your cell phone all the time going I need another hit. I need another hit. I think the the gross negligence people have for the one body they get, the one mind they get is it's disgusting. It's disgusting. The fact that you think you're entitled to just beat the crap out of your body and then expect it to listen to you when you want it to work. It's just like honestly it's like people that ask for refunds. It's I'm right up there with like dude if you ask if you ask me for a refund I'm going to tell you to go [\h__\h] yourself. Do you know why? You're an adult. You made the decision. You know how many times I've asked for a refund? Zero. I bought it. I don't like it. Yeah, but I bought it. I should have done more due diligence then. You know what? Put the responsibility back in your pocket, not the person that sells you something. And if you bought it and you don't like it, you're the imbecile that has to deal with it. Or maybe you just stop worrying about your little precious feelings and understand that you should have just done the work. But if you ask me for a refund, I'm going to give you the finger. And if you go, I would never buy from you. That's because you want a guarantee that says if I don't like how I feel, I can get all my money back. Try that with the mafia. In fact, go to Japan and try that. No refunds. Go to Singapore. No refunds. I I don't know where else, but I know those two. What if you couldn't get a refund? You'd be more diligent about looking at what you bought. But instead, you know what? You know what, and this is has nothing to do with this. It just pisses me off. This is the ignorance of humanity. I could buy it, but I can just dispute and charge back if I don't like it. You [\h__\h] toddler. Really? That just shows you have no self-worth and you're ignorant. It shows you're childish cuz it you won't take responsibility for doing it. Going, I guess I got to eat the lesson. I got a Nordic track. You know how many times I've used it? None. None. It was the dumbest piece of equipment I've ever bought. Doesn't matter. I chose to buy it. You are given conscious thought, but then you turn that over and go, "Well, their marketing scammed me. It was bait and switch. I didn't do it." Like even anything I I have, any business I own, any product I sell or service I have, there's no bait and switch. I tell you, I'm very clear about exactly what you get because I can't stand that stuff. Hey, if you get this, maybe you'll get this, too. And then I just give you nothing. No, but if you go, I don't like I it's not really what I expected. Then you shouldn't have bought it. Grow up. But that's just like this. You guys look for reasons to take away your own accountability. If I was on gear, I'd be jacked, too. If I had as much time as, you know, me, if I could train all the time, I'd be jacked, too. I'd be fit, too. Dude, I got one lung. I got one lung. I got some [\h__\h] trying to take two million bucks from me even though he took the money from me and now he's upset that I'm telling the truth about it and showing the whole world. By the way, if you're listening to this, you ain't ever going to escape me, baby, because you're a liar. I have two kids. I have multiple businesses. One of my best friends lives 1500 miles from me, who's also my business partner. It would be better if he was my neighbor. I don't get to spend as much time with my wife as I want. Like, I have all these problems just like you guys do, but I don't blame anything. I just go where is my accountability and then how do I mitigate that? What do I how do I mitigate the problems? Welcome to being an adult. It's like like testosterone doesn't make you jacked. Work makes you jacked. Work also makes you rich. Not nepotism. Work work makes your marriage amazing. Work brings you closer to God. You guys, you know, maybe this is maybe this just jabs you and you're like, "This guy's grading. I can't stand him." I don't care though. I really don't care because if I'm going to come out here and I'm going to lie to you and go, "Well, sometimes there are these certain extenduating circumstances where that's not entirely accurate, that's a lie. I'm not going to do it because I've had to gone through go through shit." And if you haven't seen my story or you go, "Here's another guy with some crazy rags to riches story." Number one, I don't have a rags to riches story. And number two is if you've seen my story for any amount of time and you go back four years and go, "Holy shit," you're going to be blown away at how horrible it was. I just kept going. You know what it is? I just stayed in the game longer than everybody else. And and half of you guys tried to get me to quit. I I got so much hate and animosity from people. The more harder I worked, the more people ragged on me. And now you guys are asking me for advice. This is a weird world, man. I just It feels like I just came out here to [\h__\h] at everybody. Told my wife I frustrated because I don't understand that. I've seen this so many times. Like my buddy Jud, the guy's like a he's like a real Captain America is the closest thing I can say. Hey, that guy's a [\h__\h] reacher and he is so athletic and so strong and he is such a good-hearted man. By the way, his son Levi him, he is a good good man. If you don't know, if you don't look at Judge Leanhard, you don't follow him, you should. He is a good dude, man. Like just through and through a good dude and he has he has opinions. And you know what I like? He states his case and claims his space and he does not back down and he knows his [\h__\h] when he talks about it. But what's wild is he still gets static. Well, if I took gear like you, if I took testosterone like you, I could do that, too. No, you couldn't. No, you couldn't. And And I think that's the problem is you think all of the success of somebody being fit and athletic so I can bring this full circle so I don't just sit here and yell at everybody because I care. By the way, just so you know, take it or leave it. I don't. It doesn't matter to me. But I It's cuz I genuinely care. If I didn't care, I wouldn't get on you. Which is weird. People like, "You hurt my feelings. I don't like that." Then don't listen. Swipe right, baby boy. It's frustrating to think that the results of anybody that most people want, whatever that is, rich, marriage, house, car, fitness, athleticism, big muscles, whatever, are all because of a shortcut. No, they're not. They're because of a lack of strong psychology. Not sometimes, all the time. Because here's here's the catch. If you look at like all the things that testosterone does, right? Like I said, the neurotransmitters, the protein synthesis, the recovery, the lowering fat mass, all this stuff that the RBC, red bell cell production, right? with one man stuff like even ariththropoid will do that. The catch is that all of this is capacity not outcome. Capacity to build muscle not muscle itself right capacity to recover not recovery without effort. Capacity to actually train harder longer not training for you. You don't inject a six-pack. You inject the ability to recover from the sit-ups or the crunches or the twists or whatever it is that you're doing it takes to earn it. Without training, you get nothing. You can have the largest ad budget. Bloomberg $500 million. How much his ad budget was? He produced no money with that $500 million. Got nothing. Zero return. But he had the $500 million to put into an ad budget. Didn't matter. If the ad sucked, you make no money. It's the same thing as this. It doesn't matter. If you suck at what you're doing, you're not going to get the results. If you sit on the couch after your injection, congratulations. You have just become a better recovered couch potato. That's what you are. You're just a a better recovering beanag. I mean, here's the thing that nobody wants to admit. The hardest part of fitness isn't biology. It's psychology. Like anything else. Hardest part of marriage. Hardest part of business, hardest part of everything. Psychology does not come from a needle. It comes from the receipts. It comes from the receipts that from showing up every single day from grinding through being sore and frustrated and angry and pissed off and tired and sticking to your diet when everybody else is face deep in a cheesecake. Discipline is the real steroid. Discipline is the like effort. That's the real steroid. That's the hormone. Like consistency. That is the peed. Testosterone does not do meal prep or grocery shopping. It doesn't carry you to the gym at 6:00 a.m. or 5 or whenever you go. It doesn't make you put the barbell back on your back after your knees are pissed off or your legs are wobbly. That is you. And you choose who you listen to. If you go, I saw this post that says you shouldn't train that hard. It's not healthy. I leave all of me on the gym floor when I'm done. I told you 95% of the time maybe I actually hate my workout. Today, again, negotiated the whole way through. I just never listen. I did a ton of pull-ups and a ton of front squats from the floor. 115 10 10 front squats from the floor. 115 pounds. If it doesn't sound like much, do a 100 of them. Let me know how you feel. I did a 100 pull-ups with that. That's just a couplet, you know. It's this guy Jamie Lee. I I He taught me a whole bunch about CrossFit. I got a lot of respect for this guy. And he's a good dude. Probably one of the most naturally athletic sons of [\h__\h] I've ever met. And he just I remember he just said couplets are the worst. I've never forgotten it. That's 10 years going on 10 years. He told me that couplets are terrible. That's what I did. Front squats from the floor, pull-ups, 10 10 rounds. And actually, I did 11 just because I bitched at 10. I was going to quit at three. I just kept going. The the the thing that keeps you in the game is you. That's why the hierarchy of winners is never going to change no matter what. Listen, it never lies. Just so you understand that you line up a 100 men in order of discipline and effort and willpower, which means you line up a 100 men from first place to 100th place in whatever sport it is. And before you go, well, it depends on the sport, bro, cuz I'd crush you in this. I'm not I'm talking about again, grow up. If you line up a hundred men and they are first place to dead last and they are in order and now give all of them all 100 the same TRT. Give them all 200 milligrams of an adate. You know what's not going to change? The order. I'll put money on it. In fact, I'll guarantee it. The top guy is still going to be the top guy. He's just going to recover better. The guy at the bottom is still going to be at the bottom. He's just going to complain slightly louder about his shoulder hurting after skipping leg day for the 48th time, 48th week, whatever. My shoulder hurts from legs. That doesn't even make sense. TRT or peeds, peptides, arm secreted dogs, all that stuff. They don't create greatness. That's in you already. They magnify it. They're a force multiplier and that's it. Like David Gogggins on TRT. Holy [\h__\h] He would run further and faster and recover. That guy would be unstoppable. And he's already pretty unstoppable. Your lazy coworker Steve on TRT dude is still going to get winded walking up two flights of stairs cuz he's not doing anything. tool doesn't matter. Psychology does. I don't know how else to say this. It's the same in business. You give an entrepreneur $100,000 and somebody who's good at being an entre you I give it to my buddy Bedros or me, doesn't matter. Give it to Bedros. Give him 100 grand. He'll multiply the crap out of that. Give that same money to someone with loser psychology who complains that their ads aren't working and their business isn't growing and it's not their fault. And they will blow it on crypto scams and lottery tickets and the next big thing. Chemistry does not change psychology. And before you argue about SSRI or MAIS or cocaine or whatever else you want to put in there, it still doesn't alter your psychology to win. It might just make you think you can briefly and then you do stupid things. Tools don't create any drive. They don't. They just amplify what's already there. I don't know how else to explain it. Like if you zoom out just a little bit, the argument isn't just about TRT. It's about every tool humans have ever invented. Like I said, peptides, SARMs, creatine, amino acids, caffeine, clenbuterol, EPO, right? Ariththropoin, oxygen deprivation masks, hyperbaric chambers, cryotherapy, pick something, anything. Pick anything and all those. It could be TV500 banned by Wada gives you an instinctive advantage. Then give it to everybody. Then less people would be injured. How about that? None of it makes it easier. It increases capacity. And if your argument is, well, yeah, but if I had an increased capacity, I would do it. No, you wouldn't. No, you wouldn't because you don't have it now. That's like saying, I'll do it tomorrow, but today it's easier. tomorrow you have less time, less energy, less money, less less capacity to succeed, but you're going to do it tomorrow when you have less time. No, you won't. That is a lie you tell yourself and everybody else thinking it's going to be easier a week down the month, a year later, I'll do it next year. So, when you have less time and it's harder, you're stupid. You're you're stupid. That is your own lies and you're believing them all day long because somewhere in your life somebody supports that BS. Yeah, this crap pisses me off. None of this makes it easier. Like I'll never forget my first time I worked out. When does the weight I 135 I that was my quest 135 bench press because that's how weak I was and I hit it and I go when does this get I was like man this is heavy when uh when does this get get lighter? When does this feel lighter? When does it get easier I'll never I asked I remember asking he goes it never gets lighter you get stronger and that's got to be 30 years ago that I heard that might you guys might want to think about that like look at this creatine recycles or helps recycle rather adenazine triphosphate right sticks a phosphate on ADP. So you can push that one more rep ATP to or ADP to ATP, right? So you can push one more rep. That's literally what it does. But you have a pool of creatine in you. Caffeine blocks adenazine. So you can I love this because I can hear one insta bro idiot coach who's just whining about the success of other people right now. I just can't even get my head around that. Says you delay fatigue sort of, but yeah, blocks adenazine. So that's delayed fatigue. Peptides, look at peptides. They accelerate the repair so you can actually train again sooner or you can heal the injuries so you aren't incapacitated from whatever happened. Welcome to training. By the way, if you are doing training and you've never gotten injured, you're not training. You're just acting like you want to get further and bigger and stronger and faster or whatever it is you want to do. That's like someone that going that says, "I I just I want to start this business and become a multi-millionaire billionaire, but you don't want to take a risk." No, you don't. Then you don't want to be that. You don't want to be successful. Get in the ring and box until you're good enough to keep standing up and dodging and juking out and slipping. That's how you have to look at this. Look at EPO increases something called hematocrit so you can carry more O2, more oxygen. ERT just maintains hormonal balance so you can just recover faster the way you're designed. By the way, and again if your logic is what about the guys taking a bunch, okay, they're still working harder than you. That's the same logic going, "Well, look at uh Warren Buffett. He's not all fit and jacked and he's got tons of money." Yeah, but you don't have his psychology to do everything he's done to get to where he is. So if your baseline argument is fat people can be successful, but do you have the psychology to do it? No, you don't. You have the excuse to support so you can go, I could if I wanted, but I'm not. Which is also why you have a bunch of podcasts and videos and books on your shelf that you've never read, listened to, or watched. All of that is meaningless. All of the things I just said about EPO and TRT and and creatine and all the stuff, that's all meaningless without the baseline, the work. Nothing, no compound does the work. They just let you survive more of it. But you guys think that if I could survive more then I would do it. But you're not doing it now. So no, you will not. Again, offer stands 100 grand. You think it that's all it takes. One of you sits on the couch. The other person does nothing but work for 100 days. And the person sitting on the couch, by the way, is one of you bozos that says, "If I stuck a needle in my ass, I would be jacked just like him." Okay, I'll give you 100 grand. I will count it out cash. You don't even have to worry about it. I know I'm good for it. You damn well know I'm good for it. Put your money where your mouth is. You can't. You can't because you'll just look like a better recovered bean bag on your couch still eating the same thing, yelling at the same television because that's what you said. You said all you have to do is sit there. Okay, let's see what you got. Show me. [\h__\h] liars. It's It's like having a bigger gas tank. Okay, you could drive further in your car, but if you never stand on the skinny pedal, you don't go anywhere. The problem isn't the tank, it's the driver. I mean, look, look at I could sprinkle in so much science. Look at neuroscience. Why do most people avoid training? Just ask yourself that. Because the brain equates, I've addressed this before, equates discomfort with danger. Pain signals fire through something called a noisceptor, which tells your body, this is going to hurt or this hurts. Fatigue is mediated by adenazine and serotonin. And cortisol cranks up when you're stressed out, making the body scream, what? Stop. You got to stop. I hate this. That's what cortisol does. It says don't stop it. This is your biology protecting you from overexertion. But in order to actually have overexertion, you you need to exert in the first place. Your psychology overrides all of this. Winners teach their nervous system that discomfort isn't death. It's called adaptation. Your mind is going to quit long before your body. I if you watch if you haven't just use me. I'll put myself in the hot seat. Look at me four years ago struggling to do one rep, two reps, and then crippling on the like being crippled on the floor, gasping for breath so much that in this thick Texas humidity while I had an oxygen machine on me, I had to run into the house for weeks after doing something because I was going to suffocate. And I would be on the floor on all fours on these slate tiles with the oxygen machine keeping me alive, gasping for breath, going, "This won't end me. Thank you, God, for giving me the strength to get through all this shit." That's that's what I did every time. And I would get dizzy and it would I'd collect myself and then I go do it again. Except four years later, here I am. You guys need to listen to me. And if you if you decide not to and you go to find something easier or listen to someone that's a little nicer, more polished, that's fine. Just know that what I'm telling you is still the truth. The biology that protects you from overexertion is also the one that's going to get you to go to where you need to go. The rewiring doesn't come from testosterone. It doesn't. It comes from a lot of suffering and staying in it even though you go, I just want to quit. I've done enough. But somewhere inside your brain goes, it's tolerated, so I can. But what if it wasn't tolerated? What if you just said to yourself, "It is not tolerated." You just said, "It is not an option." But that means it really isn't an option. Not it's not an option until it becomes an option. I mean, you're going to black out before you quit. And if somebody goes, "Well, that's just ridiculous." Then you don't have what it takes to become successful in whatever field it is. How far are you willing to take it? Because it you have to choose suffering repeatedly on purpose. That's what puts the receipts behind you. The person who blames chemistry is really just confessing that they've never trained their neurology to tolerate pain. They've never reprogrammed the the fear of fatigue into energy and gas in the tank. So they project, "Oh, he's got to be on peeds or drugs." Nope. This is where that word comes in. He's on discipline. She's on discipline. My wife has never touched anything other than maybe creatine once in a while. And even that rarely. She hates taking vitamins and she eats Skittles and cookies and she just she is a naturally athletic person and when she stands on the gas, holy [\h__\h] does she get jacked. Look at my wife. She's going to be 46 in a little while. She is so faking fit and she's got big panels for abs and she's insanely strong. I don't know what she was squatting today next to me. I didn't look. It was so much though. when the bar was doing this and then she'll ride the aerodyine and she'll go for a mile run and she'll like she is just a beast of an athlete because her psychology says [\h__\h] this I'm not going to quit. I watched her take a knee in the workout today whatever she was doing with squats. I watched her stop doing she was doing sets of five I think increasing weight and I watched her out of the corner of my eye stop and take a knee on the floor and every time baby you okay? Yep. Just a little dizzy cuz she went to capacity. You know what she's going to do next time? Go further. Same reason why today I wanted to stop at three and I went, "Yeah, you're going to do 10." And then at 10 I bitched. So I went, "Congratulations, you're doing another round. If you can, you should. That's how you get that discipline." And then then you pour some magic sauce into your system. Holy [\h__\h] But you have to get there first. You haven't earned it. Hormones are signals. Nothing more. That's it. Testosterone tells your body, "Hey, build muscle." Wait a second. If you stress the tissue, growth hormone while you sleep, if you sleep. insulin says, "Store this as fuel or use it as fuel." Right? insulin is a fat storage hormone. So your body decides, "What am I going to do? What am I going to do?" insulin tells you to store it. Cortisol says, "Crank up the energy under duress." Stress signals. Those are all signals. They're not outcomes. And I think somewhere along the line, you guys got confused because signals only matter if you give the body a reason. They stress the muscle, fuel it, rest it, then hormones work. inject testosterone because that's what this kind of started as without any training. And it's like sending emails to an empty office and going why is nobody responding at customer service when the business is gone cuz there's nobody there. That's why the excuse is so stupid. It's so dumb because it ignores how the physiology the bio like the human biology that the biochemistry how how it even functions. Anatomy coloring book, physiology coloring book. Just get them. Just get them. Just read them. I mean, how about this? Take a 45-year-old man, overweight, low energy, eats like trash, never trains, nothing. Just looks like a, like I said, a bean bag, just with a Wi-Fi passport, password. That's it. That's the person. That is your that that's your model. And I could just look around in almost any neighborhood in the continental US and I can find within 10 houses I can find that guy. One, that's embarrassing. Two, that's embarrassing. Now, put that person on TRT. That person, remember, low energy, eats like crap, um, never trains, and and looks like just a trash bag filled with water, like a melted candle, not put him on TRT. What's what's going to happen? It's not some weird philosophical question. What's going to happen? Like, come on. You think you know so much about how that's going to h that's going to get him jacked. He's going to wake up every [\h__\h] morning jacked. No, his energy might go up a little bit. His libido is probably going to improve a little. It might not cuz he might aromatize and all a sudden he just gets itchy nipples and his life is over. You know, he might recover slightly better from walking to the refrigerator wrestling with the door, but is he suddenly jacked and ripped and athletic? No, cuz he's not doing a damn thing with it. That's like giving a sports car to somebody who doesn't drive. It's going to sit in the garage in the driver's seat scrolling Tik Tok, blaming genetics, blaming grandma. Now, take a disciplined guy. Same age. That's what I said at the beginning. same age, same starting point, same everything. But one who trains and eats healthy and clean and not [\h__\h] from a package and sleeps and puts in the work, the real work, and put that guy on TRT. That guy's going to transform. Not because of the needle. I'll say it again, because of the receipts of suffering repeatedly, willingly, that needle just lets him cash more of them. That's all. I think maybe the the problem is that the excuses have become so tolerated that it's almost the default setting for most of you guys. Like I'm sick of hearing the excuse. If I were on TRT, I'd be jacked, too. Are you high? No, you wouldn't. You would. [\h__\h] You would still be sitting on your couch with your knees hurting because the only squat you've ever done this year is lowering yourself onto your toilet seat. Like, you're going to suck in walking across the parking lot at Target after you got your coffee at Starbucks at Target. because that way you could get your cookies in one of the fat [\h__\h] aisles as well. You're going to still goo you're you're going to sit there and Google how to start keto while eating garbage. TRT does not make you jacked any more than buying a spatula makes you what's his name? Ramsay. Gordon Ramsay. I got my spatula. I can cook like him. No, you can't. Now you're just an idiot with a spatula. If you're fat and lazy and injured and undisiplined, the problem is not your chemistry. It is your conduct and character. And instead of getting mad for once, for once in your life, instead of getting mad, actually do something about it. Like, why? I don't get why people cling to this lazy moronic excuse. And I I mean, maybe it's easier to believe somebody else's success is unfair than admit that you're just unwilling to do it. Maybe I I don't know. That's about all I got. If it's TRT, if that's what you say, well, then you're off the hook, right? Well, that's what it is. I don't have to face my reflection and admit that I just don't want to do the work. You can just say, "He's cheating. He's taking a shortcut. She's cheating. She's taking a shortcut." But the truth is brutal. the wins, the psycho, the the the success is always the psychology first before the biochemistry, before the dollars, before the great marriage. The success is always the psychology first. First first I get streped throat, you hand me a prescription for a moxicillin and I don't take it for 10 days and now I've got all kinds of problem. It's migrated. It's in my heart valves. I have all kinds of [\h__\h] going on in my life now cuz I never took the antibiotics. And then I go yell at the doctor going, "This stuff doesn't work. This is crap. You lied to me." And he looks at the bottle. He goes, "How many did you take?" "None." Okay, that's the logic. The reason you're not jacked isn't because you're not on TRT. It's not. It's because you've never built the psychology to endure the discomfort long enough to get the results. And it's a very frustrating excuse. It doesn't really matter if I'm frustrated. You guys don't give a [\h__\h] Who cares if I'm frustrated? I just look at it and go, "It's absolutely idiotic to go on social media behind your little pane of glass where you're safe and run your mouth about how somebody is that's fit and athletic and strong and go, "Oh, here's another dude that's on gear." Yeah, but you're not. and you're fat and sloppy and broke and and honestly an embarrassment to the human population by choice. By choice. And the only reason you're not doing anything is because of you can blame something and it's tolerated. You are where you are doing what you're doing, living the life you're living because of what you've done or failed to do. The end. I mean, I'm going to button this up cuz I'm actually really hungry. TRT doesn't make anybody jacked. It doesn't. I'll give you 100 grand if you think that's what it does. Peptides don't make anybody jacked. They don't make anybody ripped up. creatine, caffeine, clenbuterol, oxygen deprivation mask, whatever. None of it makes you more jacked. I mean, you put one of those oxiv those why why are you not yelling at somebody with a deprivation mask on going, "Dude, they're they're they're cheating because they're they're making more red blood cells." But if if you took some kind of anabolic compound that did it, that's different. It's the same logic about going somebody who drinks I mean, alcohol is poison anyway, but someone who drinks tequila is an alcoholic, someone who drinks wine is sophisticated. You can get blasted on both. Just so you know. What makes you jacked are the receipts, the hard days that are just stacked one on top of the other. The thousands upon thousands upon hundreds of thousands of reps, the meals that you ate that you didn't want to because they weren't delicious. It wasn't a pizza and all those investments you made of yourself when nobody was looking. They're not sacrifices cuz sacrifice means there's no payoff. They're investments. They just don't feel like like it at the beginning because you don't get you don't see it. I'm not investing. the guy that's had his money in the stock market for 30 years versus the guy that's had it for a year, both of them are investing, one is going to see significantly higher returns. You're impatient. You want to speed it up, go do the work, go into your tank, go do all that stuff, but then shut up and do the work. Chemistry doesn't create all that success. Psychology does. So the next time some couch logic philosopher said, "If I were on TRT, I'd be jacked, too." Just remember this. If that were true, if that were true, then every man on TRT would look like just a Greek statue. Instead, most of them look like chubby accountants with a slightly better sleep pattern. It doesn't work like that. The difference isn't in the syringe. The difference is in the psychology. And if you don't have that, no needle in the world is going to help you or save you. I don't know. Hope that helps somebody. I got to go. Never miss.