So, you guys have no idea what I was just doing. I just started my podcast and realized that I didn't turn on my my microphone or hit record rather. There's about 30 seconds that you guys missed. Oh, it was the best 30 seconds. You're you're don't even listen to this. Don't even bother. Just go listen to something else. I just literally What is going on with me? I just spilled a bunch of coffee on my leg. Like just a spaz. Apparently, you can't trust me with cups of liquid. That's what's going on right now. That is some good. Just blacker than a witch's crotch in there. That is so good. You guys are listening to this on audio. You have no idea what I just did or no idea what's going on. I really don't care. You know, I started thinking about testosterone and I get that question almost all the time. Listen, I'm 195 lbs, 5'10 and change, maybe 5'11 on a really, really good day when I'm all stretched out. And you know, I I I think the biggest misconception about TRT for anybody. I don't care if somebody's on it or not. I really don't. Like, it's such a weird world. I'm going to go over Listen, just so you know what I'm going to talk about today. So, in case you want to just swipe and listen to something else, maybe go to your Only Fans or whatever it is you do. But, I'm going to go over TRT really all the stuff. from A to Z, all the stuff you want to know and why as a standalone not really that good and what works really well with it and whether or not you can stay on forever and all the things that everybody asks me about a thousand times a day. So, keep sending me the questions. Listen, I get your questions. I really do. And cuz some people I I get messages from it's about 30% of you go, "Hey, are you getting these? Are these really going to a real person?" Yeah, but I used to get about 5,000 messages a day. I don't even know how many it is now. It is thousands and thousands. Keep them coming. I go through them as best as I can, believe me. And I try and answer everybody, but there is just me as far as answering questions. And I don't outsource my answers to somebody or someone to get in my DMs and scrape them and sell you guys stuff or I just don't do that. If you're going to trust me with your health and your mindset and your psychology and your business and all the things that you that I I do and I help people with, then you damn well deserve my answer. bunch of lazy people just unwilling to just do the work. And they think it's easy. They think AI is easy. They think TRT makes it easy. They think peptides make it easy. They think Only Fans makes I don't know, rubbing one out in the corner instead of having a kick-ass marriage makes it easy. I mean, all of that I can't I've been married to my wife for over 20 years, and the sex just gets better. There's nobody on Only Fans that can top what I get to do with my wife. It is name it. And why? Because we trust each other. There's no secret sauce for the gym. It is all the work. There is no magic peptide that makes you jacked and fit. It is all the work. There is no magic to make your psychology virtually unbreakable. It is in those moments that you want to quit that you're like just [\h__\h] this. I am done. And you just double rainbow everybody. Give them all the finger and just say I'm out. And you keep going. Your psychology gets just a little bit stronger. And it might not sound like that's it's not sexy. Actually, it's not sexy at all. It's not sexy. It's not fun. It doesn't sound like something anybody wants to read about on social media because they don't. Because social media is built on a bunch of hypocrisy, lies, and bro science insta twits that have no idea, no business talking about anything. Like when I made that Slooh post this morning. I filmed it last night cuz I caught a post of a guy I actually know and it is just non-stop AI and it was such bunk and I just want to go to his place and just smack him in the mouth and go, "Dude, that that's a lie. You're trying to spin off of the popularity of something without actually understanding it. And uh if you guys know anything about me, I mean, I've been out on this platform for almost 11 years. That kind of [\h__\h] pisses me off. So, love me or hate me, I'm going to just be me. I don't need to impress you, but you don't need to impress me either. Take the information. And I come out here to give you things so you have an answer to do all the things you want to do and have an educated platform in yourself, a little encyclopedia of information where you can go, "Yep, this is legit and now I understand it. Now I can make an informed decision. Now I have the resources in my brain to go, that makes sense. That is bunk." And that terrifies most of the bro science instats because I am systematically dismantling their entire [\h__\h] life. Why? because I think you're an [\h__\h] If you're one of those, I think you're an [\h__\h] I'm coming for you. Come at me all you want. Can't screw up the truth. It's the best thing. You can't screw up your own story. Theology doesn't lie. So, do what you got to do. But let me let me paint a picture about about testosterone because I started I get questions about it like, "How do I take it? What do I mix with it? What do I do? What's your stack? And what gear do you take?" I I don't really I mean, I gave you everything I took yesterday. I don't care. And that people listen, here's what's wild. I can take like You look at my 911, right? It is littered with performance upgrades. Insane stuff. And the next one I get, I already said ES Motors is doing it. And look them up. I'm going to have them build me a 2000 horsepower Porsche and it's going to be insane. And before somebody goes, "You should do uh underground racing, you get a Lamborghini." Might do one of those, too. But I do like Porsches. But the point is is you can do that and people cheer. You upgrade your own performance and people condemn you. And that's because driving a car is you just sit in the car and you drive. Yes, there is monumental skill to driving a car. That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying it doesn't have the same impact as putting in the wrench time on yourself and knowing damn well that you can't cheat the work. So, that's where people get buttth hurt. It's like the difference between drinking tequila and being called an alcoholic, getting smashed every night, and drinking wine every night, getting just a smashed, but you're you're you're sophisticated. You're just as much of a lush buddy. I don't know what to tell you. It's a weird world. So, let me hit the testosterone and talk about let me like stacks and forever and all that stuff. And none of this, by the way, is meant to be advice or guidance or triage or prescribe or cure or all the stuff that people apparently in a free country, you can't say. You wait till I go over the banking system and tell you all about that. You guys are going to go, "Holy shit." Yeah. Get your money out of banks. Banks again, double rainbows. Go [\h__\h] yourself. Banks, they're garbage. There's no bank out there that's a good bank. No matter how much you like the person the teller window. But let me just get into this. Here's what happens with testosterone. You know, imagine it's like you're cuz I see you guys on social media. You just think it's the answer to everything. And you see someone that's fit. Got to be gear. That's like one lever and it it's not the beall endall. And there are a million gaps in that equation just to be very clear. And I'll explain them all and poke your whole life full of holes. Let's say it's like 6:00 7:00 in the morning, right? You finally 6:00 in the morning. I'm going to get up early from now on. Meanwhile, you've been sleeping till noon, right? 35, 40, you're standing in front of your bathroom mirror and your whole hyperventilating. You got some kind of weird music on that make you feel amped up and you got a syringe in one hand and your big old belly is hanging over your underwear, your sweats or whatever, and and you're thinking, "Today's the day. Today everything changes cuz today I'm going to start TRT." By the way, this is all educational and hypothetical and just for entertainment. Had to get that part in there, too. that that's what you guys believe. That some little injection is the gateway to lean muscle and abs and whatever Olympic level sex drive. Suddenly you're giving motivational speeches at some gym or in the parking lot and everybody's asking for your autograph. Like I I don't know. All of a sudden you think it's going to turn you into Gogggins. I don't know if you've ever seen David Gogggins, but that is a badass [\h__\h] I don't care what you think about him. I think he is a savage. I got nothing but respect for that guy. I don't care what his life has gone through. I don't care what mistakes he's made. That guy is a machine. Psychologically, everybody can take notes. Physically, everybody can take notes. That guy is an animal. He is an example of human performance. But here's what this dude is. You guys standing there with your little needle. And 3 months later, if you don't do, you're still soft and winded walking up your stairs to go get your mail. You're so cranky and eating crap and bowls of cocoa puffs every morning and you're all pissed off and angry going, "Well, why didn't it work? How come I don't look at like the guys on Instagram who all, you know, told me that test was his secret?" Now, here's the rub, you guys. KRT is not the secret. The savior, salvation, whatever you want to call it, it's a tool. It's a powerful tool, don't get me wrong, but it is what I said at the beginning. is one piece in a system of biology that requires more than a needle and P90X. I don't know. So, I'll go over everything so you understand it. And the fact that honestly, even if you want to stay on it forever, yeah, I'll prove it. I'll prove it. And it doesn't have any harm. That's the most ridiculous thing is it causes all these problems. Oh, you wait. I'm going to bust all this wide open. So, let me go over the basics real quick with testosterone cuz I'm going to wind up being out here forever. I can already tell it is not a bodybuilding supplement. It's not. It is the master regulator of male biology. Period. It keeps all the systems running. Listen, I'll go I'll even go system by system. How about that? So, you look at your endocrine system. It drives protein synthesis via something called mTor, increases nitrogen retention and signals all the satellite cells to turn on, which basically means it builds the capacity for muscle growth. That's that's the cliffnotes version. It cranks out uh ariththropoin from the kidneys, right? Which increase red blood cell production, which now increases oxygen, oxygen carrying capacity and all your endurance, which is why athletes on TRT get they have higher workout output, but it's not. They still have to do the work. Never mind neurology. It modulates dopamine receptors. It boosts all your motivation and your drive. Again, you still have to do work to make use of it. You don't just sit there and be all jazzed up. balances serotonin. So, your mood, your resilience. Listen, low testosterone is not just a physical weakness, you guys. It is a psychological collapse. It destroys your whole system. And metabolically, insulin sensitivity, lip policy. It shifts all that to the right side of the equation. It tells your body to metabolize fat. It's not magic fat loss, by the way. It just gives you what I always call nutri uh nutrient partitioning. So, it'll tell your body to do what it needs to do with specific things and send them to the right place. That's what nutrient partitioning is, if you're wondering what I'm talking about. So, yeah. Does TRT restore I don't know, vitality? Yeah, it it's like it gives back what time and bad decisions and your environment all taken. Does that make sense? But it doesn't build muscle. All you guys just went bananas. It doesn't build muscle or burn fat or fix your broken sleep. It doesn't make you disciplined. It amplifies the signal you give it. Period. That's it. It's like having a bottle of nitrous oxide in your car and sitting in the driveway. Great. It does nothing. So, imagine you train ridiculously hard. TRT magnifies the repair. You sit on the couch and TRT magnifies, I don't know, inertia. Nothing. It's the amplifier. It's not the sound coming out of the speaker. It's not It's not It's none of that. And I think that's where people are getting really tripped up. So, is TRT effective as a standalone? Because that's people go, I'm I'm on a test. Cool. You got holes in your system. Massive ones. So, is it effective all on its own? Yeah. If your baseline is clinical hypogonadism, you're going to feel worlds better. It'll help everything because it'll help the one problem that you're suffering from the most. So, it'll give you energy and libido and cognition. All of that fixes all of that becomes significantly better. But as a standalone solution to becoming somebody that is lean and athletic and fit and muscular and psychologically functioning the best way, not even closeally human biology, not even close. You're full of holes because your bi your your biology, you guys, it's not a single dial. It's like a complete set of computers that in a room that's the size of a stadium, TRT is just turning one knob. Look at things like, I don't know, growth hormone. about 35 37 years old your growth hormone secretion is a fraction of what it was at 20. Testosterone doesn't increase or restore pulsatility. So without growth hormone that metabolism and recovery and collagen turnover they're garbage cuz testosterone doesn't do that. This is what I'm trying to tell you. People I'm on test it solves all my problems. It doesn't because you still have a gap. So there's one growth hormone mitochondria. TRT doesn't trigger mitochondrial biogenesis. It doesn't make more. That's EMPK activation, PGC1 alpha pathways, stress signaling, which means your energy systems stay functioning like a old tired piece of [\h__\h] car. And I'm I'm trying to give you guys examples so you understand how this works. Never look at your immunity. Your immune system is what keeps you alive. It's always running surveillance and it recognizes self or other, right? So lowgrade inflammation, chronic inflammation is what drives most disease, right? TRT modulates something called the cytoine slightly. Helps reduce inflammation slightly, but it doesn't repair the gut or the lining of the gut or the intestine system or regulate any immune tolerance whatsoever. So, you're running into all these problems already, and I've poked holes in what TRT doesn't do. Neurologically, TRT boosts dopamine. We all know that. But, it doesn't restore synaptic density, which means there's less to do. It doesn't protect neurons from oxidative stress, and it sure as hell doesn't regulate circadian rhythm. In fact, most of the time, it does the opposite. It makes you stay awake all night staring at the ceiling or with a heart on wishing your wife would wake up. Those are the two things it does. This is why you see men on TRT who look the same or worse after a year because they thought a single molecule was going to do the job of all the switches in the entire damn arena. Like you guys understand this. So here's where people screw this up. So you understand testosterone they think that the testosterone is the finish line. I don't know. Oh, I I really I've never looked at it this way because I've always looked at the biology of the body as the biology of the body. It's an entire concert of things that need to occur, which is why I use that example for peptides. When people go, "How do I solve pmenopause or menopause or Hashimoto's or anything like that? If you're only and then what's the one thing I can take?" Nothing then. Don't even bother. Well, it's better than nothing. No, actually, it's not because you'll fix one area and since your body is hunting for homeostasis all the time, it's not going to know what the [\h__\h] is going on. So all of the sudden all your systems don't know what's going on, but you have one that's working really well. You think that's going to mitigate the problems. All those problems are going to get worse because you're you're not fixing it. You're actually adding fuel to the fire because you're only handling one switch. The other ones are going to try and keep up and they never can. So now they just really tank. It doesn't work like that. So that's you guys. You think TRT is this finish line. So you just inject it and you're done. Magic happens. Nope. That is step one. TRT is step one. restores one lever, one option in a machine with literally millions of moving parts. I mean, look at physiology. Testosterone fuels anabolism, right? Just look at physiology. Testosterone fuels anabolic function, right? Through androgenic receptor activation. We already know this. That's what triggers transcription of muscle specific genes. Satellite cell activation, increased ribosomal activity. I mean, I could go full geek on this if you really need me to. What it means is muscle protein synthesis capacity goes up. You can make more muscle. But there's a requirement. The requirement is stress stimulus. No stimulus, no response. Building a human body isn't just about anabolic function. You also need growth hormone signaling which gives you IGF-1 production and collagen turnover and lipolysis. And without GH, your tendons age, your skin sags, your fat metis, your fat metabolism stays incredibly sluggish. TRT doesn't touch any of that at all. You can give me your arguments in the comments. I'm just going to block you and delete you because I don't like people that come into my world who have bro science for an education. Poor sister science. If you're a girl, I don't give a [\h__\h] who you are. Your gender doesn't matter to me. I'll punt you either way. Pondrebiogenesis, that's another thing it doesn't do. I mean, zero ATP factories inside cells, which is why I talk about M C being the ultimate peptide cuz it's what every single thing is built on, right? So little ATP factories, the mitochondria, oh, AMPK, uh, PGC1 alpha pathways, pep, that's like you need things to get those to run properly. Otherwise, if you're running out of energy, you wind up aging regardless of how much testosterone you're taking. You know, even things like, yeah, a r a carb works. I could do this all day. Sometimes I get frustrated because I think of all the things that you guys need to know and all the bro science on social media that is trying to convince you that you don't need to know any of this. Yet your body is a incredibly complex machine and I want to give you the tools without you guys going I have no idea what this guy just said. Look at the immune system. Chronic inflammation I said is the most effective assassin to your health span and lifespan. So BPC-157 thamic peptides LL37 which repairs mucosal integrity and regulates all the cytoine storms that you have. TRT gives you a good mood but it doesn't heal the way you think. And if you go, "Well, what about Deca? That heals. It made my shoulders feel great." No, it made your shoulders and the rest of your system hold a truckload of water and made your dick not work. Don't tell me I'm wrong. I'm right. You have any idea the number of patients I've seen in my life? Over a million. Believe me, I've heard everything you're going to throw at me. Look at neurobiology. TRT cranks up dopamineergic tone, right? But it doesn't regulate circadian rhythm or enhance neuroplasticity, whatever, because that's all based on habits and repetition. So peptides like a pititol dip, BDNF, mimetics, those those all do that. So this is why I'm saying you need to build something that it's like constantly going, well water is very important, so I'm just going to have water for the rest of my life. I'm not going to eat food. Well, you're leaving a giant gap in your system. Stacking isn't extra. That's why people ask me like, what do I take with this? What do I take with that? Well, a lot of you guys grab something and throw it at what you're currently doing thinking because somebody told you or never even worse, somebody looks a certain way, they must have knowledge. And I know a lot of people that take a lot of anabolic steroids who know nothing and couldn't run to the end of their driveway that's 30 ft and they are the opposite of being healthy. I think when you understand the entire human organism itself, you understand that being healthy means you look, feel, function and you are just crushing. like you are this unstoppable force of nature. Biology is a system. It's not this single hormone economy. So, how about I just help you out? I wasn't going to do this, but I'm going to because I think you guys are going to ask me anyway, and most of you guys are just going to go off and start picking up whatever some bro science idiots going to tell you. How about we do this hypothetically? I'll even tell you how to stack things together in experiments, right? So, TRT, so if we're looking at something long long chain esters, right? cipionate and anate. So that's your baseline androgen replacement right there. That's it. Don't get fancy. That's it. Hipamarellin CJC1 1295. These are GH secret. So it's going to restore that pulsatile growth hormone release, drive IGF-1, improve fat metabolism, collagen repair. It's going to fix the sleep problem that you have. And BPC-157. So now you get tissue and gut repair, tendon healing, and a bunch of anti-inflammatory signaling that your body desperately needs. And this is going to cover the basics, right? It's testosterone for anabolic drive, GH secretogs for recovery and fat metabolism, and BPC-157 for systemic and structural repair. You fix the endocrine base, you restore regenerative capacity of the body, and then you close the biggest gaps that are left open by just taking TRT alone. It's that simple. Think of this as moving from I'm 52, so like from an Atari to maybe a KCO Vision, like you're just moving from something that's really bad to something that's not bad. It's simple, but now you get to play a few more games and the system runs a little better, right? If you're going to upgrade this, you have to do it properly. So TRT again, same thing. SIP and Anthony, whatever you whatever you choose, just long form longchain esters are just better for you. The halflife is insanely long. You're not pinning every day with a roofing nail and before you start going, "Well, I do subq and I micro dose." You're a [\h__\h] idiot. The halflife is so long. As long as you keep the overlap, you're fine. So, if you like sticking yourself every day or every second day, knock yourself out. If you like going subq because you like having lipomomas and little fat balls inside you and trusting the fact that's going to work just as well, knock yourself out. I don't recommend it. And I'll do a whole podcast on it because I'm sure this is going to create all kinds of ripples and one of you guys is going to come in like you're an expert and I'm going to demolish you. The best way to think about it is big long needle one to one and a half inches. You're making a lollipop. Put it in zigzag. Really? Yes. I'll even tell you this is your skin. This is your butt. Top quadrant. Top quadrant. Avoid that sciatic nerve because if you hit it, you'll know. Tell you that you go in like this. Does it hurt? No. You're not scraping tissue. You're zigzagging because when you pull it out, it seals itself up and you don't spit blood all over your bathroom floor like a [\h__\h] rookie. Wow, the doctor actually knows some stuff. Yes, be smart about it all the way. Bury that thing. Aspirate means pull the plunger. If there's any blood, I don't care how squeamish you are. Pull it out. Do it again. Aspirate again. No blood. Slowly do something while you're doing it. I don't know. Read a book. Recite poetry. Have a conversation with your wife. If you're not telling your wife you're doing it, you're an idiot as well. By the way, who cares? You guys are so worried about what people are going to say and think. What are you worried about? Anyway, that's There you go. I just gave you your TRT lesson on what to do. You make a lollipop. It's a big ball that's all the goods buried deep in the muscle and massage the [\h__\h] out of it for about a minute. Heat it up. Make it even better. Make it go smooth. Apparently, my camera doesn't like that. Doesn't like this coffee cup. Listen, I'm trying to keep this as simple as possible and as short as possible, but once you get me going, you're not going to stop me. So, this this would be level two. How about that? Right. So inanth cipionate MK-677 which is a great addition for so many reasons but oral GH secret right so raises IGF-1 but continuously compounding it enhances sleep improves muscle retention this stuff is so great five amino 1MQ so that's an NMMT inhibitor remember that so you increase NAD+ which means mitochondria works significantly better accelerates fat loss by raising the energy expenditure at the cellular level though so you're going to get much more out of what you're doing add in TB-500 this stuff is gangster repairs cardiac tissue. I shouldn't even have to say anything else. As soon as that little phrase comes out of my mouth, you should go, where do I get it and how much can I get? What's the maximum order I could get? You guys should just exploit. I don't care if get it from me. Don't get it from me. I don't care. But what I'm saying is you should exploit that all day long because cardiovascular damage outside of TB-500 never repairs. Welcome to TB-500. So TB-500 is going to be systematic repair, angioenesis, cardiovascular resilience, the endothelial lining. Like this stuff is fantastic. And then added a pitilon. That's a pineal peptide, right? So it's going to fix the circadian rhythm so you're not going to stare at your ceiling fan all night. It's going to extend telomeres telomerays right every time a cell divides. I've gone over this a lot. The telomeir shorten get frayed until they just turn off and then the cell becomes senicent and then it just becomes a little biological terrorist in your body just spitting out garbage not doing anything. Essentially epitoolon slows biological aging. It's easiest way to explain it. But this and if you go this is really complicated. So MK-677 is oral and five amino and TB and a pititolon are injectable testosterone. Listen, if you're grabbing a cream and running it, rubbing it on your inner thigh or the back of your ball bag or something, great, but no. And argue all you want because you want to support whatever it is you're taking, but no, I'm giving you real tools. You can argue, but then don't expect the same results and don't get pissed off. But the reason this second tier, whatever you want to call it, is going to work so well is because you're not just pairing testosterone deficiency or patching it rather. You're fixing the the metabolism, systemic metabolism. And so you're adding in tissue repair and longevity and NAD+ levels go up and mitochondria work better. So those little nuclear reactors, you get more of them and they produce more. All things that are going to keep you alive longer and then your recovery is going to deepen because they have the energy to recover more. You see how this is all married together? So, you're stacking testosterone's anabolic drive with metabolic flexibility and systemwide resilience. So, you would think of it as going from I'm trying to give you examples. I I don't know, a Honda Civic before you guys get all mad, grow up, a Honda Civic to my 911 Turbo. And it's just they're not even in the same league. They're both cars and that's all they are. But one of them, it's a gangster car. So, you're not just fixing an engine, you're fixing the entire machine cuz the Honda Civic 911 Turbo S. Yeah. Right. So, that's how you have to look at this. If I was going to build, I actually thought about this earlier because somebody asked me, one of my clients, patients in the cure program asked me if there's a a god mode level. It's literally what he asked. Is there a god mode level? Cuz I want to do that. Well, let's figure out what your system is doing first. So, always TRT is your baseline. Here you go. Here's a god mode level. This is a generic one. This is the best way I can come up with it. Ananthate, cipionate. Now, add in copper. So, GHK-Cu, you get endothelial repair, collagen synthesis, neuroprotective qualities, right? Shuts down the inflammation, gives you armor. If you remember a long time ago, I talked about that. It gives you armor around your nervous system and the neurons. So, it it protects the hell out of them, which is what you want. Kiss pepin 10. Yeah, this stuff's cool, man. I haven't talked about this yet, but fixes HPG axis signaling. It listen, it even if you're trying to have a baby, kissepin 10, stay on TRT. Still supports fertility. Yeah. All you guys just went where do I get it? Elite has it. MC C for sure because that's going to help the mitochondrial biogenesis the MPK thing. I did that LL37. So this is antimicrobial. This is going to help your immune system. It basically gives it a reboot. Probably not the best way to describe it. I guess more of a boost, but it it I n it's a reboot. That's what it does. And then it shuts down the inflammatory load in your system. Which right off the bat, if you remember what I said about 20 minutes ago, systemic inflammation, even lowgrade, is the precursor to just about every single disease process in the human body. You think the medical system is going to tell you that? No, they're not. And then a pitilon and dip, right? Fix your circadian rhythm, deep sleep, neurop protection, systemic repair during that delta sleep that you need, right? Which is the only time it happens. Why? And that's why things like ambient don't leave you repaired. They leave you confused and naked in your front yard and you don't know how you got there. This is how you extend health span and lifespan, you guys, because it's not just hormone replacement. This last one especially, this is human re-engineering. This one's wild because testosterone, like I said, drives anabolism. GHK-Cu, the copper, rebuilds vascular and connective tissue. M C and if you want to add in reatride actually I would put that in this too because if you're gonna reatride is probably second only to MC because it gives you multiaceted multi hormonal fat loss it gives you glycemic control improves the metabolic efficiency handles insulin sensitivity issues right out of the gate. So now you have all these things mixing together that plug up all the holes in the system where you're you're hemorrhaging ability and function and leaning on one thinking testosterone is going to do it, but it's actually going to cause more problems because it's going to [\h__\h] up your lipid profiles. It's going to screw up the system. There's so it's even going to cause a bunch of hyperinflammatory processes. So you need to be able to have all these things functioning at the same time. And if you go that's a lot of stuff, then you don't really care about functioning as a high performance machine. You want an easy solution. In which case, I'm not for you. even my cure program. You don't want me that. Don't tell me you're willing to give me 25 or $100,000 to solve your problems if you're not going to do all the things I tell you to do because some of them might be a ton. The point is I want to have you become the juggernaut and then never need me again because you have the blueprint. It's what a doctor's supposed to do by the way. So in this one like the red truth tide is going to remodel your energy metabolism. LL37 is going to eliminate all the inflammatory drag and microbial problems that you've got systemwide and a pitilon and DIP are going to fix the hardware for your sleep architecture. So you actually get rest and I'm not saying I sleep 4 to 5 hours a night. That's normal for me. But what happens is people try and do that and they wind up demolishing their system. If you look at these three, you're not on TRT. You're building a biological organism that is designed to perform, to repair, and to outlast the environmental systemwide attack, which has now become the default human template. This is going to help you with that. Think of this as going from broken man to well-designed machine. And I mean, I hope that really makes sense. And I'm sure you guys are going to ask me about dosages and all kinds of stuff. Cure program. No, because if you really want my help and if you think it's about the money, I'm going to tell you right now, I'm still too inexpensive. 25,000 or 100,000 is still far too inexpensive for what I do. Because if you're on the other side of the equation where you've spent 20 years unwinding your health and your life and somebody comes along that genuinely and I'm a walking billboard for it and I think I've proven plenty of times that I have the knowledge to back this up and the capacity to make sure that you function at 100% and then never need me. If you aren't willing to do whatever is required, which means also investing the finances, then you really don't want the answer. You want something free, which means you're not going to do it. See, here here's why I'm saying this. You guys listen to me. This is the punch line that none of these stacks are going to work if you're lazy. None of it. Understand biolog biologically that the world you guys. And this is coming from a 52-year-old man who works very hard to be as fit and powerful as I can at the number of years that I've logged on this planet. But biology is merciless. It's ruthless. Stacks amplify signals. But if the input is garbage, the output is just going to be more efficient garbage. Geigo, garbage in, garbage out. Good in, good out. It's basic programmer speak, which is why stacking works. But stacking without work is it's a really expensive shortcut to nowhere because it's going to cost you a ton of money. You're going to get nowhere and it's a waste of time. You just turn yourself into a pin cushion getting nothing. I've heard this multiple times from you jack wagons, by the way. When you go, I don't need a diet or to train hard because I'm on TRT. It makes it easy. I can eat anything I want. Just get jacked. Really? So, you think hormones override physics, thermodynamics? Really? Muscle hypertrophy requires mechanotuction here. That's what that means is muscle cells must sense mechanical tension in order to trigger growth. No training. Testosterone has nothing to amplify. Fat loss requires a caloric deficit and also EMPK activation. To be honest, that comes from diet, movement or pharmacologic mimetics. Testosterone alone doesn't create an energy deficit. Show me where that happens. Physics. Physiology. You guys getting in my comments going, "It worked for me." No, it didn't. How about bone density? You need load. Wolf's law. The pisoelectric effect. TRT stimulates osteoblast, but without any weightbearing stress, the skeleton doesn't remodel. It's not possible. So, here's the truth, you guys. TRT without any discipline, it doesn't make you muscular. It makes you slightly more motivated maybe, but it's going to be a slightly more motivated version of fat and weak and metabolically [\h__\h] It takes a lazy man and gives him more red blood cells to deliver oxygen to his Dorito eating armchair [\h__\h] marathon. That's what it does. Stop thinking it's a shortcutter. It's going to help you without fixing all the problems in yourself first. It's not the answer. It's a tool. That's why I'm saying you need to stack it with a bunch of things. Hormones amplify who you are. If you're weak, it amplifies weakness. If you're disciplined, it amplifies greatness. The end. And by the way, I I was going to touch on this, but I'm going to. I mean, I'm already whatever 38 minutes into this, but somebody asked me about a clomophene. So, let me It's kind of an outlier, right? So, let me let me touch on it real quick just because it'll save you guys a whole bunch of questions and me a whole bunch of headaches. Inclin is a serum, right? Selective estrogen receptor modulator. And here's how it works. Estrogen normally provides negative feedback at the hypothalamus. And clomophen blocks that feedback. So, now the brain thinks that estrogen is low. So it ramps up G&RH which ramps up luteinizing hormone which then cranks out follical stimulating hormone, right? LH and FSH. LH hits the ladic cells in the testes and right in the in your balls, right? Testosterone production goes up. Fa FSH stimulates spermatogenesis. So the result is you make your own testosterone. And here's what's cool about it though, fertility stays intact because the HPG axis keeps on firing. There's no systemic shutdown. So if you look at men with secondary hypogonadism, brain level dysfunction, Clomophen turns on the pilot light, right? Ignites the signal, raises serum testosterone significantly to be honest in the high normal range and avoids all that testicular atrophy and maintains your sperm count. So things work. It's effective. It's very effective. So if you're going to ask me, well, why would I do TRT then instead of just the clomophane? I went over why because there's a whole bunch of other reasons to do that because let me let me give you the nuance about this. Enclophen is only as strong as your testicular capacity. I may as well lay it out. If your testicles if your balls are shot and clomophene can't turn them on, they can't resurrect the dead. They can train a lion but they can't resurrect the dead. It doesn't deliver the animal. Supraphysiologic levels of testosterone can do that which means you need more. Right? Think of it this way. And clomophene is like coaching your body to step back out onto the field. TRT is like drafting that star player to replace you. Both work. Depends on what game you're playing. And I think that's how you need to start looking at this because otherwise you're going to end up thinking one is the answer and one is not. But that it very subtle. The nuances are very subtle because it depends on what you need to have happen and what's going on in your own physiology. Which is why when people ask me, can I stay on TRT forever? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, without a question. In fact, not only can you, but you should if you need it. I just blew everybody's mind, right? This is the nonsense I hear from some of you guys. TRT, oh, it shortens lifespan. False. Absolutely false. Low testosterone shortens life. Listen, men with low tea have higher rates of Alzheimer's and cardiovascular disease and diabetes and premature death. TRT normalizes and all that goes away. I had somebody tell me TRT causes cancer. I wanted to punch him in the mouth. Again, [\h__\h] There's no evidence. In fact, prostate cancer is much much more aggressive in low tea environments. Which means when they prostate cancer and the first thing you want to get do is kill your test, are you high? Are you out of your mind? That is the last thing you need to do. Testosterone does not fuel cancer when maintained at the right levels, physiological levels. It can't. It doesn't work like that. TRT ruins fertility permanently. I've heard that one, too. Yeah. Okay. So, let's touch on that because yeah, it suppresses spermatogenesis, but again, mitigated by HCG and clomophin or cycling strategies. There's a million ways to handle this problem. The infertility myth is only permanent if you are careless and a [\h__\h] idiot, which comes from listening to bro science douchebags who, you know, they're 270 lb bodybuilders that are 5'6 telling you that they know all about health. All I see is an oxidative stress heart attack about to happen. Ask them to spell mitochondria backwards and then explain what they do. The brains will melt. This is the entire podcast. 42 minutes in. It gives you back your lean muscle mass. Keeps you from being frail. Improves bone density which prevents fracture and all the early death that happens with that. It sharpens cognition which keeps men independent. And it maintains insulin sensitivity which keeps the metabolic system running like when you were 15 years old. Yeah, TRT can run for life. In fact, very safely and very effectively. And if it's done right, it's not just replacement therapy, it's longevity therapy. The people telling you that it's going to harm you, look at them. Would you trade lives with them? Do they really know what they're talking about? Are they trying to sell you a product that they say is going to boost your testosterone naturally? Unless it says inclin on the bottle or on the tablet, no. Tribulus and all the other nonsense. Unless I grew up in the 80s. Smileax. How about this one? Big purple box cost about 300 bucks. Cybergic. This will prove I'm 42 minutes in. This will prove who's listening all the way to the end. Cybergenics. You know what? I bought that twice. All it did was give me dry perorbital like the whole perorbital part of my lips and my mouth. So dry, so cracked and chapped and a sore [\h__\h] because all those supplements were going right back out. It was brutal. Not a chance. So let let me give you the big picture so you guys understand this cuz nobody needs to think about that. TRT alone gives you back one lever. I don't recommend it. Stack it and it gives you the entire board. Like there's a keyboard, right? It gives you the whole board, not just one letter. Now TRT plus training and diet and discipline. Well, that makes you athletic. Now take TRT and stack it plus discipline and the stacks that matter. TRT plus stacks plus discipline. That's a superhero. Living, breathing superhero. You know what I I honestly want you to think about? I mean, that's a spectrum, right? Those four things. One lever, TRT alone, add some things in. Last lever, TRT stacks, discipline, unstoppable. That is the whole board. There's no fancy middle gray areas, nothing like that. But really, I want you to think about something. Look at your spouse. Look at your wife. Look at your kids. You guys acting all righteous and noble with your virtue signaling going, "I would never take that. That's terrible." What kind of an example are you for your kids? If somebody's on TRT, here's what I got for you. [\h__\h] you. Because if you are a stronger person, more fit, more powerful, more resilient, and you can take a hit physically, psychologically, and then add in financially, you're a badass. So, keep doing whatever you're doing. And all those people that I just said [\h__\h] you to are the idiots that sit there and think it's righteous and noble to age like a crippled, daughtering old idiot because they're not willing to drink coffee or take TRT because they don't think it's authentic. Get out of here, man. You're Look at your kids. Look at your spouse. Being 50 years old, overweight with a big old belly and diabetes and on seven different medications is not normal. That is the hypnosis of social conditioning convincing you that that's how you are supposed to age and that managing symptoms instead of repairing the system is the correct way. Absolutely not. Absolutely not. You have the ultimate blueprint for human biology. His name's the Spartan, Dr. Trevor Bachmire. He's sitting right [\h__\h] here. And he keeps giving you the answers because he actually comes out here and gives a [\h__\h] Because at 244 podcast episodes deep inside one year and I show up every damn day, people, I actually care. I really do. Cuz I've been on the other side of this equation. It sucked. Why do you think I teach people how to make money? So you can take a hit financially. Why do you think I teach people about human biology and how to be the most optimal, I'm not going to say that word. I hate that word. How to be the most savage juggernaut version of themselves so you can take a hit and you can live a kick-ass life. Why why do you think I come out here and teach you psychology and get your brain right so you become an unstoppable human being instead of just a [\h__\h] that sits there and goes I had a really rough day today and I just shut down so I need I need just some time alone so you can actually get further in your life it's your choice to use it you guys like so if you're thinking about doing TRT and you're like that's what you're just going to do that's like buying my 911 never getting past 25 m an hour and going real slow to get there why buy a [\h__\h] Prius then you take TRT and you stack it properly I gave you the answers car is going to sing, man. You add in discipline, you start breaking the sound barrier because you're you're not just being healthy. You become something that evolution designed you to become. You just haven't tapped into it. And yeah, and Clomin shows you there there's an al alternative. You can crank up your own biology with it. TRT gives you an answer to keep you as resilient as possible for your entire life. and peptides and mimetics and secreted goss and sarmms and serms expose that human biology is not just one molecule. It's thousands and thousands of moving parts. They all need to be tuned. They all need to be working in concert. But none of that matters if you're lazy. You know what hormones don't fix you guys is psychological weakness. They don't fix procrastination or your excuses or your virtue signaling or your hypocrisy or your lies and validations and ostracizing and attacks and all the things that you do when you feel insecure because you aren't doing the work. It's like anything else. They just amplify who you are. In that case, you're a [\h__\h] loser. And it's by choice, by the way. So ask yourself, do you want what you're doing right now, TRT, amplify weakness, or do you want it to amplify discipline? cuz it'll amplify whatever you do. TRT doesn't make you strong. That's the truth. It makes strong men stronger and it makes weak men weaker faster. That's the difference. That's it. There's no fancy I I wish I had a fancy little ending for you. I wish I had fancy, you know, something I could say to you, but that's it. That's it. That's the difference. The decision. That's the rub. I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.