Oh man. So, I had my Monday Q&A today. I think it was about I don't know 70 70 plus people on there. It was awesome. It was so fun. I love answering questions. So, just keep throwing all the questions at me. I want to help everybody. This is what I do. But, so listen, I got asked a question a bunch of times actually. Uh, not tonight, just in general. Sorry, I ran inside and I ate two pieces of pizza because I was starving. And you can't have a pizza without having a ice cold Coke. So before somebody gets on my case about how I need to drink some natural spring water that came from some unnamed mountain scooped up by some unnamed monk. Dude, I drink Coke Zero. Get over it. This is a conversation about Enclomophane and testosterone because I you guys are mixing them up. And I had some guy tell me they're the same. He got into my comments, dude. It's the same thing. They do the same thing. Why would you take an injection when you can just take inclapine? Cuz they're not the [\h__\h] same. In fact, not even close. So, let me get something straight right now. The conversation around testosterone and inclane, it's like a circus of bad information. So, I'm going to fix it all. You got the bro scientists screaming about roid rage and how you need to have enlom instead cuz it doesn't do it. And then you got doctors that are prescribing protocols from 1985 and a culture that is completely terrified by the very molecules that make men men. Make it make sense. I'm going to stop it. I'm going to burn the whole thing down because I listen, I'm not here to fluff you or make you feel good or get a bunch of viewers on my podcast. I don't care. I come out here to tell you the truth. This is unvarnished un or unvarnished operational truth of human [\h__\h] endocrinology. It bugs me because the amount of lies and bro science chat GPT experts out there that don't know a damn thing. You want to you want to have a conversation? Have it without your phone on a stage on a chair with a light in your face and a microphone. You want to go toe-to-toe with me? Let's do it. Let's [\h__\h] dance. Because I guarantee you, you will not be able to keep up with me because I stay in my lane my lane, but I own the [\h__\h] out of this lane. So, I'm going to dissect all of the information. There's no good guys or bad guys. There are just tools before you guys get all weird. This is like a master class in applied physiology. And the master craftsmen out there that do any kind of work whatsoever, whether it is a surgeon or a carpenter or a plumber or a neuroscientist or a PhD in representative literature, it doesn't matter. Never blames his tools. He learns which one to use for the damn job. Which is the difference between testosterone and enlomophene. It is not even a difference between men and women using it. It is which situation calls for one, the other, or both, and how to max them out. the pro like your body's waiting for your brain to read the damn manual. That's literally where we're at right now. Imagine imagine your testoster I'll make it easy. Imagine that your testosterone is like a your production is like a a Fortune 500 company and it's not a metaphor. This is like operational framework. Just follow me. Because I think a lot of people don't understand physiology is because some idiot out there with a lab coat tries to sound intelligent, uses a bunch of big words, but never strings the big words together into an actual understandable concept. So the hypothalamus is the CEO in something called the arcuate nucleus. Its job is big picture strategy, right? Almost hit my microphone. It synthesizes and secretes gonadotropen releasing hormone GNR. You guys have seen this everywhere. All the peptide bros are talking about it, but not constantly. It comes out in these pulsatile bursts. And the rhythm is the master code. The rhythm is the part that matters. It's like dancing. You know the moves great. The rhythm is what makes the dance beautiful. The frequency and the amplitude of these pulses determines everything that follows. The pituitary gland is like like my wife in one of my companies, the COO, the operating officer. It takes the CEO's directives and turn two very executable orders. No more luteinizing hormone and follical stimulating hormone LH and FSH. Luteinizing hormone. This order goes directly to something called latig cells in the testicles. It binds to LH receptors and it activates a cyclic AMP pathway C and it initiates something called steroidogenesis from cholesterol which is why these low cholesterol claims are ridiculous. Again also why the Framingham study is proving that low cholesterol is a lie. A lie. Your cholesterol should be high. It's supposed to be. The translation is just so you know it says make testosterone. Now that's what LH does. FSH follicle stimulating hormone goes to cerolely cells. They initiate something called spermatogenesis and produce androgen binding protein to concentrate the testosterone within the tubules. The command from this one is make the product. That's it. That's all you've got. Make testosterone now. Make the product. The testicles are the factory floor. They receive the work orders and then they just execute. That's the easiest way to explain this. And I'm pretty sure nobody's ever explained it like this to you. Now, here's the genius about this entire thing. It's a feedback loop that your body is built with. The finished products testosterone and its metabolite estradiol by it's the whole aromatize enzyme gets shipped back to HQ. They bind to receptors on the CEO and the COO. So the executive officer and the operating officer and they report mission accomplished. I did everything. Go ahead and stand down. You don't have to tell me any more commands. We're good to go. So production slows down. It's this perfect self-regulating system of checks and balances and all you can do is screw it up. And there's a time when to intentionally screw it up and a time when you shouldn't screw it up. I'm watching my internet screw up right now. It's starting to bug me. So, if it screws up, I'm going to just keep on talking. Now, you have two fundamental ways to increase serum testosterone in your body. That's it. They work on completely different parts of the system. One is a supply chain worker, and the other is a management consultant, and they don't even operate remotely close to the same way. When you inject testosterone, you are you're the external corporate raider. You are delivering a finished product directly to the market. you are flooding the entire zone exogenous. When you inject it from the outside, this exogenous testosterone and the estradiol that's aromatized from it floods the hypothalamus and the pituitary and it saturates estrogen and androgen receptors responsible for the negative feedback that I just talked about where it says job done. We're good. We don't have to make anymore. This is why I'm telling you this. So now the CEO slashes the frequency of the G&RH memos, right? It slows down all the messages and the COO becomes desensitized and stops issuing LH and FSH work orders. It says you don't have to do this anymore. So the factory the testicles receiving no signals shut down. Leading signals or latig cells ce steroidenesis cerolei cells stops romatogenesis the entire native production system is made redundant. So you have replaced the company's output with exogenous supply. So now that is the supplier. You are the supplier. Now you holding the barrel and the injection and the pen and the tube of oil and all the stuff that you're going to do. That's you are the supplier in clomophene because this is where you guys are screwing us up. Whoever is arguing about this is about to get an education. And clomophene contains zero testosterone. They're not the same. Its power is in molecular very brilliant mind you but molecular deception. It's a serum selective estrogen receptor modulator. It has a higher affinity for estrogen in the hypothalamus and pituitary than estradiol itself. It acts as something called a competitive agonist. It goes estradile supposed to go in the slot and enclap is supposed to go in the slot. Which one makes it? Clomophene all day. So here's the consequence of that. Enclophene physically occupies the estrogen receptor and it blocks estradiol from binding. So it jams up the signal. It's like putting tape over all the warning lights or the check engine light on the dashboard and going, "Well, I don't see it, so I'm going to wind up doing something different." The brain is fooled and it perceives this state of catastrophic hypoestrogenism and it's a corporate emergency. It goes nuts. So, the CEO freaks out and it incre you go, "Well, it's bad for you." No, it's not. I'm just telling you why it's doing it. It freaks out and cranks up the amplitude and frequency of the G&R pulses. The COO, which we talked about before, right? No longer inhibited, becomes the opposite. It becomes very sensitive, hyper sensitive, and releases this tsunami of what I talked about before, luteinizing hormone and follical stimulating hormone, LH and FSH. So, this LH flood forces the latic cells to max out testosterone production to the absolute limits of the individual's genetic potential. It can only put out as much as your body is capable of putting out, which is why you can't overdrive, over revv, or burn it out. It's not possible. It'll only do as much as you are capable of doing. The FSH surge supercharges those cerolely cells dramatically increasing spermatogenesis. So, does it increase fertility? Abso fuckingutely. And clomophene doesn't add anything. It doesn't add a damn thing. This is why that these bro scientists bug me. It unleashes everything that you've already got. And are is one better than the other? Let me explain because they're different situations, different strokes for different folks. The choice isn't about preference. It's a diagnos. It's a diagnostic algorithm based on which site has the failure. Your blood work specifically LH and FSH is like your audit. It's like the corporate audit seeing where things are going wrong. So you either have a broken factory or you have a bunch of incompetent management people. So the the fault is in the end organ. When it's a broken factory problem, the physiology the fault is on the end organ. The latic cells are defective. The pituitary gland is screaming LH levels are high but the factory is just torched. It's burnt to the ground. So it can't produce. Hold on. I want to drink some of this Coke. And the tool, which is testosterone in this case, right? This is why I'm I'm marrying this together. This is just a hostile takeover. You bypass the broken factory, go right around the building, and you supply the product yourself. So it's a complete and utter replacement. If there is so primary hypergonadism is what it's called. If there is secondary hyper hypogonatism, which is the management problem, the fault is at the headquarters. Right? So the hypothalamus and pituitary, the axis is suppressed usually by obesity, leptin resistance, opioids, stress, which would be cortisol, or a bunch of environmental toxins from stupid things you're putting in your body. As I'm sitting here holding a Coca-Cola, LH levels are low or inappropriately normal. The factory is intact, but it's dull. It's idle. It's not doing it's not getting any It's not getting work orders. It's just sitting there running, but doing nothing. It's just keeping the building warm. So now here the tool is in Clomene. So this is a management problem. the management revolts and you kick the CEO and the COO in the ass until they do their damn jobs. This is a stimulation versus a replacement. So if you want to So here, let me let me talk about how to capitalize on all this. If you look at a fertility model, the system is functioning but underperforming. That's the physiology about this. And the goal is to peak natural output without any shutdown. So the tool would be inclane. It's the only tool, the only tool that simultaneously elevates testosterone and enhances sperm production via FS FSH. Period. Nothing else does it. I don't care what these guys are charging you 60 grand for in vitro because you have a learn low sperm count. They're screwing you up. I'm just going to tell you right now, and I hope some fertility doc hears this, stitches this, and tries to make fun of my video. All you're going to do is make me more money and get more people to listen to me because they're going to call you a [\h__\h] liar. If you look at and I'm just going over protocols. If you look at the advanced way of doing this, which would be both, it's like a merger, corporate merger. This is an attempt to merge two separate companies. Low dose of exogenous testosterone provides a very solid base. The concurrent inclin attempts to block the negative feedback from that exogenous testosterone at the pituitary and it tries to prevent the shutdown of native LH production. Here's the reality of the whole thing. a very precarious corporate merger. You have to be delicate with this. It often fails because the negative feedback loop from the combined steroid load is just too powerful. It's just too much. It's way too power. It's so overwhelming receptor. The receptors don't they don't make it. They don't pay attention. It's like it overwhelms that blockade. So, you need to be very very precise. This is why you guys doing this in your bathroom trying to guesstimate what you're doing and because some bro told you he read some book, you guys are screwing up. You're going to wind up causing all you're going to burn out your latex cells. You're going to burn out your cerolei cells. You're going to go into such a massive desensitization. You're never going to come back and you're wondering why like you've been taking gear at astronomical levels while taking a chloromine and HCG at the same time thinking that you're doing it exactly how the big bros do except you're not doing anything. All you're doing is [\h__\h] up your system, but you got muscles. Great. Good job. Except you don't have any health. This requires a very exquisite dosing protocol and a lot of blood work. And I'm not a huge fan of blood work for the most part. Yeah, you need a lot of blood work on this. Like total testosterone, free testosterone, LH to see if this is even working. Going in the in the gym and flexing your bicep and going it's working is not blood work. This is high level and for the most of for most of you guys high-risk endocrinology that you're screwing with. That's men. Now, if you look at women, it's a totally different corporate structure altogether. And I'm just using this because I don't know. I own companies. It's easier to explain this way. It's focused much more on cyclicity, not this steadystate output like males because we don't have this monthly cycle the way a woman does. So testosterone in women, the female, the female adrenal glands and ovaries produce testosterone in very minute amounts. It's not what you think. Remember, women aren't supposed to have a penis. That's why they're women. So taking a whole bunch of testosterone is not going to help you. The cellular m machinery in a woman is far more sensitive. So the therap the therapeutic window is very very small. It's almost microscopic. And the primary risk is always the same. Viralization, which is the irrever irreversible, I'll say this again, irreversible, stop arguing with me right now. Irreversible activation of masculine pathways in a female. Physiology dictates extreme caution. Just so we're clear. I'm going to say that again. Physiology dictates very extreme caution. Don't [\h__\h] with this. You cannot come out of this. This is a sledgehammer that's being swung around a glass house. Its use is based on its er antagonism in the brain. By blocking negative feedback midcycle, it triggers a surge of FSH and LH. Same LH, the same surge, but it leads to ovulation induction instead. So, it's it its use to raise testosterone is just a secondary kind of disruptive effect that throws honestly the entire menstrual cycle into absolute chaos. The applications are fundamentally and physiologically very different. They're not the same. In fact, it's the only one. It's FDA approved for fertility. Make it make sense. I I don't even want to go down that road cuz it's so ridiculous. But using these tools without any support is like like testosterone and a clomophene. It's like driving a my 9/11 Turbo S on a rainy day with just pure bald ass tires. Let me explain how to put this together cuz you guys are just going to go out and go through some bro science and go on Reddit and try and figure something out and go, "Well, they told me because they're jacked and I trust them." That's not the best way to do it. for the testosterone user. This is how I this is all h by the way. This is not meant to treat, cure, diagnose, advise, triage, prescribe, and it's only hypothetical, entertainment, and purely educational. If you know, you know. Now that we got that out of the way for the 275th time, this is a growth hormone secret. GHS is what they're called. This acts as a selective agonist for the ghrein receptor in the pituitary. It stimulates this very clean versatile release of growth hormone and IGF-1 which is the magic juice in your body. This is critical because exogenous testosterone actually suppresses natural GH pulsatility. A pomearillan gives you this excuse me coke's making me burp and the pizza I ate inside provides this synergistic anabolic and recovery benefit without all the nasty side effects of the sloppier shittier cousins that aren't IP Hamarellin. If you know you know methylene blue I can't get enough of this stuff. It's unbelievable. It's the ultimate mitochondrial enhancer. Exogenous hormone use increases metabolic and oxidative stress which are metabolic stress is okay. Oxidative stress is very bad and you're creating ROS's which is reactive oxygen species which cause all kinds of problems. Methylene blue as an electron cyclinger among all the other things boosts ATP adenazine triphosphate production. It is a very potent antioxidant. So it mops up the oxid the ROS's and it provides this incredibly profound I said this the other day yesterday maybe new neotropic support for the brain under this new metabolic management load that it has. It's like the it's like the corporate wellness program for your cells. Now for the enclomophane user right it's not the same. Remember we took exogenous testosterone now we're doing enlomophene which is just it's optimizing the existing machine. Kiss pepin this the not kiss pepin is amazing because it's it's natural endogenous liand for a specific receptor and it's the primary key that unlock this is such a cool it's such a cool compound when you use it right that unlocks g&rh pulsatility so using kiss pepin married to and clomophene is it's before you guys jump on this stuff let me finish the podcast it's like the pinnacle of biohacking synergy clomophin removes the breaks the estrogen feedback kiss pmpton stomps on the skinny pedal G&R release and it pretty much guarantees a very powerful physiological signal again for the enclomophene user. I already said kiss pepin but we want to add carterine the GW-501516 pp delta aagonist and chlomophene is making your body work harder. So this is metabolically very costly. Carterine dramatically improves metabolic efficiency by increasing fatty acid oxidation. So it enhances endurance, accelerates fat loss. Make sure you're torching around your spare tire. Like I said yesterday, improves lipid profiles. It gives you the clean or gives your body the clean energy that it needs to sustain this new much higher output without burning out the system. It's the uh the fixer that comes in, the efficiency expert, right? If you watch Eureka, it would be like what was her name? >> I don't remember the they called her the fixer. Anyway, the redhead that comes into If you don't watch Eureka, you're missing out. You should. It's great. Eureka is probably one of the best shows ever. Carter and Joe Loop, my favorite characters. Just awesome. Love them both. They're just kick-ass. So, the debate between, listen, the debate between whether testosterone or inclin are better is just a distraction for a bunch of weak idiots. And I mean mentally, psychologically weak. You guys aren't looking at the facts. Testosterone, listen, I will tell you when. I will tell you exactly when. Testosterone is when the factory is burned down. Replacement. And clomine is when the management is asleep at the wheel and not doing its damn job. Stimulation. There you go. You're welcome. That's it. You don't choose one because you like it or you don't like needles because you're not you're not even paying attention to physiology or endocrinology at all. You're just going to screw up your system. So the question isn't which one is better. The question is which is the precise physiological failure point in my HPTA axis. Your blood work is your audit report because it's going to tell you everything. So stop listening to the noise and the bro science and the people trying to sell you pills and lotions and potions and injections or going to some site and ordering anabolics because you want to get them because you heard they make you the strongest. Start reading the actual data. to look at the science and understand the very exquisite corporate mach machinery that you are entrusted with called your human [\h__\h] body because only then do you apply the precise molecule and the correct tool for the precise physiological job. You become the CEO of you become the of your own damn biology. That's all you're supposed to do. It's not bro science. This is ownership. Treat your body as an owner, not a renter. You guys understand this? And listen, I wasn't even going to go because it's 22 minutes in and I was trying to make this one short, but listen, here's the problem. I just need to do a little bit of intellectual housekeeping because I think what I what I hear is somebody made a comment one day when I said something because I'm intense. I'm intense. I'm loud. I'm focused. I'm driven. I'm really gritty. Welcome to being me. I'm not going to change who I am because you don't [\h__\h] like who I am. I'm not going to stop cussing because you're like, I like him, but he cusses too much. I can't do it. Then don't listen to me. Next podcast. Peace out. Mute me out. Teach your kids something else then. That's okay. They won't have a better teacher than me. I promise you that. There is one of the most idiotic, culturally ingrained, weak-minded lies ever propagated. And I got it because this is somebody who was, "Oh, this is clearly a juice. Look at him. Rage." Okay, first of all, no. And no. Testosterone rage. Testosterone rage. Oh god, this might make me rage. You've heard it. Wife's heard it. Every bad movie actor and lazy journalist has pedled this garbage for decades. Listen, the idea that injecting testosterone turns reasonable men into uncontrollable, veinpopping Hulk monsters who smash walls, yell at their kids, and beat the [\h__\h] out of everybody. Is not just wrong. It is the exact opposite of scientific reality. I'm going to nuke the [\h__\h] out of this cuz I don't have time to play around and give you all kinds of this this I you guys need to have disinfectant for your conversations in your head or the idiots you listen to. Testosterone is a neurostabilizer. Just pure science, man. Here's what actually happens when your testosterone levels are capitalized just working at peak levels. When they're in a healthy high stable range, even if it's super physiological, it doesn't matter. Upregulates GABAurgic activity. So GABA, just so we're clear, is your brain's primary break pedal. It's the chief inhibitory neurotransmitter. Remember glutamate, GABA, right? We talked about these. It's what calms you down, reduces anxiety, reduces anxiety, promotes an incredibly stable, relaxed focus. testosterone and the metabolites enhances the function of GABA the GABA A receptor without getting into a lot of fancy neurology. More testosterone means a much more active and more efficient brake pedal. It makes you more resistant to stress and overreaction, not less. Check one box for me being right and all the other idiots being wrong. It modulates the amydala. Just so you know, the amydala is your fear center for your and and or fear and threat detection center of your brain. It's the alarm bell. So, in low testosterone, the amydala gets hyper reactive in almost everybody. It's like this hyper sensitive car alarm that goes off if a leaf lands on the windshield or somebody walks by too fast. You're irritable. You're anxious. You're quick to perceive threats that don't really exist. When you have testosterone that's running right, conversely, it has this modulating effect on the amydala. It doesn't turn the alarm off. It calibrates it to make it smarter and have it make sense of your environment. So, not only does it function better, it only goes off for actual legitimate threats. It's not rage, that's control. Okay, that's check two. Increases BDNF, brain derived neurotrphic factor. This is like miracle growth for your brain, which is what I called it yesterday. It promotes neuroplasticity, which is the growth of new neurons and cleaning up how your brain functions in one direction, the health of existing ones. It it fixes low testosterone, just so you know. 100% associated with low BDNF, which is linked now to cognitive decline, brain fog, depression, anxiety, poor emotional regulation, and on. And restoring testosterone boosts brain derived neurotrphic factor, which literally helps your brain function better and think clearer and regulate your emotions more effectively. That's three checks, three strikes, you're out with your bro science [\h__\h] So, let me help you. The the rage myth and because you guys are going to be like, "Whatever, bro. My brother took it. I remember when I took it, I was super raged out. Okay, that's from an estrogen imbalance. It's not from testosterone. Remember aromatase? I talked about this at the beginning. It's the enzyme that converts testosterone to estrogen. So, when some guys, especially beginners and rookies that listen to insta bros, inject a hefty dose, too much of testosterone, large portion of it aromatizes into estradiol into estradiol. So, their testosterone is high, but their estrogen skyrockets out of control. So high estrogen in men is the actual biochemical recipe for emotional liability. Causes the fun things that nobody wants where you guys start taking weird chemicals to mitigate instead of looking at the cause. It causes water retention including including in the brain. Causes bloating. Causes mood swings, tearfulness, moodiness. You get sad when you see a you watch a 90210 episode and Kelly gets broken up with or whatever the hell it is. And yes, it also causes a bunch of irrational irritability. This isn't testosterone rage. Just so we're clear. And my eye is itchy? This is estrogen imbalance, and it is a glaring side effect of poor protocol management and stupid decisions listening to people that don't know what they're doing. It's not the hormone itself. It's like blaming the gasoline in your engine for the knocking when you put low octane fuel in a high performance car. The problem isn't the gas. It's your ignorance on how to use it. They're not the same, you guys. This is and the other part about this is I think this part makes me laugh because there's the I call it the pre-existing [\h__\h] principle. Listen, I'll be blunt. It's like if this applies to everything, by the way. If you're an [\h__\h] when you're rich, you were already an [\h__\h] But I'll be blunt. Hormones don't create some new personality trait. They amplify the existing ones. Just like money, just like success, all of it. It's just another version of it. If you're lazy and unm motivated, like if you're this fat, lazy, unmotivated slug with low testosterone and you get on a proper protocol, the testoster the testosterone is going to amplify your energy and drive and you'll probably get off the couch. If you're an ambitious, focused go-getter with low testosterone, it'll amplify your ambition and focus and you'll become more productive. If you're an insecure, emotionally unstable, aggressive [\h__\h] with low testosterone, guess what? It's going to amplify their muppet. It's going to give you the energy and the confidence to be a more effective jerk. The hormone didn't make you an [\h__\h] It gave you the fuel to be the best version of an [\h__\h] that you already were. Testosterone doesn't cause rage. Uncontrolled estrogen and pre-existing poor character cause rage. Testosterone simply removes the fog of fatigue and depression that it was masking. You have to look at yourself and understand where's the problem, right? Because the science is the science is unequivocal. In study after study after study after study, testosterone replacement therapy is associated with improvements in mood, reductions in irritability and decreased symptoms of depression and anxiety. It is a net calming and confidenceb buildinging agent when properly administered when properly administered by people that know what the [\h__\h] they're doing that don't listen to idiots on Reddit forums or instab bros that have abs. So the next time I I'll say this. The next I got to just address this. The next time some intellectually bankrupt person tries to warn you or blame you or say that you have roid rage, you can confidently tell them that they're confusing the hormone with the hobbyist. The problem was never the tool. It was the idiot swinging it as always. I got to go. Never miss.