Oh man, you know what's great is the feedback you guys are giving me on my YouTube and the constant requests to make these into podcast. I didn't realize there was such a demand to turn these into podcasts. I was just throwing them out into Spotify and Amazon and iTunes and stuff. You know, honestly, once a week, once every two weeks. I wasn't putting a lot of time into it, but I will because you guys asked. I have probably well over a thousand messages from you guys on Instagram going, "We need these to be podcast." So, thank you very much. I just want to say thank you cuz it matters to me. I don't come out here for me. I know this stuff already. I'm actually trying to teach you guys. I don't know if that makes sense to you or not, but I got asked about preventing. So, the thing I usually see is I'm solving a problem after the disaster has occurred, right? When the catastrophes happen and now I have to go ahead and sweep up all the debris and get it out of the way and then rebuild everything from the foundation up. But what if there was a way that you could do that from the other side of the equation going, "Let's just make sure there is no debris." And this might start off sounding like a diet and fitness and losing weight. And I I'm not talking about exercise or being training. I mean like how to lose weight if you're stuck and you can't get rid of the last 30 lbs or anything like that. But there's more to this. So listen to me. This will be a really short podcast, but trust me, I'm going to be talking just two things. M and red a true tide. But there is a reason why and it is not to lose weight. It is so much more than this. If you want to know the ultimate god, it's I'm struggling with that word because it's so much more than that. Probably one of the most effective duos that you can put into your system, it's those two. And and I'll explain exactly why. Let's how about this. We just play a game and I'm really thirsty. I just came off my Monday Q&A, my live Q&A. By the way, if you want to be part of this Q&A, I don't know. Uh I think Amber said I have 11 spots out of the 100 that are at 5,997. Yep. 100% pitch because I know exactly how good this is. And if you would have been on the call today, you would have seen I was on the call for almost 2 and 1/2 hours, answered nothing but questions and everything, helping everybody with whatever they need. Why? Because nobody does this better than me. Nobody. And it's not an arrogant statement. It's an egotistical statement because I can back it. I got the receipts behind me because I actually give a [\h__\h] So anyway, if you want to join the black card, which is access to all the protocols and everything that I talk about and actually ask me questions every Monday live, no matter what they are, from business to peptides to dosages to disease mitigation to solving a problem to I have to use that C word carefully, to resolving a disease process, let's just say 5,997 bucks for one year. doesn't autorenew or any of that weird stuff. And no, you can't ask me questions during the week. I'll just ignore them and you can ask me on Monday. But it's at 5:00. I live just east of Dallas, so you can ask me at 5:00 at Central time. And I stay on till everybody's questions are answered. And I ask at the end, did I get everybody's questions? So there's nobody left behind. I won't do that. And uh and I think that's the way it should be. And once those hundred are gone, it is $25,000 for a buyin and $1,500 a month afterwards. And so you decide. Yeah, I'm wicked thirsty and wicked hungry, but I I never miss and I come out here. So, let's play a game together. How many of you guys have been on a diet, struggled to lose weight, tried to get abs, tried to drop those last 30 lbs, tried to drop 100 lbs, whatever it is. Everybody's done it. Me, too. And yes, I am lean, but even me, too. I've gone the other way, too. How do I gain weight? How many of you guys have struggled with I just can't get my metabolism to work right? I can't sleep right. I have no energy during the day. I feel lethargic and tired and fatigued all the time. I can't hold a thought in my head. I feel like I'm constantly battling uphill. I feel like I'm sisphus and I'm pushing that damn stone. I always feel like that. And listen, how many of you guys have felt like you were just fighting inside your own body? Like it was actively up your whole life and the only thing that knows it is your brain. And it's like, dude, this body, it's not working right with me. Like whether it's every wink of sleep, every minute of sleep is a battle to stay asleep cuz you wake up and now you're staring at the ceiling fan and your brain's going 1,000 miles an hour. or every calorie is a battle and your metabolism is the most hateful, spiteful enemy you've ever had. Yeah. Okay. Listen, we've all been there. That's welcome to being alive in an environment where the people that you think should keep you safe and give you the healthy answers are doing it because they want your damn money. I'm not asking you for a dime. Yes, I did plug my black card before I go. No, I'm telling you that if you want to actually get real layouts and blueprints on how to do this stuff for real. Yes, you're going to Sorry, I got this gun driving me nuts. Yes, I carry everywhere I go. Inside, outside, you name it. You know why? Cuz it's a crazy [\h__\h] world right now. And my family matters. People I love. And I make sure I'm trained to take care of them. Because any of my friends that are very dangerous, AF, Tim, Ray, you know what? Gogggins, Rudy Reyes, like all these people. They're trained to be dangerous on purpose. Bedro, all these people. So, you don't have to be, right? You you just listen to what I'm saying. Take care of your system. You can't do that if you're fat and sloppy and broken. If you go, I just carry a gun. You're the guy that's going to get shot with his own weapon. Anyway, that's a whole other conversation. But we've all been sold this lie. And the lie is that, and I'm going to go right to weight loss because the precursor to just about every problem is carrying too much weight and being in a in an inflammatory state and suffering the effects of metabolic syndrome, metabolic disease, and chronic lowgrade inflammation, which is the baseline for just about everything. Like, I have a friend of mine right now that I am fighting to to save, and I'm worried. I'm worried it might be too late cuz I didn't become friends with this person fast enough. 10 years ago we weren't friends. I didn't know him other than somebody I'd see on TV. It concerns me to be honest. Like it bothers me. It bothers me enough that I will do whatever it takes to make sure he's okay. But I need you to understand if there's a way to prevent all those things from happening and watching someone that you love and care about or you're friends with or they're friends with or someone that you need to listen to me. Get in the way of all the crap that happens before it happens. But let me start with weight loss because even if you're struggling with weight loss, this is probably one of the most effective things you could do. But it's not just that it's not like you're struggling with weight loss and and more than that. Like the lie is that weight loss and vitality and strength and power and and having this incredible system, this machine that you walk around in that getting it is all about willpower. You have to have this god tier willpower. And everybody talks about it on social media, all these pseudo alpha males going, I help men become better men. Get the hell out of here. No, you don't. Screaming at somebody and calling them a [\h__\h] and then saying you got to have ironclad will and you got to get up at 3:00 in the morning, that doesn't make anybody better. What that does is it makes them like you. That might have worked for you, but there's more to it than that. Because if your system isn't operating properly, it doesn't matter what you do. It's eating less, moving more, and simple math equation, right? That's what it is. Isn't that what it is? That's all it is. That's the lie. The lie. The lie. It's just willpower. Weight loss is willpower. Eat less, move more. That's just willpower. That's just simple math, right? I mean, calories in, calories out works, but it's not that simple. In fact, that's dead wrong. It is a biological war. And for we've been bringing this knife to a gunfight and trying to negotiate with a hormonal system that doesn't speak the language of calorie counting. It speaks the language of I have to survive. If you are trying to take away the ability of your body to store a calorie, your body is going to go full World War II on you because it's going, you're taking away ability to survive in case of famine. It's in your DNA. It's in every animal's DNA. Human beings have become absolute [\h__\h] and we're eating and drinking like we drink coffee that looks like somebody took a whole box of cookies and shoved it inside a cup, mixed a little bit of heavy cream in it, covered it in whipped cream and some drizzle and stuck a straw in it and said, "There's your coffee for 9 bucks. By the way, it's 1,200 calories." And people go, "It's normal. I have to have my mocha every morning." No, you don't. No, you don't. That's not the problem. Like I said, what color is my coffee? blacker than a witch's crotch every day. What if I told you this war was over and you just there's like a cheat code. You can actually do this. Not one, but two. And when you marry them together, you don't just win, you rewrite the rules of the entire damn game. So your system homeostasis gets a new set point. And instead of fighting, like I've seen people, I just had people on my call, they're fighting to lose the weight. And they go, "Every time I get really close, even if I maintain everything, it becomes harder, which it will, but once I get there, it's impossible to maintain two molecules." And they're going to change every single thing you thought you knew about your body. Matsi read a truth type. And before you glaze over when I start spitting out sciency type names, just stick with me because understanding why this works is how you unlock lifelong results. This ain't magic, son. This is leverage. And I've talked about this since the day I got into this. And before, just so you know, the reason I have gotten so hard into this in health is cuz nobody else has done it. Because my business partner Shawn, who is second to my wife, my wife is my best friend. Shawn is my best friend. And I say that with a lot of respect and love because to get in that spot with me is a big [\h__\h] deal. But I know for a fact if something happened to me, he would spend the rest of his life. Him and his wife would spend the rest of their lives taking care of my family, making sure they were okay. And vice versa. I would do the same thing for him and Joe. Wouldn't even think twice about it. Wouldn't even think [\h__\h] twice about it. But we've both lost people in our lives to diseases that should it should never have happened. I now have another friend that is fighting to even just maintain his own shred of self. I I come out here because I care. And if you go, well, you ask for money. Yeah, I ask for money because you're going to keep me out here. Cuz if I don't have money, I don't be I'm not out here. But the other side of the equation is I know how damn difficult it was to learn everything I know and how much I read and learn to make sure I always know the answer in order to help you guys because I give a [\h__\h] Listen, I I'm a doctor that damn well cares about you. So when I put things together, it's because it's going to make you better. You might not like the answer sometimes because you're going to go, "Well, [\h__\h] that's expensive or that's hard or that's timeconuming." Yeah. Until you're sitting in a hospital bed sending your wife a text going, "I'm not going to make the morning." Which happened to me when I sent her that and she sends me a message back that says, "I can't live this life without you. I need you, Trevor. I love you. You can't die." That was four years ago. I've been on a mission from God since that day. Listen, let me just get into this cuz I could talk about this all day because it matters that much. your body is so priceless. And I don't really know how to convey that because we've been indoctrinated to think that it's just this worthless meat suit that walks around with some sticks holding it together. And it just aggravates me because when you are deathly ill and sick, all you can think about is how you just give it all to get it back. And you know what's even worse? Seeing somebody you absolutely adore and knowing you can't do a damn thing. [\h__\h] that. Listen to me. You guys listen to me. Please listen to me. I call it kind of an underdog MC because a lot of people haven't heard of it. If you have, great. MC is, and I've called it this before, the master control. It's like the ultimate regulator. So, forget everything you learned in high school biology about DNA where they told you all of your information is encoded in your nucleus, right? That's what they told you. That's the command center. That's the air traffic control, whatever your teacher called it. Well, it turns out there's like a little secret back door to the entire system. It's this hidden set of instructions that aren't written in nuclear DNA, but they're written in your mitochondrial DNA. Yeah, it matters. And I will go full biology on you for a second. Mod C is a peptide, just so you understand. A little tiny string of amino acids that's encoded with mitochondrial DNA. And its sole job, it's the body's master regulator for metabolic health. So think of it as like me for any of our companies. I'm the CEO. So the CEO of your energy production company or wherever you are, whatever electric company that you deal with when you're young, MC C levels are really high. So your metabolism is like if you have kids, you know, they don't have an off switch. It's like you have another switch and I have two kids 16 and 18. And I'm like, holy crap. But your metabolism is a furnace. So you can eat an entire pizza and wake up and you look leaner and more muscular. Yeah, it's not fair. But as we age, you know what? Stress and poor diet and dumb decisions and just the wear and tear of our life cause mach sea levels to plummet. So the CEO like me, but some of you guys, the CEO goes on vacation and just forgets to come back. And then the furnace tucks tail and turns off. I'm going to drink some more cuz I'm really thirsty. So here, what does the CEO do in its little office, little mitochondria office? It amps up insulin sensitivity. So it makes your cells listen to insulin better. So instead of sugar floating around in your blood and causing damage, your cells open the doors and then they stay open and then they turn on a vacuum cleaner inside and they suck it all in to be used the sugar, suck all in to be used for energy, right? This is huge for preventing something that is rampant right now, which is type 2 diabetes and storing fat. So now you prevent type 2 diabetes and you prevent storing all kinds of fat. It supercharges your mitochondria. So remember, it comes from mitochondrial DNA. So, it's literally sending a memo to its own damn team saying, "Work harder, be more efficient, and in fact, hire a bunch more people." So, not only do you create a more efficient team in your mitochondrial DNA to produce more ATP, you actually produce more reactors to produce more ATP. So, now when you produce more ATP from the same amount of food, this is why I'm telling you this, you don't need more food. The system becomes more efficient. You feel significantly less tired, but your baseline energy goes through the roof. And it's not if you're waiting to I had somebody ask me on my call today, am I supposed to feel it? No. But you'll feel it when you stop. Because you won't realize how good you felt. It's the easiest way to explain it. All of a sudden, you go, "Wow, I just didn't get tired and I actually had the energy for that workout and I'm focused and I'm functioning and I can make executive decisions better and my cognitive ability is significantly higher and I don't have brain fog and my muscles don't get nearly as sore and I'm healing faster." You run like you did when you were 25. It tells your body to build lean muscle. Yeah, really. Sign me up for that. So, it promotes pathways that help maintain and build muscle mass. Well, let me help you out. At 52, I'm just south of 200 lb. I'm just south of 5'11 on a good day. And that means I'm not 5'11 and I'm not 200 lb, in case you're trying to figure out what that means. And I am incredibly muscular and incredibly athletic and I work very hard to be strong and powerful. The byproduct is I look like this, but I make sure I take care of everything required so I can look like this. And that's something you got to understand. What muscle allows you to do is take a hit. So think about it this way. Your muscle I was trying to explain this like your muscle mass is your metabolic engine. So more muscle mass means a higher resting metabolic rate. So you burn more calories just existing. So in short, just to be very clear before I get too off script here, mod C doesn't make you lose weight directly. It makes the machine run at capacity. So, it's doing its job at 100% and not 32% like most of us run around as. It takes your body back to the factory settings it had when you were running at, like I said, 20, 22 in this state of metabolic efficiency that you haven't seen since you were 22. And if you go, I am 22. Don't worry, it'll still make you better. Do you need it? I don't know. To be honest, I'm not that guy that pushes all kinds of stuff. But at the same time, you know, I've been a dock for decades. And if I have something that's going to make my engine run better and it's not going to cause any damage, I'm all over it. So yeah, I would probably get on it. It's the ultimate upgrade to your metabolic OS, your metabolic operating system. Okay, so now we optimize the machine. The CEO is back sitting at this desk. The furnace is lit and the fire's on. Now you need to address the fuel because it doesn't have anything, which is where the second player of this entire game comes in. This is the heavy hitter because everybody's heard of this Reddit true. No, not semiglutide enters epide. So, for all the people about to get in my comments and start arguing about this, stop it. You're coming out here to argue because you're pissed off that you're taking something that doesn't work as well and for some reason you get triggered because you're [\h__\h] wrong. Listen to me when I talk to you because I'm trying to help you and if you argue, you're not hearing. You're too concerned about what you have to say next. Yes, it pisses me off. Stop acting like a toddler. So, retatride trumps semiglutide and trespide every day of the week. They aren't even in the same game. And no, bioglutide does not work. all these weird new ones where they're putting all kinds of new compounds in to make them even better. They do not work. And if you're starting to mix peptides into the same vial, the problem becomes halflife, concentration, dosage frequency. None of that works. It's like the people that take BPC57 and TB-500 every day as a micro dose. Useless. TB-500, it's required that you have this hard surge to get the maximum benefit from the actin polymerization that it's doing. Can't do it if you're taking this little trickle dose all the time. It's the same thing that happens when you trickle bile in after you've had your gallbladder removed through the common bile duct and it's doing nothing because it's at such a weak concentration. Same kind of principle. You need the surge. You you just do. Trust me. So if MC is the CEO that is running the company at 100% just smooth and lean and cranking. Reat tide is the elite special forces team. It's like the MIT team would be an even better way because I was thinking about Ray Cash, right? because Ray Carrick because he's this psycho Navy Seal. But Red and True Tide is like the MIT team that just if you ever watch Eureka, it's like the whole [\h__\h] population that goes in and gets the job done without any mercy. And they do it better than anyone else. They come up with a bunch of new things along the way. Red or true tide is a triple agonist. And I've addressed this a lot, but listen. Agonist means cuz I don't even think I've ever touched on this. Agonist means it turns it on. So agonist means it turns on a receptor. the one thing that you have and this one this one it turns on three I'll go over them real quick because some of you have never heard of me or you don't know anything about it and I want you to understand this so GLP-1 receptor agonist you've heard of ozan peak right we goi this is that but on gear steroids if I have to spell it out slows gastric emptying food stays in your stomach a whole lot longer you feel full faster like three bites and you're not hungry you're not holding back food you're not hurting your system you've got enough food stored in your hump to last for a pretty long time, so don't worry about it. But you feel full faster and for much much much longer. And the constant gnawing hunger gone. It's that food noise, right? That scream in your head where you're like, I need another burrito. It's gone. It's like turning down the volume on your appetite from 20 to.5. GIP receptor agonism. This is the first one. GIP is another gut hormone. It helps with insulin sensitivity. Helps with metabolism and fat and sugar. It makes GLP-1 better. It multiplies the effects of GLP-1. Just so you understand how this works. But here's why ozamp peak and tzepide. They're trash. I don't care if you get mad at it. Listen, there was a time when people used to think chewing on some stick is going to make their teeth better. And all a sudden we realized, nope, if we do this and we stop putting sugar in our mouth, we don't get cavities either, right? Like they thought what a horse was going to be great. Henry Ford went, I'm going to invent something better than a horse. And everybody went [\h__\h] Weird. Most of you guys listening to this have this thing called a car. And if you don't, well, maybe you should get one or figure it out. I don't know what to say. Stop getting mad because the old dated garbage that you're using has been trumped by something that's significantly better and more effective and in fact better for you. Glucagon receptor agonism is the secret sauce for this whole thing. This is what makes redatruide exactly what I said at the beginning and some of you guys busted my chops for it. It is a category killer because it's the only one in the entire they are trying to come up with new ways right now. What about this? And if we add this, those are gimmicky things in order to make something more sellable, marketable. It is not making it better. Adding, you know what, IGF-1 unnecessary. It's redundant. In fact, all it's going to end up doing is giving you receptor desensitization before you start going, "What about this one? You don't need it." Glucagon's primary job is to tell your liver to release stored energy is the glycogen that it holds right into your bloodstream. But red at true tide turns this receptor on in a way that doesn't spike blood sugar so you don't get this huge surge in a train wreck. It tells your body to start burning fat. Fatty acid oxidation forces lipolysis which is the breakdown of fat. So let me be crystal clear. Reddit true tide doesn't just help you eat less. It actively chemically physiologically according to human biology laws which is why it gets me so nuts when people argue against it. You're arguing against what? God. You're going to lose that battle. I promise you that. It hormonally forces your body to burn fat for fuel and nothing else. Tell me that is not the most badass thing in the world when you're constantly shoving garbage into your bark hole. It attacks the problem from three different angles. Brain, stop being so hungry. And before you start talking about tesencine, that is purely in your brain. Also effective, totally different problem, but I went over tesencine and read a true tide. So just stick with me here. Tells your brain don't be hungry anymore. And your brain goes okay stomach hold on to food. send hormone pulses and signals to your brain to say that I'm full. I don't need anything. And then fat cells burn them to the ground, release all the energy right now at hypothetically beginning at 0.25 mg every week. The results of redatide in all the studies do a dexa scan by the way on tzepatide and semiglutide and you will see that 70 plus% of what is lost is muscle tissue. I'm good. Thanks. Nope, not a chance. 30% is fat loss. The rest of it is all the crap that you need to hang on to muscle, bone, connective tissue. What are you crazy? Sarcopenia is rampant with ozique with tzepide and semiglutide. And all the people about to argue in the comments go that's how you manage. If you've been on those two for 2 years, dude, you could have gone for a walk and eaten a little less and you would have been fine, too. But this isn't about weight loss. This is about longevity and fixing the system or getting in and capitalizing on what your body is capable of doing in a very safe, powerful way. So you never have those problems. I'll explain. Listen, people are losing 25% of their body weight. They're fat body weight, not global fat body weight, which is what matters. Visceral fat, peripheral fat, and not just obese individuals. People who are 20, 30 lbs overweight are getting into single-digit body fat percentages. It is a complete paradigm shift. And if you go, well, it's causing all these problems. It's causing blindness. There's all these lawsuits. No, there aren't. No, there aren't. And if you're going to go, well, where can you get it? It's not three-letter agency approved, for research only. And if you don't like that phrase, you should probably not ever listen to me, one else that actively wants to help you. So, we have these two powerhouses. I'm 26 minutes in and I'm starving. Apparently, I need red a true tide, right? I'm lean. I am in single digits. And this is all just from me going out there and wrestling with demons. So, we have these two powerhouses. We have one mod C which capitalizes on the way the machine machine is run and organized and how efficient it runs and how powerful it is and then redu the other one which tells it what fuel supply to use in order to run this high performance machine and to make sure that it incinerates all the [\h__\h] that your body shouldn't have which is a ton of extra fat individually. I tell people all the time, you pick one, pick the other, they're going to be great. But together, lethal. They're unstoppable. By unstoppable, I mean you're unstoppable. And the synergy when you take them together, I think is almost a must. You know, I used to talk about this stuff and tell people, "Okay, listen. By the way, none of this is meant to cure, treat, prescribe, triage, diagnose, advise. It's only hypothetical, educational, and all for entertainment. If you know, you know, cuz I have to check that stupid box in a country that we're free." Yeah. This is a million-dollar insight. What I'm telling you right now, it's the leverage. It's taking a set release like a Formula 1 car, but never getting out of first gear. It's like taking my 911 and just locking it in first gear and just smashing on it all the time. Taking them together. That's like opening it all up, programming the ECU to get all 1400 horsepower out of that thing and making sure that the meth tank is full and you just have nothing but straight smooth open road in front of you and you hit nitro on the final straightaway. You just just everything you've got. But you can stay that way without ever burning out the engine. By the way, that's what Porsches are known for. Never blowing up. Argue all you want. Look up the video. Totally unrelated. Look up the video. The indestructible Porsche. It's a guy doing launch control. I don't remember how many. He was laughing his ass off. It's one of the most entertaining videos I've ever watched. It was 100% consistent back and forth. And if somebody somebody's going to get in the comments and go, "Yeah, but did you read the follow-up where the car was totally trashed?" Whatever. Then talk about Audi's or Lambos. I don't care. I like Porsches. I'm not asking you what you like. This is my show. You're in my house. You want to talk about whatever you like, go to your house. For some reason, the world has been trained to think that your opinion I have to listen to. No, I don't. I can just block and delete your ass. That's the kind of mood I'm in today, by the way. Gritty. Super gritty. So, here's the synergy. The energy vacuum, right? The reatrite is forcing your body to burn fat at this incredible rate. This is metabolically demanding and it's honestly stressful on your system. So, you can feel tired. This is what this is because I've had people send me this message and which is part of what prompted this. I'm tired when I take Reddit true type. That's happens. This is where M C comes in. Remember? So M C supercharges the mitochondrial energy production which is I mean if you really want to go down this rabbit hole you can start stringing in things like methylene blue which takes care of the ETC the electron transport chain keeps that proton gradient. So you actually it's a carrier, right? And so you actually you'll bypass the traffic jam and you go from complex one to complex 4 and keep the ATP yield just giant just food for thought. But M C so while red just it keeps that energy production at just maxed out and none of this does damage to your system. And here's why. Just because some of you guys are going to ask, if this was filled with, I don't know, methamphetamines, like just something crazy. I'm going to burn out my system because I'm redlining my system beyond its capacity. Peptides can't do that because they're signals speaking the body's native language and they're telling your body to do exactly what it's programmed to do, just do it better. This, if it was methamphetamines, is a drug telling my body to do something that it is trying to get in the way and prevent. Do you understand that? Like that's why drugs are these wrecking balls that come in and they save lives when they save lives, but 99% of the time they can go right to hell because they're they're there to make a lot of money and make people incredibly ill. Stop thinking anything else. You're insane if you think anything else. But peptides don't do that. They tell your body to do what it does and they get rid of all the static and noise and they say, "Do it at max capacity." And most of you guys aren't even close to max capacity when you are. and you forget how you were when you were seven or eight because that's when your system was cranking. So while red tight is creating this massive demand this energy vacuum is increasing your body's ability to supply all that energy very efficiently. So you avoid the fatigue and you avoid the lethargy and the tired and the dragging your feet around which sometimes comes with red or true tide. Instead you feel just lit. Not twitchy lit like methamphetamine lit. I mean lit like just ready and you feel the way I said it in my call today was you feel good while your body is burning fat like a furnace. I mean I always hate saying this part cuz it's the truth. But I just I'm not going to lie to you. There's a big old couch over there we hang out on. Sometimes my wife and I make out on that couch. She sits there and listens to my podcasts. Why? Cuz she's awesome. Cuz my wife is awesome. That's why cuz I love my wife. But you could sit there and burn fat. That's how incredible reatrite is. And it's not the fat the weight loss the fat loss of reatride is the side effect the longevity and the systemic overhaul and the hypothalamic repair and the insulin sensitivity mitigation or reclamation those are all the real effects never mind a whole bunch of other things. The fat loss is just a side effect. Well, now listen, the potential problem sarcopenia, right? The downside of massive weight loss, especially fast, especially with like really powerful GLP ones is the loss of lean muscle tissue. We talked about this before. You lose fat, but you also lose some of that metabolic engine. So, MC gets in the way of that. Now, redatride is really good for doing that anyway, but you still get tired and you still don't support the system in the way you should. M gangster. It promotes muscle protein synthesis and improves metabolic efficiency in muscle tissue. So modzi acts as like a bouncer, a bodyguard, like a shield, right? Helps ensure that the vast majority of the weight that you lose is just pure inflammatory garbage fat, not these precious hard starved and fought for metabolically active muscles that you've got. So you get lean, not skinny fat. So you still have a butt and jeans, if you get what I'm trying to say. Redatride helps with listen the other thing it does is I said this at the beginning it helps with insulin sensitivity but rot turbocharges it to an entirely new level and here's why. So reatride doesn't help with insulin sensitivity. It gives you insulin sensitivity. It gets rid of that insulin resistance that you've got from all the bad decisions and poor food that you put in your barcole. M C takes a turbocharger and slaps it on that and makes it run even more effectively. It allows you to become so much more efficient as a biological machine. So it takes it to a whole new level. It creates this metabolic environment where your body is primed to do it. Like nutrient partitioning is the easiest way to explain this. So it's primed to use nutrients perfectly. So everything you eat is selectively moved to where it needs to be. It's this positive feedback loop of metabolic health will get you to your goal. And MC C helps you stay there forever by fixing the underlying metabolic dysregulation that made you gain the weight in the first place. It's like the ultimate maintenance program that you never have to worry about changing. So taking them together, just so you know, it's not 1 plus 1 is two, it's 1 plus 1 is 11. People ask me this, well, when do I have to take my break? Do I have to cycle off them? You don't have to take a break, and you never have to cycle off them. Is it sustainable? Do I have to take this for life? You don't have to take anything for life. You could stop breathing if you don't want to as well. But my answer is, should you take these for life? Yeah. I don't care where you buy them from. Buy them from Elite Biogenics? Great. Buy them from your buddy down the street that makes them in his bathtub. Whatever you do, just make sure that what you're getting is legit and you have the common sense and the knowledge to make an educated decision. You're not buying it from some instab idiot in his kitchen that's mixing peptides into the same vial. Yeah, don't do that. So, this is where people's old dieters mindset kick in just, you know, they think of this as a course of medication or a drug. It is neither. You take it, you lose the weight, you stop. That's not how this works. In fact, that is a catastrophic error. You don't take blood pressure medication. Well, ever because it's ridiculous for you, but you don't take it till the blood pressure is stable and then stop, do you? I'm just making sure we're on the same page here. You don't catch your breath from doing a hard run or hard workout until your breath gets stable and you're, you know, at that 15 to 17 breaths a minute and then just stop breathing, do you? Like, that's not how this works. The medication is managing an underlying biological condition when you take it for something that isn't being solved. Even something like metformin or a hemalog pump if you are a type two diabetic. Well, if you stop those cold turkey or bzzoazipines, unfortunately, if you are on something like Valium, do not stop that instantly. You have to titrate down and just get help doing I don't even want to get into that conversation cuz somebody's going to do it and then just go, "Well, he told me to do it." And of course, you guys are going to go, "Oh, it's all his fault." Because nobody can make a [\h__\h] decision on their own. You guys are a bunch of toddlers. So instead, I'll just there you ask somebody to help you titrate down. But you can't stop those cold turkey because bad things happen to your body. So obesity, metabolic dysfunction, insulin resistance, all bad. These are not temporary conditions. They are chronic biological states. So your body set point has been broken. Redatride and MSI are not crash diets. They're curative therapy. They are a permanent fix and a operating system upgrade for a very broken system. Stopping is like it's like a nearsighted person getting lasic and then putting on glasses that help them not see clearly. Like I I guess the question is why would you ever decide to go back? Like just follow me on this. Like I said, I don't care where you buy it. I'm just telling you to make sure that you're healthy. If you can avoid Alzheimer's, dementia, type 2 diabetes, metabolic syndrome, insulin resistance, obesity. Like, do you understand why I'm telling you this? Because if you could do something that gets in the way instead of going out and making payments on a car that you're never going to drive or in 5 years you won't be able to drive cuz you'll be too fat, too broken, too sick, or too dead. Think this through. Make the machine that allows you to do everything else run at 100% and then just go do everything else. Most of you guys have it backwards. Taking this forever means this. You maintain a healthy body weight effortlessly. You have pristine perfect insulin sensitivity for life. So, you avoid diabetes. You have sky-high energy levels so you can actually do all the things that you like and you get incredibly deep fastic sleep. So you get the rest and repair. Clear out the lymphatic system does its job. Gets rid of amaloid plaques and tow tangles and gets rid of all the garbage. Your system repairs itself the way it's designed. You protect your muscles and mass as you age so you can actually take a hit and you significantly reduce your risk for literally every single age related metabolic disease. But all that sounds terrible, right? This isn't a choice between being on medication or not. When you guys go, "Well, do I have to take this forever? I may as well take my drugs forever. But your drugs don't solve the problem. And if you go, well, why do I have to take this forever? You don't. I'm going, that's like saying, well, listen, you don't have to eat healthy and clean your whole life. But why would you not want to? This is a choice between having a savagely crafted, 100% functioning biology or a broken, busted, tired one. This stack is the closest thing that you can have for a maintenance manual for human biology. I think, is this for everybody? I don't know. Somebody's going to ask me that, so I'll just preemptively answer. If you Is this for everybody, Doc? Like, should I If your goal is to have the best performing, most resilient, most powerful, most effective machine like possibly created for as long as possible. Yeah, absolutely. This isn't just for clinically obese people, you guys. This is for the 45-year-old executive who just can't lose the gut no matter how hard they try. This is for the mom who's tired all the time and just can't shake the baby weight or just can't get her feet back on the ground and function the way she used to, even if she's not overweight. This is for the trainer or the dad or the 22year-old athlete that just is stuck at a at a performance place. This is for the 75-year-old that is tired of having to take metformin all the time. This is for all of these people who want to optimize every single parameter of their damn health because it addresses the root cause from every conceivable angle. Appetite, fat oxidation, metabolic efficiency, and cellular energy, which are the basis of when they fail, they're the basis of most disease processes. Listen, this is the most effective thing that you can do is get in the way of a disease before it happens. Why would you not want to do that? You guys are doing things that tell your body to fight itself. You need to start mastering your biology. Like, you need to move past the brutal calculus of caloric restriction only. Yes, you will lose weight 100%. Calories in, calories out, but what's the system doing as a result of that? What if you needed to mitigate the caloric intake, but in a way that your system becomes more powerful and stronger, not skinnier? You need to get into the leverage of hormonal and metabolic control of your own system. Like, this is your body. You should be the master of this thing. And you guys are handing over control to somebody in a white coat and a stethoscope who's got credentials from some agency that doesn't give a [\h__\h] about you. And they're being told what to do by an insurance company that doesn't know even how to spell sarcopenia. If I were you and I didn't know what I knew right now about human biology and physiology and everything that I've learned, I would become an expert on myself. This is to end a war that most people spend their entire life in against their own body. Matsi and Redatride. It's like the ultimate performance upgrade. And one you take every day or every other day and the other one you take once a week. You guys are taking baby aspirins every day thinking it's making you healthier. You're taking statins every day thinking that cholesterol is the enemy. You're taking anti-hypertensives. You're taking Paxel and Prozac because you think that being sad is a chemical problem and not a lack of purpose problem. you're listening to people that hand you prescription after prescription and you do the symptom dance instead of just going wait a minute why didn't I just make my system run so well that I don't need any of this or I make sure that I make it run so well right now that in the future I will never need any of that and I won't like you have been taught and conditioned to think that catastrophic systemic failure and then manage decline is normal that is not normal that is for profit your best health should not be and is not a struggle it is a decision and pretty much for the first time in human history, you have a choice and it the choice is actually right there. Like the golden ring is right in front of you. You can just reach out and grab it without some weird laundry list of side effects that you think and you're conditioned to think, well, they have to say that just in case it happens. No, no, they have to say that because it does happen. And before you go, what about the issues of cancer? You should spend one afternoon looking up incidents of disease and cancer and catastrophic systemic failure and metabolic problems and long-term damage to every single [\h__\h] drug made by every single pharmaceutical company on the planet and then find one one that has to do with anything peptide related. I'll challenge you on that. Anyway, listen. Two peptides for life gets in the way of virtually every single disease process that may show up in your future. Or you can keep going to McDonald's for chicken McNuggets and milkshakes that stay thick when they're warm on your counter. I don't know. Hope this helps you. I got to go. Never miss.