You know, that is a bunch of shots of espresso in this coffee right now. But, you know, some knucklehead out there that has no concept of physiology or more importantly neurology. It's going to tell you that caffeine is bad for you. And then they'll go, "Let me cite the peer-reviewed research." Yeah. Who funded the study? It's always what I look at. Yeah. You know what I realized? So, Brandy and I were talking about this and like I said, I talk to Brandy all the time. She's my best friend. And I'm sure this is going to piss off and offend probably half of the people that hear this. And the rest of you guys are going to nod your head going, "Yeah, but you don't want to want to admit it. You guys are all a bunch of cowards. You h you you hide behind everything. There's no consequences anymore." And most of you guys know that. I watched some some girl. Yeah, that's all she was. Just some cowardly, pretentious, entitled little girl who was I don't know. I I can't tell the age of people anymore because filters and surgery and fillers and god knows what else is like I look old, you know? I got some some color in my beard that comes out of a box, but most of it's there's a whole bunch of gray in here. I just don't care. I just I I put some color in it just cuz it's for me. I just don't care. Like I'm wrinkled. I'm old. I'm 52. I'm beat up. I'm weathered. It is what it is. But this girl got dismantled by a grownup, a grown woman with kids and a career and real money and a job because this knucklehead child went, "We need to all stop using oil." And some of you got probably, some of you, you guys probably saw this. She got taken apart and she sat there and looked around as if she was so hurt and so destroyed. This poor little pretentious, soft, pompous girl. And you know why? because her parents probably never said no to her, never had a consequence. You know damn well she was never smoked with a dodgeball in gym class or and and I'm sure somebody's going to get offended. I don't care if you're offended. It's still true. There's no consequences anymore. And that's the problem. The disease that's that's the disease of our time right now. It's not climate change or some, you know, BS political corruption you guys are all whining about. It sure as hell isn't AI taking your job. By the way, that you know what I've realized? AI is not taking most of your jobs. You guys don't have jobs. You guys are paid and then there's no consequences for you sucking at what you do. And the consequences are on the side of the employer. You're the owner of the company. Your boss will get obliterated if they fire you without what is deemed just cause. You know what just cause is? Just because I want to fire you because I don't like you. You suck at your job. I own it. I don't have to employ you. There's no right you have in my company to stay employed by me if you are terrible at your job. There is actually something called wrongful termination. If you suck at your job and I own it, there's nothing wrong about the termination. It's my company. Get out. You have no rights. Just like just like and you know who the people that complain. Nobody that owns a company is fighting for that. You know that, right? The only people that are fighting about that are the people that are lazy going, "I have no consequence for my actions." Here's why you guys are worried about AI. Because it's going to expose the fact that the job you've been cruising through, barely getting by, working 1 hour out of the 8 to 10 hours you say you're working all day is now going to be done by AI in an hour. And you just got outed because you actually suck and you're wasting time. And you don't earn any of that money. You waste a bunch of money. And you know that your job is safe because if they fire you, you complain. You go to Seven on Our Side or make up some story or I don't know, say they touched you funny or whatever the hell it is you guys come up with just to make sure that you get a little money out of somebody. What's interesting to me is if you were the business owner, you'd look at things different. Maybe you guys should start asking yourself, is the consequence that I am demanding of others fitting if I was who that was? Like the consequences are so lo They're so convoluted. They're actually completely flipped. The mediocre average soft weak cowards are the ones that are making all the noise and making all the consequences while the strong have to deal with the repercussions of you guys. Like that's that doesn't make sense. The real extinction level event right now is that you can say or do just about anything and the only punishment is probably a digital wrist slap or maybe a negative hashtag about something. You can you can ruin somebody's entire life and reputation in 120 140 characters, but you can't get chin checked for it anymore because everybody lives behind this little pane of glass and a username. Make it make sense that people say things across a screen that they would never say in person, ever. And I'm sure there's going to be some digital tough guy in my comments going, "Oh yeah, bro, I totally say it to your face." Number one, no you wouldn't. You're exhausting. And number two, on what platform? If you don't like how something made you feel, you ready for for how to be an adult? Ready? I know this is super complicated. Don't [\h__\h] listen and move on. You are choosing like an idiot to stand there and keep taking it. Well, the problem's with you, not with what somebody if you don't like what I'm saying, just move on. If you want to listen and it makes you aggravated, you're stupid. Like the moment that you point out that there's no consequences anymore, I and I've seen it. I've had these conversations with people. You're the villain. You're the monster who dares to suggest that accountability might actually matter. But listen, here's the truth. Without consequences, just so you know, standards collapse 100% of the time. And once standards collapse, everything else goes with it. Your health, your society, money, business, banking, relationship, your [\h__\h] spine, all of it disappears without consequences. When I was a kid, listen, consequences weren't optional. They were mandatory software that was installed in you and they got constant updates, usually delivered through a fist or a good smack or a wooden spoon or the principal's office. And I turned out just fine. All you whiny moms and dads going, "Oh, that's violent. You shouldn't do that. We need to take TAG out of the school program because it's too violent." First of all, the school program itself is ridiculous. Pull your kids out of school. Homeschool your kids. And if you start complaining about how not all of us make enough money to have that option, get a better job. I don't have sympathy for you in a world that has this thing right over here. It's over my shoulder called a cell phone where you can effectively find a way to make money in just Listen, are you kidding me? You have to work. But there are people out there right you have to work two jobs and force your kids to go to the indoctrination babysitter because you say there are no jobs. I can't make any money. Maybe, maybe if you stopped whatever you call it, deloing or d-stressing at the end of the day in front of Netflix or Amazon Prime or drinking a bunch of booze or hiding out from the world or letting your brain get destroyed by a video game, you actually upgrade your skill set because right now you're acting like a myopic idiot cuz you're blaming the fact that you can't get another job. No, you're not willing to do what's required. It's just like the people going, "Well, AI is going to take my job and I can't get another job." No, you're not willing to do the work to get another job, to learn a new skill set and start from the bottom again because you're comfortable where you are. But the problem is this. If you both have to work and one of you isn't willing to upgrade your skill set to sell something, but you're willing, you're willing to go on your phone and complain on Reddit with paragraphs and you write thesis level documentation about how somebody hurt your feelings on social media, but you can't upgrade your skill set to make more money. The problem is with you, but you're making your kids pay for it because you're too lazy, so you take them to a babysitter called school. I don't have sympathy for you whatsoever. None. I am missing a lung. And I started with nothing at 48. I didn't have a clue what I was doing. No clue. I got burned by coaches and financing. I had so many problems happen. I had my whole life burned down so many times. And I still have some [\h__\h] who's trying for the We lost all our stuff trying to come at us because we lost all of our stuff because of his actions. And you know what? I'm the one that's paying for that. My wife, I've seen her in tears because of that. because of an [\h__\h] that thinks he's entitled. So yeah, it's a raw nerve for me. If you aren't willing to reach into your pants and grab your sack and go get a job and earn more money and instead you go, "Well, some of us have to work two jobs. We don't have the option." Yes, you do. You don't like the option. That's not the same. And again, even that is going to get a bunch of hate and a bunch of people whining and complaining. Go, it's not like that, bro. Just like when I made the the post about or the uh podcast about testosterone saying you can't sit your big butt on a couch all day and just magically get jacked when it you inject testosterone and some there's at least a half a dozen idiots are like whatever bro clearly you don't understand dude I have forgotten more than you know. The crazy part is people are so indoctrinated because it just exposed the truth but they're so indoctrinated that they just go no that's not how it is. You guys are more upset about being wrong than actually just knowing how it works. If you can't figure out how to make a $100,000 a year, but you can figure out how to afford your brand new $100,000 truck and your new 85 in television and your new video game console and whatever other nonsense you're buying, the new upgraded phone that you have, but you can't figure out how to sit down and learn or you're not willing to kick out 5 10 15 20 grand to learn. And if you go, I don't have that money. But you borrow it for a car. You have a mortgage. You have to you live paycheck to paycheck for you have equity in your house. You guys will you guys will sell your soul to go get a degree that means nothing. All a degree means I don't care how many degrees you have. Save your explanations and your bragging about how smart you are and how you think I am where I am because of the degrees I have. No, I'm not. Everything I learned I learned out of college, out of my degrees. Those were forced because if you don't have them, you can't do the career. Tell me that's not well planned. You can pay somebody right now, me, anybody else, 25, 50, 100,000, Tony Robbins million per year. Learn how to get your life straight. Get your psychology fixed cuz it's broken. Learn how to have consequences and accountability and responsibility. Learn how to start, run, and scale and grow any business on the planet cuz they're basically all the same. And you can do all of that for under $100,000, but you'll buy a new truck. Save your explanation about how both of you have to work and you have to make your kids suffer by shoving them into a school where they're taught the most ridiculous things in the world. Like when I was a kid, think there's no consequences for that. There's more con. They try and give you consequences for not vaccinating your kid. I just saw a post about them talking about how they're going to start the polio vaccine. Do you understand Jonah Sulk is the guy that invented vaccines and Jonas Sulk when he created the polio vaccine where he realized like polio is a lie. When he realized polio is from what? DDT. Yeah. It's not even a disease. And then he said, "I fear I've created a monster." Polio was already on the decline because they stopped doing stupid things. And he thought, "We shouldn't give this to anybody." You know what big pharma said? What a way to make billions, soon to be trillions of dollars. And now, if any one of you guys can explain how a vaccine actually Well, I'll go toe-to-toe with you. I don't care. Bring your your your microbiologist, your epidemiologist here. I don't care who it is. I'll go toe-to-toe with you. A vaccine makes no sense from a physiological standpoint, from an immunology standpoint. It makes no sense. But that's another podcast and I'm sure that's going to trigger a bunch of you people too. You're like, "Oh, here's another one of these non-faxer guys. 70%. Let that land harmed by the C19 or dead just an accident, right? Just manufactured numbers." That's fine. You can't argue with stupid. And I'm starting to realize that is like there's no consequences for saying stupid things. And if you go as a retort to me, sorry, was that too big of a word? If you go as a response to what I'm saying, yeah, you're right, bro. You can't fix stupid. You just proved you're an idiot. Go live with me. I've said this so many times. Go live with me anytime. I've said this to those peptide idiots, a peptide of the week twits. Go live with me, man, cuz I'll bury you. I can't stand when people don't know what they're talking about and act like they do. I don't go online and talk about legal issues or like I said, engineering or anything like cuz I don't know. But what I know I know. So, and I realize I've deviated all over the place in this podcast, but you guys got to understand there's no consequences for the things that should have consequences. And that's the problem because consequences are what maintain the standard and the standards are low. So, you can argue all you want, get in my comments all you want, cry like a little baby all you want going, "That's right. You say stupid things, bro." But all that does is prove more that you are the idiot. Consequences are what build, not destroy. Like when you mouthed off when you were when I was young, you got smacked in the mouth. You wiped out on your bike, you got shredded by the asphalt. You bled all over your socks and you walked it off. If you broke the rules at school, whatever they may be, number one, you didn't have fat, goofy teachers with litter boxes in the back crying with about they had their multicolored hair. My son has it right. When you see a but like their hair looks like a fishing lure, you know what that means? It's just like nature danger. Stay away. When you broke the rules at school, you got hammered at school by the principal. And then again when you got home at 3:30, double sentencing, no parole, baby. That's how this worked. And you know what? I turned out great. You might go, "Oh, I don't think so, bro. I'm not soft. My parents were hard on me. They had a ton of rules. There's plenty of times I didn't get along with them." But you know what they did? They made me a man, not soft, not a coward. And I understand consequences, and I own them. Whatever it is you want to go, what about CrossFit, bro? Cuz you knuckleheads love to dig in the past cuz you're still living there. 2017, you know what I did? owned the [\h__\h] out of that and moved on. I'm not going to live there. You go ahead. Me? I'm too busy [\h__\h] winning. Like, I had a principal when I was a kid who was ruthless. The guy looked like I still remember he looked like Superman. Uh the old Superman, Christopher Reed. Like, nobody screwed around because if you did, you weren't just breaking a rule. You were rolling the dice pretty much with your entire existence. And guess what? It worked. I respected every adult within a mile radius of what I could pay attention to and see. Even a cranky neighbor who yelled about mowing my lawn wrong. It didn't matter. Now kids are raised in padded rooms with helmets on top of their helmets. Like you so much as look at anybody wrong and suddenly it's bullying, it's trauma, it's therapy and a GoFundMe page for some emotional damage that somebody has. When I was young, men actually had muscles. I said this before in a post. Summers weren't spent scrolling Instagram or Tik Tok or on an iPad or crying about screen time or whatever it is you do. Summers were bleeding from the knees and ripping around on dirt bikes two strokes because you know what? Climate change ain't real. I don't care who you are. Two strokes that were just loud enough to probably cause permanent hearing loss. So what? I said, we said grace every single time at the table. We said please. We said thank you. And I asked permission to leave the damn dinner table. And if you didn't like dinner, tough. You ate it or you went hungry. And today kids don't like what they eat and they order. They pull up their phone. I don't like what you made, mom. They order Uber Eats. Like I don't know, you guys got some dietary rights when you're a child. Screw you. You go hungry. And you know what somebody will say? I'm going to call CPS. Your kids should never go hungry. Maybe your kids should have a spine. We didn't need safe spaces. The world wasn't safe. And that was the point. You learn to adapt, not cry and whine and make crying videos on Instagram. Like, here's the problem. Tolerance has become this new religion. And like every bad religion, it started with a good idea. I do. I believe it did. I believe it came from a good place. Let's not kill each other. Let's not attack each other all the time. It's reasonable. Except then it mutated into let's tolerate literally everything. Even self-destruction and disrespect and self-loathing and lack of self-worth and obesity and everything. A delusion. Oh, that's when it got bad. That's that's how you get illegals running or driving I just saw this. Driving 18-wheelers, killing people, and then walking free because they're not from here. You know, if they were from here, just so you know, they'd get slammed with prison time before that airbag even deflated. But since they're not, we tolerate it. We don't we don't want to hurt anybody's feelings. I don't know, mess up foreign relation. What is your logic? Like that that's how you guys get the idea. Anyone that owns a business knows what I'm about to say. That's how you get the idea that the customer is always right. Stretched. But I mean, listen, I I get where that comes from and it's valid. However, it gets stretched so far that even when they are dead wrong, businesses still bow down. That can't be any more wrong. That's how you go bankrupt. By tolerating morons with credit cards. Like look look around. Just look around. Just give me a take a second and look around. Businesses get reviewed on 400 different sites at least. But you can't rate a customer. You can rate this podcast. You can rate my YouTube. You can hell, you can probably rate my Instagram. You can rate anything about me, but I can't rate anything about you. You can't rate the customer. Think about that. And I'm sure somebody's going to go, "Well, bro, that's not entirely true." Yeah, you're one of those. The ratio's off. How about you just sit down? One side is accountable. The other side is untouchable. And and listen, as a business owner, can't refuse service without facing lawsuits and outrage and whatever. You get ostracized, destroyed by the public. That's not customer service. That's like a hostage negotiation. I have to take you even though you come in here and crap in my bathroom and rub it all over the walls. Customers always right, though. Let me tell you something from experience. The people who pay the most are always the best customers. Hands down. Every time. 100% of the time. The people who nickel and dime you, they're the human equivalent of a software virus. Like, they drain your energy. They destroy your morale. And it doesn't matter what you give them, they still complain that it's you didn't do enough and they didn't get enough. Never. Never. And they'll lie right to your face. So, here's this. Just so you know, for from a business perspective, here's what you do. Just price your way out. Don't sell cheap. And you know what? I've even had people say, "Well, bro, what about the people that can't afford your program? I'm not for you cuz I don't want the headaches that come with your cheap attitude. If you're not willing to upgrade how much you're willing to pay, you understand like from a business standpoint, if you're not willing to upgrade what you're willing to spend to invest on something to change whatever your circumstances are, then you're not willing to change your circumstances. You want to do it so it's convenient for you. But just by the very nature of changing your circumstances, it's going to be uncomfortable. You want it to be comfortable, which is why you go cheap, cuz it's comfortable. It should hurt. It should be expensive. Don't invite the bottom feeders. raise your prices so high the people who annoy you can't afford to show up. It's that simple. If you think I should sell something cheaper, I'm not. That's not arrogance. That's how you survive in a That's how you determine who comes to buy your stuff. And if you go, I'm not buying any of your stuff ever again, bro. Then don't. That's okay. I'm the guy that's sitting here going to I'm going to tell you the truth. The people that come into the comments and whine and complain and who I'll tell you the truth, too. No, you're retaliatory. You're angry because I pointed out all the things that are wrong with your life that you know and they're just accepted and tolerated. I mean, look at the worst offender in the world, social media. Terrible, man. Today, any idiot without internet connection thinks they're a gladiator. They can just throw insults and call you every name under the sun and never face consequences because they hide behind avatars and pictures and, you know, usernames and keywords. In real life, just so you know, they wouldn't say, I said it again, they wouldn't say a fraction of what they say face to face because they'd get chin checked. Consequences used to act like a built-in quality control. They kept the nonsense and the idiots in check. But online, there's no chin check. Instead, the person who's building something, creating something, they're expected to tolerate, they're garbage. You're supposed to explain yourself, defend yourself, justify yourself against people that still live in their mom's basement or hate their life so much they can't sleep at night. No. No, you don't. You don't have to do that. All of you people on social media, you do not have to do that. You don't have to explain a damn thing to anybody. You don't have to defend yourself to anybody. And you sure as [\h__\h] don't need to justify yourself to anybody. And if there's going to be someone that's going to flip this and they're going to go, "That's right. I'm big as beautiful." I got to be careful cuz if I say fat, people get upset. Even though it's true. Not everybody wants to be rich. Yes, you do. Not everybody wants to be wants to be fit. Yes, you do. Not everybody wants to be married or in a great relationship. Yes, you do. Yes, you do. You're just arguing because you don't like that if you admit it, you've been making the same stupid decision over and over again, and it's all your fault. You don't have to just You don't have to defend or explain anybody on social media. You don't. If they act like something you wouldn't tolerate in your house, block, delete, move on. That's it. That's that's all you got to do. You don't have to explain yourself to some digital cockroach. But the system punishes truth and rewards weakness all around. Like you talk about fitness, you're removed for fat shaming. You talk about peptides, you get banned for selling drugs. You talk about prescription medications though, no problem. No problem. All the side effects that will kill you because every white package insert has the same three words may cause death on them. Look at it. Just look at it. Don't take my word for it because it's protected. The truth gets throttled. Lies get boosted. Discipline is censored beyond recognition. and weakness is celebrated. It's applauded. This is [\h__\h] bizarro world. Here's what's insane. Consequences actually still exist, but for the wrong things. Like, if you call I just said you call somebody fat when they are actually fat, that's a hate crime. A hate crime? Meanwhile, the crime they committed against their arteries and their cardiovascular system, their insulin receptors. No consequence whatsoever. Don't worry, we'll give you more drugs. You question the the latest trendy pronoun, circus, crisis, whatever you I can't even say that with a straight face. Trendy pronouns, consequences. If you attack it, you point out the constitution and how much it matters, consequences. You say God exists, consequences. But you pump kids 8 years old filled with diabetic medication because they have adult onset. I don't know about you, but at 8 years old, the last thing I was was an adult. You pump them full of anti-depressants or all kinds of other things with side effects longer than a CVS receipt and all the advertisement on it. No consequences. You sell drugs that kill thousands, hundreds of thousands and millions, no consequences. You destroy an economy with bad policy, no consequences. We have inverted the system. We punish the truth, reward delusion, tolerate mediocrity like it's a national [\h__\h] sport. I can't I can't You cannot say this with a straight face if you have any shred of being an adult in your system. I mean, this isn't this isn't about somebody going, "Oh, here's a guy that wishes how things used to be." This isn't about nostalgia. This isn't about these back in my day, we used to walk uphill both ways in the snowstorm through broken glass. This is about standards. When consequences vanish, standards die. I said it at the beginning, when standards die, cultures get demolished from the inside out. A bully making fun of your sweatshirt used to be called life and now it's trauma. Teachers used to be authority figures. Agreed? Now half of them are on Tik Tok with kitten ears explaining gender fluidity while failing to teach long [\h__\h] division. You know what jobs? They used to fire you. I don't know if you know this. When you sucked, when you were terrible at your job, you just got fired. Now they keep you because firing is too harsh and traumatic. I mean, church was somewhere you just had to go on a Sunday. I didn't have a choice ever. Now they're optional and they're like therapy sessions with a little coffee bar in it. Come on, man. I don't care if you have uncomfortable wooden pews. I got that. But it's like a Starbucks with a sermon kind of in the background that touches on the aspects of the Bible, but their version. You guys all need to look up Josh Howard. He's my preacher. This guy's gangster. Gangster. Lake Point. He knows theology and the Bible for real inside and out. Just look him up. Like we've taken the harshness out of life and in doing so we've taken out all the meaning as well because here is a very very uncomfortable observation truth even consequences are they're what make life worth living. They give actions weight right it makes words have meaning. They they give teeth to standards cuz when you don't maintain them you get bit. Without them you get exactly what we are right now. Complain all you want but the the c it's causality. You are and we are as a society the cause because of what we've been tolerating. Cuz what we have now soft whining consequence-free society where the only thing punished is telling the truth, demanding high standards. And by the way, let me I have to address this because I'm sure somebody's I can't wait for the people in the comments cuz you guys just start foaming at the mouth going, "I got to say something." You just freak out trying to argue against everything I just said. You know who you are. You already do. You're the the people I already know. Watch. I'll predict. You're the ones that go, "Well, actually, [\h__\h] Those are you guys, the weaklings who need a cause to hide behind because your life doesn't matter enough without one. You got nothing. The ones who spend more time writing, you guys are the Reddit brigade. You guys write nothing but Reddit giant threads and Reddit these essays that actually have never built anything for real ever. You never have. I mean, I'm sure toxic masculinity is one of my favorite things I've ever heard to this day. This is just toxic masculinity. No, it's not. It's called being a [\h__\h] man. And you wouldn't recognize it if it came up and slapped you in the mouth. And maybe that's why you need it. Maybe that's why you need it. Cuz you're a girl or cuz you're a guy with a girl's name who's wearing a dress. You have outdoor plumbing, dude. Just to let you know, you're a dude. I don't care what you identify with. You know, I I somebody say, "Well, we've evolved past consequences." No, you haven't evolved. You know what you have? You've done is you've atrophied. You're not enlightened. You're soft. Your idea of progress is making the world so padded that even failure feels like success. Losing is the new winning. That's not progress. That is regression in a pair of Lulu pants, you know. Well, have a little compassion, bro. [\h__\h] Compassion without consequence is just enabling. You're not helping people. You're letting them drown and call it inclusivity. You don't hand an alcoholic another drink and call it kindness, dumbass. You don't let somebody eat themselves into diabetes and call it body positivity. You're not compassionate. You're a coward in a giant Hallmark disguise. There's nothing compassionate about that. That's idiocy. And and you guys try and package it up as if you're so righteous and virtuous, but you're not. You are costing the very people that you claim to care so much about everything they need. You are costing them their lives by you reinforcing being less. Like saying something like words can hurt. How? Sticks and skull. Words can hurt. If you don't like my words, change the channel. Words can hurt. Yeah. So can gravity. So can fire. So can sharp things. So can dogs that you don't know with sharp teeth. Listen, all of the You don't see me trying to cancel Newton for inventing the laws of physics. Gravity's still going to hurt me if I eat it. Words only destroy you if you are weak enough to let them. If you break from a word, the problem isn't the word. It's your spine. Listen, all of you script flippers only hate consequence when it applies to you. You love them when those consequences apply to everybody else. You will happily cancel somebody for saying something you don't like. You'll demand business get fined. You'll you'll demand people have suffer massive accountability, socially humiliated. You'll cheer when somebody loses their job for an opinion. You believe in consequence. You're just allergic to facing all of those all those consequences yourself. How about you just cut the act, man? Most of you guys, you don't want fairness. You sure as hell don't want justice. You don't even want progress, which is weird. We're only we're doing this in the name of progress. We're evolving. No, you you don't want progress. You want immunity. You want to run your mouth, live with zero discipline, and avoid all accountability, and still be applauded as if you are so brave. That's not bravery. That is an obese diabetic who's still broke living at home who's a coward with a Wi-Fi connection. That's what you are. And if this makes you mad, if you get all triggered and pissed off and you want to get in my comments and just start dropping all your venom, knock yourself out. Good. That is proof that I just hit you right where it hurts. I punched you right where the bruise is, man. That's the sting of consequence. Welcome to being a grown-up. It's that feeling that you've been dodging your whole life, huh? Consider it the only real feedback you're ever going to get this year. How about that? I got to go, man. Never miss.