Man, you know what? Friday night date night. I always say it, but this is going to be quick. Right now, the world this has, if you want to check out right now, this isn't about peptides or SARMs or medicine or pharmarmacology or anything like that. This is literally like I am so blown away out how people conduct themselves online in opin just so we're very clear, opinions are for adults, emotions are for toddlers. And the world is completely overrun by [\h__\h] Let me listen. Listen here. This is unbelievable. Sometimes I see what I see. This is the ugly truth that most of you guys don't even want to recognize because you're too busy being an [\h__\h] You've been confusing all of your little chemical, neurological, emotional tantrums for actual opinions. And the it's turned the internet, honestly, it's turned half the society that we live in right now, if not more, into this open air asylum. You guys are all nuts for the most part. People come out and rant and rave and clamor in my feed, anyone else's feed, running purely emotional responses in the comments section. It's like looking at a daycare riot. You guys don't even make sense. Let's just so we know. I will I will explain it. And before you run into my comments, just so you know, YouTube comments, the number I readly zero. Instagram comments, if you ask me a question or say thank you, I will engage. anything else, I'm out. Block, delete. I don't even bother with you anymore. I have a no imbecile, no [\h__\h] policy. If you fit the policy, you're out. So, before you get into the comments and go, "Let me set this, let me set you straight, bro." Remember, you are about to illustrate my point with every single keystroke of you going off all halfcocked in my comments about what you think of me. Cuz that's not an opinion. That's an emotional response. You can't back it by logic and facts. even if they're your convoluted screwed up logic that you come up with. It's like a global Karen convention. Everywhere you look, there's a new brand and a new breed of emotional tourist. These you guys, the Karens and the keyboard warriors and the insta bros and these onestar review snipers that come in and go, "One star, you hurt my feelings." I had a guy give us a one-star review on two of them. Two, I'm I don't care. One guy. This is how juvenile this guy was. So before anyone says anything, I will come out and say it. And if you say anything to me, say it to my face so I can knock your teeth in. Number one. And number two is grow up because I'm out of the past. If you can't live, if you can't get out of the past, that's between you and God. And it's a very personal problem with you. Has nothing to do with me. But seven or eight years ago, I don't even know anymore cuz I just don't give a [\h__\h] I've moved on with my life. And people go, there's accountability. Dude, I made amends right away. I screwed up. I made a dumb video for CrossFit and looped it a bunch of times. And people go, "What are you going to do? Loop another video? What are you, six, dude? I I don't even know where to go with that cuz it just makes me laugh cuz I don't care. That's what's funny. And if somebody goes, "Well, clearly you care cuz you're talking about it." No, I'm doing it because somebody brings it up, I can go, "Uh, I already handled it, bro." Went in and gave a review for the company and then tried to anchor all of that to a review to a company. That is a juvenile angry response and it was written by somebody that tried to get product for free and we called them out and caught them and they got mad. So when you write a four paragraph review that explains volumes about your lack of character, not mine, not my presence of character or anybody else's for that matter. Because what I've learned is this. People will leave negative re negative reviews 20, 25, 30 times more than a positive review. Why? Because positive people are too busy [\h__\h] winning. So the idea that there's this Karen convention in the world, some of you guys need to hear this. And if you like this, great. If you don't, keep on moving. I don't care. But the one-star review warriors is like your full-time job. I don't care about the onestar review. I don't care. I'm not going to please everybody, and I'm not trying. I know how badass our businesses are. I know how incredible my service is. I know how exceptional of a doctor I am because I come out here every single day. Every day. Not once in a while. Every day. And I have for over a decade. I'm not new to this, homeboy. If you go, "Well, you just came out of nowhere." I've been here for 11 years giving it away for free. I had one lady, one lady on my menopause post yesterday. One who I have nothing but beautiful respect for. I don't even know who she is. I should have tagged her in this and tried to give her some followers or whatever it is she needs because what she did is she said, "First and foremost, you give so much exceptional value. you should never come out here and give this all away for free or give away your services for free because you come out here every day and give away so much value every day for free. She's right. She's right. So, the entitled little toddlers that send me messages going, "Well, how am I supposed to know the protocol? Join my black card program. $5,997. There were 100 spots available. I think there is less than 20 now. If you want in and you're waiting till the last minute, you're stupid. The people that crushed it, I have a lady, Monica is her name. She joined my group not once, twice. She joined the Lifetime Spartan Consulting, the unbreakable mastermind. And then she joined the one-year black card. Do you know how much respect I have for that woman? It's not about the money. It's because she went, she know what she said. She goes, "I stopped drinking because of you." Do you know how badass that is? I just I just have nothing but that was me clapping. I have nothing but respect for people that want to change their life and become a better version of themsel. And if you are somebody that goes out of your way to throw hate at anybody like that, whether it's me or anyone else that is helping somebody become a better version of themsel and giving them the tools, the strategies, the tactics, the support, if you are doing anything other than saying thank you and appreciating and having gratitude for those people and helping lift them up, you need to [\h__\h] because you are the problem. You don't like it because it exposes that where you are is completely your decision. You guys run around, you spread you spread misery like it's your full-time job, like you've got an affiliate code for it. And no, let me help you out. It's not because you're secretly heartbroken in this dimly lit studio apartment all alone by yourself wrapped up with your teddy bear. It's because your existence is a mirror that they can't stand if you're winning. If you are out there winning and you are helping and you are giving away, if you understood, listen, go to med school, go get all the degrees I've got and then come and give it all away for free. But I had to front the check for the education. Just so we're clear. I do that every day because I genuinely care. If you haven't figured out that I genuinely care by now, you're never going to get it. But I answer so many questions and help so many people because I genuinely give a [\h__\h] But I promise you, if I send you a link to go join the black card program or sign up for my one-on-one, it's because I've given enough for that day. And if you go, I'll just wait till tomorrow, then that means you don't want the results as bad as you say you do. I have a dude right now. Literally, this guy, okay, I'm in. Let's do it. What is it? It's 100 grand for the cure program. Okay, cool. That was last Friday. He said he was going to send it. it is now this Friday bragging about how much money he has. I've seen nothing. So, you know what I did? You guys ready? Watch. I washed my hands of that person. I don't even lose sleep over stuff like that because you have to be willing to instantly disconnect from the people that wind up running their mouth in your life. Listen, if you are someone who is winning or you are giving things away on social media to help people because you just genuinely love people, your discipline, your wins, your calm, your intensity, your refusal to just implode, those are neon billboards screaming that their position, the Karens, the miserable people of the life, their position and their life is 100% their own damn fault. And that realization, just so we're clear, is completely unbearable to these people. So, they grab the nearest weapon. Hate. Hate. They sprinkle hate and bitterness like it's funfetti all over a cake. They swing anger like it's this big weapon, except it's made out of papermâé, baby. Because this is where it gets comical. They dress it up and they call it an opinion. Let's Let's clear all the smoke because some of you guys don't know the difference between an opinion and an emotion. So, I will help you. Hate, not an opinion. It is a biochemical rush. It is a biochemical rash. It's like poison ivy. Bitterness also not an opinion. That's another biochemical rash. Anger, nope, not an opinion. If anything, anger is a juvenile toddler hormone spike. It's like a toddler's behavior that maybe has a driver's license or a learner's permit. If you can't tell the difference, it's not because life is complicated, you guys. It's because you haven't bothered to learn. Because social media has allowed you a place to voice all your emotions, not opinions. And if you are that willfully lazy, that's not an emotion either. That's a character defect. Good job. Feelings. I don't even know where to go with this. Here's the brain science that the self-help gurus have forgotten to tell you. Opinions live here. Prefrontal cortex, the part of your brain that is built for strategy and logic. Emotions live in your lyic system. This is the reptilian, that tiny little lizard brain. The alarm that once screamed danger saber-tooth tiger and now screams, "Someone disagreed with me on Instagram. I need to hate them. The [\h__\h] is wrong with you?" One is a conclusion and the other is a chemical event. An opinion is the result of actual work. Your brain chewing on data and digesting and creating something and building a stance. The business model scales. This ad sucks. It's not going to work. This marketing strategy is trash. Opinions can be debated and refined and upgraded and disproved to be honest. an emotion that is a hormonal flash flood of nonsense. Neurochemical nonsense. Fear, joy, rage, they're all emotions. It's Listen, the cortisol surge before you you do a cold call, if you have ever done any, cuz I have, or you knock on someone's door trying to sell something, cuz I'm 52. I used to do that. The dopamine jolt when you actually close the deal and say, "Wow, that's awesome." You don't debate those molecules, just so you know, you manage them or they manage you. Yet you you scroll your feed and you will see millions if not hundreds of millions of adults parading emotions as if they're fully baked well-curated arguments. I feel like this isn't going to work. Well, what about this? You're acting like an [\h__\h] Why should somebody listen to you like that? What about all this stuff? That's not analysis. That is fear wrapped up in a username. real operators. Listen, people like me and anyone else who is doing what I'm doing, which there are millions of us who build companies and families and empires and physiology and take care of their bodies and their health and their finances and their relationship with God, use emotions as fuel and then steer them the GPS with opinions. You guys like got it backwards. Your emotions are the gasoline and your opinions are the GPS. All gas and no map. You know what you do? You just lay rubber non-stop with the nose of your car up against a tree. Just all day long. Keep coming up with reasons. Keep coming up with blueprints. Keep coming up with goals. I'm working on it. Don't worry, bro. You'll spend two years telling somebody you're going to come through on a promise and you never [\h__\h] do it. That is no gas. You know what you are on either ca in either case? A [\h__\h] But hey, that's just my opinion. You can master both or be mastered by both. Take your pick. But this is all up to you. And then here's the problem. Then came social media. This is fun for me. The problem went fully steroidal when social media came out. Remember, I'm 52. I was around when you had to go and check something called an answering machine and it had a little cassette in it. Just the internet didn't create idiots. I've said this before. It handed them unlimited character counts and a longstanding highowered dopamine drip. So now you've got these digital mobs that form in seconds. They recruit you to their little digital mob because you go, I feel like I have value even though you don't have any whatsoever. And then you go out and you cancel anyone that the algorithm coughs up next in your feed. Almost none of it is rooted in fact and barely any of it qualifies as opinion. It's raw limbic chaos is cortisol norepinephrine adrenaline with a cell with a cell signal or screen name. Here's the joke. But I don't know if you guys are understanding this. This is the best part about exactly what I'm saying. This episode right now that has nothing to do with you guys going, "But I want answers. You need to tell me what my dosage is. How can I do this for my husband or my wife? Why won't you tell me dosages? Number one, I can't. Number two is you want it, you can pay me for it. I promise you this. I'm damn well worth it. All the people in my group will agree with that. If you don't want to do it, that's a problem between between you and God. But here's the the joke about all of this. By the way, the black card membership application is at the bottom of this entire episode somewhere in the comment or in the uh writeup, whatever. Do don't buy from Elite Biogenics. Don't buy from Elite Biogenics. I don't care. I really don't. So, when I have some Karen going, "Well, you're pedalling your cocktail. What makes you any better than an influencer?" First of all, I'm not an influencer. I'm a doctor coming out here that's a grown ass man with a wife and kids who loves the hell out of mankind. I'm just incredibly disappointed in the decisions that a lot of mankind is making. So, I'm trying to help before God says you're done. I'm trying to give you guys an answer and solutions so you can live a life that is so badass and so gangster that you just can't wait to get up in the morning and you really don't want to go to sleep. That's what I want. You really want to know what I want? I want to build my life so damn big that I can put all of you guys in my life and bring you all the way to the top with me that make sure you get every single goal that you want. No matter what it is, you want my opin You want not my opinion. You want my goal? There you go. I just laid it out black and white. So here's the joke about everything that I'm talking about right now. I'm 15 minutes in. I'm actually longer than I thought. I wanted to come out here for 10. This episode is going to trigger people, someone a bunch probably so badly that they're going to rush to prove me wrong. Where in the comments proving me right one character at a time. You guys will go, "No." And then they're going to cry. You're ranting. You're emotional. But just so you understand, delivering with force and intensity, that's not an that's not emotion. And then they'll cry. You're ranting. You're emotional. Delivering with force and intensity isn't rage. It's clarity with the volume knob cranked up. Listen, don't confuse how loud I am with all of your dysfunction. Here's a test that is so simple, just so you know that it should be stencled on every smartphone case, and it should be the screen saver. If you visit somebody's page, anyone's page, and you leave anything other than, "Thank you for the time you took to put this together. Thank you for the value that you gave me, you are by definition an asshole." Not arguably, not my opinion. Facts. I grew up in a world where if someone gave you their time, their insight, even a crumb of wisdom, you said thank you. Even if you didn't agree with every syllable, courtesy wasn't a virtue. It's the price of entry to being an adult. If you can't manage that, you're not edgy. You sure as hell aren't a trutht teller. You're a grown child who still needs a supervisor. And if you can't regulate your emotional state long enough to type two words of gratitude, thank you, then you have no business managing a team, a family, or just even your own damn life. I put value into the world. Hard data tested strate like real things that work that either either I've lived through or I've helped patients with. I've seen over a million patients and I take all of that knowledge and I data dump down on you to help you. real world physiology, real world human biology, real world biochemistry because I actually give a [\h__\h] not some my vibe, my opinion, vibe check, not this fluff garbage facts. This is irrefut. It's as im as immutable as gravity. I don't care if you buy from me. I really don't. I care that you don't buy from the clowns that read half a Reddit thread and then think they're qualified to run a lab. These people shouldn't be trusted to use the toaster when their parents aren't home. Are you nuts? Marching into someone else's digital house just to spray emotional graffiti and piss all over them. That's not feedback. You know what that is? If you did that out in the real world, that's a misdemeanor. Do it enough times, it's a [\h__\h] felony. And that's exactly why the cultural ecosystem smells just stinks like a dub sewer. Listen, you How about we put this put this under a spotlight? Put it under a spotlight. Being an [\h__\h] isn't just a bad personality quirk. It's a lifestyle choice. And it's a losing one, just so you know. [\h__\h] are experts at transposing emotion and opinion. They weaponize feelings, dress them up as logic, and then use them like [\h__\h] grenades in every single conversation. That's why they end up in ridiculous online slap fights at 217 in the morning. That's why their lives slowly collapse into this destructive, empty, vacuous chamber of bitterness and rage and self-loathing. They're not searching for truth. They're searching for an outlet for their own regulated neurochemistry. Every time somebody shows up with real answers, I might add something that might actually help. They feel the sting of recognition that I'm the problem. That's what they hear in their head. They know deep down that they're the villain of their entire story, that they're the one doing the damage. But admitting that would mean doing the hard work of change would mean they would have to step up and go, I did it. I [\h__\h] up. I have to climb out of the hole. So, they double down instead. I can speak on this one pro with I can speak on this one with some real authority because I'm a recovering [\h__\h] I played that game. It doesn't pay. In fact, it costs. It burns bridges and poisons opportunities, and it leaves you with absolutely nothing but this hollow, empty thrill of being right on the internet for about 7 seconds. Here's the takeaway. The longer you marinate and stew in that bitterness, the more it corrods and eats away at you. Not them. You, not them, ever. You think your bitterness erodess at my life? The second I turn this off or I turn my phone off, all of you vanish. Bitterness is an ugly boomerang that beats the piss out of you because you throw it, it comes back and smashes out your own teeth. Envy. Good lord. Envy, you guys. Envious. Just this self-inflicted wound. The more you wish somebody else to lose, the more you train your own mind to sabotage every single win you've got. The math is simple. It is binary. [\h__\h] lose always. It's why I run my life with a no [\h__\h] policy. I said it before. Spot one, block, delete. Bye, Felicia. Not because I'm fragile, because life is too short to let some emotional toddlers siphon off my bandwidth. The life I'm building. Why would I give you any time of my day? And if that offends you, congratulations. You just volunteered as exhibit A for [\h__\h] Listen, despite what the algorithm whispers to you, you don't have to live stream every [\h__\h] breath. Your life is not public property. Because this is why I'm telling you this. You guys go, "Well, if you're on the internet, then you put yourself into that position. That's part of being on there. If you're in if you're in the public, then you have to be able to take it." No, you don't. Being rich and fit, just so we're clear, by the way, your life is not public property. And being rich and fit and in a solid relationship will still outrank being internet famous when the lights turn off and the power's out. Just so we're just so we're on the same damn page. Our grandparents, even me, at 52, I'm already handing out the cheat codes. manners, courtesy, gratitude, respect, love, self-worth, kindness. Listen, these aren't trendy hacks. These are the operating systems of an exceptional life. I have an exceptional life. I've been an [\h__\h] I'm just not one anymore. So, when somebody goes, "Well, then you've been one. You know what it's like. You what? You just magically change?" Yeah. I grew up all those things I just listed off. Gratitude, love, kindness, self-worth, value, work ethic, those are and always have been 100% under your control. When you step onto social media, you don't sign a contract to absorb abuse. You don't sign up to get trashed by some jackass, some immature jackwagon in your comments. Tell them to pound sand, block, delete, demand respect. Anyone who consist anybody who comes into your space to do anything other than help you or say thank you or give you appreciation or gratitude or love or help you build yourself selfworth. Repeat it with me. You ready? Is an [\h__\h] Your job is simple. You're a proctologist that removes [\h__\h] It's all you do because opinions and emotions are not the same [\h__\h] species. One is for adults, I said at the beginning. The other one is for toddlers. Your conduct, not your hashtags, not your username, decides which camp you decide to live your life in. Your conduct, not your hashtags, not your username, decides which camp you decide to set up in every single day. So, here's your magic takeaway for all this whatever 25 minutes of me coming on here doing this. If you're like, "Well, what about dosages though, bro?" black card $5,997 or when those 100 are gone, it is a $25,000 buyin and $1,500 a month at 101. That's what you're paying. I don't care who you are. So, if you think I'm going to hold a spot specially for you for next week, not a chance. Because people are lining up to do this because they actually give a [\h__\h] about their own life and they go, "This guy's going to help me." Do you know why? Because I prove it every day. Cuz I come out here and I go, "I do care. I want you to have it all. I want you to be successful. You get just so you know what it is. You get two calls a week. One is a Q&A every Monday 5:00. I live just east of Dallas. I'm on for at least hour and a half to two hours until everybody's questions are answered. Put it that way. I don't care if there's 100 people on that call. I will answer every single question you've got, no matter what it is or how crazy it is, unless it's disrespectful. And then I will boot you out of the group and keep every dime you've given me. No [\h__\h] policy is across the board. And the other call you get is Saturday. And it's the one that everybody needs, but people won't show up because they'll be like, I don't really want that. I just want to know like how to do a proto call and stuff. Saturday call is called the Spartan Live. It's where I fix all your limiting beliefs and your screwed up thinking and those weird poisonous thoughts that you have going through your head that you're absorbing and in letting allow to infiltrate your soul from social media screwing up your connection with anything that matters. Those are the two calls you get. You get it for a year, not autorenewing, zero refunds. If you ask me for a refund, I will tell you to pound sand and I will make sure you don't get your money back. Why? Because I respect my time. You damn well better respect my time. So listen, you can keep pretending your feelings are your thoughts. You can keep letting a 2 million-year-old lizard brain hijack every decision and every comment and every little feeling that you have. And you can keep wondering why your life looks like a stalled car sitting in some farmer's field covered in grass with an empty tank. Or you can grow the hell up and separate the gas from the GPS. Use your [\h__\h] emotions for fuel and use your opinions as the navigation system to get where you want to go. One gets you moving and the other gets you somewhere worth arriving. Everything else noise. Life is most life life is mostly training. Everything else is commentary. As soon as you understand that, your life gets better. The only way you control your life is by separating emotion and opinion. Because right now that 99% of the people on the internet are spewing emotion, delusional about what it really is, thinking that it's opinion. It's not opinion. The people that get all emotional and worked up in the comments can't even spell the word opinion. But hey, what do I know? This is just my opinion. I gotta go.