 we need to talk, all of us, we need to talk, because you guys are being indoctrinated. And you have been the most dogmatic viewpoint that is destroying your health and your life. I come out here because above all, do you know harm? I take very seriously, whether it's my marriage, my fitness, my business, elite biogenics, my company, whether it's the Black Card, my company, whether it's Spartan or any of my kind. It doesn't matter, Smashworks, Body Hacks, all of that, or taking care of you. I take what I do very seriously. And we need to talk about something that's going to fundamentally alter your understanding of medicine, not just medicine, disease management, and why you are probably being poisoned right now by something that your doctor gave you. And I'm not being edgy, you guys, I'm being factual. And you guys are going to go, oh, here we go. But listen, there are people on social media right now, MDs, PhDs, screaming against peptides, basing it solely on human trials in the FDA. But the FDA is the enforcer for the cartel called Big Pharma. Listen, let me ask you, just follow me, let me ask you a question. If pharmaceutical drugs were actually designed to make you healthy, just let me explain this because I've been a doctor for almost three decades. I've seen over one million patients, and yet somebody with a PhD that's read 70 books, who's never seen a patient ever is labeled as more of an expert. Make it make sense. Just because that's like saying, you know what, so one of my buddies, Tom DeBlas, he's an excellent Jiu Jitsu fighter, he is so good. And if I read books for 10 years on Jiu Jitsu, and I became an expert, and I got straight A'S4.0, and I have a black belt in reading about Jiu Jitsu, and I got on the mat, he's going to murder me. And if he's never read a book on Jiu Jitsu, but he's done nothing but practice it, he's better. I find it absolutely disgusting that there is a board of medical examiners, that there's a board of chiropractic examiners that the American Medical Association exists, because those are all control factors to tell you what you are and what you are not allowed to do when it comes to helping people. Yet being a doctor means above all, do no harm. And that's just, that's not just being a medical doctor, that is being a human being, that's being a man or a woman. But in this case, I'm talking about a man, they don't want you healthy. And there is such a massive war against peptides, because they're dipping into the massive profit margin. And it's not the initial profit margin, you guys are looking at it far too superficially, you need to take the 1000 foot view, because you're looking at it as going, well, yeah, because peptides are dipping into their profits. No, they're not. They make so much money off of your ignorance. They want you to be a patient for life. And they've convinced you so well, like Stalin, right, rip the feathers out of the chicken, bloodied, beat up, throw a little bit of food down, the chicken follows him around anyway, even after he just beat that bird. That's how you guys are thinking, please, listen to me, if you want to get in my comments and run your mouth like a toddler, you go right ahead. What I'm telling you is that for there's a lady right now, she made a post about how peptides is no credible research and everything is on rats and hedgehogs or whatever she's saying. She's but look at me, I'm a PhD in neuroscience, etc. I don't care. I don't care. You are on the quest to find the to go against Alzheimer's. But yet I've got people in my group, MS gone, dementia gone, Alzheimer's reduced easily 60 70%. But yet, I'm not using anything no air accept no nomen. The struggle I'm having is that they don't want you healthy and they know it, but you guys are fighting thinking that they have your best interest in mind. Have you learned nothing in the last four and a half years? Like I said, these are just facts, baby. Let me ask you a question. If this is the case of pharmaceutical drugs, we're actually designed to make you healthy. Why then are they the leading cause of death in America? If you look at the facts, third, however, watch, I'll explain why I said it's the third. And this is after heart disease and cancer, which pharmaceutical drugs often cause and it is proven the number three killer is called ADR. ADR stands for adverse drug reactions. So this is I'll go back, listen, I'll even give you the benefit of that. Now, go back 15 years, Journal of American Medical Association published data, you guys showed 217,000 people per year die from ADRs in hospitals alone. That's not even including outpatient deaths, baby. Just for context, that's about a Boeing 747 fully loaded with people, two of them smoking the ground every day and killing every single one of them. Nobody talks about it though. You guys are all out there attacking peptides like you have anything, you know what it is mob mentality, you got to get your licks in. You ever listen to Matt Reif? I love Matt Reif. Matt Reif is a frigging stud. If you don't like him, I don't care. I love Matt. And you know what he says? He made a comment when he was sitting on a plane on Twitter about his bag being under his feet instead of not fitting under his seat. And then he said, look what I can do with this feet is hilarious. And he made a post about the rules and how ridiculous they were at 700 plus people went bananas trying to get their licks in on him because they all want to get their licks in because they're mad at themselves. Maybe you guys should look at yourselves. If you're on anything more than one drug, you should not be on any. By the way, if you're on any drugs, you should look at your life because they are not solving the problem. Here's how you know they worked. Can you stop taking them? If you can't stop taking them, the problem isn't solved. It's managed. You are a profit machine. But nobody talks about that. Instead, the FDA bans peptides. You need to understand why. And in order to do that, you need to understand something fundamental, which is how drugs work versus how peptides actually work. Because once you understand the distinction, everything else, so a drug is like a sledgehammer, period. And I'm not saying, listen, if I'm missing a lung, okay, there were drugs that allowed me to be anesthetized. There were drugs that allowed me to recover. There were drugs that allowed me to survive. There were drugs that allowed me to beat the infection, but I'm not taking them anymore. There's no managed decline. In fact, they gave me 12 prescriptions, 12, 12, and said I was going to be on all of those for the rest of my life. It was one of them. That was a $900 prescription. They said, if I don't take it, I'm going to have a clot and I'm going to die 100% guaranteed. It's absolutely imperative that I take that for the rest of my life. Make it make sense. I'm almost five years out now. In August, it'll be five years. This March, next month, I turned 53. They said I would never run. I would probably have struggled of difficulty walking. And there's a good chance in the next two years, I'd be walking with a cane. That's what they said almost five years ago. If you've ever seen me train, you know, that's a lie because I can run a sub 22 minute 5k. I run every day in a weighted vest every morning. I do 100, 100 pull ups, 100 squats, 100 push ups, and 100 bicycles every morning. And I run a mile every morning. I've been doing that for years. It's not my workout. I do it because I can. I do it because I demand more of myself than anybody else. I do it because I will not let somebody else tell me what I can and can't do, which is the same reason why when you come to me with your problem and you go, listen, I have dementia, I have cancer, I have a sore throat, I don't care, I need to get rid of type two diabetes, which I have solved thousands and thousands of times. I will do everything in my power to make sure the only thing that you can do to make sure it doesn't work is not listen to me. And I don't gatekeep anything. I give you everything for free even then. But if you want to like it with a black card with elite biogenics, elite biogenics is my company, you want to buy from my company, great. Everything is tested, genociak tested well, everything I would give my wife and kids. Are the same things that my lab creates for you. But why, but you'll run out and buy like cox one and two inhibitors and say it's beta blockers, which have a FDA black label warning on them for people with asthma, by the way, because they cause death, Celebrex, which was taken off the market, I could do this all day, but they were deemed safe. Even this, you talk about this on social media, and you get flagged, banned, post-throttled, canceled, because people are mad that they're so ignorant, stupid that they keep falling for it. Maybe the next drug will be the good one. Cancer, they burn you, slice you, poison you, and they've done the same thing, yet the rate of cancer has gone through the roof, but you're treating it better, you're finding it better. No, you're renaming the same thing over and over again. Cancer is always the same thing. It's always the same thing, three biological failures, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, and an ATP shortage. And next single Warburg effect kicks off 1931, Otto Warburg won the Nobel Prize in 1924, he discovered it, and he went, wow, fermentation, that's where cells go. And instead of producing 30 plus, they produce two ATP. They're inefficient, they can't change, their mitochondria is damaged, their genetics, the DNA is damaged, so when they are forced to function in normal, they can't, so they automatically die, because your genetics go, you either fix yourself or you self-destroy apoptosis, and the cells don't have a choice because they can't fix themselves, so they die. But instead, they give you chemotherapy, chemotherapy, okay, make it make sense. Chemotherapy hasn't saved anybody, I'm tired of people saying it, no, it hasn't. People die from organ failure, by the way, from chemotherapy, it's proven, not from the cancer from the organ failure. Listen, if I would have listened to them, I'd be dead. So I take this very seriously. So if you want to buy from LeapBioGenics, great, I don't come out here to market to any of you. If you go, oh yes, you do, you market all the time, I don't run a single ad, not one. The most advertising I do is on one of my research papers that says, click here if you want anything. You want to join my black card? Great, it's $9997. Apply at unlockthecard.com, email Mia, she is my gangster executive assistant. She'll get you all set up, it's wire only. I told you just the other day, I had a guy tell me that I, he's got no multiple sclerosis anymore. You want to see something here? I'll show you. This is exactly what happens. Maybe you guys should just pay the fucking attention to what I say because it bugs me. Here, let's do this. I have one of my one-on-one clients, these guys spent a quarter million dollars to work with me for a year straight. I just want you to see this feedback back in April. This is not, I'm not making this up. Back in April, 2025, my wife had blood work done in her, Anna, so Anna found it's a anti-nuclear antibodies screening. You said that she was positive for autoimmune disease. They were going to treat her. We didn't dig any deeper into it. Instead, for your recommendations, I put her on the exact protocol that you gave her for three months. She got blood work last week. This was on January 30th, just so you know, she got blood work last week and it came back negative. Thank you. You guys can keep on believing that getting in my comments and trash talking and all the idiotic things that you do, I'm not out here to make money. I'm out here to help you. I'm not out here to advertise. I'm out here to help you. Do you understand that help? Yes, it does come with a price because you're taking time away from my wife and my kids if I'm out here helping you, but I'm still going to help you. I'm just going to make sure they have something in return. So take it however you want. I really don't care. Maybe some of you guys are, I thought you were going to tell me how to do Smaat C. Then I'm tracking, I'm attracting the wrong crowd because if that's all you think I'm going to do, then you're missing out because I'm far more intelligent than that. Listen, here's the fundamental problem with pharmaceuticals. They're not trying to restore your biology. They're not. They're trying to mask symptoms by chemically interfering with it. That's not the same. Let me give you an example. Something that everybody understands. How about this? I was just talking about this, beta blockers for hypertension. Okay, let's go through that. Your blood pressure is elevated. By the way, they keep changing the number. It's astronomically high and low. Now it's ridiculous. 140 over 90. Normal. Your blood pressure changes 1000 plus times a day. So stop thinking you need to be 110 over 70. That BUNL is a BS phrase to see, you know, within normal limits. Your blood pressure is elevated. Okay, so why? Let's go through this. Let's go line by line because I bet I can figure this out for you right now and solve all your problems. Probably because you have endothelial dysfunction, which means your arterial lining isn't producing enough nitric oxide. You have chronic inflammation, inflammatory molecules destroying the inside of your blood vessels. Sympathetic nervous system is hyperactive. So your stress response is cranked on your skinny pedal is down. Your sympathetic nervous system is firing so hard it can't even see straight vascular smooth muscle dysfunction. Your blood vessel walls don't know how to relax because they can't and your insulin resistant, which causes sodium retention and fluid volume expansion. These are actual biological problems, you guys. A beta blocker comes in and this is the issue. It doesn't solve any of that. It says, I don't give a crap about any of that. I'm going to block the beta two adrenergic receptors on your heart and on your blood vessels. Your heart's going to beat slower. Your vessels will constrict less. Your blood pressure number will go down. And here's the thing, it works. Your blood pressure does go down. That's like looking at HbA1c and thinking it's a valid number, by the way. I'll get to that in a minute, but you haven't fixed anything if your blood pressure number goes down. You've just prevented your sympathetic nervous system from doing its job. Now your heart is beating slower, which means less perfusion to the extremities, to your tissues, right? Your fatigue goes through the roof. Your exercise tolerance tanks. Your sexual function gets impaired because beta blockers are notorious for erectile dysfunction. Meanwhile, the underlying endothelial dysfunction is still there. Inflammation is still there. insulin resistance, oh yeah, baby, that's still there. So now you've masked a number while destroying your quality of life and never addressing the root cause, which are the three biological failures of all freaking diseases. This is how every pharmaceutical works symptom masking through chemical warfare interference. Look at statins. They block HMG COA reductase, which stops your liver from making cholesterol. Your brain, you know, your brain is total cholesterol, right? It's just a big piece of cholesterol between your ears. So your cholesterol number goes down, but the Framingham study already proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that is a ridiculous thing to do and catastrophically harmful for your health. But cholesterol is not the problem. Oxidized cholesterol in inflamed endothelium is the problem. Your inflammation is still there. It's probably worse now because statins themselves are pro- inflammatory at the mitochondrial level. Look at research from the Journal of the American College of Cardiology 2002 showed statins reduce CoQ10, which impairs mitochondrial function. Never mind the fact that statins, when you take them, make you dumb. It's easiest way to explain it. Brain fog is one of the most prominent side effects, but people, I told you I have a one of my closest friends, a doctor that he does not use anymore said, you got to get on statins. Your cholesterol is too high. Made me want to throw things at her. The doctor, not him. Look at PPIs. Proton pump inhibitors. I'm going to do this. So if this is uncomfortable for you, buckle up. They block acid production in your stomach. Okay. So your acid reflux goes away, but you've just eliminated one of your body's primary immune defenses and disabled proper nutrient absorption. Awesome. So now you're deficient in B12, magnesium and calcium. By the way, that is proven. Journal of Gastroenterology 2010 proved that's what happens when you take PPIs, but people, I'm just going to take it anyway because I don't like the little oise I have here. Maybe change everything else so your biology works. Look at NSAIDs. Blocks the production of prosto glandants. So your pain goes down, but prosto glandants are protecting your GI and Eucosa, maintaining renal blood flow, kidneys, and regulating immune functions. Just destroyed all of that. Don't worry. I'm going to touch on this because you guys are going to go, wait a minute, I take an Advil every day before I work out. You're not going to live very long if you do that. The pattern is always the same. Take something your body needs, block it, watch one symptom improve while 10 others develop. Trying to maintain composure because this pisses me off. I've lost people that I love dearly because they've taken medications and they've died because of it. Just compare this to how peptides actually work for all the muppets out there arguing against peptides. Peptide, short chain of amino acids, biological molecule, the way your body communicates with itself. When you introduce it into your system, it's not trying to block a damn thing. It's trying to restore biological function that's degraded and it's using a signal that your body already knows. How about we use one that everybody, this knucklehead on social media is attacking, BPC-157, body protection compound, 157. Your body naturally produces small amounts of BPC-157 in your gastric juices. No, it cannot be taken orally. I'm tired of everybody asking me that. No, it can't. I've already gone over the mechanism and why. Regenerates damage gastric mucus. So let's just go through this line by line. Restores tight junctions in your intestinal lining. You need those. Promotes angiogenesis, which is new blood flow formation in damaged tissues. Reduces inflammatory cytokines, TNF-FA, IL-6, IL-1-beta. That causes pretty much the basis of 95% of all chronic disease. Enhances growth hormone secretion and makes you violently sensitive to IGF-1. Improves wound healing. I could do this all day, but yet there's... And that's the problem? So if you have IBS, Irritable Bowel Syndrome, Leaky Gut, or a Duodenal Ulcer, these are fundamentally problems of mucosal degradation and barrier dysfunction. Your body's natural BPC-1-fine production is inefficient, or you're in an inflammatory state. That's overwhelming it. That's it. So when you introduce exogenous BPC-157, you're not blocking a damn thing. What are you blocking? You're not interfering with your biology, you're restoring it. So let me give you the straight. Look at research of pharmacology, 2018 showed that BPC-157 accelerated gastric ulcer healing with zero adverse effects, zero. And without the immunosuppression or nutrient malabsorption that PPI's always cause 100% of the time. Or take TB-500 or thymus and beta-4. Use the real version, the full thing, not the seven, the 43 amino acid chain. Naturally occurring peptide that your body produces, but decreases with age. TB-500, thymus and beta-4s job. Promote cardiac... By the way, it is the only one proven to reverse fibrosis in the myocardium. It heals, it reverses athlete's heart. If you listen to my stut, my post on asthma yesterday, it is one of the common side effects of asthma is hypertrophy. Left or right ventricular rather, hypertrophy. You don't want that. Thymus and beta-4 promotes cardiac angiogenesis, prevents cardiomyocytes, apoptosis, cell death, reduces inflammation, IL-10 upregulation, anti-inflammatory interleukin, promotes soft tissue repair and neurogenesis or neurons. It improves blood flow and oxygen delivery. If you have heart disease, TB-500 isn't trying to block a symptom. It's trying to restore cardiac regeneration and reduce the inflammation that caused the damage in the damn first place. The American Journal of Pathology 2008 showed TB-500 improved post-infarct cardiac function by promoting angiogenesis and reducing apoptosis, actually regenerating heart tissue, not just managing the symptoms, which is what your cardiologist is going to do. This is a very fundamental difference. Drugs equal chemical interferates with broken biology. Peptides equal restoration of natural biological function. One destroys the quality of your life while never addressing the problem and the other restores your biology to what it's supposed to be doing in the first place. Let me give you some actual statistics because they're staggering. 200,000 plus per year. By the way, if you go back to Java 2000, 106,000 deaths per year and that is 26 years ago, add outpatient deaths and you're probably north of millions. Therapeutic deaths. The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center 2004 published data showing that 10% of cancer patients die directly from chemotherapeutic toxicity. That is not even close to the number, but it's not from cancer progression. Even that is far too high. I call that number appalling. That's roughly just, you know, 50,000 people per year in America alone from the treatment. Oh, it gets worse when you add in the patients who die from secondary cancers caused by chemotherapy, chemotherapeutic induced cancer, or infections from chemotherapy induced immunosuppression or organ damage that kills them years later. The actual death toll is staggering. Seven figures. Look at vaccine adverse events. Oh, I'm sure this podcast is going to get ripped on by some sensor. According to according to VAERS, Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, even peer review, so many documented cases of blood clotting disorders, myocarditis, serious adverse events following the MIRN, the C19 vaccine. You know where they mostly occurred to? Younger groups. American Heart Drone 2020 would publish data on post-vaccination myocarditis incidents alone. They said 13,000 deaths attributed to vaccines, but they go to causalities debated though. You know that Canada just locked up all vaccine information for 25 years? Did you know that? Why? All records locked for 25 years. Why? Listen, even if you're skeptical of causality attribution, the fact remains that there is not a zero risk intervention. And if you go, nothing has zero risk. Tell me how many people have died of peptides. Just tell me. Oh, wait. Go ahead. Give me the number. We know that vaccines cause harm. It's not zero risk. Remember what I said about celibrex at the beginning? Proved as the safer NSAID, the FDA eventually added a black box warning for cardiovascular and GI risks. And then they pulled it. Increased myocardial infarction at stroke risk, 10,000 plus deaths that they are telling you about, 100% attributable to celibrex before the warning. Journal of the American Medical Association 2003. Look at OxyContin. Oxycodone and extended release tabs, right? Marketed as the safer because of extended release formulation directly contributed to the opioid epidemic. CDC estimates over half a million deaths from opioid overdose alone. Purdue Pharma pleaded guilty to criminal charges. They knew it was addictive. They knew it. They damn well knew it. They gave it to you anyway. Yeah, this bugs me because I have a good friend of mine that got caught in that trap. And if you go, well, he's just got a problem. He's still a good man. Look at NSAIDs. The American Journal of Gastroenterology, 16,500 NSAID related deaths per year from GI bleeding alone in the United States alone. Add cardiovascular beds. Just so you know, NSAIDs increase. You ready for this? And they go, take aspirin every day. Listen, just so you know, NSAIDs increase MI myocardial infarction and stroke risk by 50%. So why are they getting you to take an aspirin every day? You're looking at anywhere from 50 to 100,000 deaths annually. You guys just keep spoon feeding yourselves with this stuff, too. Look at PPI's proton pump numbers, increased risk of fractures, British Medical Journal, 2010, cardiovascular events, chronic kidney disease, American Journal of Gastroenterology, 2017, said estimated 50,000 hospitalizations annually from PPI related complications, total pharmaceutical related deaths, conservative estimate, 2 million per year in the United States alone. Now, how many people have died from peptides? Come on, get me the number. I'll wait. What do you got? What are you going to say that people don't report them? They die in their sleep somewhere because they took too much PPC? Zero, zero. Not rare, not very uncommon. You guys, it is zero. I need you to take this seriously because I take my life and I take your life very seriously. The most comprehensive review of peptide safety published in the Journal of Peptide Science, 2019, showed adverse events from peptides were extraordinarily rare and typically mild. Transient headache, you ready for this? These are brutally better. Buckle up. Transient headache, slight nausea, temporary injection, slight irritation. Are you going to be able to handle that compared to NSAIDs, chemotherapy, and opioids where we're getting into the millions per year of deaths? Zero, zero. That's a good side effect, baby. How many times have you heard somebody say, listen, you look at elite biogenics, clomid side effects might occur? No, you don't hear that. You look at any of the companies in cell peptides. You'll never hear that because they don't exist. How about we look at the actual side effect profiles because you hear them for 45 seconds while some family is playing frisbee with their dog snipples in the park. Most common side effects for pharmaceutical drugs, ironically, is iatrogenic disease, meaning disease caused by the treatment itself. The Journal of American Medical Association estimates that 25,000 hospitalized patients experience adverse drug reactions. So I want you to think about that number right now. 25%. So 25% of your family was taken away right now. I know some of you guys will be like, oh, I'm so happy. You're an idiot. Don't act like that because one day what happened to you, you freak out. You've seen labyrinths and you know that when her little brother gets taken away, she freaks out. Yeah, exactly. So don't. Man, this is a great movie with David Bowie, by the way, if you don't know what it is. Old. I'm old. I'm 52. 25% of your paycheck, 25% of your health, 25% of your physical body was all taken away. I don't care if you're overweight. That's not what I'm talking about. If your arm was taken, just understand that means one in four people in a hospital are being there, being harmed by their own medications. So what are the side effects? How about this GI bleeding, gastrointestinal bleeding, and AIDS and anti-quadriolence. How cardio and heart attack, and AIDS, diabetic drugs cause this stroke and AIDS, hormone replacement therapy. Huh, wait a minute, back up on the HRT. Let's touch on that for a second. So HRT, the thing that they're saying that some other doc out there on social media, God, I hope you hear this. I hope you hear this. And you go, this is the guy that doesn't know anything about menopause. I know everything about menopause. All diseases. Why? Because they follow my three biological failures because I care about you because I love you. Oh, not that doctor. You as in the people listening to this. Do you think I come out here for myself? I've got about a thousand things I'd rather be doing than this, but I do this because I get a crap about mankind because God left me here to drop all this information to give you everything you've got to have the most badass life you possibly can and turn you into a friggin' juggernaut. That's why. That's why. Stroke. HRT, it doesn't matter if they go, that only happens to 1%. 1% is too much. Peptide, zero. Liver toxicity. Acetaminophen, by the way, statins. Methotrexate, a chemotherapeutic drug that they use off-label for, huh, rheumatoid arthritis for one thing. Got a pelvic kidney damage. NSAIDs, ACE inhibitors affect that. Look at muscle pain and weakness. Notorious. Myalgia is notorious with statins. I'm just ripping these off the top of my head. Cognitive impairment. Benzodiazepines, Xanax, Valium, right? Anticholinergics, sexual dysfunction. Really? I'm going to tell you, my wife is so hot. I love having sex with my wife. I would not want to be all wrecked physically and then have somebody go, that's just normal because you're 52. No, it's not. Only if you're taking crazy medications. Beta blockers, SSRIs and antipsychotics, by the way. You know what they give? SSRIs and antipsychotics for PTSD. But I think I know a doc. He looks a lot like me. Where's the same hat? Speaks like me. Has a beard, same age. Wait, it is me who solved it for free. Metabolic dysfunction. Antipsychotics and corticosteroids. That means you are a big, giant, type 2 diabetic. And these aren't rare. You guys, these are common. Most catastrophic side effects from peptides. Let's look at it. This is where it gets real interesting. Okay, you ready? You guys, I need you to stop whatever you're doing. I need you to write this down. What's catastrophic side effect from peptides would be? You ready? Okay, this is so important. Transient headache, injection site irritation. International Journal of Peptides, 2020 reviewed 15 years of peptide related adverse event reports. The findings, you're going to love this. Headaches, 2% incidence resolved within hours. Nasia, 1% or less incidence. Mild and transient injection site inflammation. 5% incidence resolved in days. Transient water retention, 4% incidence resolved upon discontinuation. Mild appetite changes, 1% incidence. And I'm not talking about reddit, true tide. It's supposed to do that. That's it. That's the entire side effect profile. But you have people on social media saying peptides are bad, but you shouldn't buy them from what? Anybody other research you saw me as dangerous? Not one serious adverse event, not one hospitalization, not one death. And they're sitting there waiting for it. Listen, here's where it gets really devious. The FDA says they're banning peptides. All these docs out there saying they're banning peptides, they're trying to get rid of them, take them, don't only buy from compounding pharmacies, what the ones that the pharmaceutical companies control. So they can load it up with all kinds of nonsense and charge you 20 times the price. So you have to pay 1500 to 2 grand for red or true tide. Are you out of your mind? And if you go out there and charge that for a 60 milligram vial, they're trying to ban it for safety concerns. But didn't I just establish that peptides are remarkably safe? So what's actually happening? How about we just connect the dots? Look at the economic reality of this entire thing. The pharmaceutical drug basically costs approximately 2.6 billion to develop from research to FDA approval. This is tough center for study of drug development 2016. These are the numbers I'm getting, where I'm getting my numbers. Okay, that's how much basically that's the average for pharmaceutical drug. The company has about 17 years of patent protection before generics can even be made. Pay attention to this because follow the money. My wife always says it, she's spot on in that window. A successful drug needs to generate 5 to 10 billion in revenue just to break even on R&D and marketing costs. Okay, follow. Peptide by contrast, naturally occurring biological molecule, can't patent a natural compound. They're fighting that too, by the way. You can patent a specific manufacturing process or formulation, but once it's out there, competitors can synthesize the snot out of it. So here's what happens. That means this. Peptides are cheap to develop. No billion dollar R&D needed. Man, peptides can't command monopoly pricing. Peptides won't generate massive profits. Pharmaceutical companies need pharmaceutical companies cannot own the peptide market. So just think about that. I'm going to drink some more coffee. Believe me, I wasn't even going to do this podcast, but I was just so aggravated today. I went in the house, I was like, you know, and I'm so tired of the FDA. If peptides become widely known to be the superior, option to drugs, more effective, safer, cheaper, why would anybody take a pharmaceutical? If they offer the elimination of managed decline, why would anybody take a pharmaceutical? Because the drug company can't compete with that. They can't lower their prices. Investors would go nuts. They'd revolt. It would be like a revolution. They can't improve their safety profile. It's built into the chemistry. They can't increase their efficacy. They're designed to mask, not to cure. So they can only do one thing. They can only eliminate the competition. And they did it through regulatory counter. Here, I'll explain how regulatory counter works, because this is where people get a little confused. The FDA is funded partially by pharmaceutical companies. This is called the prescription drug user fee act, PDUFA. Pharmaceutical companies literally pay for FDA employee salaries. Did you know that? 2021 pharmaceutical companies paid 1.24 billion in user fees to the FDA. That's 75% of the FDA's drug center budget, just so you know that that is an astronomical amount of money. So I don't care how wealthy you are. I have a few billionaire friends. One of them is Howard Payne. I don't want to give the other ones away. And he is worth about three and a half to four billion. He basically had to kill himself working to do that. He's a very good man. He is not trying to harm anybody. He deserves every penny. These are the people that are out there. So the people who are supposed to regulate the pharmaceutical industry are literally funded by the pharmaceutical industry. Make it make sense. When that's the case, what do you think happens when a peptide company, a small startup with no lobbying power, asks for approval versus when Pfizer asks? The company pays the bills, gets the attention. The company that doesn't gets ignored or worse gets actively pursued and eliminated. The ban. Look at the FDA acting under pressure from pharmaceutical companies who provide most of their funding. I just explained that. Began cracking down my peptides compounding in 2023 severely. It's been really bad. There's stated reason. Safety concern. All the chill doctors, all you paid doctors out there explaining why it's for safety. We need to only get them from compounding pharmacies. All you soccer moms that are going non research, non research use the peptide companies. Are you out of your mind? You're bought and paid for any download no matter how many times you probably  peptides have an extraordinary safety record, zero deaths, minimal side effects, so what actually happened is this, big pharma realized peptides were a threat to their profit model and they used their financial control of the FDA to eliminate the competition. That's not safety, it's money, it's money. The hypocrisy, the FDA approval doesn't mean safe. Here's where the intellectual dishonesty becomes incredibly obvious. The FDA says you can freely talk about how to use any FDA approved drug. Listen, I'll say it again. The FDA says that you can freely, I could go online right now and talk about anything right now on this podcast and tell you how to use, how every single aspect even off-label use. I could teach you how to smoke methotrexate if that was something people could do. Why? Because it's an FDA approved drug. A doctor can tell you about CELibrex, its mechanism of action, its dosing schedule, its side effects, but if you try and explain the use of a peptide, how to do it, that's safe and effective, you get shut down, canceled, eliminated or worse. You get fined, you might even get prosecuted. If it's truly about safety, why can you openly discuss drugs that kill thousands if not millions of people per year but not a peptide that's killed zero? The answer's obvious. It's not about safety, it's about money. FDA approval does not mean safe, it means profitable. I'll prove it. Look at Vioxx. FDA approved, marketed heavily. Eventually just caused an estimated to be safe. This is what you know of, by the way. So you may as well, I call it my 10-H rule. I didn't steal it from Grant. It's just what I've always been thinking. FDA approved caused an estimated 27,000 deaths from cardiovascular events before being pulled from the market. That's in 2004. The company, Merck, paid 4.85 billion with a B in settlements they knew about the risks before the approval and they didn't disclose them. Look at a Vahendia. FDA approved diabetes drug. Oh, this is a good one. Caused thousands and thousands of MIs, myocardial infarctions, heart attacks. Eventually restricted. The FDA knew about the risks, approved it anyway. How about Accutane? Oh, everybody's heard about this one. The FDA approved Acne drug. One severe birth defects still prescribed despite knowing the risks. Look at Prednisone. Prednisone. Remember what I did, the Prednisone versus KPV, by the way? Remember that. Just remember those three letters. KPV. So look, FDA approved prescribed chronically causes osteoporosis, immunosuppression, metabolic dysfunction, premature death and still considered safe. FDA approval means we think the benefits outweigh the risks and the company paid us enough to process the paperwork. You're welcome. It doesn't mean safe. It means it's profitable. It means it's profitable. Managed decline. This secret in medicine, no pharmaceutical drug has ever reversed a disease in the history of mankind. Not one. Not one. And I'll go one step further because you guys are going to go, you're pretty ignorant and arrogant to sit there and say, egotistical, to say, you cure people. I've never cured a single person in my life. I've helped people and I've restored their biology and I've allowed their biology to do its job so they can cure themselves. No doctor anywhere, anytime in the history of mankind has ever cured anybody of anything, ever, myself included. So listen to the drugs. What drugs do is manage the progression of a disease. They slow the decline. They might extend life by years or months or whatever. They might make you feel slightly better, but they never reverse the underlying pathology ever. A statin does not reverse atherosclerosis. It slows its progression. Think about what I just said. It doesn't reverse it. And then they try and tell you it's not reversible. Bullshit. And antihypertensive doesn't restore your endothelial function. It doesn't restore nitric acid, nitric oxide synthase. It just keeps your pressure number lower so you look better on a lab. The beta blocker doesn't repair your heart. It just makes it beat slower. Anti-diabetic drug doesn't restore your insulin sensitivity. It just forces your pancreas to produce more insulin or it blocks glucose reabsorption altogether. This is what I've always said. It's called managed decline. You're slowly getting worse, but slow enough that you don't notice. And during that time, you're paying the pharmaceutical company thousands upon thousands of dollars per year. The profit model is not curing you. It's keeping you sick enough to need the medicine but healthy enough to stay paying. Compare that to what peptides do. Let's just go through a few just for fun. BPC-157 for an actual restoration of the biological system. Look at LL37, antimicrobial peptide. Restores antimicrobial peptide function. You make it. Actually increases your immune capacity. Actual enhancement of your biology. Peptides are not managing decline. They are restoring capacity. Period. Full stop. It gets me so upset. The reason is so straightforward. Once you understand biology, drugs work by blocking or forcing. That's it. They block a receptor. They block an enzyme. They inhibit a pathway or they force a response like forcing insulin secretion. What do I always call drawings? I call them a wrecking ball. The problem is that every pathway in your body has multiple functions. Block one thing and you've disrupted dozens of other processes that depend on it to survive. One example is look at statins. Statins block HMGCOA reductase which stops cholesterol synthesis. What? Cholesterol is needed. Sex hormone production. Less testosterone, less estrogen. I'll just go line by line through this. Look at cell membrane fluidity. So cholesterol regulates this. Look at neurological function. Cholesterol is 25% of myelin. Vitamin D and steroid hormone synthesis. Brain function. Memory formation. Alzheimer's, dementia, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, all the result of having low cholesterol. Block it and you get muscle pain, cognitive impairment, sexual dysfunction, hormone dysfunction, all documented in literature that you can read anytime, anywhere. Look at protag pump inhibitors. Block stomach acid production. Now you've blocked V12 absorption, least in neuropathy and cognitive decline. Magnesium absorption which leads to cardiac arrhythmia is in muscle pain. How about calcium reabsorption leads to osteoporosis? Intrinsic factor production needed for V12 binding. So that goes back to the first thing I said. Gastric antimicrobial peptide production increases infection risk. Proper nutrient breakdown. You can't do any of that. Block one thing, destroy 100 others. How about NSAIDs? Let's just keep right on going, baby. You block prostaglandin synthesis. You know what prostaglandins do? They protect gastric mucosa. Blocking them causes bleeding. My dad took 16 to 18 Tylenol every day. He died at 67 years old. Guess this pisses me off. NSAIDs regulate renal blood flow. So blocking them, blocking them, this is prostaglandins. This is what they do. Blocking prostaglandins causes kidney damage. Regulate immune function. Blocking them causes immunosuppression. Maintain platelet function. Prostaglandins blocking them increases bleeding risks. Regulates inflammation. So some prostaglandins are actually anti-inflammatories. They're blocking all of them. Paradoxically, increases inflammation. That's why NSAIDs have killed over 100,000 people per year that you know of. Drugs work through disruption. When you disrupt the system that has been built by God, you break things. Your biology knows what to do. You guys are screwing with it, believing that something is going to help you when it comes out of pharmacy. Peptides work differently. Restoration and signaling, not disruption. When you, I had this one idiot, this guy wasn't my group. This guy's such an idiot. I don't believe in peptides whatsoever. What a muppet. That means you don't believe in biology whatsoever. Sweating, that's all pissed off you are. When you introduce a peptide, you're saying to your body, listen, please listen to me. Here's a signal you're supposed to be producing. I need you to produce it better. Your body recognizes it. It binds to the appropriate receptors. It initiates the appropriate cascade, and then it's metabolized and cleared just like your body's natural peptides. You're not disrupting a damn thing. You're restoring a signal. But the BPC-157, that this muppet lady decided to attack. So you just no research that says it does anything. I can probably talk to at least 100 power lifters off the top of my head that have all gone, holy crap, it allowed me to keep competing. Uh-huh. Yup, doesn't do anything though. Got it. Your stomach produces BPC-157. I said it signals for mucosal regeneration, anti-inflammation, and eugenesis. It does a lot of things. If you introduce more, you're just enhancing a process that's already supposed to have no disruption, no blocking of something else. You're just amplifying a natural signal that you're designed by God to have the worst side effect. Your stomach might heal too quickly. Your injury might heal too quickly. You might have an excessive appetite. I don't know what to tell you. Compare that to a PPI which damages your entire micro-absorption system for years, your micronutrient absorption. How about thymus and beta-4? Your thymus gland produces thymus. It basically produces TB-500, right? So promotes cardiac regeneration, reduces inflammation. It's probably one of the cool things if I could stay on it and take it every single day at once. I just can't because I have flight just too long and you're not supposed to do that. It's not good for you. You introduce more, you're enhancing a regenerative process that's supposed to happen in your biology. No chemical interference. You're not blocking anything. You're restoring a damn signal in your biology. Worst side effect, mild transient water retention which just in all the years I've used it, I've never seen it myself personally but I've seen other people talk about it and I've seen the results. But this resolves immediately the second you discontinue it. It's you. I'm drinking some Coke Zero if you want. You're drinking poison though talking about pharmacy. How about you compare this? Look, it reverses fibrosis in the myocardium, damage from a myocardial infarction, reverses it where they said too bad, tissues dead. So now what? You have a conduction problem where Kinji fibers can't do their job properly. Buttle of his can't do anything like the SA-No doesn't work right. Are you kidding me? No. That's not true. If you give your body the proper signals, it knows what to do. So compare it to cardiac medications. This is what they cause. Electrolinum balus is it? Eurythmias. This is why peptides are safe because they work with your biology not against it. Look at the benefit to risk ratio. Let's just look at the math. Look at NSAIDs. Look at NSAIDs for pain management. The benefit, pain reduction. 30% reduction in pain scores. Improved function. Modest improvement in mobility. The duration, what are we talking? Four hours? Maybe? I told you my dad was taking a ton of time. Six hours maybe the most. Here's the risk. GI bleeding. There's 100,000 plus deaths per year. All your vascular events. 100,000 events per year. Am I in stroke? Just so you know, which is weird because they tell you to take an aspirin every day before you fly though. Yeah, so what? You die in the sky? Kidney damage. Which is a almost 100% guarantee of chronic use. Ulceration. One in 100. Just so you know. One in 100. Benefit to risk. Positive for acute use. I'll get at that. Click. For chronic use. Just so you know, chronic use is more than three days. Well, let's look at BPC. Just look at BPC for similar indication. Just look at that. Pain reduction. 60% clinical use. Duration reduction. Demonstrated through IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta suppression journal of gastroenterology 2018. Progdive tissue rate regenerate. Dual restoration of damaged tissue. Not shutting down the pain that's coming from it and leaving it damaged. Duration. A longer lasting due to regenerative mechanisms. So recovery versus symptom management. So managed decline or actually recovered. So let's do these risks. These are fun. The transient headache. Less than 2%. Mild nausea. Never seen it, but less than 1%. Injection site irritation. Less than 2%. I've never seen it. To risk ratio. Acute and chronic use. Positive. With actual tissue regeneration as a bonus. It's not even close. Not even close. The peptide approach is objectively superior from a risk benefit perspective. You could argue, but peptides aren't FDA approved. Okay. Let's look. Here's my response to that. FDA approval is irrelevant when peptides are safer, more effective than any FDA approved alternative. I could do this all day. I just have better things to do with my life than sit here and try and convince you of something that's going to friggin save you. Let me explain the actual business model because it's brilliant from a profit perspective and it's evil from a health perspective. The pharmaceutical company's goal is not to cure you. Say it again. The pharmaceutical industry's model is not to cure you. It's to get you dependent on a medication, keep you sick enough to need it, make you sick in new ways so you need more medication. Call me a liar. I don't care. This is called disease creation. Medication cascade. And you ready for my favorite one? DECLINE. Want some examples? Let's have some fun on this. How about let's type 2 diabetes. Let's do that because this one's fine for me because it's everywhere. I've reversed kangaroo type 2 diabetes thousands of times. Full reversal, but it's impossible. Only new medication. Patient develops metabolic dysfunction, insulin resistance. Another word for it. Prescribe metformin, which is always the first line of defense. Works on AMPK, not even close to the same as ModC, by the way. So metformin works by blocking glucose absorption and improving insulin sensitivity somewhat. It comes married to a ton of side effects. But it doesn't address the underlying insulin resistance. So eventually here's what happens. 100% of the time. Metformin stops working because the problem, insulin resistance, is still there. Now they're prescribed a second drug, GLP-1 agonist. So GLP-1 agonist increased insulin secretion. Still not fixing the insulin resistance. In fact, if you understand insulin resistance whatsoever and you've listened to anything I've said in the last year, you know that your cells become deaf to insulin. Your pancreas goes, I have to make more, which makes it even worse. You're starving in the sea of plenty is what I always say. So now the patient has high insulin levels, which causes increased fat storage, metabolic inflammation and cardiovascular dysfunction. So now the pres- wait, it gets better. They're prescribed the third drug, an ACE inhibitor for cardiovascular protection. And if you guys are checking boxes off and what you have in your medicine cabinet, if you still call it that, somebody made fun of me for that. I'm like, dude, 52, shut up. You've already, you're on medication three. So the ACE inhibitor works, but it causes hyperkalemia, which is high potassium. So they're prescribed, you ready? A diuretic. Like whatever it is. Usually it's Lasix, which is a loop diuretic for osomide, which causes you to excrete 50% of the filtered load. That is unfathomable to me. It's so much. So the diuretic now causes magnesium depletion. So they're prescribed a magnesium supplement. The cycle continues. Each new problem created by the medication requires a new medication. The patient came in with one problem, insulin resistance. And five years later, they have, you ready? insulin resistance, still unfixed cardiovascular dysfunction, electrolyte imbalance, metabolic dysfunction from all the medications themselves, cognitive impairment from the hyperglycemia and medication side of sexual dysfunction for sure, chronic neuropathy. And they're paying tens of thousands of dollars per year in medications being told that it's the only way they can do this because it's the only thing keeping them alive. The business model is exactly this. This is business. It's not a cure and lose a customer. It's create ongoing dependency and expand the medication list. What would a peptide look like? What would a peptide approach look like? Same patient. Let's just do the same patient. Peptide approach. So Milano-10-2 restores, same kangaroo, I gotta say that. Milano-10-2 restores, Milano-court signaling suppresses some systemic inflammation, restores insulin sensitivity. Raditruetide, not the pharmaceutical version of garbage, promotes pancreatic beta cell regeneration and true insulin sensitivity improvement, also solves a bunch of neurological issues. So Milano-10-2-5-7 repairs the gut barrier, improves nutrient absorption, reduces metabolic endotoxin. So now you have actual reversal of insulin resistance in four to six months. No cascade of new diseases, no medication dependency. You've lost the weight, you're functioning better and you're operating like a regular human friggin' D. But now the pharmaceutical company has lost a customer for life and they've lost potential future customers because you're actually healthy. Big pharma cannot allow this. Look it, you wanna know where it gets really dark is how they control all the literature. Who funds pharmaceutical research? This pisses me off. According to the National Institute of Health, 70% of clinical trial funding comes from pharmaceutical companies themselves. NIH analysis, by the way, proved this in 2019. That's already six years ago. 7, if you really wanna do some fancy math, okay? What happens when a pharmaceutical company funds a study? Just ask yourself that. Who's paying? Follow the money. Well they know the results they need, so if a study shows their drug is safe and effective, it gets published. If it shows their drug is harmful, it gets buried. You wanna see some examples? Aox. Merck-funded studies showing Biox was cardiovascular safe. Independent studies showed it was dangerous AF. I'm not gonna say it, I'm trying not to swear too much. Guess which one got published? The Merck-funded ones. The negative studies were suppressed for years. Eventually the truth came out, but only after 27,000 deaths. How long are you guys gonna fall for this? Look at statin studies. Majority of statin studies are pharmaceutical company funded and surprised. They all show statins work great. Independent meta-analysis, not funded by pharma, show much more modest benefits. The Framingham study shows negative benefits. It shows harm. And it's the longest running research ever to see. SSRI studies, pharmaceutical company's funded studies showing SSRIs were safe and effective. FDA's own internal review, which got leaked conveniently, showed that 40% of the negative studies were never published. That's almost half you guys. So now you've got this, it creates what's called a publication bias. New England Journal of Medicine 2008 showed that this is called a publication bias and it showed what was published and what was suppressed and the difference in how it sways the public opinion on what they believe in, what they don't believe in, what they think works and what they think doesn't. This publication bias and selective outcome reporting is not rare. It's standard practice. What about peptide research? How about we do that? Peptide research is mostly conducted at universities and independent research institutes. The funding comes from government grants, NSF, NIH, actually has a bunch of small biotech companies, academic institutions, some cases, researchers own funding. They just do it themselves because they go, I want to prove this works. These sources don't have the same profit incentive to suppress negative results. If a peptide shows problems, great. If it shows problems, you know what happens? Researchers publish that too. That means peptide research is much more likely to reflect reality than pharmaceutical research. How about the track record? Just look at the track record of this stuff. So let's look at peptides versus pharmaceuticals as a track record before I can waft on another tangent. Look at actual outcomes. Look at the pharmaceutical track record. Intended to reverse disease? Zero drugs have ever reversed the disease. I did to my grandma. No, it didn't. Intended to slow disease progression? That's modest. Success 15% slowing on average. That's not very good. Just so you know. Creates new diseases, documented 25% of all users. Death rate over a million per year. Long-term health improvement, rare, if at all. And the profit model requires ongoing medication dependency. So let's swing the pendulum to the other side of the equation before people start getting all of the norms. Peptides. Intended to regenerate. Let's just say the same questions. To regenerate tissue. Success documented. Journal of peptide science reviews 2018 all the way through 2024. Intended to restore biological functions. Success documented. The same. So many studies. It's almost unbelievable. Yet this lady goes, there's no studies except some rat study in Croatia. Shut up. Creates new diseases. Zero documented cases. Death rate zero. Long-term health improvement. Documented in published research everywhere. Profit model. Can't monopolize natural molecules. So it's limited. So it's not business. People go, oh, you're just ripping people off. You know what? If I made $10 million a month and that would be 120 million a year, that's not even a fraction of what's being pulled by Pfizer alone. Give me a, from a peer outcomes perspective, peptides have objectively far superior track record. Follow the money. Follow the power. This is the FDA didn't ban peptides because they're unsafe. They're not fighting against peptides because they're unsafe. They're banning peptides and they're fighting to ban peptides and everything else and all these shills out in social media claiming, I'm a doctor and I think you should only use compounding pharmacies and only get stuff from. It's going to be unsanitary and you don't know. You have to check for endotoxins and all the other methods that follow me and then steal my stuff and use my research that I bust my ass to get so I can give it to you guys because I actually care about you because I look at 9 billion people on the planet and I looked at, God left me here to give you the information so you can make an educated decision. Like I said, I don't care if you buy from my company. I don't care if you join the black card. I care that you have something you can make an educated decision on and you actually go, this guy gives a shit about me. He loves me. He's a real doctor above all do no harm. That's why I'm here. FDA is trying to ban peptides, profit protection, pure and simple. Pharmaceutical companies generate 600 plus billion annually in the US market alone. If peptides became mainstream, that revenue would evaporate. Look at regulatory capture. Pharmaceutical companies fund the FDA. The FDA protects pharmaceutical companies. It's a symbiotic relationship. They're married. They're in bed together and both of them are gay. Intellectual property. Pharma can patent their drugs. They can't patent natural peptides so they can't monopolize the market. Look at disease creation. The pharmaceutical model depends on creating and maintaining disease. Peptides that actually restore health are existential threats to the entire system. Look at market control. If people realized they could get safer, more effective treatment from peptides, they'd stop buying pharmaceutical drugs. The industry would collapse in itself. It would implode. So they did what large industries do when faced with superior competition. They used regulatory power to eliminate it. That is not for any other reason. Look at the hypocrisy. Why you could discuss drugs but not peptides. This is the intellectual inconsistency that proves this is about profit, not safety. Listen, you can go on any podcast. I could do this right now. I could go on any show. I could go on Weldon. I could go on Sean Wright. I could go on any major podcast ever. Talk about all the drugs I want. I could talk about how to use statins which kill people through liver toxicity and muscle damage. So, you know, you can use NSAIDs which kill 100,000 plus people per year minimum. How to use metformin which causes B12 deficiency. All research based by the way. So if somebody censors this, you know what? F, U, it's fat. How to use SSRIs which double suicide risk in young people. You can get this information freely. Your doctor can discuss it. Pharmaceutical reps can market it to you directly. You can even give you free samples. Hey, I'll give you the first one for free. Come on. You want a INS? Like that's how it is. But you cannot discuss how to use BPC-157 which has zero deaths and reverses GI damage and heals muscle and tissue and proven transsected tendon, hamstring tendon, healed it in four weeks to full function, 100% function. How to use TB-500 which has zero deaths and regenerates cardiac tissue. How to use melanotent too which has zero deaths and restores immune function. You can't discuss peptide protocols. Ever have to call a kangaroo. You can't suggest dosing. You can't recommend sources. If you do, you get shut down, banned or worse. Why? Because if it was truly about safety, this makes no sense. This is the same reason why I come at you guys, all you Insta bros and Insta experts and self-proclaimed PhDs with fuchsia fucking hair and all the people out there that are going to the mom's soccer moms that are selling their stuff trying to steal my videos going, this guy's wrong. I'm not coming out when you're trying to sell anything. I don't have an affiliate code in my profile. I go, you want to join them? People ask me every day, how do I become a patient of yours? How do I work with you? So I give them an opportunity so I don't have to answer 5,000 emails every day. So Mia doesn't break her fingers trying to answer all you guys. I do it because I care because I want to give you an option to come and if you need my help, I give you information because I care. I explain all this stuff because I care. This is tough love. You know what? I love you enough to tell you the truth. You love yourself and your profit enough to attack me, to attack people that are coming and going against what you're selling. You know what's crazy is we should all be in the same realm, all working together to solve the disease, not talk about how we're solving the disease, but secretly marketing our stuff. I've been kept a single thing since the day I started making posts like this, right down to exactly how. So save your judgment of me because I have it once. Gate kept and said, I'll give you the rest if you give me some money. I've never once I'll give you the rest of the answer if you just give me some cash, not once because you know what that means? Means they don't want to help you. They want your profit. So everybody going online stealing my stuff, using my videos going, I don't agree with this guy. He doesn't know what he's talking about. Apparently he's some chiropractor that doesn't understand science. That was the most funny thing I've ever seen. I saw a personal trainer who probably couldn't even spell a seedle, Colleen, trying to tell me that I don't understand science and that peptides should be blended. You guys keep making videos about how copper should be blended with everything because you sell it or you have an affiliate code or because you've used it or you're just too ignorant, stupid to understand biochemistry properly and you have never seen a patient in your life, but you're the expert. So what I'll tell you is this, if you have a proven track record of people having full reversal of disease processes like I do, then come and talk to me until that day, shut your mouth because I care more about mankind. You care more about yourself if you're making reaction videos about my stuff. If it was, listen, peptides are safer. We should all be fighting for that. The disparity should be reversed. You should be warned about drugs, but freely discussing peptides. The fact that it's backwards proves that the ban isn't about safety. It's about profit. If a pharmaceutical company profits from a molecule, the FDA allows you to discuss it freely even if it kills thousands and millions of people. If a molecule is safe, effective and threatens pharmaceutical profit, the FDA bans you from even mentioning it. This isn't medicine. This isn't science. This isn't safety. This is a protection racket. Let me be absolutely clear about what the science shows. Pharmaceutical drugs, average benefit, 15% symptom improvement, average risk, 25% of users experience serious adverse effects if not death. Death rate over a million per year, disease reversal rate, zero quality of life improvement, negative side effects, outweigh benefits, 100% of the time. Look at peptides. Average benefit, 80% improvement and measured quantifiable parameters, average risk, less than 1% experience, mild transient side effects, death rate, zero, zero. Where are you at now? Disease reversal documented in multiple studies, quality of life improvement, consistently positive. Nobody's ever said it is horrible for me. The data isn't even close. Peptides outperform pharmaceuticals on every meaningful metric. Listen, here's what they've been hiding. Didn't even want to do this. I don't even know how to post this podcast. You've been told that pharmaceutical drugs are the gold standard of medicine because they're FDA approved and evidence based. That's what these people out here, all you doctors out there saying evidence based, FDA approved, human trials. You know what I got for you? Nothing but disrespect because you are a horrible human being profiting off of your own lives. Don't buy from me at all and I still give you the answer. You're on Pharma's payroll. The FDA is captured by the pharmaceutical industry and the evidence is largely funded by pharmaceutical companies who suppress negative results. Meanwhile, peptides which are safer, more effective, cheaper and actually restore biological function and reverse all three biological failures of 100% of all diseases are being criminalized. It's not about science. It's not about safety. It's not about your health. It's about an industry that generates $600 billion annually in the United States alone by keeping you sick. An industry that profits from disease. An industry that's literally killing millions of people a year through adverse drug reactions alone. And when faced with a technology that actually works, that costs less, causes no deaths, restores health, they didn't compete. They didn't improve their products. They didn't lower prices. They use regulatory capture to criminalize the competition. They literally made it illegal to discuss the superior alternative and the safer choice is illegal. The dangerous medicine is advertised on fray television. You're not living in a free market. It's what I called it at the beginning. You're living in a cartel. Every time you take a pharmaceutical drug without questioning why a peptide which are objectively safer and more effective, why they're banned, why they're shut down, why they're being criminalized, why they're being attacked, you're participating in the protection of the most profitable cartel in history. The pharmaceutical industry did not become a $600 billion US, by the way, never mind globally, enterprise by curing diseases. They became this enterprise by creating dependency, managed decline by making sure you are sick enough to need medicine but not so sick that you die because a dead customer can't pay their bill, can they? Peptides are the antithesis of this model. That's why they can't be discussed. That's why they're banned. That's why they're hunting them. Not because they're unsafe, because they actually work. That is a threat that the industry cannot tolerate, which is exactly why they're coming down on them. It's beyond a war. It's a revolution. What side of it are you going to be on? I've got to go. I hope you got some out of this.