You know, I just had a webinar do uh I don't know how many people there were about 70 on this webinar today. You know, I thought about something. All these people and I love it. If you came to the webinar, I love it. Thank you very much for giving me your time. But I started thinking about people and why. I asked I I even asked on the webinar. I go, "Why? Why?" And and if you want to swipe right or listen to something else, maybe you should because I'm not talking about peptides or sarmms or secrets or health or surgery or how to mitigate a disease process right now in this in this podcast today. I'm just talking about like did you do what you said you were going to do today? Did you? Because that's what it comes down to. Not yesterday. Not the I'll do it someday fantasy. Because when I was looking at all of these people that were giving me their attention, the first thought through my head was, "Are you going to do what you said you were going to do? What did you come on to this webinar for? Why are you listening to this podcast? Are you waiting for the next easy thing? Are you just looking for the next answer that somebody's going to give you that you're not going to apply because it doesn't fit into your neat little box and it's uncomfortable?" If you're waiting for the answer, the one that you go, "Okay, that one, that one's going to make me comfortable. When I do that, it allows me to stay where I am and be comfortable. I'm going to do that. That's going to help me lose the weight, make the money, fix the relationship, start the business, stop the business, leave the relationship, say no, say yes, build the life that I [\h__\h] want. That's what you're waiting for. It's never going to happen because what you're waiting for is somebody to give permission to you to stay where you are, but give you all the changes as if you did all the work. That doesn't exist. It doesn't happen like that. Somebody sold you a lie. Like last night, half of you guys were on your knees praying and bargaining and begging God for a better life. And when the sun came up, you did nothing different. You scrolled and you hunted the internet for something to get offended about so you could drown out the deafening sound of your own mediocrity. I get thousands of messages from you guys every day. I am a real doctor. I help real people. I want people to win so [\h__\h] bad. I come out here going, "God, if you just listen to what I tell you, you will mitigate most of your problems. You will make the money. You will solve the health crisis that people keep telling you you cannot solve. I am a walking billboard for what I do that works. I live and breathe this. I have a shortened lifespan. Missing a lung. Every day is a struggle. And I still come out here every day. I have never missed. I don't intend to miss because I actually care. But nothing that I tell you is going to work until you do it. until you actually do what I tell you to do. You did nothing different today and then you wonder why your life still looks like a rerun that nobody wants to binge watch cuz you don't like it. You keep waiting for somebody to show up and save you. Some mentor. I mean, I have the programs and still people come in and don't do what I tell them to do. You want the miracle, the bailout, the rescue. Nobody is coming. Nobody is coming. I don't know how to tell you this. I learned that lesson very real in a in a horrific experience four years ago when I woke up missing a body part. Everybody saying too bad, sorry. Have a nice day. As they went home at 5:00 and I laid in recovery. Your parents can't save you. Your boss won't save you. Your wife, your husband, your kids can't save you. The government can't save you. The president can't save you. It doesn't matter who the [\h__\h] the president is. You still need to do the work. And the people who claim they die for you can't even live for themselves. All of you people going, "Hey, listen. I would die for my kids. I would die for my wife. I would die for my beliefs." No, you wouldn't. You know how I know? Because you're not living for them right now. You're an adult. How the hell is your life, your bank account, your body, your relationship, somebody else's responsibility? And if you go, "Oh man, this guy's mad." No, I care. If you get it, I actually care. It's not somebody else's responsibility. And you know it. You know it. But society has sold you a participation trophy delusion that when you lose, blame the world. When you win, bow and say, "Thanks. I did that." You might want to listen to that again. When you win, it is all you. When you lose, it's somebody else's fault. That's not logic. That is cowardice. All wrapped up in your virtue signaling that you spit out as venom into the world expecting somebody to save you. Making money easy. Getting healthy easy. Fixing your relationship easy. I know because I did it. I had to do it all. I had to do all of this stuff. My relationship trashed. My marriage or my business gone. My money all gone. House gone. Body parts gone. A guy stole over almost $2 million from us in lies and then tries to put us through the court system trying to take more because I hurt his feelings about telling everybody the truth. It doesn't matter. I still show up every day. Winning is not difficult. It's not difficult. It's not simple. It's easy. There's a difference. You want money. You want health. You want the relationship. All three require the same thing. Stop believing somebody's going to rescue from the consequences of your own repeat offenses. You don't need another YouTube hack or an Instagram hack from me or some kind of thing I'm going to coach you on. You don't need another supplement stack. You need a spine. And listen, before the comments here, save it. Save it. I'm a grown man. Save it. If you want to come in and run some kind of [\h__\h] in the comments, save it. I don't read them. I don't care. So before it lights up with, "Yeah, but let me cut you off." Every but is just a code. For I am terrified of my own life, and I don't want to admit it. So you hide behind a pane of glass. Discipline is not a mystery. It is a decision. It is a violent, unfathomably violent decision, unapologetic decision. It's what you do. It's when you do what you said you do long after the mood that you said it in has gone and died. You know what really grinds me? Couch experts. These keyboard kings and queens and advice experts doling out advice that they've never got the guts to live. All of you guys, if that's one of you guys, you couldn't keep up with me on my worst day and your best day because you can't even do anything for yourself. You're too busy hiding behind a pane of glass, spitting out advice and arguing with people in the comments on things you have no experience on and no expertise on whatsoever. But I come out here and put myself on the line for free every day cuz I actually give a all the experts, the keyboard warriors, they don't want to help you. They want to distract themselves because if they'd stop typing just long enough, you know what they're going to hear? All of their disappointment rippling through their life because they haven't fixed the damn thing. You know what? I am an exceptional doctor. Not because I'm polite, but because I actually lead. If you're my client or my patient, my consulting partner, whatever it is, you hire me. You do what I say. I don't give suggestions. I give leadership because in my lane, I'm the best. And that's where I stay, though. Leadership isn't a big group hug and a pow-wow dancing around a fire. It's a contract. You want results, you follow the guidance of someone who's bled for the answer. Otherwise, you are just collecting opinions like a bunch of souvenirs, which is what happens on social media. How many podcasts you have saved? How many YouTube videos you have saved that you've never watched? How many books have you never cracked past the first or second page? Be honest. Ask yourself about this morning. Be honest. Did you stop drinking? Did you start the business? Did you have the hard conversation with your husband or your wife or your kids? Did you post the content? Did you change the diet? Did you start the damn workout? If not, stop pretending that you die for your wife or your kids or your beliefs. [\h__\h] You won't even live for them. And you know it. Commitment isn't what you scream online. It's what you do when nobody's watching. The standards that you have when everybody's looking don't matter. The standards that you have when nobody is looking is what matters. The work you do when nobody sees you working. That's the only work that matters and everybody makes a big production about what they're doing. That doesn't matter cuz if you aren't who you say you are when the camera is off, you're a liar. Like have some respect, have some dignity, have some self-worth, have standards that hurt to keep. That's what it is. I live with one lung and I hate it. I hate it. You want the truth? I hate it. four years. I hate it. It's a struggle to breathe. My chest burns. Feels like somebody's standing on it almost all the time. I wake up struggling to breathe. I go to bed struggling to breathe. I fight through it every day. I work out every day. I come out here. Sometimes I get out of breath talking on this camera because I get so worked up when I speak. People have laughed at me. They judged me. They told me to quit. Told me to die. And I'm still here. Not because it's easy, but because if I stop showing up for you, then I stop showing up for me. How can I call myself a doctor, a leader, a coach, a consultant if I can't commit when it hurts? How can I call myself a man if I won't suffer for what I believe? The day that my wife drove me home from the hospital, you guys know the story. And if you don't, she goes, "What do you want to do?" I said, "I want to work out." I was home in 7 days. They told me it was going to be 14. I strapped a sled around to my waist with a 25 ft rogue strap and a 45lb plate on a fringe sport sled. And I did laps around my three 400t driveway, whatever it is, circles, as many as I could. I'm not even sure I finished a full lap. I told my wife, "Come get me when I collapse." and she watched me balling her eyes out as I struggled and I collapsed and took a knee and she walked me into the house and put everything away. I haven't missed a day since. Do you know why? Because I do what I say and I give a [\h__\h] about you. I give a [\h__\h] about my wife, about my kids, about everybody that needs my help and I'm the one that can help. That's why I come out here. People go, "Why do you come out here every day?" Because I actually care. I'm not doing this for me. I don't get paid for this. People go, "You get paid for your YouTube channel?" Not very much. winning and success became every breath for me when I came home. Every rep, every client that I help, every patient I help, anything I do, every truth I refuse to water down, every time I come out here and I just spit everything I have and I put it all on the line, regardless of what somebody says or tries to judge me about, I do it because I care. Because if I don't do it, who's going to do it? If I don't show up, who's going to show up? Because somebody's going to give you advice and tell you to do something that's going to harm you. So, I come out here and I just give you the truth. Whether you like it or not, whether you agree or not, and I don't mean success as in money. It's not just money. It's my life, my psychology, my fitness, everything I've got. It's the relentless refusal to settle for what everybody else said I should. It's improvement and service and expansion and growth and evolution, even when it hurts. In fact, more when it hurts. I don't know how to be any different. When I opened my eyes, all I saw was fire inside me. So, when somebody goes, "Oh, here's this guy just ranting and raving online." And that's not what I'm doing because I show up here every day and I give you everything I've got. If I have the answer, I owe it to you to give you that answer. Same thing you do for your family. For people that count on you, you owe them the solution. And for you, if you are the man in the house, you are the solution for your family. You're the solution to the life they want. You're the solution to the dreams they have. You're the solution to your kids becoming everything they can become because your ceiling becomes their foundation so they can go further than you ever have. And here's the paradox. If it wasn't difficult, you wouldn't want it. If it wasn't difficult, everybody would have it. If it wasn't difficult, it wouldn't be worth a damn. Struggle is the currency of value. Without it, rewards are just participation trophies, which the world is littered with. You didn't earn it. You didn't bleed for it. You didn't win anything. Stop bargain hunting your way through life and chasing the cheapest shortcut and validating and virtue signaling why you should just sit there and be what? Present, connected, take balance, and have a day off. If you aren't where you want to be, then you don't deserve a day off. Because the people that live with you, that count on you, that believe in you are waiting for you to deliver. You want to know how to win? You find somebody that actually has the answer. They've paid the price. They've bled for it. They have the results. You look at them and you go, they have it all. And then you listen to them speak. And then you watch how their feet move. It's not about the words that come out of their mouth. It's what they do with themselves. Watch how their feet move. If they actually walk the talk, listen to them. Pay the price, the time, the money, the energy, all of it. whatever is required because the alternative is far more expensive. You'll spend your entire life looping the same 6 to 8 months recycling excuses, impressing followers who secretly, by the way, don't respect you. None of the followers, for the most part, would ever carry my casket ever. If I passed away, my wife would still have to do it by herself with the friends that we have. So, stop thinking and it has no if you go, "That's insulting to me. I would totally do everything for you." Great. Thank you for that. But for most people, they're like, "Yeah, I probably wouldn't." So stop trying to impress followers who just don't respect you and raising kids who will learn that mediocrity is normal. I love my wife so much and I love my son and my daughter so much. Which means I owe them everything I've got. Which means I owe them the greatest version, the greatest man that I can be. The greatest man that God has built me to become. I'm not even close yet. You think I come out here because I want attention? I don't give a [\h__\h] if I have five followers or 50 million. I care that at least one person hears something I say and goes, "I'm doing it. I'm changing. I'm going all in. I'm doing everything I got to change my circumstances because I don't like where I'm at." Instead of looking for reasons to justify where you're at every day, people ask me every single day, "How can I work one-on-one with you? What can I do, Spartan? How do I do it? I want to work one-on-one with you." The answer never changes. Discipline and commitment. Do everything I tell you to do when I tell you to do it. Four years ago, listen to me. I woke up missing a lung and staring at a shortened lifespan. In those same four years that everybody else had, I rebuilt everything. And I come out here to give you all I've got. I'm not some instant coach. I'm a man. I'm a father. I'm a doctor. I'm a leader. And I actually care. Same four years. Not because I had more time. I had less. Not because I had fewer problems. I had more because I'm committed and I stay committed. That's the secret. That's it. That's the real secret. There is no secret. Commitment. And if you go, I've heard this all before. It's just another guy talking about commitment. That means you're not paying attention. If you wake up tomorrow and you only do the things that move you towards the life you want every single day, it's inevitable. It's inevitable. It's not that it's possible or plausible. It is inevitable. It is inevitable that you will get it all. The health, the wealth, the relationships, the respect, the life, everything. I know because four years ago, I had knobbyby knees, 155 lbs, and I was broke and I lost everything. And I have come out here every day to give you everything. Join my program. Don't join my program. It doesn't matter. The real ones join because they go, "I need somebody that keeps me accountable all the time, not just when I watch their video or hear their voice on a podcast." You're going to get it all if you never ever stop moving towards what it is that you want. It is impossible. It is absolutely impossible to fail because you just never stop. So, you outlast all the excuses and the validations and all the people that tell you to quit, that try and convince you that it's actually more noble to do less. You get it all. Not because the savior showed up, some insta guru or coach. Not because you prayed harder, but because you finally became who God built you to be and who you've been waiting for for yourself. You want it? Understand this. Nobody is coming. Nobody is coming to save you. The doctors got to go home at 5:00 when I was in recovery. The doctors got to go home at 5:00 when I was in ICU dying, texting my wife telling her I wasn't going to make the next day and it was real. Not some, "Bro, I almost didn't make it." They got to go home. I didn't. So all I did was thank God for more time so I could serve more, be more, give more, help all of you more. And I do it for free. Buy for my company, great. Don't buy for my company, great. You see already 252 podcast episodes of giving solutions. I don't pitch in any of them, to be honest. Not to the level that you think. If I go, go ahead. This is where you go and get it. Elite biogenics. Great. If not, great. I still give you the solution. I explain how to win. I'm doing it right now. How to get the life you want, how to fix your marriage, how to fix your psychology. And that's where it starts, by the way, is what's going on here. Your psychology. If you can't fix that, it doesn't matter how great the solution is that I give you. If you're not willing to do it, none of it matters. Most of your problems in your life, and when I say most, all of them. They're solved by keeping your word. Not to your excuses, to the life that you keep secretly whispering about that you want, the one that you promised your wife and kids. If you are the wife, the one you promised yourself. If you are the wife, the one that you look in the mirror and you go, "I wish I really had this." the one that you owe yourself. 48. It took me until I was 48. I'm not coming out here telling you to join some program. I'm coming out here going, "If you just listen to me, your life will change." Did you do what you said you'd do today when you went to bed last night and you begged for something different and you wished your life was different? Did you wake up today and do something different? Did you wake up today and do what you said that you would do today? Not almost, not tomorrow, not today, today. If the answer is no, you don't need another podcast, another talk, another book, another program, another coach. You need a mirror. You need a mirror because listen to me, nobody is coming to save you. Nobody. Nobody is coming to rescue you. Nobody's going to sign a check. Nobody's going to show up into your house and fix all of your problems. You have to do it yourself, by yourself, for yourself. You have to be the one who shows up. You have to be the rescue. You have to be the reason. And when you finally do, the world isn't just going to notice. I assure you, they will have no choice but to stand up and applaud and say, "You [\h__\h] did it because you stopped giving up and taking all the weak opinions as your own." And you looked up at God and you said, "Okay, time to get to work. I got to go. Never miss.