I was inside and I was talking to Brandy, my wife, and we were talking about just the current landscape of social media and mass media, news, Hollywood, all of it. And you know the word scop came into the conversation and a lot of people dismiss that. But yet 90% of what you're watching, if not more, is a sign. And listen, before you guys run and think that I'm a tinfoil hatwearing conspiracy theorist, you do understand that most of the conspiracy theories that have been labeled conspiracy theories by people who don't want you to know the truth, by the way, are coming true. You understand that? Like we live in the Truman Show right now of all things if you really want to pick it apart, but that's an entirely other podcast. But I started thinking about SCOP and just the way people conduct themselves as a result of what's being presented to them, what information is being presented to them, how quickly they assimilate that information and then apply that to their own life. But it's not even their own belief. It's a belief of somebody else. And the problem with that is, are you even living your own life? And this isn't a metaphysical question or you know some existential question. This is are you actually living your own life? Are you just a bundle of reactions and past traumas and symptoms that are being expressed as a result of what you've seen, felt, touched, taste, heard, whatever it is. You ever wonder why people just line up to be lied to? Why millions of people will parrot headlines they've never ever researched. They cry over stories they've never verified. You see it on social media all the time. And they attack anybody who asks a logical question as if it's some personal insult. You think that's just random? It's not. It's not. It's very precisely designed. It's engineered. And I promise you, it is deployed with precision of psychological warfare every second of the day. You've been trained without knowing it. And I promise you, you're going to listen to this podcast and you'll never be able to unsee it. You've been trained unknowingly to obey emotion over logic. And all of you people that go, "No, no, I'm a logical person." You're an emotional person. and you back it up with logic to support the emotion you feel. You obey consensus and comfort over the facts, over very clear, well explained facts. And if you don't start recognizing the playbook that's being used, the blueprint that's being used against you, you're not just going to lose your freedom, you're going to lose your ability to think. You think 1984 and the thought police was just an entertaining book? It's like a field manual for current times. So, I tell you what, I will hand you a decoder ring to modern manipulation. I will hand you the algorithm that's going to help you get through all this because I spend a lot of time learning about human behavior and psychology. And my wife said to me today, she said, "You should talk about that stuff because I love the conversations we have about this." But I never really talk about it on here because people get weird. And it except the problem is that if nobody's going to explain it and nobody's willing to teach you what exactly is going on, you're never going to know cuz most people are never willing to go out and do it. like guys like like like Carl Dofoof, Alexander Frederick's, uh Chase Hughes, right, and a lot more people. They use a very specific model to tear this all apart. And once you see it, you can't unsee it. And I think willing having the willingness to learn new information is part of what is required to challenge current beliefs because I made a post before about the media. Well, this isn't about the media. Yes, it has to do with it. Yeah, but this isn't about the media specifically. But if you aren't challenging the beliefs, like, let me back up. You are taught not to learn. You're taught to believe and you're taught to never challenge the narrator of the narration. You're taught to never challenge the storyteller of the story. But yet, the story might not even be something you agree with or even fact-based. Most of the things that you find online, just to be very clear, are a bald-faced lie. And you know that, and yet you guys defend them. I mean, there's an entire experiment called the it was a line experiment where I don't remember the number of people that were in this experiment, but there were a couple of lines, three I think on this piece of paper, maybe 20 people in this experiment. I don't remember. It's I'm just pulling this out of a hat right. And everybody in this room was in on the experiment except for one person. And there were these lines on this paper, three lines. And then there was another piece of paper with one line. And they were asked match which line matches that single line the best, right? A, B or C. And if you looked at it, it was very clearly one of them. C, I think. So they went around and they handed the papers to people and the single line everybody was saying matched a but yet it wasn't even remotely close. So when it got to the one person who wasn't included in this experiment who had no idea what was going on 100% of the time that person said it was a even though it was very clearly not because they were going along with the group with the tribe. And that's what I'm trying to explain. This explains social media very well. They show you things in sequence in a very precise order in a way to alter the way you think and alter what you believe. So, I'll go over all this. It's called the fate model, by the way. Focus, authority, tribe, and emotion. And the I'll explain them all so you understand. But it doesn't just explain how social manipulation works. It explains why you're easier to control than you think. And those are the people that go, "No, I'm not. Nobody controls me. you're the easiest one because if you look at focus, just start at focus. The first and most important step to controlling the majority is to hijack all of the attention. Well, what do you think they're doing with social media? Because if I control everything that you look at, I don't have to worry about what you think about. So, how do they do it? Right? They do it through shock and fear and repetitive exposure. You ever notice how every single crisis is unprecedented with something historic? Never. It's the worst anything. It It's just sensationalized. It's the worst anybody ever seen. You think that's an accident? So, you can go through all of history, all of recorded history, and it has always been unprecedented. That doesn't even make sense because if they're all unprecedented, then they're all average. So, do you think that's an accident that they do that? Hell no. Not a chance. That's a the psychological equivalent of a cattle pod. And believe me, I'm throwing this together as best as I can to make it as easy to understand cuz I sit there with Brandy and we have conversations about this stuff all the time because this stuff is fun. But the reason it is, it's like a cattle prod, right? It gives you that zap. It's about manufacturing urgency. It blankets every screen with the exact same images. empty grocery stores, riots, crying moms, dead people, charts with rising death tolls, cat just catastrophic events. Why? Because fear is the it's it's the most powerful drug. It is the most primal powerful attentiongrabbing in your entire biological system. And the modern media machine is not in the business of informing you a damn thing. It's in the business of directing your gaze. They have a hole that they allow you to look through and they're the ones that direct you to the hole instead of looking over the wall. So they're like, "Hey, the hole's over here. Look through the hole." And then they only show you what they want you to see. But if you look over the wall, you see everything. So here's what you do. The next time there is wall-to-wall coverage of something, just pause and ask, "Why is this being pushed so aggressively? What's missing? What am I not seeing? What is not being shown? Is this theatrical or is this proportionate? Because if you're told something often enough, you're going to believe it. I don't care what it is. Because where your focus goes, your freedom follows. And right now, someone else is controlling the lens of your camera. So that that's why focus matters. So then break it down to the next step. Authority. This one's almost funny. It actually makes me laugh. if it weren't so damn effective. It's funny because they really listen to this. They roll out this panel of experts and they just throw a bunch of like they give them monograms that look like an eye chart. I got a string of degrees after my name. Does that really make me an expert or does it just say that I paid for a degree? I'll help you out. It's the second one. It's the latter, not the former. Your degrees mean precisely nothing. I'm tired of you guys waving your PhD flags around going, "Look how smart I am. I know personal trainers that are much better physicians than people have been through med school and gone into specialty training and have spent 10 years becoming doctors and they suck. So don't think that your letters after your name make you good at what you do. They don't. And that's coming from a doctor twice. The reason I say that is the second I came out of school, I realized how little I knew. everything that makes me an incredible doctor. And yes, I'll say that. I am an amazing doctor. Nobody diagnoses as effectively as I do because I actually pay attention to the needs and the cause, not the result of I don't care about your symptoms. I care about what's causing it. So, I make sure it never comes back. But all the learning I really did was after school. So, that's what they do, right? Like it's hilarious. The authority brand that they give people is mind them. It's hilarious because like I said, they roll out this entire this huge panel of experts. They throw them all over the place and give them some titles under their names or beside their names or whatever they do and suddenly it's gospel like it's evangelical the information. It doesn't matter if it if if the cardiologist is talking about epidemiology or if the economist is weighing in on climate change, just trust the suit, trust the tie, trust the letters after their name. Now listen, listen closely. Real authority comes with limits. And when someone starts speaking outside their area of expertise with unearned certainty, you are being caught. But we never question, do we? Ever. And I think it's because you're taught through 18 years of indoctrination to never question because when it's authority, you listen and this is what authority looks like. But most of the time that's not accurate. My son came home from school when he went to start homeschooling. He says, "I'm tired of going to school. I'm smarter than all of the teachers." And he really is. It wasn't an arrogant statement. He is much more intelligent than those catsuitw wearing, overweight, obese litter in the litter box in the back of the classroom wearing their pajamas to school with Crocs in sport mode teachers that show up that look like they're just a hot mess in their home life and they bring that to school because they're allowed to. I don't think gym teachers should be beasts. Just to be clear, Mr. Craig and Mr. Ants and Mr. Porco, those were my three gym teachers that I had throughout my elementary, junior, and all of them were fit. Every one of they all couldn't stand wimps. They all made you work. And the last thing they did was let you call in sad or take a day off. I never questioned them because it was making me work. But could you imagine if it was an obese? Listen, this is why an obese expert with a string of letters after their name, everybody listens because they go, "Well, I'd rather listen to somebody that actually went to school for it than someone that has actual real world experience." Why is that? Do you want the surgeon with a degree or you want the surgeon who's done it a thousand times? I'm going to tell you right now, I'll take the surgeon that's done it a thousand times, degree or not. So, that's the problem, right? is people start speaking outside of their realm of expertise. You have to understand you're being con but you never question it because we've been cons we've been conditioned to outsource truth to credentials instead of asking for logic proof or context. You want to protect your mind, watch their tone, watch their timing and especially watch when authority is used to justify overreach because it happens every second of the day. Look at social media. You're never going to look at anything in your world again after you this the same way after you listen to this podcast. And I bet you this podcast gets throttled, just possibly banned, muted, who knows? Goes against community guidelines, whatever BS they try and spin. So everybody should take this and share it because the moment somebody says we must do this because the experts say so, you are one step away from blind obedience and about three steps away from losing your ability to think independently. And listen, this is the part that gets, for lack of a better explanation, this gets dangerous, right? The manipulation of identity is where things get very dangerous because once your attention is captured and you've bought into these experts, the next step is to divide and conquer you by tribal identity. And here's how they do it. They label patriots versus traitors, maxers versus antiaxers, woke versus fascist, science believers versus deniers. I could do this all day. And if you don't look for it, you will never see it. Whatever they can use to create an inroup and an out groupoup, that's how you have to look it. But whatever they can use, they're going to use because when you're tribal, you're no longer thinking. You're defending. You're protecting your identity instead of seeking the truth. Remember the experiment of the lines? Well, the whole tribe said it's this line even though it was very clearly not that line, but you went along with it. You defended that identity even though it was dead wrong. People do this all the time on social media. They get in the comments and start defending something they have no clue about or don't believe in themselves. They just don't want to go against the tribe. They don't need to control what you know if they can control what side you think you're on. So, here's the trick. Whenever a message begins polarizing, whenever it starts sounding like good guys versus bad guys, you need to hit the binders and ask who is framing this? Who is explaining this? What am I why am I supposed and is there a cost at all of not choosing a side whatsoever? Because if they can make disagreement feel like betrayal, they've won. And that's exactly the point. And then you know what they end up doing, right? They weaponize emotion. And you see it everywhere. Social media is littered with hyper emotional, volatile people defending a truth that they don't believe in just because they don't want to go against the tribe. You ever try arguing with somebody in the middle of a panic? You ever try and reason with somebody who is just fury and rage? You may as well try and baptize a cat. It's never going to happen. It's never going to happen. Emotion suppresses critical thinking. That's not opinion. That is neuroscience. Now, remember what I said about neuroplasticity when I went into this, I don't know, a couple of weeks ago in a podcast. Your brain doesn't recognize logic or anything else. It only recognizes one thing. Reps. That's it. Reps. You can argue all you want. You are not a logic based person. You are a repbased person. You keep doing reps in the wrong direction. That is who you are. When you're afraid, listen to me. When you're afraid, your prefrontal cortex, the part of your brain responsible for logic and analysis, shuts down completely. Your lyic system takes over and you revert to fight, flight, or freeze. Which is why it makes it very difficult when you're running around in this heightened state of emergency all the time to get anything done. Do you ever notice that? And the social manipulators love this. Call it a scop. That's what it is. Because if they can flood your system with fear and rage and hope and fury, despair, hopelessness, they own your decisions cuz you will not you will not trigger logic. You will dive into your lyic system and let it run you into the ground. So when you hear a message that makes you feel deeply anything, stop and just say one thing. Show me the evidence. Show me the real facts. If you look at the way people have treated the lockdown when it finally came out that it was all a ruse, that the damage was far worse than they were letting on, that the catastrophe was far worse, that the lies were far bigger, people still and still do go to war to defend it. The public, I mean, not these follow the science people. I mean the public. Are you high? Where's the evidence on your side of the equation? It's easier to fool people than to convince people they've been fooled. Mark Twain, he wasn't wrong. If emotion is present, but facts are absent, walk away. It's not the truth. It's not. That is manipulation. That is manipulation in any Listen, you can you can use this in your personal relationships. You can use this in your marriage. You can use this in your friendships, in your business, in social media. How you're looking. Look at all the things that you look at on social media. Spend some time today and look at all of the things that you go through on social media that come across your feed and ask what kind of emotion they make you feel. And if they make you feel deeply on any whether, like I said, fear, hope, rage, despair, anger, hopelessness, all of that, you're being manipulated. That's not truth. It's hyperpolarizing you. Because listen, a lie dressed up in tears still a lie. You put lipstick on a pig, it's still a pig. Agreed? So, I think the problem with all of this is that your brain is a it's it's like a like a dopamine junkie. And if you're listening to that, I just slapped my arm to get a vein to the purpose. It's all about newness. I said this before. Your brain craves newness, novelty. And the social control knows it. Your biology is wired to notice the unusual. That is a survival instinct because evolution trained you to react to change. You see things out of the norm and you react instantly. New sound, new pattern, could be danger, food, sex, better pay attention. It doesn't matter. So what do modern manipulators do? They manufacture newness and novelty. Sudden crisis, new hashtags, viral exposees, dramatic reveals, whatever it is. But why? Ask why? Because newness triggers curiosity. It triggers urgency and a whole lot of impulsive behavior. Like even this, if you're listening to this and getting triggered, what do you think is happening? Because it's going against what you have been conditioned via your lyic system to go through. Turn it off. Prefrontal cortex. Use that. Start actually picking this apart. Pick this podcast apart. Pick it apart. Everything line by line. Number one, I am not wrong. Number two is you might not like what I'm saying because it makes you uncomfortable because it forces you to look at all the things that you have been played by because novelty triggers curiosity and urgency and a whole lot of impulse. It hijacks your pattern recognition system. So when something just happens to go viral the same day a major crisis or scandal or whatever breaks down or breaks out, come on man, don't be so naive. Ask why now? Why is this happening right now? Who is benefiting this? It always comes back to the same thing, right? The old question, follow the money. Because distraction is one of the most effective weapons in the arsenal of those who fear your attention. They want you to look where they want you to look, not where you should look. If you have somebody in your life that constantly makes promises and never comes good on them, what do you think they're doing? They're manipulating you because they don't want you to look at the truth. Really think about that. It is the same thing. Are they telling you to look over here even though they're promising something over there that has yet to come to fruition and it never has? Those are lies. It doesn't matter how nice they're dressed up, how kind their words are, and how much they make big promises. Until you see evidence, it's a lie. I mean, listen, I will burn your eyes out with this. When when every media outlet says the exact same thing, bounce, leave, run. Cuz just so you know, and you should know this being an adult and if you're a child listening to this, awesome. You're ahead of all of your friends. Be the truth is messy. You want to know real truth? That's how you know it's the truth. The truth is messy as hell. Like real truth is messy. Science is incredibly skeptical and dialogue is filled with non-stop like frustration and disagreement. It's got the eb and flow. Grant Cardone said it. sell or be sold. That is the eb and flow. That's the eb and flow of conversation. One side of the equation is selling and while the other person is being sold, the person being sold is doing a listening and that goes back and forth. It's this dynamic of conversation. The conversation when you look at the news or social media or whatever it is is between you and whatever pictures you're seeing, whatever words you're hearing. So social control, the SCOPs, they don't want real, they want faint little echoes in the background. They silence disscent. They s why do you need censorship? Ask yourself that. Why? If this is a free country and we have freedom of speech, why is why is there no freedom of speech? There shouldn't be anything that you can't say outside of it being blatantly illegal because you're a scumb. But everything else, it's a slippery slope to say, "Well, I find that offensive." Yeah, but somebody else might not. Well, we have to censor these things. Why are they harming people or are they keeping the truth away? When you censor it, it hides the truth. If someone doesn't want you to know the truth because the truth damages them, that censorship is them manipulating you. The court is littered with people with defamation lawsuits talking about how what the words of the truth, the truth that comes out that points a finger at somebody doing something incredibly heinous and terrible has to be suppressed because it's making me look bad. That's what they say. That's what a defamation lawsuit is. Unless it is actually defamatory. You know what's great about a defamation lawsuit? If it's a truth that's not defamatory, it doesn't matter what it is. But yet, they can still fight it. Look at things like ripoff report. There are countless facts that are taken off despite the fact that they have glaring evidence. They usually end up because the evidence says too bad. It's the facts. You can't pull it off. Welcome to freedom of speech. But I think you have to look at how you're conducting your life and what you're looking at and what you actually think is the truth because the real truth is messy. It's messy. So here's what they do instead. Look at look at the platforms. Why are you seeing the things you're seeing? Why are you following the things you're following? Why are you believing the things you believe? Just ask. Become your own person. Because back like you go back even a hundred years and this wasn't nearly as prevalent. It was just different. Yes, it was prevalent. Not even close to the same way. So they silence disscent, they censor platforms, they demonize any critic or label you as a conspiracy theorist because now that label is anchored to something that's bad. That's like saying side effects except if you look at a drug. So if I look at coffee, my mug here is filled with caffeine. Black coffee. If you're drinking anything other than black coffee, you have something wrong with you. But because now you're drinking a dessert, just so we're clear. Black coffee. I can say that it heightens awareness, increases focus, has all like we're talking Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, dementia, so many beneficial effects. Anybody that sits there and says caffeine is bad for you has no concept. None. The endless string of data that proves that it is so beneficial is astronomical. But you can also say side effects is are makes you jittery, keeps you awake, makes you feel anxious, causes a norepinephrine and epinephrine response, adrenaline, right? But those aren't side effects. Those are just effects. They label them as side effects because that way they're thought of as negative. It is just an effect. You can use this with a drug. An aspirin will cause uh acute renal damage, liver damage, liver failure, gastrointestinal lining damage. Those are side effects. The effect is fever reduction, pain reduction, but those are also just effects. You flip the script. I've said this before. Would you take an aspirin or a Tylenol if it said will cause liver damage, renal damage, gastrointestinal bleeding, possible side effects? Fever reducer, pain reducer. You'd never take it. The presentation is what I mean. You could use this in sales. How are you being sold your stuff if you are like I have a business a com one of the companies I own is called Unbreakable and it's where I teach people how to make money and the bulk of the problem with making money isn't isn't the product you're selling. It's how you're delivering it and where you're looking for prospects. It isn't the problem with social media and getting more leads because most of you guys don't understand what to do with a lead when it shows up anyway because then the lead shows up and you go, "Well, I can't sell anything." You want a hundred leads a day, but you don't know what to do with a 100 leads a day because you don't even know what to do with one because you're not looking at what they need. You're too busy Jordan Belelffort, right? You're too busy going, "Let me sell you this pen. This pen is amazing. It writes upside down. It writes in space. You never have to change the ink. In fact, it makes you taller. Makes you more good-looking. If you're a guy, it makes you look like Brad Pitt. If you're a girl, it makes you look like Angelina Jolie. It's the most amazing pen in the world. It puts a million dollars in the bank the second you get this pen. You should buy this pen." Except what if the person goes, "Yeah, but I'm not looking for a pen." Rookie mistake is trying to sell to every That's how you can smell a rookie a mile away. Well, everybody needs this pen. I'm not looking for a pen. I don't need a pen. Hey, what do you need? Are you looking for a pen? How much do you usually spend? What kind of pen do you use it? What do you use it for? Is it for professional? Is it for personal using you an artist? You just like to do? Is it a pen that's a gift? Is it a pen for you? Pen for your wife? What kind of pen is it? What color ink do you want to use? What kind of pen do you like in your hand? Those are the like you want to find out what the needs of the person are, but you guys are always trying to sell somebody something just because you think it's great. Nobody else cares how great it is. They care if it solves the problem. Is this going to work for me? Is this going to solve my problem? How do I get it? And then that person has to look at your product or service. I mean, all this plays together with this FATE, this acronym, right? And is is is the person the person that is going to buy your product or service has to look at it and they have to make a decision and change their mindset. Your job when you are talking to somebody who actually needs your product. Stop trying to sell things to people that don't need what you have because that is first of all it's a dick move. I go to the dealership and I need an SUV and they sell me another 911. my wife's going to freak out. And number two is they didn't help me with what I need. They helped me with what they needed. That's not a good salesman. That's a scumbag. That is social manipulation. That is a small form of suck because they manipulated my emotions, got me to use my lyic system instead of my prefrontal cortex and then I bought sales. I've done this with a thousand people in a room and explain this and they're just going, "Holy smokes, I never thought of it this way." I've done this with one-on-one clients that spend a lot of money to have me help them. I do this in webinars. Like, I want people to learn how to understand the components of human behavior and why people do what they do. I love this stuff. It's fun for me. I just don't talk about it. But I do it a lot inside Unbreakable because I don't just teach people how to make money. I teach people how to make money and make a lot of it in front of people who actually want their stuff and want to give you money because you're actually solving their problem. and you understand the nuances of communication. That's what this is. Except right now, social media understands it better than you. So, it's not your ad, it's everything else about that ad. When you talk to somebody about how great your product is, they don't care. Is it going to solve my problem? Do I even need this product? How do I get it? Because like I said, your job as a business owner or a salesperson is to take that person and get them to make you can never get somebody to change their mind. So don't try is to get them to make a new decision. And the new decision is that by buying your product and or service or both, I am at less of a risk than not buying it, maintaining the status quo, doing nothing and everything staying the same. It is less risky to give you money in exchange for your product or service. That is what you are doing. You are getting them to make that decision. And the only way you can do that is by actually understanding how human beings think. So all these sales training gurus that come out and go here's all these crazy sales judo lines that you know scripts and word tracks that get people to do certain things. That's not true. It's just not true. And they are bleeding you guys dry for money. And the only people that they sell to, just to be very transparent, are the people that do not think for themselves. So, they're doing the same thing that the SCOP people are doing on news and social media because they want the echoes. They don't want real as the salesperson. They want echoes so you actually get the money. Sure, I'd love it if you bought my program. I'd love it if you joined Unbreakable, my mastermind. I'd love it if you did one-on-one with me if it's going to help you and it's what you need. If it's not what you need, why would I do that? If you want a personal training fitness program and you come to me for that and you go, "Why is one-on-one with you $100,000? I just wanted a fitness program." Follow my stuff for free. I post my workouts at least three, four times a week. I told you how I eat. I gave away all the secrets. Like that's what's wild is I actually give you the facts that work. The only reason people don't listen to anything I say if they if forever some reason they don't, I think you should, but if you don't is because you don't you doubt your own follow-through. Has nothing with me. I have the results, right? Like I'm wearing the Rolex. I have the fitness. I have the two decade marriage. I have the life. I make the money. We own the companies. I've come back from massive adversity. We have a fantastic life. If I have the picture of the life you want, the best thing you can do is listen to everything I tell you to do because I've already done it. So, I know where the mistakes and the the pitfalls and the potholes are. So, I'll tell you exactly where those are so you can avoid those and just do everything I do. It saves you a ton of time. The single best investment I have ever made is a coach by far. Even this podcast and listening to this, you some of you guys should just have sparks go off and go, "How do I get in touch with a Spartan right now? I need to join his program." And you should send me a DM or just type in the word unbreakable on Instagram and Automation will take over. It'll give you two options to join. And by the way, all those prices, it's not a ruse. Those are going to change in 30 days. They're all going to double. So, all of that is very simple. Now, you have to decide whether or not you're going to be committed enough to do all the work that I'm going to ask you to do. Because if you want something to do the work for you, and you believe that people have a 20-minut a day job that pays them $10 million a year and they have AI do it all for you, absolutely not. However, keep buying those programs. $39 for a program is fantastic if you don't intend to get anywhere and you think the program is going to do the work instead of you. But again, that's the sc they're getting you to use your liyic system. Do do you see this connection here? So if you go to the other side of the equation, things they don't want you to see, it's what I said. They silence disscent. They censor platforms. They algorithmically bury questions. They demonize critics. And the kicker is they do this all while pretending to protect you from misinformation. What do you think a salesman does? Same thing. What do you think manipulative people do? Same thing. So let me explain this. Here's your job. Whether you call me and you say, "I actually want this guy to coach me or not," that's on you personally. It's if you need a coach, you should probably join my program. Probably is a very mild understatement. So, here's your job. Actively seek out opposing views. All of actively seek out all as many opposing views as you can. Even if they challenge what you believe, who cares? In fact, especially if they challenge what you believe. Because then you might realize what you believe isn't really what you believe. It's what somebody else told you to believe. Because when you kill dissent, you don't preserve truth. you embalm it. Right? So, let's go a little deeper here. I didn't realize I've been on here for 35 minutes, but cognitive dissonance, right? We It's like two symbols just smashing inside your head. When your beliefs and your actions clash, that's what cognitive dissonance is, right? Your brain scrambles to resolve the discomfort. It looks for it panics. It seeks an exit out of that arena as fast as possible. and socially manipulative people, sociopaths, manipulative salespeople, liars, a lot of politicians, scops, they all exploit this and they do it as well as David Copper. They're so they don't come after your beliefs directly because that would cause resistance, right? right away you dig your heels in. Which is why a lot of people fail in business cuz you are challenging somebody's belief directly and essentially calling them stupid for what they've been doing for so long and that your program or your product is going to solve all their problems and they should have bought it a long time ago. They're dumb for not doing it. That instantly causes resistance. They're not going to buy it. I wouldn't. So instead, what they do is this is how they do it. And you have to look at your own conversations inside your own head with people that are in your life. They don't come after your beliefs directly. These people that do this because of the resistance it causes. They're smart. They create little microaggments, right? Little concessions. And we know this already with human behavior. Just change your profile picture. Just wear this this little ribbon. Just say this catchphrase. Just use this hashtag. Just sign the petition. All seems harmless, right? Wrong. Absolutely wrong. Because once your identity starts aligning with a cause, no matter how small, you're on a psychological leash. And the moment the moment they escalate the demand, you're going to comply because your brain needs to stay congruent with the person that you have adopted. So the next listen, this is important. So the next time somebody says only good people do XYZ, ask why do I need to prove my goodness to any stranger? Why do I need to prove my actions to any stranger in the comments, to somebody online, to somebody on TV, to somebody on social media that goes, "Oh, yeah, [\h__\h] This guy isn't doing it. I don't believe it." Why do I need to prove that? That's how you have to look at it. What happens if you say no? What version, what operating system are they trying to install in my brain? Because what starts as a a sticker or a ribbon quite often ends as a muzzle. Let me show you. Let me explain this. Sorry. My knee is bugging me because I did a ton of lunges. Did so many lunges that I Holy moly. Walking lunges with a kettle bell, an offset kettle bell. Switching hands every five. Hundreds of lunges. I only used a 35. It was brutal. I did front rack lunges with uh 75 pounds barbell plus pull-ups and I just went route until I physically couldn't complete at least 10 reps and I broke. Oh well that beat me to death. So my body is going hey you're 52 remember? Uh you should be able to do more. I see you thought I was going to say slow. So let me explain this because they manipulate your inner cromagnon your simple mind. And let me let me explain how they do that because they they hijack the emotional scripts that you're running. Your brain is still running dated software. I said this the other day, right? It's and it's you have had this installed when you were born. Not really. It's I don't believe that you're born with remember what I said. I believe that you're born fearless and unstoppable and disciplined in the right direction and everything else is caught like a disease. And it's usually taught by those closest to you. And it's usually taught by those closest to you that have no success in an area or have had failure in an area. They're not the same. And they think that it doesn't work. So they want to make sure that you don't do it either. But it's not because they want to protect you. It's because they want to protect them. Because if you succeed, it proves all of their excuses wrong. So your brain is running this dated operating system, right? Fear of scarcity, fear of loss, uh fear of being seen to fail, not failure, fear of being seen to fail, fear of being rejected, fear of, you know, your children having bad things happening to you. That's just all that's inside. That's how you are wired. But you will learn that you're not I really don't believe it's not instinctual other than mothers will and for the most part fathers will protect their young or the young in general. But I think every manipulative campaign whether it is social media or your own or somebody trying to do it to you, they all know this. They weaponize all of this like a nuclear strike, right? Think about this. They play on this fear. Empty shelves on the news. I said panic buying it. Get everybody to buy something. I mean, think about it. Gas war. Gas war. The gas station is lined up. People will drive 30 miles to save 10 cents on gas. Make it make sense. But you guys, like you don't question that and go, "Wait, what exactly? If you don't act now, you know your kids won't have a future. Urgency. No data. Nothing behind it. None whatsoever." Only selfish people don't agree, right? Only selfish people disobey. Only selfish people don't follow the science. Shaming trigger after shaming trigger. Tribal shaming triggers, by the way, because you aren't part of the tribe if you do. They bypass logic and go straight for instinct, right? Limbic system, limbic system, limbic system. So the countermeasure is this. Break the script. Ask yourself this. Is this urgent or is it being made to feel urgent? And then just compare data. Look at timelines. Compare data. What's the real risk here? Is there really a risk here? And a lot of you guys are so impulsive. Remember what I told you? The result is impulse. When they do all that, the result is impulsive behavior. And then the problem with the impulsive behavior is now you've created your own fear and anger and rage and loss and all of that comes from you now because you did something that you probably shouldn't have done. Bought it, you spent it, you went to it, you did it, whatever. It's all impulsive, but you know it's impulsive. But hindsight's always 2020. So ask yourself, is this urgent? Is it really urgent? And I know I'm I'm deep into the psychology in this one, but I really want you guys to understand this. Look at the data. Because when your primal ancestors heard something in the bush that sounded big, heavy, and could tear them limb from limb, they checked out. But when your iPhone makes a ding, you guys act the same way. But it might just be a narrative trip. Remember what I said about following the money? You want to find the truth? Don't follow headlines. Don't. My wife has been saying this for years. I totally agree. Follow the money. Just follow the money. That's to do. That is all you have to do. Stop following the headlines. They are designed to get you to think a certain way. That is a hole that they want you looking through. You guys never question that because of course nobody else would lie, right? Look for who funded the study. You peer-reviewed research. I see this one guy all the time talking about peer-reviewed research online about health and what But who funded the study? I don't care about your peer-reviewed research. They buy results. So, who funded the study? Who benefits from all the fear and who's getting the subsidies or the attention or the votes or the weapons, whatever it is, you're going to find that behind almost every single moral panic is a business interest or political objective. So, do the homework. search sponsorships, corporate ties, political donations, all of this stuff is public record. And you know what happens is people go, "I don't have the time for all this. I'll just do it." That's the problem. And then you get mad in the at the circumstances you're in that you put yourself in. Because if the narrative is profitable, you can bet your you could bet your ass your last buck that it's being amplified. Not because it's true, but because it pays. Listen, when what's his name? the CEO of Boeing gets a 45% pay increase in one year. So now he's making something like $ 38 million a year, which means the year prior to that he was making 20 million, 25 million, whatever. Are you crazy? How many of you guys would be okay with getting a not 45% a 10 to 15 million raise per year? Would you guys be okay with that? Here's why they did it. Look the other way, man. Don't worry about it. We're going to cut corners and do all this. We're going to fleece everybody for everything. But don't worry, we'll put a little money in your pocket. If the money goes into that pocket, where's the rest of it going? Because there's a lot more than what you think, right? So, you have to look at shifting contests because emergencies rewrite morals. And that's what people do. Whether it even that guy, right? I just I forget his name, but even that guy was there was an emergency that made him do something to accept that amount of money. And if you go, "Of course, I'd accept that amount of money." If it is for no reason whatsoever, what's the price? What's the price? I can actually use somebody in our life that we had that made promises about massive amounts of money and help and all the cool things that were going to happen in our future. And the guy ended up hurting me, my family, my children, my wife. I've seen my wife in tears. I've seen my children feel betrayed because these were all empty promises for massive amounts of help that never came to fruition and was always deferred down the line. And this is not anecdotal, this is a personal experience in our life and it cost us dearly not just the financial side but it cost us time because we put faith in something where somebody does social manipulation. It was a single single person scile. So look at your friends, look at your life, look at your boss, look at the people in your life and go, "Are they actually looking out for my best interest?" And by the way, nobody's going to look out for your best interest more than you. But are they looking out for your best interest or are they looking out for their best interest and you happen to be the person that they're throwing things at to keep stringing you along because they just want to have somebody in their corner that makes them feel good about what they're doing. Even worse is they want someone in their corner that they can manipulate to do the things for them, which ended up with this guy. I was giving this guy so much healthcare information to help him. I bent myself backwards trying to help this guy. Like so much hours on the phone, not a single dime. Not a single thank you. No compensation for all the bullyit. So ask yourself, look at yourself. Because we had to look at our life, Brandy and I, and we wait a minute. This has been 16 months of empty promises keeping me on the line. So I am the savior with nothing to show for it. And I don't mind helping people. I mind helping people when they make promises and don't they don't come to fruition and they just keep deferring it going well things have just changed so I just have to push it back a little bit. If you promise a date below the date you are a manipulating person. So look at your life. look to see if you're doing that or somebody else is doing these are all like that's and and if they're using emergencies to go I need to defer this that rewrites morals like you ever notice how people accept things listen to me they accept things in emergencies they'd never accept in normal life that's the context shift at work when people are afraid they'll let the Patriot Act is a great example but when people are afraid whether it is real fear or installed operating system fear. It's an upgrade that they right they'll let the government track their phones. Soldiers on the street liberties vanish because the context makes it necessary. That's how manipulative people think. I can use this this dude that made empty promises. An emergency came up in my life that was not mine. His that didn't really exist. because I was followed up with, "Hey, look, it's all ready to go, but I just have one more thing to do, bro." But there was always the next emergency. Well, the context made it necessary to accept. Right now, do you see what I'm saying? Look at your I'm not talking big catastrophic emergencies all the time. I'm talking things in your life. So, you can apply this to everything in your world. This is the ultimate manipulation tool. Change the situation and you change what's acceptable. again. Here's what you whenever you hear it's different this time or you know what we have no choice we can't do this we have to do this instead it's important ask yourself is the context being exaggerated to justify the overreach it's what I said at the beginning compare it to everything else you've seen in the past specifically even in that in that category with that business with that person with like look it compare it to everything in the past look for contraindications. Ask yourself, is this permanent? And who benefits? If it is, if it's permanent, who is going to benefit? Because when fear becomes context, freedom is optional, not a chance. Human beings think in stories. If you really have to expand this out, I'm 49 minutes in. This has been a really long podcast. I hope you guys are still here, man, because this is some cool information. Stories need characters. So what happens is social manipulation scops whatever try not to use that word too much because who knows somebody's going to say we have to censor you right they simplify complex issues using archetypes right these people are the v villains these people are the saviors this group is the enemy right just totally distilled down if the narrative feels like a Marvel movie. I had an Avengers man, you're being played again. Ask again, who made the hero? Who's been made the hero? And who made the hero? And then go, why? Why? Who's being dehumanized? And is the story avoiding nuance? Because if the story needs to be simple to succeed, it's probably not true. What did I tell you? The truth is what? It's messy. That's the facts. Because if you're not willing to look at this, the you have been taught to not think, to not learn, to not absorb new information and apply it to your life. But the definition of intelligence according to the Spartan me is the faster you apply new information and make changes in your life, the more intelligent you are. But I know people that will take 35 tries with new information and not make any changes. Well, you're not very intelligent if it takes somebody else, too. And the default setting is the person that did it in two goes, I agree. And the person who can't do it in 35 goes, that's not necessarily true. I'm just not a math person. Or whatever it is. But that's not accurate at all. You're just not doing it because the dialogue you're running, the subtext you're running, the operating system you're running is still predicated on some form of fear. What if this doesn't work? I'm not going to do it. I'm I I suck at these things. cuz I remember my third grade teacher told me I suck at guess I suck at math and now you're afraid your third grade teacher is going to show up and scold you for not figuring it out. What's the problem? It only takes you as long as it takes you because you keep getting in your own way. See, look at look at frames. If you look at if every message you have in your life, whatever it is, it exists in a frame. And sales people use this all the time, right? You're trying to steal my frame. I'm trying to take your frame. All this kind of stuff. But it tells you what to expect. That's what a frame is. Like what to expect, believe, perceive, how to assimilate that information. And what truth is no longer up for a debate. That's what a frame does. So what you do is you break the frame because otherwise the frame is being given to you. That's what you have to look at social media for. The frame is being given to you. You don't come up with it yourself. You're being told what the frame is. So break it. What am I What am I being told to expect? Ask. Ask. How many times have you asked that? What am I being told to expect? What's assumed about my ethics, my morals, my values, my belief systems? What facts are being excluded? What is missing from this entire equation that actually would change everything radically? What truth can't be challenged? That's my favorite one. What truth about this entire thing can't be challenged? Because if an idea needs its critics silenced, goes back to defamation lawsuits. If an idea needs its critics silenced, it's not strong. It's fragile. And if search engines and algorithms or laws are needed to protect an idea from scrutiny, then that idea shouldn't be trusted. Just let that hit for a second. You don't need to know everything and you don't need to be an expert. And that's what's being told on social media and that's what's being told on the news. And some of you guys tell yourself, I need to know everything before I make a decision. I need to be an expert before I make a decision. But that's exactly why your business is failing. That's why your your leads are ghosting you. That's why nobody shows up to your product show or your service or anything. Your launches are failing. That's why your marriage is being torn apart by you. That's why your kids don't listen. That's why you are still overweight and you have all the medications that you probably don't need. This is why because you feel you have to know everything and be the expert before you even make a decision. So you don't need to be the expert and you sure as hell don't need to know everything. But you damn sure need to ask better questions. Remember what I said, the quality of your life is predicated on two things. The quality of conversations you have with yourself and the quality of questions you ask yourself. Get good at asking yourself better damn questions because in a world of engineered consent, critical thinking is now rebellion. really. They don't fear the loudest voice in the room. Just to be clear, they fear the ones that are calm and collected, unemotional, and they're composed. The one who isn't asking permission to think or goes, "Hey, I'm thinking this." They don't even tell you they're thinking it. They just do it. If you're the ones that say, "Okay, show me the metrics." Prove it. Not with your emotion or you're yelling or you're screaming at somebody on social media and trying to belittle somebody. Prove it. You should ask yourself that because that will change how this will, if you listen to this and you apply everything I just said in this hour that I've been on here, it'll change your sales. It'll change your business. It'll change your marriage. It'll change your own view of yourself, your identity, your self worth. It'll change everything for the better. But you got to apply it. So be the one that's calm and composed, who doesn't need permission to think and who challenges everything and asks prove it to themselves. Be that person or don't. And then be controlled. It's your move, man. I got to go. Never miss.