interesting day today, right? My one of my business partners and I, we were talking about people and the conduct and he's he and I are close to the same age about 6 years apart. So, we've seen life in kind of the same light and we've had the same kind of childhood, the same kind of work ethic. We've been put to work hard and our parents didn't tolerate anything other than high standards. There's a lot of things that are similar about this. But the reason I'm bringing it up is that's the same kind of conduct that we both expect from other people, right? That high level of ethics and integrity and high standards, which means ownership, right? And my wife, she is nothing but ownership. My wife has the highest integrity of anybody I've ever met by far. Her ethics and her morality are incredible. And I've learned a lot of things from my wife. She's a she's an amazing woman. 20 years, right? But we also have high expectations of other people. And what I'm starting to see is that when you have high expectations of others and they fail to achieve those expectations and they aren't unrealistic. For example, bring me the drink with ice in it to my table. And they bring you a drink with no ice in it. And you specifically ask and you can't say, "Can you please go get me a drink with ice?" And they give you attitude, get angry, and then take 5 minutes to bring you the drink back. That's not offensive. That's expecting high standards and the standard that was set when you made the order. But now people get angry and they go, "Oh." and they get annoyed when you demand accountability for their actions. You demand responsibility from them, not yourself, because now it's been deemed offensive. It's been deemed an attack. People have become so fragile, right? Like there's a sickness in our culture. There really is. It's this subtle fully sanctioned by the way sickness and it runs around on social media masquerading as virtue. It's that they said you had to be nice. They said that being nice, this is what's being spread everywhere, that being nice is the highest good. That that being nice is going to change the world. And the best way to become the highest version of yourself is to never ever rock the boat. Never do anything that's going to ruffle any feathers. Always be nice. Never raise your voice. And I'm not one for raising my voice anyway other than on here. I don't think it does much for you unless you're trying to get somebody's attention. But be nice. Careful what you say. It's not what you said, it's how you said it. Like, come on, man. None of that is accurate. But most of you listened and you soften your opinions and you swallow all your convictions and you trade all of those instincts and the vibes you have inside about what is what is integrity and what is actually eth ethical and what's the right thing and you trade all that for approval. And you believed that it makes you a better person, a more socially evolved human, a more acceptable citizen. You couldn't be more wrong because what you really have done is become weaker and demanding that same level of weakness from other people. Listen, you should all be demanding high standards because you have those same high standards. But the problem is you don't have those high standards. You can't demand them from other people. And even if you do, it's selective. You demand high standards from others but not from yourself. Which means you are ruthless of others, the conduct of others, and tolerant of your own. Right? Marcus Aurelius said that. I didn't come up with this. But that's backwards. So now people aren't fighting to raise standards. They're fighting to lower standards because it's tolerated. Do you realize that anytime tolerance was mentioned in the Bible, just to be clear, it was never for anything good. Primarily sexual immorality, tolerance, and yet tolerance is expected. You've become weaker because you want to be a more acceptable, nice version and you demand that from others, which means you're demanding lower standards, not higher. That's not what you became. You became more quiet, more timid and dosile and reactive. The problem is there is a price and it's destroying it's destroying our world. It's destroying countries and entire cultures. Listen, we've engineered society where truth is offensive. Listen to me. We have actually engineered a society where the truth is offensive and niceness is the leash that they use to keep you in check to keep you tame. Right? Children are punished for speaking honestly. Employees are coached to sugarcoat feedback. But the owner, the boss, the leader is also expected to be nice and if they don't do the job correctly, just to give them always a free pass because I mean we want happy employees. Happy employees or happy team members, whatever you want to call them, are people that do their damn job. If you don't do the job, you don't keep the job. That's how I was raised. If you don't do it right, you don't stay. But now, if you get fired, there's something called wrongful termination. You have no right to work for any company. I have no right to work for a company. If I'm not doing my job, hit the road, man. They don't need to give me two weeks. If I screw up, bye. But yet they go, "No, no, you have to be nice, but you suck at your job." And then you file a letter of complaint with EDDD and it says, "Well, wrongful termination. They expected too much. They didn't give me enough breaks." I grew up on a farm. There were like so much work I had to do. My parents stacked chores on top of me a mile high. And not once did I go, I'm not getting the required break after 2 hours or 3 hours or four hours or whatever. I would work 10 hours a day and my mom would have a lunch for me when I came in or a dinner for me when I came in. So what? Expecting everybody to be nice to you is exactly why you are where you are. Sugar coating everything and expecting it to be sugarcoated to you. Entire generations are being trained to prioritize how things feel over whether they're even true. And if you expect the truth and demand it, you're combative. You get cancelled. You're offensive. Because if you speak with clarity, listen, if you speak with truth and clarity about something, regard people take that as an attack. So now you're aggressive. When you hold people to standards, you're harsh and abrupt. When you point out failure, you're a toxic person. You're horrible. Listen, I was at Postnet today. So, I we have a place where we drop off our mail. It's called Postnet. It's owned by this guy. I won't say his name because it's not fair. He's a good dude. He's a Marine. I have nothing but respect for this guy. His name's Dustin. He's a good dude. Solid dude. Marine. Served our country. I have nothing but respect for this guy. But he's an employee that works for him that is an absolute dumpster fire. And it has been four years where it has been non-stop screw-ups between losing packages, lying about packages, lying about things being delivered. Just follow me on this. Lying about things being delivered, saying they were never delivered and that the UPS, FedEx, whoever is delivering it. Lies so it looks good on their schedule and it shows that they're delivering their packages. When I pull out my phone and I show a picture that's been taken in their business of the box on the floor and I'm looking right at it and listening to this lady tell me how it's not delivered and that they lie. So, they make their schedule and I show the picture twice that's happened. I've had packages lost because they put them in the they being her only her. I have no problem with any of the employees there except this train wreck that's there and her name's Erica and I don't care. This is my show. I don't care. But the issue is is it's non-stop excuses, validations, and explaining it away, which is lie, lie, lie, lie, lie. And I finally said, "This is ridiculous. You've lied to my daughter. You've lied to my wife. You've lectured my wife. You've lied about things showing up when they haven't shown up." And this has been for 4 years. And I've always addressed it with her. And finally, I said, "This is nuts. I'm not going to do this anymore." And I went in there yesterday and I said, "These are my expectations. They aren't being met." And it was explanation after explanation after explanation. And I was calm. I was direct. And I finally said, "Listen, if you worked for me, you wouldn't be working for me anymore because you're not holding the standard." And there's a reason why I am a multi-million dollar business owner and you're on the other side of that counter. That is a very true statement. I'm sure somebody's going to hear that. Somebody on this podcast right now is going to hear that and go, "That's so offensive." No, it's not. It is the truth because your conduct doesn't warrant owning a business cuz you couldn't do it. Just to be very clear, let's flip the script. I have a customer today whose package was lost on account of that. I went out of my own money and I bought all kinds of stuff and I took things that were in my own home that also is something that I sell and I packaged it up and I went overnight. Express Air cost me at least 10 times the amount in postage and doubled the product because it was lost on account of Erica's incompetence. I took ownership of it. I didn't even hesitate. I didn't sit there and send them a message and go, "You know what? It's beyond me, man. I just boxed up a whole new batch and paid infinitely more money for postage and sent it out." By the way, if you're dealing with Elite Biogenics, that's the company I own, one of them. That's the level of service you get. That's what I did for one of my customers because that's what I want to be known for is taking care of the people that buy my stuff because customer service is a disaster right now. So, if he gets two packages and they both have the same thing, okay, great. No, I'm not telling you to send me orders and say they got lost just to go, "Well, let's test the theory out and see if the Spartan actually is like that." I am. But the point is, I expect the same standards from everybody else as I expect from myself. So when I went in there and I said that, it was taken as being offensive. It is horrible. I had one lady there go, "Oh my god, it was just awful. I was so like, oh, because I wasn't nice. I was kind and I wasn't screaming, yelling, I didn't swear, nothing. I told the truth." And it's been not one strike. It's been like a half a dozen to a dozen strikes over the course of time. And it's been addressed every time. And finally, I said, "I'm done." And not once was there. This is why I'm bringing this up. This is the world we're in. This is a mature. This lady's probably 60, 55, a parent, but it's been nothing but excuses for 4 years. So, the pattern is I can explain it away and people tolerate it because they're like, "Oh, I don't know. I guess it's AI expect the same thing out of everybody else as I expect from myself." And I think everybody else, that's the problem with the world is the expectations have dropped drastically. But here's why I bring this up. When your expectations and your standards are high and you hold other people to the truth and then when it's not met, you demand that truth, you are now labeled as toxic and harsh and aggressive. But not once did I hear out of this woman's mouth, you know what? I have no idea what's going on with that package. Give me to the end of the day and I'll find out. which is and I know as a business owner that's exactly the way I would have handled it. However, I went one step further for our customer and I said, "Don't worry about it. I'll send it out right now. I'll send you a whole new batch." Done. Why? Because those are my standards. Now, if you if you're clear or honest or you tell the truth or you expect that same integrity from other people, you're harsh. You're abrasive. You're toxic. you should be cancelled. And that didn't happen by accident. Just so we're clear, this has been built brick by brick and message by message and indoctrination by indoctrination with one goal to make confrontation indistinguishable from cruelty. If you're actually understanding what I'm explaining, this should be appalling. If you're living on the other side of your feelings and going, "Oh, I could totally see though. Like you you should have a little tact when you say things." That's the problem is you are expecting lower standards from other people who don't have those standards. See, they didn't want calm leaders. They wanted quiet leaders in the world. Right? They want leaders who fold when they're challenged and apologize for telling the truth and don't govern by principle. They govern by popularity. And so now we have leaders on for the most part chosen by how likable they are. Thank God for Trump because he's a leader. You guys vote for people. And listen, I don't care about your politics. So, save it for another person. I don't care. You want to get in the comments. That's weird. That just shows you're I own you because you get triggered by things. This is my conversation. You don't have to vote for who. That's the beauty of voting. And if it's rigged, it's rigged. But that I have no I don't get into any of that stuff. What I'm saying is Trump is a leader. He makes business decisions. And you can talk about his bankruptcies and all that. Welcome to owning a business and running a business and using the system to your advantage. If anybody else had, it's what I talked about yesterday. If the roles are reversed and you were in the same situation with the same benefits and tactics and all the stuff, would you still accuse the person for being dishonest and cheating? And no, you wouldn't. And that means that it was never about dishonesty and cheating. It was about your ego. So, you can get offended, but I'm still right. But people are now chosen for leadership positions based on how likable they are, not how competent or stable or decisive. I think the world has forgotten what true leadership is. No, my wife was a professional soccer player. Not one coach was nice and she's spoken highly about all of her coaches, but not one of them. We were just talking about this. They were coaches. Do you want to win? Get your ass back on the field. You're practicing until you get this. We're doing more drills. Oh, but we're tired. It's hot. We're sweaty. She told me she's thrown up on a soccer field more than once. She's cursed and cried and ran. My wife, in my world, still is the best. But in back in the day when she played pro, she was the best because she listened to her coaches. Coaches, you should treat everything in your life as a coach. And not not sitting here going, "Not everybody wants to be a winner." Yes, you do. Most people aren't willing to commit to what's required to be a winner. So, they expect everybody to hand them the trophy and the ribbon, which comes back to 11th place trophies and all the other nonsense and why little Tommy is now wearing a dress. Leadership is is about force of character. It's clarity when things are catastrophic and just all upended. It's about having the spine to make decisions, unpopular ones, without flinching. You don't hire a coach to make you feel good. You hire a coach to extract the potential you've been too scared to demand from yourself. That's what a leader is supposed to do. In fact, that's what we're all supposed to do for each other. Would you rather be surrounded by people that are lethal tactical killers in every field? Or would you like to be surrounded by a bunch of tubby soft I can't make a decision without calling my mom first people? Somewhere along the line, y'all got hypnotized by charisma. You know, you vote for smiles and nice words and what goes with this the current narrative. You don't vote for the steel in somebody's spine. You want the familiarity because they make you feel good about where you are in your complacency instead of having the fortitude to do what's required. And then you start believing that being liked is more important than being effective. And now the majority of the world is reaping the cost of Just speak about the US. It's here. It's brutal. Let me get this straight. Nice people don't build entire empires or civilizations ever. They don't win wars. They don't they don't hold the line and stand and fight when the world goes bananas. They fold and cower and cry and retreat and tuck their tail and demand that everybody is nicer to them because what they're saying is offensive and hurtful. They avoid offense at all cost, even if it costs them the truth. Listen, that that's not just weak. That is dangerous as heck. Nice people are dangerous because they lie. Nice people go along in order to get along, but go home and stare in the mirror with loathing and disgust for themselves because they wish they're the people that sit there in bed and go, "I wish I would have said this. I should have done that. I should have said this." Until finally they snap and then they sit in the trunk of some car with a lock poked out doing bad things to a school. You guys don't understand that. Those aren't people that are in control of themselves emotionally. They don't have the emotional maturity to regulate themselves. They are reactive until finally that reactor goes critical. They nod while disagreeing. Yeah. Even though they hate it, right? They're miserable, but they're nodding their head in agreement. They smile with resentment in their heart and make promises without any intent to deliver. That's one of the worst kinds of people is a procrastinating liar who makes endless promises. I'm going to do this, not yet. I'm going to do this, but just not yet. I'm about to do this. I have one more thing. And they do that all they just keep deferring. It's like interest. They just keep deferring it down the line with no intent to deliver. None. They just want the attention for people going, "Awesome. I can't wait." And they never deliver. They confuse emotional compliance with some moral virtue. And they don't have it. Silence isn't diplomacy. It's not. That's what they believe, right? I'm silent, which means I'm diplomatic in my conduct. That's cowardice. Tell the truth because tolerance is not wisdom whatsoever. I just said that tolerance every time mentioned in the Bible sexual immorality. It is never a good thing. There is not one time that the Bible writes about tolerance in a positive way. Not once. Tolerance isn't wisdom. It's fear. And worst of all, I think the issue is disagreement is now labeled. You can't disagree because now it's labeled as being cruel and aggressive and harsh and abrasive and that belief is annihilating the social fabric of our country because you now you can't discipline your children because they can't have consequences. Everybody's a winner. No, they're not. Little Tommy is not a winner. If he's not a winner, if Tommy's a winner, then Tommy's a winner. But it's earned. My son can beat me in a race when he could beat me. Period. My son can roll with me on the mat and when he beats me, he can beat me. You don't let people win because you train them to think that that's which is exactly the problem. I get people go give an inch, take a mile. They keep lying and expecting soft conduct when they screw up and then when somebody calls them out on where they're screwing up, they lose their mind and they cry offended, hurt. They need a sad day. That's why you can't speak plainly to your employees or your team. It's why you're walking around on eggshells in your own home, your workplace, your city, the mall, the wherever you your in your country. You're not free. You're a hostage to emotional politics. And that's the problem. And you're not calm. The you're not calm at all. You're paralyzed by the constant calculation of what can I say and what will offend somebody. And the worst part is you think that's virtuous. Look at the world right now. Just look, don't take my word for it. Look at social media. You want to really look at the world, look at the calendar. In the United States, we dedicate months to identities. I'm not even going to go down that. We have a pride month. We fill calendars with self- congratulatory affirmations and hold parades for orientations. We have a parade for your sexual orientation. Are you high? the world now everything is written in at least here in the United States in such a way that we will craft entire languages around avoiding conflict and offense and go that's leadership even against religious conflict you make a statement about you know Jew or Islam or anything that is outside of positive and reinforcement cursing. Well, they'll cancel you. Look at Gina Corano. I know Gan. I'm friends with Gina and Kevin. Very good friends. Gina is an awesome human being. Kevin Ross is an awesome human being. I love them both. She is a badass. She's got a heart of gold and she tells the truth. Cancelled. lost her job. Nothing she said was offensive. It was the truth. It was a comparative statement and nothing was bad about it. Maybe that'll get me canceled. I don't know. But here's the problem. If you mention, this is it. You will get cancelled and socially exterminated if you cross any of those lines. But you mentioned Christianity, the backbone of the nation's founding moral code. If you mention it positively, you're told to be quiet. You mention it negatively, nobody cares. But only Christianity. I mean, now you say God and you're laughed at. who post scriptures and talk about verses and and bring the Bible into a conversation and now you're some zealot. But if you mock Jesus, you'll go viral. Listen to me. You mock our creator, you'll get more likes and follows and all kinds of stuff. But you mock anything else? banned. You don't find that a little strange? You should, but most of you guys don't because you've been trained to believe that pointing out hypocrisy is hate speech. You're taught that criticism of anybody but yourself is a violent act or violent thought. And that if you hold the truth above feelings, you're dangerous and that's toxic behavior. So, you say nothing. You don't say a damn thing because you've convinced yourself that being nice is just safer. But for who? Safer for who? It's not safer for the country, children, or your own psychology. What's being protected here? It isn't people. It's propaganda. I don't know how else to spell this out because this can go so sideways because we've reached the point that the truth is now labeled as violence and facts are hate. Facts are considered hate. reality has to pass through this emotional filter before it's allowed to exist in public. And you don't find that strange. If someone is obese and you say it's unhealthy, you're a bully. You're shaming. If they're broke and you say it's their fault, you're a classist. When you you see an oxygenarian and you mention that, hey, happy birthday, you're 82 and what? You're agist. If someone lies and you call them out for lying, you're cruel. Nobody asks if it's true. They only ask if it hurts. But here's the fundamental law of the universe. The truth doesn't care how you feel. It just is. Doesn't bend or soften or wait for your approval or to give you a like or a little blue check mark or whatever it is you guys wait for. The more emotionally unstable you are, the more the truth is going to feel like an attack. Not because it's wrong, but because it's exposing you. And the more angry you get, the more upset you get, the more attacked you feel, and the more you stumble and trip over your own emotions because you don't have emotional maturity. All of those things exposing lies and habits and cowardice and failures, which is why you hate it. This should be setting off alarm bells in your life. But for most people, they're going to listen to this and get offended and get angry, which is exactly what I'm saying. This is the mirror you're not willing to look into because when somebody wins let's say the lottery, right? They want to know yesterday. Like they want to know immediately. They demand to be told and if you tell them late, they will rip you up and down. But when somebody is losing and they're screwing up and it's of their own valition, suddenly all that truth about that has to be delayed and filtered and handled with care. You have to put on safety gloves to tell the truth. And most of you guys have now been indoctrinated to go, "Well, that's having empathy." No, it's not. That's enabling. Rip the band-aid off. You don't help a drug addict by soothing their emotions. I told you I have AI'm not going to say cuz I don't want to put that in there. This is somebody that's in my group that is just a stud. He's been with my mastermind now for I think almost three years. I mean, he's a lifetime member. This guy Jesse, he's a great guy. Used to do heroin non-stop. He quit cold turkey. And everybody hears that and goes, "No way." Yeah. Way. He decided he wasn't a heroin user anymore. He wasn't a person that ever even looked at heroin. So, he stopped. He made the decision not to be that person anymore. A lot of you are making decisions to be the person that's easily triggered and offended by the truth. But I've said it before, the truth only feels like an attack when you're hiding behind your own lack of accountability and lack of responsibility. When you're being called out for your lies and your excuses and your explanations and your procrastination. Now it's hurtful. Now it's an attack. But you don't help a drug addict by soothing their emotions. You know how you help them? tell them very clearly that they're destroying their damn life and then you help them get it back. You don't help somebody who is sinking, drowning. I mean, we're talking in the water. They're in the lake. They are drowning. You don't ask them how they feel about the water. Hey, let me You want to just talk about the water first? Let's ease into this whole drowning thing. You throw them a rope or a flotation device. And some of you guys, you're in the water wondering why you're drowning while you're holding all the bricks. The bricks are your lies and insecurities and validations and escapes and distractions. All the things that you propagate in your head to justify why the truth is offensive. I I don't understand. I really don't like this age of emotional coddling intervention. But not the Dr. Phil kind of thing. I mean intervention where it's here's what's happening. Do this. It'll fix it. It's now replaced with affirmation. It's okay that you can do that. We accept your truth. Your truth. There's no my truth or your truth. There's the truth. I mean, we celebrate dysfunction and demonize accountability and responsibility and comfort the weak. Cancel the leaders and the strong. Listen, we shield people from mirrors because we're afraid of reflections that are going to show us the truth. Because until you look into that mirror, until you are willing to stand in front of it and actually look without flinching, without freaking out, without throwing stones at your own damn reflection, you're never going to be free. You're always going to be managed by your emotions and your mood, and your life is going to reflect all that chaos. Because calm isn't because people say, "Well, you should just calm down." I'm not talking about me. I have emotional maturity. Just because sometimes I get loud doesn't mean I don't control my emotions. But I also demand high standards from myself and anyone in my life the same way I expect them to demand that from me. One of my business partners, again, fast becoming one of my best friends. You think he doesn't demand high standards from me? We're running a 10f figureure company. Why would we not demand high standards? You think emotion? I have a great friend of mine, Howard Payne, right? He sold Logic Eig brand for I don't know the exact number and I'm afraid to say it because oh my god, somebody will be factecking. Three and a half billion I think something like that. It was a lot. But he failed 39 businesses, 600 grand in the hole, everybody betting against him. lost his house, lost everything, lost it all. I mean, lost it all. Howie is one of the coolest the coolest cats I've ever met. Man, I love this guy cuz he's direct, he's honest, and he's one of the happiest people on earth. And somebody right now is going to go, I'd be pretty happy, too, if I had $3.5 billion. He never quit. That's why he's happy because he has integrity. Cuz he's honest and he tells the truth, even if the truth sucks. But I think the real issue is being governed by by your emotions and demanding low standards from everybody else because you don't like where you are is exactly why you are staying where you are. Calm isn't having high standards has nothing to do with being calm. You don't think he has high standards. You can't reach that level of success without having incredibly high standards. You don't think he has those same standards for anyone that spends any time with him? I can promise you right now, there's no way he is going to spend any time with anybody that doesn't have high standards or isn't working to demand high standards of themselves. He's not. The more successful I become psychologically, financially, physically, all of it, my wife and I, the more I realize who we need to have in our circle and who never should be in our circle. And it is always predicated on standards. But when I hear people say, "Well, calm down. You don't have to nothing. It's not all about work. You need to have balance." I hear this a lot. You got to have balance, man. Only people at the bottom are talking about balance. You got to calm down. It's not always about the grind. Calm isn't being nice, though. And a lot of you guys post that stuff. I don't know, get engagement. I don't care about engagement. I care about telling the truth. If you don't like it, don't listen. It doesn't change the fact that it's the truth. Listen, gravity doesn't change just because you don't like it. Good luck trying to cancel it. But calm isn't isn't being nice and demanding nice from other people. Calm is it's not smiling while you're just getting just steamrololled. It's not passive. Calm is not passive. And I think that's where you guys are misunderstanding a lot of things. Calm is power. It's power under control, right? It's that beast that you have that wants to win at all costs. And there's no there's no bars. There's no cage. There's no chain. There's no leash. There's control. The reason people need to put those beasts in cages and put them behind leashes and I'm talking about the medication and all the therapies and all the nonsense is because they have no emotional control. Calm is having that control. The beast is still there. The power is always there. In fact, it's more powerful. But it's knowing exactly where the line is and never letting anybody move it. standards. So when somebody demands that you lower your standards because they don't like how you made them feel, your answer is always, I can't make you feel anything without your permission. So if you feel that, that's on you and that's between you and God because I didn't do anything but speak the truth. Calm is truth, unshaken, unfiltered. It's character that doesn't flex to fit the room, to blend in, to make sure that everybody sees you. It's regardless of what's going on in your life, you maintain your voice, and I don't mean just auditory. I mean your voice, your integrity, your character, your conduct. and it's steady regardless of any emotional manipulation coming from anybody else or anything in your life. But in order to do that, you need to have high standards and you need to maintain those standards in all situations. So if you can't do that, then you aren't qualified to manage your own life because calm requires clarity, truth, not and again not your truth or my truth, just the truth. My dad was a preacher and uh just a big powerful preacher. This guy man, he was I told you he was an athletic powerful human being. But if I would have said, "This is my truth, Dad." He would have backhanded me across the yard. Because without the truth, listen to me, without the truth, the calm and conduct is just a performance. It's just putting lipstick on a pig, right? It's makeup on a bunch of insecurity. It's an act. And here's how you know it breaks down the second there's any pressure. You can tell when somebody is absolutely dishonest and operates without integrity. When pressure rises and so do their emotions. That's why nice people aren't calm. They're just a ticking time bomb. I can go back to that lady Erica. She just got all upset and frustrated because I kept cornering her with the truth and she couldn't explain her way out because the pressure rises and who you are is exposed in times of victory and times of adversity. It's the same person, right? Nice people suppress and then they start getting resentful and they carry that pressure building until they explode right away because niceness is emotional currency if that makes sense. When they don't get the return they expected, they get mad. Well, I was I was nice. How come I didn't have nice back? Because you lied. Because that's not the truth. because you're explaining away things that have no explanation that you should be doing anything you can to resolve. It doesn't matter what happens to you. It's it's your problem to fix. It doesn't matter whose fault it is. I can again go back to this lady Erica. There's so many lessons in this because her conduct caused a whole bunch of things, problems. They caused a bunch of chaos in my life in our company. I didn't stand around and wait for her to fix it because it number one, it would never get done because her standards are rock bottom, but number two is it's still my problem to fix. Just like the owner of a business, their job is to solve problems regardless of who's at fault. Like real calm, the kind that it scares liars. that makes them uncomfortable and builds safety and just a steady conduct in warriors and leaders is always rooted in the same thing. The truth. You know what the truth never does? Panic ever. Cuz we live in a world, listen, we live in a world where liars cancel truth tellers. The people with zero track record of discipline or courage are the first ones to demand apologies from the people who've actually built, led, and sacrificed. Make that make sense. That's backwards. It's completely that's inverted. And yet somehow most of you guys are letting it happen. And then when someone like me comes out and goes, "No, no, no, no." You guys get offended. Like you guys need to you let the laziest people set the damn rules and the most emotional people police all the speech. And you know what you know what happens with that, right? The people with no self-control, no emotional maturity are the ones who are defining morality. And the reason behind it is because you don't want to offend anybody because you think being nice is the same thing as being good. Okay. But being nice in the face of lies, just to be clear, that's not being good. That's evil and it's complacency or complicity. That is complacency. Actually, it's both. You're complicit. You're going along with it and you're part of the problem. If you let a liar lie without correction, you've just empowered the lie. My dad. My mom. A chance would let me get away with. I've been smacked in the mouth plenty of times by my mom and my dad. Bry's not going to let me get away with a lie. I'm not going to let her get away with a lie. Our kids don't get away with lies. And if it's an error, it's once. If it's twice, now it's a decision and a road to becoming a new habit. And lies and explanations are dangerous habits. If you let a coward attack without any defense, you've endorsed the cowardice. I could do this with all kinds of examples. If you let someone weak shame the strong, you have guaranteed the fall of everything you claim to care. All because you didn't want to hurt anybody's feelings, starting with your own. I don't care if someone is upset with me if what I said was the truth. And you can spin that and go, "Oh yeah, well I'm going to say I think your beard is stupid. Your bald head is dumb." Remember back at CrossFit when Okay, you can think my beard is dumb and my head has a weird shape to it. I don't care. Back at CrossFit, I already addressed that. Yep. Did it. Problem solved. I'm not living in the past. Why are you? But that's how people are because they don't like being presented with the truth about their current situation. And so they look at your situation from the past and try and find anything where there's a mistake or a decision or terrible conduct. It doesn't matter. And then they bring that up so they can try and bring that up into their life, their current life. So it takes a spotlight off of them and their inadequacies and their insecurities. So the problem is here we are, we're in a culture built on feelings and governed by tantrums and guided by this really convoluted moral relativism. And it's infected by the belief that being nice is somehow going to fix all of this. How? It's not. It's not. It never hasn't. It never will. Ever. You know what fixes the world? The truth. Hard uncomfortable and often unwelcome truth. It's the truth that when you walk in like today, I will I'm going to use this Erica thing all the time at Postnet. When you walk in and you can feel the tension from them, not me. I don't care because I was telling the truth. You can feel the stomach's tightened going, "Oh, yeah." because you're too busy worried about nice versus truth and integrity. Which is why there are billion-dollar companies and there are $10,000 companies that never grow because they're too busy trying to cater to everybody. Instead of holding the standard and going, "This is my standard. If you can't meet this standard, you can't be my customer. I can't be your like it doesn't matter. Hold the standard and that eliminates all the problems." Like you need that like the world needs the truth. The kind of truth that just knots up the stomach, makes your hands sweat when you knew that your dad knew that you shouldn't have played with matches. Real story, by the way. It's the kind that like the truth that makes you rethink everything and snaps you out of that ridiculous delusion and forces you to actually grow to where you want to be. That's what changes lives, saves countries, and builds all the legacy that everybody keeps talking about on social media going, "You got to build your legacy." Okay, that's great. You know what doesn't do that? nice words and safe spaces and this collective fragility wrapped up in rainbow packaging. Truth. That's what you need. Real abrupt direct truth delivered with calm unapologetic conviction. That's it. Like if you want the real strength and control and I'm not going to say peace because that's not what you want. You want progress and standards. If you want all of that and success, stop being nice. Nice is a costume and it's like a bag over your head just suffocating everything that you want. You don't need to be liked. You need to be honest. You guys are so worried about being liked by people that don't even like themselves. You don't need to be liked. You need to be honest. You don't need to be accepted. You need to be respected and start with the person you see in the mirror. And for the love of God, you guys think that you don't need to be emotionally safe. You need to be true. Because if you build your life on the foundation of truth, you'll never lose sleep over who likes you ever. You're never going to worry about being canceled and you're never going to need anybody to validate your value. That's exactly what the world needs now. No, none of these like enough with the emotional caretakers and all the people sitting on the sidelines throwing judgments and throwing their opinions and before somebody goes, "Well, aren't we allowed to have opinions?" Yeah, but if they don't do any good and you're not going to act on your opinion, shut up. You have no value. You probably should have been eaten. Like a passive observer is a waste of time. We don't need any more people with like nice people with no backbone. We need men and women who can stay and demand high standards and who can stay calm under all the pressure. All of it. Because they live in the truth, not because they have steel in their mind and their spine, but because they have integrity of the truth pulsing through their veins. We need leaders who make decisions based on standards, not a mood, not what the public is trying to say, not what the emotion of the world is saying. And citizens who damn well tell the truth without a disclaimer going, I'm going to say this, but it's not intended to. And really, just stop stop pretending that nice is a goal of any sorts. It's not. You know what the goal is? strength, clarity, personal value, integrity with yourself, self-worth, responsibility, accountability, truth. That's the goal. The goal is truth. Because if you tell the truth and expect the truth, you don't need to be nice. You just need to be real. And once you become real, you're unbreakable. It's not possible because you can't screw up your own story. My dad always said, "Tell the truth. There's less to remember. I got to go. Never miss.