Every Sunday I do a webinar and uh it's free. Yeah. I'm going to pitch you on my mentorship. And no, I don't want everybody that comes to the webinar to join because some people don't have what it takes to be successful. And before you get offended about that, they don't want to be successful. They want permission. And they want something easy that lets them go, "Well, it didn't work for me, but I tried everything. And now I can go back to my life that I hate that I complain to everybody about, but I defend when someone points at it and goes, "You could do something different about that." Hands you a blueprint. Make that make sense. Like listen, let me let me tell you about it. It was an awesome web. I had some killer people. It was so much fun. And you know what's interesting about my webinar is and it's Sundays at 4:00 is that the people that come, some of the people that come are repeats because they want more of the information. I have some people that are in my mentorship that come to the webinar because they like it that much. I take that as a compliment. So, if you're one of those people, thanks. I love it. But, let me just hit you with this and then I'm going to go inside. It's Sunday. I'm going to hang out my wife with my wife and kids. Go to church. Hang out. Here's a brutal truth that honestly most most people out there in business are too busy branding and not enough that they're not doing enough help solving problems doing what they're supposed to be doing. They're too busy telling everybody how good they are at what they do instead of actually being good at what they do. like your life. Listen to me. This is and most coaches won't tell you this. And and I already told you I'm I'm in the middle. I'm 41 days into building another company that that is on track to do $10 million in a year. And it's probably going to burst that and go bigger. And it has nothing somebody's, oh, listen to this guy brag. It has nothing to do with bragging. All of you insecure little babies that sit there and get offended by somebody going, "This is how much money it's going to make. Four years ago, I was broke. Broke. I had some obese jackass oiled guy who decided he wanted to be a contractor who sucked at it, build my wife's dreamhouse, and then rip us off for almost $2 million on a disaster he built, and then get mad when we told the truth to everybody about him. His name's Lucian Tujac Jr. You should look him up. This guy's a clown and he has dozens of lawsuits. That doesn't scream problem. But that that's not what this is about. But I mean, four years ago, that's I lost a lung. I had a tumor the size of a football. We had a house full of black mold. My wife and me and our kids lost everything. And I used my savings to keep ourself like my family alive trying to get my life restarted at 48. So when I hear people come out, Yeah. It gets me it gets me heated because when I hear people come out in podcasts and social media and they're so focused on how good they are and how don't worry bro, I'll make you successful. I'll help you lose the weight. I'll solve your psychological problems. I'll teach you this. I'll teach you that. But meanwhile, their life is a dumpster fire. I just I can't. The problem is not the blueprint or the training or anything. The problem is with your psychology, like your life, your current income, your habits, your self-worth, the size of your bank account, which should piss you off, the number of zeros after that one, and if you go, "It's not all about money, bro." The freedom and the opportunity and the options you have when you have more money, is what you want. The ability to take a physical hit because your body is built to take it because you actually do work to make it stronger is what you want. The marriage where your spouse is always in your corner no matter what you're going through. Where you can divide the load when you have to go through hell because this person has your that's what you The mindset that it doesn't matter what comes into your life. You go, I got this. God, give me the strength to get through it. I already know I'm going to get through it. I'm just going to need a little help here. That's what you want. Like all of it. Your health, your freedom, all of it. All of that is directly related to it is a direct reflection of one thing. The stories that you believe. And if you go, I've heard this before, then why is your life still a dumpster fire? It's not your last coach. It's not your blueprint. It's not your business or your neighborhood or your wife or your husband or your car or your trauma or your grandmother or your parents or your childhood or the fact that you you got your car repossessed, none of that matters. Those are all a result of your actions or lack of actions. But the stories you believe that is what everything is predicated on in your life. Like I said, your value, your self-worth, your habits, your bank account, your physical fitness, your life, everything in your world. Not the truth, not the facts, not the economy, not your upbringing, not your ex, not your past, not even your current circumstances, man. Just the story that you have told yourself about what all of those things mean. And you know what the most dangerous part of that is? You you didn't choose most of those stories. They were installed subconsciously repetitively. It's like it had a strategy and it just went to work on you. And if you don't rip all of this this poorly functioning operating system out of your psychology and rewrite ones that actually get you somewhere, you are going to live and die in a prison that you don't even know you're in. That's the matrix. Except this isn't fiction. Canu Reeves is not in this. There's no Neo or Morpheus. I mean, this is your daily life. There's this voice in your head and it sounds like reason and it it says things like, "Oh, be careful. Better think about it. Take 24 hours. Play it safe. Now is not the right time. Maybe next year. Oh, I don't want to fail." No, man. I'm going to look around a little bit, do my due diligence, and you listen to it because it's you, right? Wrong. That voice isn't you. That voice is the narrator. It is your brain talking to you. It's not your soul. It's not your ambition. It's not your higher self. That is your brain making a bunch of racket. And let let me break this down like a man who's found fortune turning psychology into profit. Your brain is not designed to evolve. It It's not It's not designed to make you stronger. You think it is, and you're being lied to by all these gurus out there that don't have a clue. They don't know their ass from their elbow. It's not designed to make you stronger. It's not designed to make you richer, leaner, better, more powerful, more fulfilled. It is designed for one thing, emotional homeostasis. You know what that translates into? Comfort. Your brain is designed to keep you com. It wants you warm and fullbellied and exactly the same as you were yesterday and the day before and the day before. So when you say you want more, when you want more money, more wealth, more power, more success, more strength, more self-worth, more fulfillment, all of that stuff. But you listen to that little voice in your head, you are lying 24/7 365 to yourself because that voice does not serve your future. It serves familiarity. That is neuroplasticity. Remember neuroplasticity, it doesn't it has nothing to do with emotion. It understands one thing. Reps. Oh, you're addicted, man. You ever wonder why people stay broke? Not poor. I mean broke. Some of you guys listening to this and you're get you're going to get so mad. Oh, I'm going to you're going to get in the comments or leave me four stars or one star and go, I don't like this and rate me on YouTube or Spotify, whatever. You guys are a bunch of girls, man. This is you. And you you wonder why people stay just broker than broke. And like I said, not not poor. Broke. And there's a difference. Being poor is circumstantial. Being broke is psychological, right? Poor is external. Broke, oh, that's all inside you, man. Most people are mentally broke because they've built their entire logic from pain. Instead of all of the things they could do, the the potential future they could have they just built it on pain past. I tried. This is the stuff they say. You guys run this dialogue. Remember your life is built on only two things. is the quality of questions you ask yourself and the type of conver the quality of conversations you have with yourself on a daily basis. That's it. And you're the one running the dialogue. And if you go, "Well, sometimes you can't control what you think." What kind of psycho are you? Of course you can. You just don't like it. So you give that responsibility to something else because it's easier. I was judged. I tried before and then I failed. I got scammed. You're cynical. skeptical. I lost money. I got hurt. They made me feel bad. And then they retreat. That's what people do. Most of you guys do this. They build this wall of like lie logic. It sounds like logic. You guys make it sound reasonable to yourselves. You guys even get in the comments and argue about this without a clue. You make it sound rational, but the only person that thinks that is you. But it's built from pain and suffering and struggle. Not but no lessons. No lessons from all of that. There's no wisdom in any of it. It's built from all the moments of fear. There's no clarity. You have built comfort in in shrinking away from everything that you want to do. Instead of going, well, I have no idea if this is going to work, but I'm going forward anyway because I got nothing else to lose. Because you cannot lose what you don't have. You're worried about losing something you haven't even achieved yet. So now there's this population of people all making decisions that aren't based on what's true. They're based on what makes them feel safe. And if you chase safety long enough, you start calling mediocrity average stagnation, stable, balanced, you guys. And you're well, you have to have balance, bro. No, you don't. You find anybody successful and if you go success is relative you already got bigger problems. Success is not relative. Health, wealth and relationships you are winning in all of them and winning is not relative either. But that's what that's the matrix. Reducing victory until stagnation is what you seek. It's a prison made of comfort. pillows, soft words, reassurance. It's this cage. It's built. You're afraid of everything outside of your own cage. So, you just stay in the cage cuz it might be a cage, but at least it's safer. It's all built out of fear and it's wrapped in some kind of, you know, irrefutable logic that you've come up with and then you lock it with all of your own actions and thoughts. Let me tell you something that no college, no teacher, no school, no mentor, no coach, no therapist they're ever going to tell you. You were not born scared. And somebody's going to go, "Oh, you ever you ever clap your hands around a baby?" First of all, you sick prick. Why are you scaring your child? And second of all, you're not born scared. That was a scary sound. You give a child a start like that. Yeah, they're going to jump. They don't know how to express emotion. You scare your buddy and when they're 17 years old, they'll turn around and punch you in the face. You were not born afraid of risk. Watch toddlers. They do all kinds of You're like that is a little kamicazi. You're not born with a doubting voice. When you're a toddler, your little tiny primitive brain and intellect goes, I want to go there. What's in the way? Oh, nothing but like shrapnel and grenades and sharp objects and things I could fall off of, get stabbed by, drink, eat, fall over. I'm going anyway. You didn't crawl out of the womb questioning your self-worth, going, I need to find myself. You want to find yourself? Go in the bathroom and look in the mirror. You're welcome. But you learned all of that stuff, that fear, and now you're conditioned to believe it. And you think it's you will fight to the death. And it is actually logic. It's programmed into you by a world that benefits from your complacency, your obedience. Just think about it. Let that stick for a second. As a kid, you had energy and just tenacity, and you weren't afraid of anything. You didn't have a filter, nothing. You asked questions. You were brave, bold, courageous, and you climbed on things, you fell off things, you ate things, you drank things, you stabbed yourself with things, you touched things that were hot and things that you shouldn't have, and you got up. And then what? Authority punished you for disobedience, but it punished you for disobedience because you weren't listening to what they said you should be doing, not that it was good for you. put on the suit and the tie, put a bunch of letters after their name, and you should listen to them even if they're not speaking about anything that they're an expert in. Peers, they would just make fun of you, mock you. They would mock you for all your effort. You would try something to get out of wherever they are that they talk about hating that you go, I refuse to stay there. And peers would mock you. Schools would tell you wait your turn, follow directions, raise your hand, be quiet, don't challenge a teacher, never ask questions unless they have to do with a subject. And if it has to do with a subject, make sure it goes in the direction the teacher is teaching it. But what if they're wrong? And eventually you internalized one belief above all else. It is safer to comply than the challenge. In order to get along, you go along. So you stop risking. If this doesn't resonate with you, I don't know how else to get you guys to see this. You stopped. You stopped taking risks expressing who you are. And I'm not talking about you weird woke people that go, "I'm doing self-expression and I think I'm a kitten with two genders today." Don't even get me started. You stop taking big bold swings towards the fence. You know what you did? You stopped betting on yourself. That's what you you know what winners do? Bet on themselves. And now you wonder why your life feels stuck. Why your bank account has looked the same for last 5 years? And if you go, I like my bank account. No, you don't. If you say that, no, you don't. Your your relationships are just a mess, if at all, and they keep failing. Common denominator is you, pal. And your goals don't get you all fired up. Your goals are, well, I hope I make it till the end of the month, and maybe I won't put any more on any more weight. I hope my doctor doesn't give me any more medication. Like, those are your goals. Your goals when you were a kid were a lot bigger. And you know what you're told? Yeah, but those are juvenile. They're unrealistic. Says who? Because somebody else told you. It's because you were trained to believe safety is the goal. Tell you right now, that is that's a bald face. That's a lie. You know what? A goal isn't safety. Safety is how is that even a goal? My goal is to have safety and complacency and compliance. The goal is not safety. You know what the goal is? Sovereignty. You don't know what the word is. Look. But you know what? Sovereignty doesn't occur in your life by playing small and safe and not taking risks and waiting till tomorrow to execute. By the way, tomorrow you have one less day on this planet. No matter when you die, stick. Every time something happened to you, good or bad, your brain doesn't just log the event, right? Assigns a meaning to it. But then here's what happens. Because of the meaning becomes belief, the belief shapes your perception and that perception becomes your reality. That's how your perception becomes your prison. Three simple steps. So look at and I get this from from clients even patients. Let's say you tried to start a business. You failed lost all your money. Now your brain says entrepreneurship sucks. Side hustles are bad. Businesses are bad. Stay employed in a job that I hate for a boss that I can't stand for a company that I'm never going to advance in. Let's say you lose somebody that you loved so much. Whatever. They broke up with you, dumped, cheated, left, died, whatever. It broke your heart. Now your brain says vulnerability is weakness. Don't trust anybody ever. Keep to yourself. Relationships are bad. Let's say you actually did speak up. You made a bunch of noise. Got on social media like this. You got hated. You got ostracized. You have people throw stones at you. It happens to me all the time. You think I care? No. People laugh at you. They dismiss you. You know what your brain says for most people? Oh, I got to be quiet. Silence is safer. It's way safer than talking about what really matters to help change lives. Much safer than expression. And again, I'm not talking about this yo-yo yepy expression that some of you guys have where you think that you're expressing because you're not. You're making noise because you want attention. That's what toddlers do. Except now because of all these new perceptions that you have based on the beliefs that you have created, you walk through life avoiding pain instead of going after everything that So you've built this map just make let me get this clear of the entire world based on your fear. You have a new self-created world view designed by you, not your circumstances, by you to keep you small because it feels safe. Yeah. Hey, hot tip. That safety that you think you have is killing you because every day that you stay in the same place hoping the pain's going to go away. It doesn't. Does it? It doesn't. You know it. You just try and mitigate it by covering up with a bunch of distractions. Except the problem is now that pain grows legs. Grows legs. Changes shape. Gets bigger. Meets you in the mirror with a brand new name. shame, misery, loathing, disgust, resentment, regret, even numbness because you just don't even know who you are anymore. That's why people burn out. That's why people snap. They just blow their stack. It's not because life is hard. Life is supposed to be hard. But it's because they never challenge the narrator in their head. Listen, you you really want to talk about the elephant in the room? Did I drink some more? Because like I said, I just did this webinar. That's why I'm so lit. By the way, you want more out of life. There's the elephant in the room. Nobody cares what you say. You're lying if you say you don't. No, I'm content. No, you're not. You settled. You want more money, more muscle, more meaning. You want more freedom, more wealth, more self-worth, more security for yourself, more love, more status, more everything. Here's the catch. You want it soft. So, you want all the reward without any of the risk, right? That's it. You want no risk, no rejection, no judgment, no sacrifice, no giving everything you've got, which means zeroing out your time, your money, and your bank account. You want all the reward without having to zero out anything. You want to put your toe in the water and become an Olympic swimmer. Never going to happen. You want the results without the requirement. That's not ambition. Just so we're clear, that's entitlement. And that's the world. Now, I will be very clear about this. You cannot want to be exceptional and live a life of emotional safety. These are two completely opposite operating systems. One says, I am willing to walk through fire for as long as it takes. And the other says, I'll wait till the fire dies down is put out and there's nice green grass in the way so I can walk on that. And I got to I have to have somebody lead me through to make sure there's nothing else underneath grass. The people who wait never move. No matter what I say, they never do. Every day, tick tock, man, you have one less day. You want the formula here, I'll I'll I'll break it down cuz I did this on the call. You want to get out of the matrix. You want to escape. Follow the little white bunny on the vampire chick's shoulder. Tell me she she could have pulled off a vampire all day. Here's this is the unlock to the hidden level. You've got to be willing to zero. You have to be willing to zero out your bank account to start a business. You have to zero out your ego to learn something new. You have to zero out your social circle to break away from mediocrity. You have to zero your identity for a new and better one. That's not losing. That's leverage. Because once you once you remove your delusional safety, your attachment to safety, you become unbeatable. When you stop needing to feel good, to make moves, when you stop needing to be understood, to take action, you don't need guarantees to take risks. That's when you become powerful. That's when you can do all the stuff that you wish you had that you wish you could do right now. When you are willing to go, I will do whatever it takes and I'm willing to suck at the beginning because you're not negotiating with the narrator anymore. You have the pen. You're the one doing all the writing. So, here, let let me button this up. Every single limitation in your life is built on one thing perception. Yours, not somebody else's, yours. And every perception that you have is a choice. That means every limitation that you have is optional. Listen, if you can perceive rejection as a signal direction, if you can perceive a risk as a price required to be paid, a bill required to be paid for sovereignty. If you can perceive failure, man, this is a big one, as one of the most required steps instead of a dead end, you're unstoppable. You can't be beaten because all of those things are what gets in the way of normal people. But normal people are also mediocre and average. And that is offensive to people, but only to normal people or to people who don't want to be normal, but are afraid to do all this. But nothing can stop you. But it's not because you're fearless. I am okay being afraid. And yeah, we've heard it all the time. We'll do it anyway. But I'm I'm comfortable with being afraid. But it's not because you're fearless. And it's not because I am. It's because the definition of fear has changed. Listen, the the greatest power that any man or any woman can ever develop is the ability to redefine the meaning of their experience. To to look at the voice, to listen to the voice in their head that says, "Stop. Be safe. Slow down. Go back. Take a couple of days. Think about it. Wait." And instead say, "You don't get to write the damn script anymore. You don't need motivation to do this. You need absolute clarity, singularity of focus. You don't need more time. You don't need more knowledge. You need a a bigger set of balls. You need to do all the things that you actually already know that you're just not doing. You damn well know it. You want to break that loop? Make a decision to refuse to listen to the [\h__\h] that's in your head that's telling you what not to do. Is it telling you what to do or what not to do? Because if you don't, if you do not break this loop, you're going to spend the next decade defending a life that you don't even like while secretly hoping that somebody's going to come along and give you permission to live the entire thing differently. Nobody is coming. Nobody. Nobody's coming. Nobody's unlocking the cage ever. You have two choices. Keep waiting for the right time to move or realize this is it. Move before the narrator talks you out of it again. That's what you have. Because a real risk, the only risk in life is staying where you are believing that's where it's safe while the whole world keeps on moving. Because comfort is not safety. It is sedation. It's a lie. You are not made to be comfortable. You're built to test capacity every single day. You're built to keep moving forward because there is no capacity. That's how you're free. You have an option. You can rewrite the story or you can just run it on repeat forever. But just to be very clear, you're the one holding the [\h__\h] pen. I got to go. Never miss.