All right, let's let's do this again because one of you guys sent me a message about Lily's latest creation, the oral GLP-1 that is missing everything else, saying, "Dude, they've come out with an oral now. It makes it's like you have this personal like like Redat True Tide is mine." And you're like, "Haha, I showed you that oral is way better." Oral doesn't work. It doesn't work. Listen, you guys stay awake all night. I swear to God, just scrolling biohacks, which the word in and of itself makes me irritated. But let me explain all of the orals out there, including old school stuff like hydroxy cut with ephedrin in it. And all the fat burners that you guys keep buying that are making shelves just collapse in health food stores or firing out. Largest sale in on Amazon, by the way, are fat burners. They don't work. I'll say it again. They don't work. Biochemically, they cannot work. Endocrinologically. They cannot work. Your human biology says they can't work. And yet you guys keep going, they work, bro. Neurology is rewarding a placebo. Like your nucleus encumbent is just going, "Thanks." Just banging out like this is it doesn't work. Drives me insane. I get it. I get it. Like we're all chasing the edge. I get it. That one that turns good enough into being just badass and having all the answers and just being this weapon of a human being. I get it. the tendon that's not going to snap, the muscles that heal, the illness that goes away, the kidneys that get fixed, the liver that starts working and isn't fatty anymore, the weight that you lose, the hormone balance, so the pmenopause or the menopause goes away. All of those are valid and and never mind the actual limitless pill that I talked about, right? The fennel paracetam hydroide the other day I talked about as long as you take it with alpha GPC or CDP and anorasetam, oxyracetam, nicotine. Put that all together and you literally become Bradley Cooper. It makes you 30% increase in everything your brain does. Sign me up. Like I've taken fennel paracetam. It's insane. However, it's like you drink a Smart Mickey. That's how badass this stuff is. However, you still have to do things right. If you think that dropping it into your eyeball or rubbing it on your ear, pulling on your tragus, maybe just grabbing and yanking away like that's going to cause some neurological reaction. I don't know. I don't know what to say. It's insane. You want the answers, but you don't want the answers that are actual. You want the answers that you want to hear. Listen, what if Just work with me on this. Please work with me on this cuz it's making me insane. You have been swallowing enemies. You take an oral peptide and it actually causes more harm than good. It's not a weapon against anything you've got going on. It's a It's like a booby trap. It's a It's a betrayal of the machine that you have that is designed to work properly. I got a DM from That's how I started this. I got a DM from someone and I keep sending me questions. I believe me, I'm trying to get to all the questions. I do have a life, believe it or not. Like I have [\h__\h] to do during the day. I spend 16 hours a day running my balls off all day. So, believe me, I get stuff done. I just don't have all day to answer questions as much as I'd like to. And if you want me oneon-one, there is going to be a fee. But this is what I got in my DMs. Like, imagine this. It's this grainy shitty ass photo. And then I've also gotten links to to stuff that someone I won't say who it is, posts about peptides, how he's sponsoring it. Like, dude, you are a maggot liar. But it was this this I don't want to post it because it's saying to give them free publicity and you guys, oh, I'm just going to go buy it, right? Cuz you're stupid. Don't do that. Liposal BPC-157 gut healing miracle I think is what it said something like that. The message the message was you're wrong bro this fixed my shoulder wrong. It can't like it just not physiologically it can't which is why it sounds so dumb. It's like when you know somebody is just a bald-faced liar about something. It just can't be true. It's not even possible. Like you see them, I look at your face. You're at this location, but you say you're somewhere else. And we have a conversation. You're like, "No, that wasn't me." Okay, you're wrong, bro. It's fixed my shoulder. It did. Really? I think you're just late to the party where biology hands out the real [\h__\h] invitations, man. You're Listen, I I'll explain oral peptides again. This cuz it's this hype that I see flooding everybody's feeds here. It promises regeneration and youth and menopause and testosterone and hair gain, hair loss, height. I swear it's it'll make your knees better. Like, it just replace your brain with this magic pill. I don't know. This magic capsule, it doesn't work. And the worst the worst part about it is the nano blends right now in 2025 aren't just useless, you guys. They're hurting you slowly by design. Just here I just give me Listen here. Here's the dare. Just hang with me for about 20 25 minutes. I don't know however long I go. Sometimes I rant and it's an hour and I will make sure that you have the information. You do where you can go, I understand human biology and physiology where I can make an informed decision and maybe just a little touch of neurology, just a sprinkle. So these insta gurus, their crap never gets touched and they go out of business. I want to bankrupt and disrupt every one of you [\h__\h] pricks if that's you. It's my job to protect people that want to be better. Above all, do no harm. You think I come out here for fun? I have so many things to do. I've never missed because I care. Excuse me. When you understand how your body rejects these swallowed lies called oral peptides, you won't you won't buy them anymore because you'll look at biology and go, "That doesn't work. It's not possible." And you actually become smarter. Like just unfazed. Listen, I get the allure. I really do. I do because it's easy. It's so easy. But here here's the here's what I see on social media. The shirtless guru all ripped up, oiled up probably, right? Banging down peptides like it's some magic smoothie. Oral BPC healed my irritable bowel syndrome in two days. Got rid of my celiac in days. I got rid of my leaky gut by taking oral BPC. TB-500 rebuilt my [\h__\h] knee and no needles. I just needed to stare at the capsule and it started working. Like that's the logic, right? GCU copper. Oh, I turned back my skin clock. I look so youthful now. I saw this one. It makes me insane because I listen to these guys and you can tell they're reading everything and they don't know. Put them on live with me. Put them on live. It's all I say. I'll burn their skulls. Here's the 20. They don't work. Gave me back my youth. They can't work. They can't work. It makes me insane. And then the latest upgrade, liposomaal nano blends. 99% absorption. Man, that's pretty slick. That's counting on you not knowing anything. And they put them in these these matte black little jars with gold writing or red on them and they got quantum sounding tech all over them. And they got discount codes in their bio. Hey, here you go. Use my discount code. Use my affiliate code. Testimonials from real people that suspiciously look like, hey, like I'm real. This is me. If you've ever met me, this is me. I'm really like this. And here's why people bite. It's human biology. You're wired for a shortcut. Your neurology craves dopamine hits from quick tiny little wins. That's why social media is so dangerously addictive because and I told you about the study, right? The pigeons pecking for a food pellet consistently. And when they made the food pellet and then eventually they stopped, right, they took away the food pellet and they would peck for a while and then they went, I'm not getting food pellet. And they never turned it back on and they never went back to the lever to peck for the food pellet. But they did one where they had intermittent. It was random. Sometimes every two you'd get one sometimes every 1, sometimes five. And when they turned it off, they pecked until they were exhausted and died at that lever. That's what social media is. You never know when you're going to get your hit. That's the issue because you're you're programmed for those little quick dopamine winds. It's this it's like a survival hack. You know, you spot the berry bush where the prey, you throw a rock at it or whatever it is you're going to do, and you eat and you gorge and you thrive. And it now manifests as one-click orders on Amazon. I I got my cell phone bill the other day from the cell phone company I use and I didn't even need to put in my card. It was a text message. Pay your bill. Done. Thank you very much. It'll credit your bill inside of 15 minutes. That's it. Yes, I realize it has my card on file, but that was frightening like this. But that's what happens on Amazon and all the places you order from. But here's the here's the punch in the sack. Your body didn't evolve for hacks. It evolved to protect you and keep you alive and make you stronger. And yet right now people are going no strong is actually the enemy. Weak, fat, sloppy and and emotionally immature and financially irresponsible. Those are all the good things. And get completely enraged when somebody challenges your ideologies to the point of murder. That's where we are right now. You think that we're evolving? This is the deevolution of human beings. So look at peptides because if you guys are buying oral peptides and after you hear this you go, I'm still going to do it. Shame on you and you're ignorant because I'm act I'm not telling you to go buy at elite biogenics. Do don't I don't care. I really don't care. I care that you actually have the knowledge and go, "All right, this makes sense." And believe me, I try not to go too hard into human biology or physiology so I don't leave anybody behind. So you're like, "Fuck, I don't even understand what you just said." But when you swallow, listen to me. When you swallow these peptides, I got to go over this because it makes me insane. They are fragile little strings of amino acids and they are meant to just just whisper like just lock in and whisper a signal to your cell. That's not hacking. When you swallow them, you're declaring war on your own physiology because it causes more harm than good. I'll explain what they do because nobody ever talks about this. I noticed I looked online. Believe me, I hunted and looked for all kinds of people going, "This is the actual harm it causes." You know who talks about this? Me. Just me. So, if you want to come at me, bring the [\h__\h] smoke cuz I already know I'm smarter than you are because I'm saying the truth. Think of peptides as this this easy. I'm trying to make this as easy as possible. It's like a love letter to your future self. So, look at BPC57 cuz it's very very popular, right? BPC57 is is one of my personal forever peptides. I will take this forever. No, it doesn't cause cancer. I'm tired of that too. BPC-157, TB-500, Mott C, GHK-Cu, epitoolon every four months. Those are all my forever peptides. I have a couple others, but those are the ones that I just I'm read a true tide. I'm never going to stop taking them. And if you go, that's why you're lean. No, I take 0.1. That's so little. I take it for the longevity aspect. BPC-157, it is a 15 amino acid little love note that says, "Hey, listen, gut lining, go ahead and repair all those little junctions, those tight junctions. repair the the tear, eliminate the ulcer. Can't be done oral. Doesn't matter if it's made in the stomach. It can't be done oral. It can't 1.5 is the pH. So cool. The endothelium, it says once it's repaired, grow new vessels. Look at TB-500. It's it's another one. Like I said, it's 43 amino acids. 43 already too big to pass through interasytes. Just so we're clear. Fibers go ahead polymerize for mitigation or for migration rather. It it allows fibroblasts to move to the site and then start swimming into the injury where the wherever the problem is. It regenerates nerves via BDNF. I talked about this before. And copper, this one's actually really dangerous when you take it orally. You nobody tells you that, right? GU tripeptide copper. Okay, so it says this is this [\h__\h] is so good. Jeans, wake up. Collagen, immunity, follicles, just hit the gas. But these aren't vitamins. These aren't vitamins. They are sequence specific signals. If you screw up the sequence in any way, shape, or form, the signal is gone. It's not partial. It's gone. And swallowing, that is dropping the letter, it's like taking a blueprint and dropping it into a blender and when you hit frappe a when you turn it off, a skyscraper shows up. It's not possible except that blender is your digestive tract. Listen, I I'll walk you through what happens again. So, step one hits, you take it, right? I'm going to drink my coffee. Put a peptide in my mouth. there. Just swallowed a peptide capsule, liposal, doesn't matter. Nano tech, supericcoated, whatever. You pop the pill and if it's enticed, great, because science, it dissolves in the sea of hydrochloric acid, pH 1.5. That's not a mis that's not something I've I've misspoke. 1.5, man, that is stronger than battery acid. Physiology 101, you guys. The hydrochloric acid isn't sloppy design. It's your parietal cells work of art. It is it's the Mona Lisa, right? It it's designed to denature proteins and unfold their tertiary and quadinary structures. Like it just unfolds and turns them into chum. Seconds. It's all it takes. Seconds, if that seconds. So your BPC-157's elegant little folded structure gone. But here's the problem. No structure means no receptor docking downstream. It's not possible because if I have a special a certain shape, so I'm holding my mug in my hand and this is the receptor. This is the shape and it fits perfectly. If I take this and I do this and now the shape's different, doesn't matter. But that's a receptor issue. But if I have this shape and now all of the sudden I come along with my keys and I'm trying to dock into this shape, it doesn't do it. It can't do it. It can't. And here's the issue. Endocrinology is going to suffer first. So, no intact peptide to nudge growth hormone release and or balance out the cortisol problem and you're left with amino acid sludge. No signals, just sludge. Except here's the problem. It gets even worse. This is just the beginning. This is just the beginning. So now you get something called pepsin. So pepsin comes in. This enzyme, it's secreted by your chief cells. Is designed by your own system to snap bonds. It's designed to cleave peptide chains at aromatic spots, aromatic bonds. So fenol alanine tri phenol alanine tyroine prime real estate. So fennyl alanine tyrosine which are prime real estate in TB-500 and GHK-Cu human biology reminder just so we're clear. It is your gut's job to do its job. It is not your gut's job to cuddle signals and make sure that they're okay. It just sees fuel. That's all your gut sees. Your gut sees nothing that you are reading on a package. It goes that's fuel. It bakes it it takes large and breaks them into small. So Pepsin turns that little miracle that you just took into pre-igested mush before it even finishes waving bye-bye to mama to the b. It's not even like it's just just it's your stomach. It's already obliterated. Even if for some reason the capsule survives because of whatever chaotic coating that they put on it, never mind pegasalation or an alpha alkalated 17 molecule like all these things that they do that toxify the system. it hits the dwatinum which is the small intestines enzyatic apocalypse bile pancreatic juices enzymes flooded. So now you've got now you've got trison which specifically cleaves arginines which BPC has them kimotriin which hunts fennyl alanines which is TB-500 and then caroxyeptideases which chews up which then caroxyeptideases which chews up the ends like Pac-Man coming after everything if you remember that little yellow circle with a mouth. But the mission is to reduce die and tripeptides to Pept1 transporters. Why? Because your biology prioritizes raw fuel over fancy little chemicals that you swallow. Single amino acids go through and terraasites the lining there that allows things to pass through because of something called a sodium coupled simporters. They're efficient which is the way they're designed but a 43 amino acid chain not a chance. Not a chance. So parasellular paths blocked by tight tight junctions which is their job. Clottins occludins they close up that the gate to the inside of the fortress which is your vascular system and they don't let anything in. That's how they're designed. So think about that. If it's 43 amino acids and it can't get through because it's too big, how on earth are you you going to take it and break it apart and then it's going to pass through and magically reassemble itself into that exact 43 acid that 43 amino acid sequence and then it's going to f not a chance. Not a chance. So even if you digest it, it does not get absorbed cuz it can't. This isn't just weird intestinal drama. These peptides, these peptides are are talked to your vagus nerve, the gut brain superighway. Intact BPC could modulate serotonin, which 90% is made in your intestines. So those shredded signals means disregulated intereroendocrine cells. No intereroatic feedback to your hypothalamus. But here's the result. Phantom inflammation signals to your amydala, which cranks up anxiety. So you're not healing. You're actually cranking up the engine, making yourself go haywire neurologically. So, you tell me after what I've just said, do oral peptides make you better? They can't. Never mind the fact that they're demolishing your your neurological system. Don't screw with your Vegas nerve. Just even the protected ones, the crater, even the protected ones, bioavailability tanks way below 5%. Like I said, trison, kimotrien, even even if you look at or forgrron, uh, Lily's small molecule GLP-1 outlier, right? Boy, dodged the peptide curse. It did. I I'll be very transparent. It dodged the peptide curse and hit phase three headlines this summer. 12.4% weight loss at 36 milligram dose over 72 weeks. Oh, you guys might be like, "Oh, that's actually not bad." Listen, 72 weeks, I can work [\h__\h] miracles in your life. 72 weeks just giving you 186 fasting and sending you out for a walk every day. That's it. You don't need to take an injection or an oral pill. Do you get where I'm going with this? You don't need to take it and it's not doing anything. And I think it 59 60% of people dropped about 10% give or take. So it's superior to oral semiglutide. And one more thing actually far superior for oral semiglutide on A1c. 2.2% drop versus 1.4% at at um at peak doses. Yeah, it might sound impressive, but you guys are missing the entire picture. I just want you to understand the facts. I'll give you good or bad. If these were great, I'd say you should get these, but they're not. It's a solo GLP. Just that's it. It is it is an appetite suppressant with great marketing that can be now owned by a pharmaceutical company that can charge you a ton of money off of your future misery when your system tanks. There's no GIP synergy for adopite sensitization. There's no glucagon surge so you don't protect against sarcopenia. And if you go, well, that's why they have IGF-1. If you really want me to go down the rabbit hole on IGF-1 and what it does when it hits your gut, I can. But you, it'll be worse than this conversation. So, you'll either be bored or go, "Holy [\h__\h] he's making my brain smoke." This entire oral thing is I always use the same example, cosplay. It's what it is at best. You get these mild CCK blips that curb your hunger briefly. Briefly, except the flip of this is that ghrein, the hunger, ghrelin, hunger, think that it rebounds so hard that you blow up like a balloon. mucosal irritation gets cranked up by inflammosomes and your incredin access it's stays asleep. It doesn't even change. There's no hippatic glycogenol. There's no hippatic glycogenolyis. There's no there's no hippatic glycogenolyis. There's no ATGL activation in fat cells to flip from store to spend. So it's like constantly putting money in the bank account but the bank keeps taking a little bit out but you don't ever get to use it. So, it's like constantly putting food into your system and it only goes to fat and your body goes, "I'm never going to use it." Because you're fighting against DNA when your DNA goes, remember, insulin is a storage hormone. It is not anything else. Doesn't matter if you're a bodybuilder and you use insulin to get lean. Timing matters. Don't [\h__\h] with that. I lost a friend, Phil Andre, because of that. I'm not kidding. I talked to him one night and the next morning I get a phone call from my best friend who said, "Did you hear what happened to Phil? His dad found him, wrapped him in a blanket, covered in vomit, died, and he was [\h__\h] with insulin, and the kid was 17. Don't [\h__\h] with things you guys don't know about, man. Don't do it. Don't mess with your biology if you don't have to. Never mind the fact that we can talk about diabetes and we can just point blank mitigate the entire thing and make it go away until people go diabetes. I don't even know what that is. Listen, we keep chasing these pills because it's not ignorance, it's human. I said it before, everybody knows how to swallow a pill. That's why there's no tutorials. There's no fear of needles, which doesn't make any sense cuz you've done all of you guys have done things much worse than a tiny little 29 gauge needle. But marketers feed off of this stuff. There's these viral before and afters, heavy on filters, light on actual results. You got subscription funnels that the second you click it, like if you here, look at my Instagram. When I say comment and I put a word there, there's no funnel. None. How many times has it gone to a sales page? How many? I'll wait. I'm listening. When? How many [\h__\h] times? Zero. I sent you to the actual research study and it's got dosages on it. And if you can't figure it out, you ready? Look at the highlighted area. This isn't hard, you guys. I'm trying to make this as easy as possible and also stay compliant. So, some [\h__\h] three-letter agency in my country that has apparently I have free speech, but I don't really beat me up. And then I don't get to tell you anything that you need to learn. So, maybe you should think about keeping me safe instead of going, "You hurt my feelings about disagreeing with my ideologies." Shut up. You want to look at the dark side of all these blends currently in 2025. Liposomal nano emulsified. What else have I heard? Interero nano shields with cycllodextrins and phospholipids. Yeah, all those fancy things that make you sound like a genius. They don't. The hype says bypasses all the barriers. The reality. Ready? Buckle up. Peer reviewed before somebody goes, "Where's the science?" Peer-reviewed gut checks from Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences. fact September 2025 issue clockin bioavailability 1.2% max and the rest the other 98.8 8 cipients irritate the mucosa. So it just gets trashed. So now you get uh NLRP3 inflammosomes. So I talked about those before. Lowgrade massive inflammatory problems in your gut wall. Never a good thing by the way. Gut inflammation is never good. Never mind the bloating or the cramping or the diarrhea. And if you go I got all that from reatride then it wasn't reatride. Yes it was. No it wasn't. Period. Then you probably got sold semiglutide or tzepide with a different label on it and your dosage [\h__\h] you. Chromate labs. It'll cost you money to get it tested. Chromate labs. Send it there. C H R O M A T E. I'll even give you if you message me, I'll even give you their contact. It's public. I don't It's not some secret lab I have to test. Get your [\h__\h] tested. Spend a couple hundred bucks if you really want to know. I promise you this. Everything, every single thing from domestic, by the way, before you guys go, where are you getting it from? My company is all domestic, baby, for so many reasons. But everything's tested and tested at much more purity than you can ever imagine. 9.8 purity. That's a big deal. And everything over tests. If it's supposed to be 10 milligrams, usually it's around 11. I don't deal in garbage. I don't give people garbage because if I wouldn't put it in the body of my family or myself, I am never putting it in yours because you are my family. And if you feel otherwise, go with the feeling then cuz then you don't want to be part of a family that cares. But bypassing barriers and 1.2% 2% bioavailability, inflammosomes, irritated gut mucosa, all this stuff. I told you like even the the cascade of IL6 and and TNF alpha, cortisol surges, testosterone dips, adrenal fatigue is just on it's like a on gear. Really? That's irony, man. That's I can't even get it out without laughing. I'm thirsty. I'm going to drink out of this big giant green water jug. I said it would be about 20 minutes. I'm a half hour in. Sorry. It's like oxidative betrayal to your system. I'm not going to edit that drinking out. And I'm curious what that sounds like in somebody's headphones. So, why don't you guys let me know. Listen to this one. Listen to this one. Cuz the copper is the one that really bugs me cuz people take this orally all the time. You may as well take it as a suppository. It'll be about as effective. The copper ions unbind in that acidic frenzy of your gut, catalyzing something called a fentin reaction. So, any chemist and understands this, and believe me, I am no chemistry wizard, but I understand biochemistry and and chemistry fairly well because I like it. It's fun. So, here's a a quick biology meets chemistry breakdown of the Fenton reaction because it's happening in your cells right now. That's why. So, when it goes rogue, here's the issue. It's this mitochondrial meltdown where like three Mile Island just goes nuclear. That's what's waiting to happen when you screw with it with especially with copper. It's an inorganic reaction where ferrris iron grabs electrons from hydrogen peroxide, that mild oxidant that your immune cells use to zap bacteria, right? And it spits out hydroxal radicals. It's an group which just so you know is the most reactive oxygen species out there. ROS's I've talked about those. Right. So that group that hydroxal radical is a molecular weed. Not even. It's like a chainsaw with a giant blade and just nothing but teeth that like Texas Chainsaw Massacre would be hold. They just right through you. They're super shortlived. Like we're talking nanconds, but vicious. So vicious. They rip hydrogens apart. They rip hydrogens from lipids and proteins and DNA like speed dating destruction. It's chaos. And in your body, here's the deal. It's normally pretty controlled, right? Like if you look at neutrfils fighting infections, it's controlled. That's what it's what that's why I talked about your immune cells zapping bacteria. But you overload it and you get lipid. You overload it though and you get lipid peroxidation cascades. So here's what happens with that. Cell membranes get cooked. Enzymes glitch. They don't work properly. Genes mutate. Think think rusty pipes in your arteries or cooked and fried wiring in your entire CNS your central nervous system or your PNS peripheral nervous system both of them your cells have antioxidants like SOD superoxide dismutase and catalates to normally to mop up that mess converting the high the peroxide to water but you toss it here's where it gets screwy so you remember it uncouples the copper when you take it orally not supposed to do that not to you it's not it doesn't work like that or it's not supposed to happen does bad things. This is why I'm explaining this. You toss in loose metals like copper and and so now you toss in loose metals like copper as in the ones in oral peptide blends and you get endless rounds because it's constantly refueling, right? Fe3, Fe2, Fe3, Fe2, it just goes back and forth, back and forth like ferris. This is it just does this nonstop. So the result is you get insane oxidative stress spikes, inflammation flares primarily through the NFCappa B pathways and I've talked about those before as well and you get these chronic hits like neurodeeneration or metabolic chaos. All of these things are going to trash your system all because you wanted an oral and you were afraid of a needle or because some bro science knucklehead or imbecile tried to convince you and because they have a smiley giant pearly white teeth and shredded abs, you bought their stuff in fat loss stacks. Listen to me. Unbound ions from gut destroyed peptides turn healing into a nuclear bomb that goes off in your system and your liver and your endothelium are going to take the brunt. That's what's going to pay the price. I don't know if you figured it out yet, but you cannot live without a liver. My dad died of endstage liver disease. I've said this before. Do not [\h__\h] with your liver. Free radicals torch lipids in your interosytes, so they destroy mitochondrial DNA. Just so you understand the human biology backlash, leaky blends worsen zulin spikes. So your own tight junction opener in your gut. So it doesn't do you see where I'm going with this. So if it exacerbates the spike, which is the opener for your tight junctions in your gut, I'll let this sink in. It exacerbates leaky gut. It makes it worse because it opens up the tight junctions. So then things like LPS, lipopolyaccharides can go from the sewer into I was wondering what that sound was. Sorry. So they can go from that sewer in your your digestive system into your cardiovascular system unchecked. Here's what happens though when antigens slip in like that. You prime tea cells for autoimmunity problems. You get these rogue signals that hit your entic nervous system mimic IBS, irritable bowel syndrome, but with this placebo chaser. So that healing that some of you guys talk about, please listen to me on this please because it makes me so insane. the healing that you talk about in your reviews where you're going there. Either one, you are lying or two, you are ignorant cuz it is a dopamine placebo short-term high long-term crash. That is what you're doing. Except listen to me. People, if you're selling this stuff, you're a [\h__\h] man. Cuz people are counting on you to give them something that actually works. But when you give them something that doesn't work, no matter how much you want to believe it, I will call you out. Prove it. Show me the blood work. Show me the actual results. Not some well-paid actor or an AI generated review. Show me the actual blood. Show me the blood work. You can't. Show me the tissue sample. You can't. So, here's what ends up happening. Those unresolved tendons snap because they've never been fixed. So, you put them under load. Pow. Estrogen dominance just trashes all your gains. insulin resistance starves your neurons. You got all these. I see it in the data all the time in my DMs. I get messages from people all the time asking me how to work with me. Please, can you be my doctor? Please, can you be my consultant? Please, can you work with me? Please, can you fix my son, my daughter, my husband, my wife? please, can you come to my company and fix everybody that works in my company? My answer is absolutely yes. Provided you resolve in advance to listen to every damn thing I tell you to do and pay my fee because I come out here and give you all this stuff for free because I care. But at the end of the day, I'm still going to have a fee. But I see it all the time in the DMs from you guys getting trashed by this stuff. I had a client last month, elite level CrossFit beast. beast. Doesn't matter who it is. Swore swore up and down by nanotb 500 for a hamstring pull. 3 months in. 3 months in. Cortisol at 28 micrograms per deciliter. Skyhigh. 3 months in. 3 months. 3 months. I healed a torn suppinatus tendon in 12 weeks where I was doing handstand push-ups. At the end, three orthos told me I needed surgery. I listened to none of them. When I went back, one of them went, "Whatever you're doing, keep doing it." the other one. The other two wouldn't see me. Why? Because I didn't believe their [\h__\h] Listen, I'm got nothing against surgery when it saves your life. It saved my life. But I wouldn't have been in that position in the first place if it wasn't for two things. Remmesir and the black mold from the prickhead that built my wife's dreamhouse as if it was Ray Charles. [\h__\h] blind full of shortcuts and half a million dollars worth of garbage that he never fixed. The surgeon saved me. Well, God saved me. The surgeon was the hands he used. But 3 months in this this CrossFit athlete cortisol at 28 sky high MRI just so you know tendon way worse inflammatory markers through the roof. And here's why. Because blends the blends blend a blend that this person took fed the fire. It was like pouring gas on the fire and not fixing a damn thing. These aren't harmless flops, you guys. These are endocrine sabotage masters. They're bunch of neurological noise makers that do nothing. And they're hurting real people. Like I see athletes getting sidelined and moms getting exhausted and execs getting burned out all the time. All because people romanticize the swallow over actually doing something that the science requires. And keep your mind out of the gutter. Grow up. Here's the flip. It's the truth that your body is designed for. It craves this. Respect the delivery. Injections aren't Insta Guru influencer bro science. They are precise laser focused physiology. Subcutaneous intramuscular whatever is required. Peptides are subcube, just so you know. Peptides hit interstatial fluid. They diffuse into capillaries. No gauntlet through the gut, the gastrointestinal system, and it makes it intact into systemic circulation instantly. So now receptors light up and the cascade of events, G-proin coupling on cell surfaces. Cyclic AMP, see cyclic AMP, second messengers run like exactly the way they're supposed to. phosphorilation cascades, flipping on switches. Transcription factors are doing what they're supposed to be doing. Longevity, angioenesis. BP-157, for example, upregulates VEGF and nitric oxide. I've said this so many times, which mends the endothelium from joints all the way to your gut. TB-500 actin binding remains in TB-500, the actin binding, the polymerization domain is still intact. So now you get to drive that thymus and beta for magic that it's designed to do. The cell migration nerves. Nerves actually regrow. And yes, that's what they do. That's what this stuff does. This is not hype. That's why I'm telling you this stuff. I want you to be able to use it. You're going to spend a hundred bucks, 150 bucks on something. You may as well have it [\h__\h] work instead of if you get it out of a bottle. Doesn't matter if I'm a doctor that curses. You not sound like any doctor I've ever talked. It's because I'm real. I'm not taught to be a puppet to sell you a product or a service that's not going to work. But nerves they sprout BDNF dorsal DNRG dorsal nerve root ganglia and copper copper it rewires epigenetics man 4,000 plus genes are upregulated for collagen 4 immune tolerance follicle repair no radicals no leaks no chaos no mess like no fuss no mus no coconuts like it's so good you know what that's from you know what that's from if you don't then it doesn't no cuts no butts no coconuts I think is what he says systemic reach Especially in things like reatride or even BPC57. It means hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis synergy. Harmony is even a better word. Serotonin stabilizes. GABA calms down. You get balanced growth hormone pulses. IGF-1 amplifies without the insulin spikes or the prolactin spikes. It is human biology running at its finest. And if somebody goes, "That's cheating." Ball up your fist and punch yourself in the side of the head because then you shouldn't do anything. You should go back to riding a horse cuz then a car is cheating. This isn't cheating. You You don't have an advantage because you take something that is available to everybody. This is making your system. It's not overclocking or overreving anything in your body. It's telling your body to do exactly what it's designed to do. It's getting rid of the static and the interference. And before you call it a medication or a drug, I went over that the other day. It is neither. It is a signal. And the signals arrive as intended when they're injected, not as scraps and pieces of garbage. Listen, let me just get real. Four years ago, I lost a lung. Listen to me. This isn't to laugh at. It's not a joke. Like I lost this balloon is gone and they wrote me off 12 medications and a wheelchair and 150 lbs of me. 155 maybe at best. Big old knobby knees. Look at my videos before somebody goes, "Oh, come on, bro. I haven't missed a day posting about all that stuff since day one." And it sucked. You've seen me cry. You've seen me laugh. You've seen me be angry. You've seen me fall apart. And you've seen me stand up victorious every [\h__\h] time. But the reason I'm telling you this is because I was somebody who needed help. I was shredded after that. like not physically looking shredded. I mean, my system was destroyed. And you think for a second that I wasn't slamming as many peptides as I could to help mitigate the problem and become a juggernaut of a human being at 52 years old. There's things I can do now that I couldn't even do when I was 25. And if you go, "Well, I know this guy can do this." Listen, then I'm not for you. I come out here to help you. I was sh even my hormones were just in a freef fall. Never mind my shoulder that I fixed 12 years prior to that. If I had listened to them and swallowed every oral wonder, the collagen peptides and the little magic alexers, I would have wasted thousands and thousands of dollars, and I would have been worse or dead. Instead, I injected a bunch of truth, very welldesigned by me protocols dossed in nothing but smarts, genius, and understanding of human biology because nobody does it better than I do. And four years later, look at me. I'm not saying it's a brag. I'm saying look at me because I know damn well what I'm doing and what I'm talking about. I say it over and over again. I am the billboard of what works because I you think you think I don't care about myself. My family relies on me. My wife tells me every day. She goes, "You take care of me. I need you. You protect me. I need you." You know what she doesn't know? I do tell her, but she doesn't really understand it. She takes care of me and she protects me, too. You think I don't help her every day? You think she doesn't help me every day and remind me, hey, you need to to take that peptide. Hey, you need to do this. Hey, you need to do this. Same thing with her. You think I don't I don't do that for you guys. Four years later, I am a real life Wolverine, man. Like, I I just I'm built like this by design. It's not magic. It's biological mechanics. Stop letting these Insta gurus gatekeep stuff with their lives, man. Because understand, listen, beyond beyond peptides, it's a it's a manifesto. We're in this golden age of biohacking. I mean, freaks. Neurolinks. Computer chips in your brain. Holy [\h__\h] That is some Star Trek stuff if I've ever seen. But if you swallow the lies, you sabotage the entire thing that needs to occur in your body. That big revolution that needs to occur. You need to respect your physiology. It's system is not a vending machine. It is this well orchestrated symphony. It's like your gut is a conductor and your hormones are the strings and your nerves are maybe the percussion session. I don't know. It's but you tune it wrong and here's the problem. You tune it wrong and you just get cacophinous discord. Just disaster. But when you set it up to win and you tune it right and you use the right combination of things. It's not just do a little research and decide I'll use this. Listen to the the person that knows what they're talking about, not the person with the best branding. Well, I'm great at branding, but again, how many times have I plugged Elite Biogenics other than just saying it right now? I don't. Not because I don't want you to buy from my company. I I'm going to disrupt the whole place. I hope all the other places that that sell out sell me right now are terrified because nobody does it better than me. And I know that. And if you're my competition, so do you. When you tune your system right, you program your own little ECU correctly, dude, you guys are unstoppable. You become this regenerative machine. Like imagine, imagine, just listen to me, like unbreakable, virtually unbreakable athletes. And not because of pills, weird surgeries, and stem cells. And I got nothing against stem cells, but the second they're injected, you lose control. But I mean like because of precision, precision, laser focused precision, right? You get entrepreneurs, CEOs, executives. They're just sharp. Sharp as a razor. So incredibly smart, so wise. They know what to do. They know when to do it because their brain operates at the level it's supposed to. Cortisol doesn't exist. You know, you vital, unfazed, no DMs pleading. It didn't work. It didn't work. Instead, you know, it did because I knew better. You need to ditch all the [\h__\h] I come out here not for the attention because I don't even get co I get no attention on this platform compared to what people do for the dumbest stuff on earth. I don't know. Maybe I should come out here and flash my boobs, jump up and down on a trampoline. I'll wear a pair of baggy underwear and jump up and down. Let myself flop all over the place on a rebounder. I don't know. Like what? [\h__\h] It's wild the lack of attention that people get when they actually come. I'm not actually just talking about me in general. Come out to help somebody, it's not entertaining. Don't get me wrong, I think Mr. Beast is entertaining as hell. You got to ditch the [\h__\h] you guys. The scams. Like, you need to go out and respect your physiology and make a demand that you're not going to settle for anything other than what respects and honors the design you have of your own system. Like, your body, man. Like, your body is begging for this because it's been littered with poisons and toxins and stuff that you've breathed in and rubbed on and swallowed and bathed in. You just you have all the tools. you have a guy that comes out here and I think if I bothered to organize my YouTube, which I don't, I don't think there's anything you couldn't find an answer to about your system and how to fix something. And if if there is, tell me and I'll knock a podcast out on it. In fact, I'm going to put I'll make a question. What podcast do you want to hear next? How about that? See, but you'll never know if you didn't listen. What are we 50 minutes in? I'm looking up at the clock. You'll never know if you didn't listen to the end of this. Understand this. Your biology doesn't do half measures, you guys. It doesn't. Which means neither should you. Like biology doesn't work in sections, in segments. So why why do you partial things? I'll test it, put my toe in the water, wonder why I can't swim. I don't know. Hope you get something out of this, man. I got to go. Never is.