So, I've gotten a lot of feedback, good feedback. You give me negative feedback. If it's constructive, I'll listen. If it's just you on a rant because you don't like what I said because it challenges your weak, impotent belief, then you could pound sand. Listen, there is a thief of humanity, and this is all about a a peptide SS31. And a lot of you guys have asked me about it and the rampant emergence of neurodeenerative diseases. They're all the same for the most part. They just have new labels. And I think a problem made any noise because new labels allow for new treatments and new treatments allow for a lot of money. If you haven't put it together yet, if you haven't haven't stitched this together that disease is a trillionoll industry. Listen, neurodeenerative diseases, they don't steal your money or your things or your car or your house or your girl or your guy. They steal you. They steal you, your memories, your personality, your ability to recognize people in your life. I'm working with somebody right now and I can't get over the more I think about it how devastating it is. And I said this about dementia, but it's more than just that. And that's why I'm going into this because there is there's something you can do to mitigate it and there's something you can do to treat it and there's something you can do to work with it. And I have to be careful what I say because apparently everybody on here is a three-letter agency that goes we can't we hide this truth, man. We we you're dipping into our billion-dollar industry. [\h__\h] all of you for what you're doing to mankind. If that's who you are, I don't care who you are. I'm going to burn down your world because you're hurting humans and I I just I can't tolerate it. Listen, we're talking about neurodeenerative diseases like Alzheimer's, dementia, Parkinson's, ALS, and we've been throwing just spaghetti at the wall for years, for decades, and and treating symptoms and managing it. It's such an aggravating expression, managing the decline and accepting the unacceptable that ends right. I'm not going to play defense and you guys should be okay with that. You guys should be listening to this just salivating for the information because I spend a lot of time researching and learning and upgrading my knowledge to make sure I give you things that actually work based on human biology, not the latest research. I had some ass clown challenge me on MK-677 going, "Yeah, but I know, bro. I know it causes cancer. Like, I know it for a fact." And that was the extent of his knowing, bro. And I explained the research and he went, "Well, I'd like to really see that study. I'm not here to prove anything to you. I'm I'm tired of people go, I want to see the research. You can't even spell the word research." And what people do is they look for a way to support their narrative so they don't have to admit that everything they've been saying for the last 10, 15, 20 years and paring to other people based on Reddit forums and headlines. Everything they've been talking about is wrong. Their egos are too fragile. I'm not playing defense. I'm going full offense. or amino acid peptide. That's all this is. SS31. That's it. It's tiny. Lamedide. That's what it's called. I'll tell you exactly what it does. Why it's a game changer. This is like I feel like doing a master class on human potential because that's that's what I want you. I want you guys to be like [\h__\h] Supergirl and Superman. Just so resilient and so well put together because you are well put together. You're built to be this way. You're built you're built to be solid and indestructible. So when I see people in their 50s or 60s or 70s or 80s and they're falling apart and we have just accepted this as normal and now it's managed to climb. But if you go back in time and when people go, "Well, yeah, people died earlier." Like hell they did. My grandparents were in their 90s and they were tough as nails. Get out of here with your [\h__\h] trying to validate why it's okay to for you to be a fat, sloppy, broken human being on 11 different medications because somebody in a white coat told you that based on a pharmaceutical company and an insurance company, neither of which understand your health. Think of every cell in your body as like a city, this bustling, busy, thriving metropolis, right? In that city, there is a power plant and the power plant is mitochondria. These power plants take fuel, oxygen, nutrients, etc. and and through a process called the ETC, the electron transport chain, which I've talked about many times, they churn out something called ATP, adenazine triphosphate. This is the energy currency of the entire human body. It's what makes your city run. Think of you as the 30 trillion little cities inside you. But here's a problem. The process is messy and it makes these exhaust fumes. And these fumes are called ROS, reactive oxygen species, free radicals. We hear about these and everybody reaches for some kind of antioxidant drink or fruit thinking that's going to solve the problem. It's not. It's not. Blueberries aren't going to solve your free radical problem. Stop buying into this nonsense. It's so much deeper than that. So, here's the deal. Normally, your city has like a cleanup crew called antioxidants. Where I'm going with this, but it's not blueberries. They mop up all this exhaust, but as we age and we get stressed out and our system gets a little beat up, the exhaust fumes get out of control and the cleanup crew can't keep up. So, then the exhaust starts to go in and damage the very machinery that exists inside the power plant itself. So, the walls of the power plant, the mitochondrial membrane, I'm trying to make this as easy to explain as I possibly can. The walls of the power plant, the mitochondrial membrane itself, they start to weaken and the energy output drops. This is a massive problem. So, now the city begins to brown out and lights flicker and communication, your neurons, you see where I'm going with this, start to fail. This is the foundational theory of aging. It's nothing new. It's mitochondrial decay. And I've talked about this before as well. And nowhere is this more catastrophic than in your brain. The neurons in your brain are the most energy demanding cells in your entire body. These are all the metropoli on gear. It's the best way to explain. They're just on gear. Like all the gear you can find. Like they're just all trended out and everything they can possibly stick in their body. So when these power plants fail, the entire grid tanks. This is neurodeeneration. That is your master class on neurode degenerative diseases. That's it. One is not Listen, this is one of the coolest things I've ever done research on and I've known about it for a while. I'm just kind of explaining it because I'm getting asked about it normally. There's a lot of things that you guys asked me about AOD-9604 and I just people were using it for the wrong thing and they went, "Holy [\h__\h] it affects condraightes." Yeah. In a way that it tells them, like I said, it slaps them awake and says, "Make more of your stuff." So SS31 isn't just another mopper upper trying to clean up all the exhaust fumes after they've been created, belched out of your little factories inside your body, the free radicals, right? the ROS's that is a 100% losing game. That is vitamin C, vitamin E, and and all the antioxidants that you take, vitamin D, things like that. Those are just it's like a street sweeper. They're not really solving the problem. They're not fixing the damage. SS31, this thing doesn't clean exhaust. It fixes the pipe that is creating the exhaust in the first place. So instead of waiting for the damage to occur and chasing after the damage after the fact and constantly looking to repair, repair, repair, it goes, I'm going to go in front of the dam where the damage is and I'm going to make sure no more damage occurs and I'm going to solve the problem so it doesn't occur again. Listen here, here's the very specific and pretty damn brilliant mechanism of action. So this tetropeptide, it gives it this very unique property. It gives it something called an electrical charge. an electrical charge by the way that is so powerfully attracted to the inner mitochondrial membrane that it doesn't want to let go. This is the very wall of the power plant that is breaking down. Now, do you see why this you have this affinity for the inner wall and this tetropeptide, this peptide SS31 just wants to stick to it. So, it blows past the cell membrane. It blows past the outer mitochondrial membrane. All of these are barriers that things have to get through and they're based on charge and lipophilic, lipophobic, hydrophilic, there's so many parameters that come into play. So it blows past all this stuff and it plugs right into that leaky infrastructure of the inner mitochondrial membrane. Once it's there, it does two things and it does them very very well. Like we're talking laser precision. It scavenges all the reactive oxygen species at the source. The ROS's. I'm just going to say ROS because it feel like I'm talking about the uh Princess Bride Rats of Unusual Size and Strength, the Ro SS's, whatever it is. If you haven't seen the movie, you should. It's a great movie. I'm 52. I'm old. I like movies like that. So anyway, it sits right where the exhaust fumes are being created. That's where SS3, it's like a magnet. It just finds the hole and it goes, "Oh, I got to fix that." And where they're being created, by the way, if you remember the ETC that I talked about when I talked about methylene blue and how it bypasses the traffic jam, well, complex one and complex 4, that is also where the problem lies. So now you see why this is so important and why understanding biochemistry and human biology matters because you can see how things work instead of going this is just cool. It repairs damaged neuronal structures. That doesn't help, man. Because if you understand that there's damage at complex one and complex 4, follow me on this. And you take methylene blue and you wonder why you're not creating a nice chubby giant yield of adenazine triphosphate, it might be because complex 1 and complex 4 are [\h__\h] So it doesn't matter if you bypass it. In fact, all you're doing is creating more problems. So the fumes, these problems, the ROS's are being I can't stop thinking about the Princess Bride right now, by the way, are this is where the problems are. So this is where SS31 goes and it neutralizes the ROS the moment it is generated. The moment that reactive oxygen species is generated, bam, SS31 handles it right there on the spot. This is not a not cleaning. It's not Gotham and Batman running around cleaning up the streets. This is installing like a Batman in front of every single criminal that's going to come out of the pipe. Like that's what this does. It just gets in the way the whole time. It's like putting a catalytic converter on top of a smoke stack smoke stack that's just belching out nothing but garbage. That's the first thing it does. The second thing it does is it stabilizes something called cardiolipin. This is magic. Cardoli is a is a phospholipid that is only found on the inner mitochondrial membrane of a cell. So it's the scaffolding. It's more like the glue, I guess, that holds the protein complexes of the ETC, the electron transport chain together. So, not like the scaffolding would be more like a Yeah, that's not It's more like glue. It holds it all together. And when the cardipin gets damaged by oxidative stress, which again, blueberries aren't going to fix. So, if you're like, I'll just eat a handful of berries, the entire energy production assembly line falls apart. So, SS31 binds to cardipin and protects it from damage and helps restore the structural integrity. So, it's not just fixing a leak, you guys. It's reinforcing the entire foundation of the power plant. But here's the byproduct of this. The membrane potential stabilizes if you understand membrane potentials, but it doesn't really matter. That's just basic human physiology. But the membrane potential stabilizes. You don't have all these weird cellular these energy fluctu um potential fluctuations that either allow things in, don't allow things in, change the way the cell the membrane works, all this stuff. Proton leakage stops. Potential problem. ATP production skyrockets and the city's power, that little 30 trillion cell that you walk around in, stabilizes and you no more brown outs and the lights come back on and the lights are your nervous system and your vascular system. And this is why it's not a band-aid. That's the the issue with modern medicine is it's just nothing but band-aids with a fancy label and a lot of uh expense. Think about it. When you go buy, listen to me, when you go buy a a drug and before somebody gets on their little soap box and starts preaching about why are we taking your stuff instead of first of all, it's not my stuff, but why are we taking your stuff and we have to take just as many things? Why don't we just take the medication then? At least we know it works. No, you know it doesn't work. You know that it is managing the decline and it is causing problems that are going to haunt you further on down the line that you're going to have to take another me medication for. None of this stuff does that. I would rather take something that constantly is repairing the system than is constantly blocking what I'm feeling. So I don't really know that the system is damaged. But hey, you do you boo heart. So look at how this plays out in different diseases. So you kind of understand it. So if you look at Alzheimer's disease, for example, the hallmarks are amaloid, beta plaques, the tile tangles, but these are symptoms. I said this last time when I talked about dementia and Alzheimer's, they're symptoms. They're not the cause. The root cause is a neuronal energy failure. I've said this so many times. It is also a fuel system problem where there is cell death and hypoxia because it's and like I said, the brain is sitting in this buffet of glucose, but it can't do anything about it because the glucose sensitivity is trashed. They're glucose resistant. So, you need ketones. I went through all this stuff in another podcast, but the root cause of all these problems in in Alzheimer's is neuronal energy failure. So, SS31 enters the neurons and supercharges their mitochondria and provides the energy needed for the cell's own cleanup crews. Autophagy. Yeah. 186 fasting isn't going to do it. It's needs to be more than that. But it turns on that cleanup crew to clear out all the amaloid and the the tile garbage and it gives a neuron the resources to actually do its job which is fix itself. And if you look at studies, they're all over the place. So before and if you start asking before them, I don't have time to do your baby research for you. And if you keep thinking Reddit is a research resource that I can't help you, man. I can't help you. But it restored synaptic function and improved memory in in countless Alzheimer's cases. When's the last time you heard somebody talk about this with Alzheimer's? You haven't. And tell me you haven't. Parkinson's disease. I I want to talk to Michael J. Fox cuz it's heartbreaking. I It's just another guy that I look at. Like I looked at at Bruce Willis. I don't know the guy at all. I think he's [\h__\h] great. I don't know him at all. I just think he's just [\h__\h] awesome. He's a household name in my life. 52, right? I look at Michael J. Fox. One of my favorite movies. If you followed me for any amount of time whatsoever, is Secret of My Success. I think it's such an incredible movie. I could watch Back to the Futures over and over and over again. Why? Because Marty McFly is awesome. And I I think seeing him the way he is is heartbreaking because I think if somebody would have helped him right at the beginning, he wouldn't have all these problems, but what if somebody could help him now and those problems get reduced by 50 60%. What if that? So she had another conversation, you know, like these are the I want to help everybody in the world. These are just names I'm throwing out. It could be everybody. Why do you think I'll come out here? [\h__\h] some of you guys and your complaints. You guys are just cockeyed [\h__\h] that just like to complain. you low IQ simple [\h__\h] that just like to complain because you don't like that somebody is telling you everything that you've learned has been a lie and that some gritty bearded doctor just can't possibly know what he's talking about. I had some dude go clearly you're you know you're fairly knowledgeable knowledgeable. I've forgotten more than you'll ever learn in your lifetime kid. I don't know. Maybe you guys think I took a weekend class to learn this. I've spent my whole life learning this stuff and I'm going to continue until till God calls me home. So if you look at Parkinson's disease, listen, these the victims of this are dopamineergic neurons in the substantia [\h__\h] It doesn't matter. I I just explain it so you have something to look at and point your gaze towards. But these neurons are incredibly metabolically active. And because of that, they're incredibly vulnerable to mitochondrial collapse because they need the energy. The protein alpha suclean dumps the protein alpha suclean clumps into something called Louis bodies. when energy fails. So SS31 targets these specific neurons and preserves their mitochondrial function and prevents that that catastrophic cell death that leads to the tremors and the the rigidity, right? It's like armor for your dopamine producers. Never mind the fact that if you add in GHK-Cu copper, that becomes neuronal armor. I've talked about this, too. God, it's like you should just go back and listen to every single podcast I've ever done. And I don't even know how to string them together in order because I come out here when God tells me what to say. That's really how I do it and I listen to the questions you guys ask me and I give you the best I got. Look at ALS, right? Amiotrophic lateral sclerosis. Motor neurons die, dead, gone. So the command lines from your brain to your muscles are severed for lack of a better explanation. So mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress are the central drivers of this entire disaster. SS31 slides in provides what? Neurop protection. supports the survival of these long, super long, energyintensive neurons, which potentially, God, because I got to say this all the time, slows or stops progression of the disease altogether. Can it reverse it? Boy, I got to be careful when I answer this question because people asked me that the other day about celiac disease. I said, "Can you cure celiac disease?" And of course on social media, that's why if you didn't catch the hint, I said, "This is more of a one-on-one question. And if you want to work one-on-one with me, if you ask me if I do a phone consult, my consultations are between $10,000 and $100,000 for the hour, depending on what the problem is. No, I have no problem asking for that. None. And the second part of that is if you're calling and you want some advice on dosage, the black card membership, theership is the only way I'm going to do it. Just so we're clear. Why? Because I only want to be around people that definitely want to be helped. And as of Friday, the my black card membership, I'm going to release another 25 cuz probably by I'm going to say even by the end of the day today, all 100 are gone. You can doubt me or not, just come into my group and you'll see everybody's there. The other part of that equation is as of Friday, Friday morning, the black card membership, I'm going to let out 25 more because everybody wants these answers and I'm really trying to help, but there's only so much of of Dr. T to go around, too. So, I don't mind spending 5 hours on a phone on a on a Zoom call. I really don't answering questions. I'll stay on all day. You give me coffee and just IV that [\h__\h] right into me. I will hammer out every answer and protocol and advice and di help you diagnose. I will solve every [\h__\h] problem you've got because I I genuinely care you guys. I genuinely care. But I also care about me and I care about my wife and this is taking and my children. This is taking time away from my wife and kids, which is fine to help you, but they're going to be a compensation for it, which are the fees I charge and I have no problem with that at all because I know that I'm the only one on this planet that's as exceptional at this as I am compared to anybody else because I stay in my lane. I don't know how to do a lot of things, but this I know how to do this really well. As of Friday morning, it is $9,997 for the one year and then it goes up to $25,000. Not automatically. That's if you miss altogether. If you miss altogether, you are going to spend $25,000 to buy in. And then I originally had it set at $1,500 a month. It's going to be $2,000 a month because I don't want people in my group that don't take their life seriously. And if you go, well, I don't have that kind of money, but I take my life seriously. Then you would do everything you can to get that kind of money and put all the energy you've got into making sure that you were as healthy and robust as possible. And you would learn everything possible about the body you're walking around in. Sorry, I've lived in my car. I have no sympathy. None. I've had nothing. I came out of a hospital and lost everything I [\h__\h] owned to a crooked evil son of a [\h__\h] that ripped us off for $2 million and is still trying to take another million and a half out of us and trying to ruin my life, my family's life. He is an evil man. Yet, he's the one that did not do a damn thing in the house he built and then told me I hurt his feelings by saying that the house he built was a piece of [\h__\h] This was my wife's dream home. I watched her in tears every single day because of this. Tears we can get over putting me in a hospital and having me lose a lung because of this guy. No. So, I have no problem asking and demanding for my time. You can get upset. You can get off this podcast. You don't have to listen to me. I just know I have the answers. But after that, like I said, 25,000 buy in and then $2,000 a month. But if you want in before Friday morning, better send me a message. That's all I'll say on social media. Don't send it here. Don't put it in my comments. I will not read it. So if you go, I sent you a message in your comments. I will not read it. If you send me an email and you go, well supportpartan armylc.com. Amber Kaine is my executive assistant. She has been for a long time. She is my bodyguard and bouncer. She gets in the way of all the myopic, impotent wind socks that want to just pick my brain. All of this is picking my brain, you guys. I come out here and give you all I got because I genuinely care. But you know what? I also care about me. So anyway, the call is every Monday at 5, the Q&A call, and I stay on until everybody's questions are answered because I damn well give a [\h__\h] about you guys. So there's your pitch for my own stuff, and I have no problem saying it. You want to work one-on-one with me, that is a whole other conversation. And I'll even tell you that. How about this? The cure program, depending on what it is, it's either 25,000 or 100,000. Depending on 25 days or 100 days, and I decide which one. Because if you don't need 100 days and you want to give me 100 grand, I'm going to say no. And I'm going to say only need 25 cuz I got integrity. You want to work one-on-one with me completely, it's $150,000 for the year. That means you get my personal cell phone number. Is it worth it? I don't know. Ask anybody that's doing it with me right now. They'll tell you. I think it is. I think it's actually cheap. I have people in my group that said it's actually a bargain and they've paid it. Look them up. Robbie Riggs. Ask these guys. You don't have to take my word for it. But I'm also very selective because I care about who works with me. So if you look at ALS to come full circle after my little rant, motor neurons die. So you have to get in the way and either slow or reverse. So like I said about celiac disease with a lady, can I say it? No. One-on-one. I can talk about all kinds of cures, but I can't do it here because right now I have to say this is not meant to treat, cure, diagnose, advise, prescribe, and it is only hypothetical, educational, and for entertainment only. There you go. You're welcome. And if you know, you know. Garbage. In every case of those diseases, ALS, dementia, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's, it doesn't matter any neurodeenerative disorder. I could go into a whole bunch. A lot of them are the same disease with a different name. in every single case, every single one. SS31 addresses the universal root, the energy crisis. So, if you're going to have a complete neuro regenerative protocol, hypothetically, you need to do more than that. So, let me lay out some basics so you guys understand and then let me explain what actually happens when you run through SS31. I think this is going to be a longer podcast than I thought. You can't win the war yourself. You need a team. You have to get in. You can't just take one thing. And you guys have been indoctrinated with this dogma that you only take one thing and that one thing is going to do all the work for you. But that's like saying, you know what, I'm just going to do curls and my whole body is going to be athletic. I respectfully disagree. This is where you move from mitigation to regeneration is listening to what I'm about to explain. So this is it's like a it's like a symphony of biologics. Cerebroin. This is a a peptide and people are going to hear this. You guys are going to lose your mind. From pig brains. Yeah. Mimics. This is great though. It's actually have cerebral lyin is next level mimics natural neurotrophic factors like uh NGF BDNF it's fertilizer for your brain. So while SS31 follow me. So this is all predicated on SS31 as part of all of this. This is all together. SS fixes the power plant mitochondria cerebroly comes in and starts putting up new buildings promotes neurogenesis which is new neuron growth. Synaptogenesis which are the new connections which is how your brain communicates. It's the ultimate rebuild. M C this is the mitochondrial derived peptide that communicates between the nucleus and the mitochondria. It's this fine-tuning peptide that fine-tunes the metabolism and stress respon stress response that the cells have. It works almost exclusively to be honest with SS31. It's so good. It's so effective when you pair these two together. I think I could probably do a podcast on just SS31 and MC together. You do not need one or the other. Not one pri I have a question. That's why I'm going to quickly answer that preemptive strike. Hey, do I need to take SS31 before taking MC? The answer is absolutely not. You can take them together. it would make much more sense because what remember what I said SS31 working on the inner membrane of the mitochondria it passes through both like the the cell membrane and the outer layer of the mitochondria and it sticks to the hole that is where all the problems are being caused right so like right where the ROS's are coming out the reactive oxygen species that's where it goes so you marry this to MC that's going to take the reactor and crank it all up holy [\h__\h] makes me want to run inside and take it so I mean I could get into a whole limitless protocol too but there's a my brain will go non-stop once you it's like pulling string on my chest. Once you get me started, look out. So, this stuff fine-tunes the metabolism and the response that your cells have to stress. So, it the way it works with SS31 is it it works to capitalize on the newly repaired energy infrastructure of the cell. So, it tells the cell, hey, listen, we've got power now at max capacity. We're running at 100%. Now, let's use it efficiently, by the way, so it's not going to get sloppy. Redatride. This is you guys hear this and I'm telling you this is probably one of the most effective peptides on the planet. This addresses systemic metabolic function which is a huge driver of neuroinflammation, brain inflammation and not hydroincily brain inflammation. So it does it by solving the glucose metabolism problem, reducing body fat which is the source of inflammatory cytoines. You guys are grossly overweight and you think you're being body positive and you're empowering and you're standing for something. What you're standing for is disease. What you're standing for is a lack of health and disrespecting what you've been given. Grow up. It redatite improves the insulin sensitivity problem that you don't have or the insulin sensitivity issue that you've got and it creates this clean anti-inflammatory environment which is required so the brain can actually heal because it doesn't matter what I pour into the system. It's like I have a fire and I keep trying to start it and I have all the stuff but I keep pouring water on it the whole time. It's the opposite of that. It's like you can't get the fire out. You just the water is gasoline. You need to change the system. So it starves the inflammation that fuels the neurodegradation. It's the easiest way to explain it. A fennel paracetam hydroide. This is probably one of the most advanced rasetams that you can ever get. It upregulates acetylcholine receptors and handles doesn't really handle it. It enhances the communication the neuronal communication. So with the power restored, follow me. I'm trying to string this together. With a power restored with SS31, fennel paracetam comes in and maxes out the use of the energy. So you get sharper focus, sharper memory, a faster processing speed. It's like adding RAM to your computer. It's like overclocking a very now stable CPU in a way that it's just hungry for. It's like please bring it. I want it. I'm ready for the speed. Like I feel the need the need for speed. Like bring it. Alpha GPC. This is the you need this because this is raw material. Without this you're going to wind up getting a tolerance to fennel paracetam hydrochlor hydroide. Right? So this is a very highly bioavailable form of choline. This is the precursor to acetylcholine which is the primary learning and memory neurotransmitter. You can't amplify a signal that isn't there. Right? So this gives you the raw building block so it can do that. TB-500 and BPC57. These are OG go with everything. This is like putting ice in a drink that you want cold. It always goes. These are the most effective healers on the planet. Better than KPV before somebody argue. I think you guys just argue for the sake of arguing. This shows a lack of intellect. They reduce systemic inflammation, accelerate healing. Are you ready for this part? Of the bloodb brain barrier, which is crucial to neuro to mitigating neuroderadation and solving the problem. I'll just leave it at that. And it promotes angioenesis, which is the new blood vessel growth. So, it pretty much guarantees delivery of all the other compounds to the brain that I'm already listing off. So, they fix the roads so the supply can actually get to the damn city. GHK-Cu, I talked about this briefly about the armor around the neurons. This, it's like a modulator of over 4,000 genes. That's a shitload of genes, just so you know. Mitigates, it doesn't mitigate, it just shuts off inflammation, activates stem cells, which can be any cell, right? Promotes tissue remodeling. It's the it's the orchestrator of this entire thing so that everything works in harmony. Ethylene blue, remember the complex one to complex 4 bypass the traffic jam. Well, if you don't have SS31, but you have an issue, right? You see where I'm going with this? Now, if you if you have an issue, and the issue is with complex 4 and and complex one, methylene blue is useless. Now, do you see how this works together? So, it's like a battery booster. Low doses etc in the mitochondria, electron transport chain cyclinger bypasses damages in it goes direct, it just cranks out ATP production. It bypasses all the damages and goes directly to enhance ATP production. It's the easiest way to explain it without going too crazy. It's this temporary jump start that works beyond synergistically with SS3's long-term permanent repair. This isn't some kind of little weird stack that you can go to Elite Biogenics and buy on the site or anything like that. I'm sure it'll be there, but that's not what you have to do. You have to understand this so you don't need me because your system is now built right and you can just go on with your damn life. That is the point of being a good doctor. A shitty [\h__\h] doctor or liar is one that comes and goes, "I want to make sure you need me forever. I don't want you to be addicted to me. I want you to actually understand this. Why do you think I come out here to teach you?" I had some knucklehead go, "Well, dude, why don't you just give you give us the answers?" No, not because I don't. I do anyway. Well, then you're not really teaching anything. Actually, I'm teaching you everything. I'm teaching you everything so you understand the concepts so you never need me once you're done. That's why I'm here. I don't want a bunch of little addicts to the Spartan. I want you to go, this guy's a resource of information that just spews out nothing but value. Perfect. This is the way I kind of built this together. And if you ask me for dosages, black card. I'll just say it again. Black card. I'm not going to keep chasing you around. You want the dosages and just do something about it. You want to know how to do this? You want the protocols? Then do something about it. This is like a full-on assault on neurodeeneration. And neuro degeneration is one of the few things that kind of freak me out because I love who I am and I know that I have power from God to convey information. My wife says it all the time. She's like, "You have such an incredible gift to explain and give people information and transfer your energy to them so they actually feel it." So, I don't ever want to lose that. This fixes the core energy problem. And then the other compounds just swarm in and rebuild and protect and enhance. And you could pretty I guess you could build the ultimate insurance policy. I mean, I'm 35 minutes in. But I guess the question is what if I'm not sick? What if I don't have a uh any issues with neurodeeneration? The problem is everybody says that and you don't know until it shows up and you can't, you know, oh, you have a a memory problem because you can't remember somebody's name. Oh, that's normal. You're getting older. Getting Listen, it's just like when I said that post about arthritis. Getting older doesn't mean you get arthritis because everybody on this podcast knows somebody that at 85 they're just as spry and nimble as ever and people that are 45 that are crippled and have already had a knee replacement. Why is that? It's a rhetorical question. It's the you're paying the price for the biological stupidity and bad decisions and people getting in your way, [\h__\h] up your mechanics and bad PTs and bad docs and surgeons ready to cut you open and putting poor compounds in your the list is endless of it's all the things based on your conduct of behavior. This is the insurance policy. SS31 and MOS C I think would be the ultimate insurance policy against this. I you could probably throw some things in there with that. Throw these two. I talked about mod C and reatrudi too. Those are just as good. But if you have a mitochondrial issue, SS31, in fact, why not just smash SS31, MOT C and Red or true tied together, that's like pretty much the it's the perfect shield, right? It's like putting your mitochondrial health, if you look at SS31 and MO C alone, just those two. That's like putting your mitochondrial health in an impenetrable vault, you're proactively reinforcing the most vulnerable system in your body against the assaults of time and stress and environmental toxins and a bunch of really poor decisions. So now you're not just slowing aging, you are compressing morbidity. You're ensuring that your health span matches your lifespan. That you are sharp and vibrant and cognitive and and fierce and fully you all the way until the end. It's like you're insulating yourself against a catastrophic neurological failure. We have spent our entire existence, please listen to me. We have spent our entire existence treating disease. How about you start engineering resilience into your system? And they don't want you to know that. I'm amazed that I even get any traction whatsoever because I'm coming out here telling the truth and people freak out and go let anybody see this because it's dipping into our profits. [\h__\h] your prophets. This is human beings, mankind. People that deserve to have a great life because they were born to have a great life. And all you people profiting off of their disease and illness are [\h__\h] it up. And if you go, "Aren't you profiting off of people that are sick?" I'm giving you the [\h__\h] answer so you don't have to keep paying me. You want to keep paying me and rely on me? Knock yourself out. Eventually, I'm going to get tired of listening to you complain. Listen, the science is here, man. And it's been here for quite a while. You have to decide because you have a choice to kind of go cognitive decline is an inevitability. No, it's not. You have a chance to slap it in the mouth right now. It's you decide what kind of human potential you have. But, you know, I I think like you really want to know how this magic works, how we go from protecting to actually healing the system. Take a neuron that's like in in ICU and it's on life support. And listen, this is what happens with things like dementia, especially frontal lobe dementia, Alzheimer's, ALS, Parkinson, all of these things. But those two, dementia and Alzheimer's, you need to bring those neurons back from the brain. But listen, here's a real time in your face repair manual. So you see a here a damaged neuron. Let me because now I'm just going to go full nerd. It's like a factory after a storm. The roof is leaking, the mitochondrial membrane permeability, right? The machine is all of it's all rusted and wet, broken. It's oxidized protein complexes and the power is your brownouts, right? is what I use and flickering and the lights aren't working right which is low ATP. It doesn't have the energy and the workers are all pissed off laying on the floor exhausted because they don't have anything left to give which is the impaired problematic autophagy. they don't have any energy left to go in and do because autophagy goes in and it decides okay do I extract the components that I can still use from the cell and this is a very basic explanation before somebody goes it's not exactly what it does shut up it basically extracts the components that it can use from the cell and digests and uses the rest as raw components and fuel or it goes fix the entire cell fix the entire thing there's the only two choice that's what autophag it's doing it all the time regardless of whether you're fasting or not fasting just makes it faster and and much more violent I guess in a good way. And before people go, "Well, you could exercise and induce autophagy. It ain't the same as fasting." And I'm not saying 24-hour fasts or 72-hour fasts. If you ask me what I think, you're [\h__\h] stupid. 18 hours, 6 hours. That's it. 18 empty, six eating. There you go. And don't ask me about any others cuz there I 72. I did a 72-hour fast. I felt great. Great. Good for you. I It doesn't change the benefit. It doesn't amplify any of it. Nothing. So, here's what happens when you look at this factory that the workers are sprawled all over the floor and like I said, the the protein is all oxidized and the roof is leaking and all these problems. They This is what most treatments the medical world, which I I'm part of. So, I mean, I I can't say anything, but at least I'm coming out here to give you the right answers. They come in with a bucket and the water is all over the floor and he's just going to bail out the water. That's your answer. And then just hopefully put a bunch of fans up and it all dries out and it never does. Nothing works the same. SS31 sends in a full engineering squadron. So they come in and they do it all. New roof, new generators, new they bring you a caterer that gives the workers just the best food and mattresses and sleep so they rest and cleanup crews. It's all there. So let me explain how this works. Look at because otherwise this is probably going to just go over people's heads, which is fine and I'm sorry if it does, but I'm not really that sorry. You need to restore the membrane potential because I touched on it and I realized I probably didn't explain it as well as I should have. So this is like immediate triage. The first sign of a dying neuron, it's almost quarter to 5. The first sign of a dying neuron because remember I said you're not going to know is a collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential. This is the it's the electrical charge gradient that acts like a battery to power adenazine triphosphate ATP production. Right? So it's the facto's main breaker switch on the gang panel. So when it fails every single thing stops. SS31's unique very unique I promise you electrical charge integrates directly into the inner membrane. So it bypasses everything and it goes right to the inside, but it instantly shores up that gradient that so you actually have it. It's like jumping. It's like going out to my truck and using it to jump start a dead car battery that's sitting in the driveway. But here's what happens. The immediate restoration of power is the first and most critical step of all of this. So that's why these guys that come in and they work on acetylcholine or you know um glut glutamate or any of the problems, none of that matters. Solve the power issue. This stops the active dying process and then the lights flicker back on and now you can start doing other things. Now you have to stop the executioner which is cytochrome C. Let me explain this because this stuff's nasty. When the mitochond it's like the cell of death. It's or it's like the cells indicated for death. This let me explain cuz I actually just thought about this right now how this really it's [\h__\h] frightening cuz your body is so efficient on one side of the other side of this equation. It is frighteningly fast and unbelievably effective. So when the mitochondrial membrane is damaged and porous, which is not supposed to be, just so you know, it leaks a protein called cytochrome C into the cytoplasm, the inside of the cell. This isn't a leak. This is a it's like a trigger mat. That's the easiest way to say it's a trigger. Cytochrome C is the key activator of this caspace cascade. This is just let me explain what this is. This is the irreversible biochemical suicide sequence for the cell called apoptosis. The minute it gets out, this cell is slated for death. It's over. It's on death row and it's not waiting for them to throw the breaker. It's already strapping you into the chair. So, by sealing a membrane and stabilizing cardipin that I talked about before, SS31 locks cytochrome C inside the mitochondria where it belongs and it it turns off the nuclear bomb. So, the cell's death warrant that was handed out by the judge is torn up and thrown away. It doesn't even exist digitally. It's gone. So, now you have to bring in a cleanup crew to solve the problem of all the mess, right? which you need autophagy. So the cell now has stable energy. It's not leaking cytochrome C. So it can power its own innate internal repairs and extracellular repairs whatever. But the most important repair that's it's not doing is autophagy which is this I told you it's the cell's process of I mean self-eing is the easiest most basic fundament. Think of that idiot that keeps coming out and she's like she looks like a dude and just talks about autophagy all the time. Just get the [\h__\h] out of here. Where it it basically breaks down and either repairs or recycles damaged cells, proteins, organels, all that stuff. My beard is making me nuts. So, a starved, energy depleted neuron can't perform autophagy. It doesn't have the capacity to do it. So, it's sitting in its own funk, its own stink. It's like taking a bath. Baths are gross. You're sitting you're you're in you're in like a like person's stew. That's [\h__\h] gross, man. I'm going to go outside. and I'm going to work in the yard and get all covered in funk and I'm going to go sit in a tub of my own broth. That's nasty, man. That's so nasty. So, that's what this is doing. The or the the neuron is it can't do anything. And so, it's just sitting in its own garbage. SS31, follow me. SS31's restoration of ATP unleashes I guess the cleanup crew. So, the damaged proteins, the fragments of or the fragmented mitochondria, the mphagy and the toxic aggregates, they all get tagged, bagged, and taken out. Right. Snag it, tag it, bag it, and throw it out. That's like if you watch warehouse 13, right? Snag it, tag it, and bag it. The factory floor gets all swept clean. So, the guy with a bucket is unnecessary because they're actually cleaning the entire thing. Now, you need to turn on synaptic function. So, it actually works. You need to Now is when glutamate comes in and you need to start doing something because neurons talk to each other across something called a syninnapse using neurotransmitters, primarily glutamate, which is a primary excitatory neurotransmitter. damaged energy starved cells, neurons specifically, lose their ability to regulate glutamate. So it spills out and it hyper stimulates all the neighboring neurons in this toxic process called if you remember something called exytotoxins. They were big when everybody started talking about artificial sweeteners. So exytotoxicity which fries the cooks the [\h__\h] out of the circuits. So now ATP is restored and the neuron can now power its glutamate re-uptake pumps. All of this stops it. that cleans up its own broth, its communication funk, its spell. So, it ends that cross talk toxicity. So, it allows for this normal healthy synaptic right across the gap, that gap junction, the synaptic signaling to resume. So, the once you get me excited, right? It's like, you think I have autism before somebody gets mad and goes, "You shouldn't say that. Are you kidding? Shut up." It It's like It allows the Probably have to edit that out cuz somebody's going to freak out. the fiber optic lines are up and running again. They're repaired, but now you need regeneration. Remember what I said about the long uh the long neurons or I guess it's a the long axon, right? Which you so you need axonal regeneration cuz an axon is really long. This is a thin cable that a neuron uses to send a signal. It's like this pipeline that stretches for miles. It maintaining this takes huge amounts of energy. I told you that 20% of the energy comes from or is taken up by your brain. So you need this massive amount of energy for external transport. So this is the movement of vital supplies from the cell body down to the synaptic terminals. In neurodeeneration, here's what happens. The transport breaks down not because of damage to the cell itself, but because of an energy failure. So the axon withers up and dies back. It's called axonopathy. And SS31 provides this huge ATP boost which is required to re-energize the molecular motors kind of dynurized. It gets cleaned out. It gets repaired. It doesn't have all these holes in it. It's actually super strong. Now the axon can go and repair its and regenerate itself. And and I hope this is making sense. I just I really want you guys to understand this because otherwise the issue becomes it's just some magic little peptide that people take and then they go I don't know why I'm taking it which is exactly why most people are in the problems they're in because they're trusting the the science that they have no idea about and I don't need you to be a biochemist or anything like that. I just want you to understand the process so you know what the hell's happening in your body. So now if you understand epigenetics which is your body's response without getting fancy to the input and it modifying genetic expression you need to change the software of the system. So chronic mitochondrial stress sends signals to the cell nucleus that say we're under permanent attack. Shift all resources to survival mode. If you understand survival mode when you're trying to lose weight it is a nightmare because it makes it damn near impossible. Which is why redatide is so effective. This changes the gene expression in a very detrimental way. The whole survival mode, right, with the um mitochondria sending a signal to a nucleus. So when you mitigate resolve the mitochondrial stress, SS31 changes the signal, it tells the nucleus, hey, listen, there's no more crisis. You're good. We have nothing but energy. The leak is plugged, right? That belching out the exhaust and the smoke out of that hole is gone. I took care of the ROS's. So return to normal operations which promotes the expression of growth and repair and synaptic plasticity. That's the gene expression and it silences genes for inflammation and apoptosis which is the cytochrome C thing I talked about. It's a hard reboot of the cell's OS the operating system. It's not an upgrade. It's like a reboot. This isn't listen you guys listen to me. This isn't just masking symptoms. And I think maybe that's the problem is I look at the way the world is talking about things going on and it's cover it up and nobody will know it's there except you know it's there and it's still causing the same problem. Right? Because when the cover up wears off the damage hasn't gotten better. It's gotten significantly worse. You just weren't aware of it. You think somebody that for 8 n 10 years that's been suffering from a neurodeenerative process didn't understand that maybe they weren't remembering things. They weren't being able to recognize things. They weren't comprehending things the way they normally could and they knew it, but they were too embarrassed to talk about it because they didn't want a people to make fun of them. B, they didn't want the treatment because the treatment has done two things. Jack and [\h__\h] [\h__\h] right? Like Nmena, right? I talked about this. It's a disgusting treatment for dementia and Alzheimer's. I I just can't I because it doesn't work. You're not you're managing decline. What you're doing is you're putting a price tag on a human being. So, this isn't masking symptoms. If you like it, great. If you don't, you don't. This is a cellular re-calibration and rehabilitation, a regeneration. It's like a bunch of art. It's like a rebuild. It doesn't take into a It doesn't choose to acknowledge impossibility. Your cells, as long as they are alive, have the capacity to regenerate. When they aren't, they're dead. This is the listen, this is how this works. You are providing the energy prerequisite for every single self-healing mechanism in the neuron itself. everything it possesses. You're giving it the energy to do it all. Every [\h__\h] thing. You're not giving it a drug to do something foreign. You're giving it the power to do exactly what it was designed to do, which is heal itself. Your body knows what the [\h__\h] to do. This is how you actually reverse damage and how you bring a neuron back online. And and I I mean that that's a gamecher, right? Like you understand, I said it before. I said cognitive decline, you guys. It's not an inevitability. It's just not. You you have to think you have the science and the capacity. And if somebody goes, "Well, what about they're not tested and what about purity and where do we get them?" Go to Elite Biogenics. Don't go to Elite Biogenics. I really don't give a [\h__\h] I care that if you actually do something, you get the results that you want. If you think this is a shortcut, 6 months, 8 months, a year, just so you know, neurodeenerative processes begin long before the symptoms show up. So, it's been ongoing. If I could reverse neurodeeneration in anybody, I would. which is my subtle hint that you should be all over this if you know anybody or you if you want real help with it, you know where to find me because cognitive decline isn't normal. It's not. My grandparents are sharp as tax until God said it's time to go. We've just been taught that it's normal. What kind of [\h__\h] up dogma is that? You're not meant to fade away. You're not meant to get old and everybody forget about you and lock you away in some home. You're meant to burn like fire, like just bright, like people just come by, look at this guy just like torching until the very last moment. That's how you have to be. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. I'm hungry. Never miss.