Hey, what is up, smashers? Oh, that's a that's a that's a skewed video. Let's straighten it out. Oh, come on. That was cool. I could take this and spin it. Spin it. Spin it. Spin it. We can do this all day. Hey, listen. We're going to be talking about hip mobility. That's kind of why I'm doing the 360 thing, just because, you know, that's what I do. Look at there's a little bit of sweat forming already. Why? Because you guys know it is uh let's see 5:18, which means this video drops in exactly 42 minutes. Boom. All over social media. You guys know the routine. So, I got 42 minutes to get my shizz done. So, hip mobility seven drills you're not doing. By the way, big shout out to uh Daario and Tina D'Angelo. You know why? Because they're awesome. And here's why. I'm going to do this. Look at that. That's some callous. That's some work right there. Blisters. This is Teddy's fault right here. These ones, these blisters here, all from you, Teddy. All from you. You wrecked me yesterday. It was awesome. So, listen. Tina and Dario D'Angelo, they got me this sick shirt from CrossFit San Jose. Check it out. You know what? Two patients of mine. Wicked patients. You can you can see this. That's the plate in the background. Wicked patients. Really good people. But, you know what? I love that. Thank you so much. You guys that send me stuff, there's a ton of you guys that do it. I love it. Thank you very much. I I can't tell you the gratitude and how much I appreciate you guys is uh there's no words. Thank you so much. I do this all for you guys. And somebody asked me one time, you know, how much of this free stuff you going to give away? Guess what? [\h__\h] all of it. All of it. You know why? Because I want you guys I'm going to give you guys more value than you give me till the day I die. I promise. So, we're talking about hip mobility. Seven drills you're not doing. Two of them are strength building drills. And I guarantee you this that the hip likes 360°. I realize I'm here in my garage. You know, my garage slash uh slash gym in in one of the garages off my house, but you know what? It's easy. It was an easy conversion and I didn't feel like driving to the gym today so I just hammered out a workout here. Deadlifts and Helen and an ugly version of Helen. So the hip likes 360° and this is a good segue. Everybody's treating the hip as a hinge. And the problem is is when you become very linear with the hip, it loses external and internal rotation number one. And number two is it loses circumduction. So circumduction is that circle that the uh this is really funky with this here. Let's see if I can move this over that the hip does. And uh and not only the hip, but the shoulder. And we're going to go over some shoulder drills tomorrow. The shoulder drills you're not doing that I'm going to help you do. But if you look at how the hips designed to work, remember it's a ball, a socket, glenoid or uh the acetabular labum, right? The acetabulum. Glenoid's in your shoulder. I got that. So you balance on these two little balls all day long. I know that sounds funny. You can probably cut that little clip and make a whole world out of that. But what happens is we're bouncing around on the heads of our femurss. And if that hip doesn't move the right way, what happens is it either rolls towards the front, rolls towards the back, rolls towards the uh top or the bottom. You lose that that centralization that the head of the femur is designed to have. Same with the head of the uterus for that matter. Lose that centralization. And if you talk to my friend Donnie Thompson, he'll tell you no joint centralization. Absolutely corrupted movement. This is a guy that squats over,200 lb. I think he knows his [\h__\h] So I'm going to give you I'm blunt. I'm direct. We're going to take the hip. We're going to take it through some ranges of motion. five or ranges of motion to actually loosen the tissue, unglue that joint capsule, restore the actual 360° movement because remember there are so many muscles that cross that hip joint and what's going on is you're sending a signal to your brain of corrupt movements. So there's a problem with that because remember there's fascia that the joint you or that the tissue uses to slide past themselves but that fascia is also loaded with propricceptors and those propriceptors they're like a loudspeaker to your brain. So they send a signal up to your brain and then your brain bases its instruction on how how it's getting the signal and what the signal it's getting. So that being said, if it gets a really corrupt signal, all it can do is react to the information it's being given and it spits out corrupt movement which means you wind up getting really really faulty motor patterns, corrupt motor patterns. Basic uh neurology, right? So if we unglue the tissue, we fix the mechanics and then we teach you how to move better. You know what you get? You know what? What did I call it? I called it neuromi uh neuromiotrophy, right? That's there. That is a smashwork system. Use it. Neuromiotrophy. New. I'm going to bring it into the world. I promise you this. I will create an entirely new branch of healthcare. That's what I'm going to do. And we're going to shut down all the [\h__\h] that's out there. So bottom line is I'm going to show you how to move the hips properly. Then we're going to do two strengthening drills that you're probably not doing to teach you how to move them, right? All right. So, number one, yeah, normally I'd grab this J hook that's sitting right here, but it's got a weight on it. I don't feel like moving it because you know what? I'm all kinds of sore. So, pardon the rings. See my rings swinging around in the background. So, first things first, we're going to get into a squat. So, when you get into a squat, look at that. That's gratuitous crotch shot right there. That's just That's awful, isn't it? So, when you get into a squat, we'll go like this so you can see what I'm doing. So, I want you to go toes forward in your squat. Okay? So, we're we're bottomed out in the squat. Then, take one knee, drive it all the way down, keep this knee loaded, and then bring the knee all the way up. And then take this knee, drive it all the way down, keep your torso straight, and then bring it all the way up. So, all the way down, all the way up, all the way down, all the way up. I would do ideally three sets of 10. That's number one. Number two. Oh, this is so much fun. This stuff. All right. Number two is what's going to be called, it's a version of a couch, but it's going to isolate a lot more quad than iliacis and soaz. And that soaz runs off of that anterior portion of that L2 to L5, right? The iliacis off front of the ilium. Plus, we've got like sartorius, rectus forous, a lot of stuff. So, we're going to post like so. Okay. You're going to reach back. We're going to grab this. Put your hand here for stability. If you need it, that's fine. Get real wide. Take the leg and then just lean forward. So I have this. I'm pushing the hip towards the ground. Give this. These are anywhere drills. That's why I'm giving them to you. All the way. How long do we hang out in this position? 2 minutes. When you're done, lean back to unload. Drop it down. All right, that's number two. Number three is a figure four. So we want to unload the high hip. So glute me, glute men, TFL, essentially the uh the IT band. That's some That's some stall mat on my knee. Plus some funky dirt. So, we're going to take the foot. Oh, we're going to bring it all the way across. Except if you look I'm going to do it this way so you can see what I'm doing. We're going to come all the way over like this. And then we're going to take the knee and we're going to bring it all the way across. So, there's two ways of doing this. I'm bringing this knee here. So, if I'm bringing it past where I'm supposed to be and then I'm going to take the knee and pull it up and over. Well, that's awful. So, it's going to peel away all this stuff. So, if we look, I'm taking the knee. So, I'm crossing it. I'm bringing the knee away or the foot away. And then I'm going to grab the knee. I'm going to pull it all the way across. That's misery. Hold for how long? Two minutes. That's number three. All right. That's some awful stuff. All right. Now, we got number four, which is basically you get into a butterfly. Except when you're in this butterfly position, I'm going to have you push down on one side. So, we're going to grab So, we're butterfly. So, we're going to hit the adductors. Grab the feet. You can see I'm sweating. It's like 97° here. It's September. Isn't that badass? Take the knee one at a time. Push. Hold. Really crank away on it. Same thing on the other side. Really crank away on it. How many times do we do that? Honestly, two minutes of work. That's number four. Number five is what I call We're going to wind up doing eight of these. So, we're going to do what's called a quadriped 360. So, we get in quadriped. This is just some fun shizz right here. That's a cool shirt, right? Cross San Jose. Love it. So, we get nice rigid spine. We're going to bring the knee up out all the way back and then back to neutral. This is your starting position. So, bring it into flexion. Keep your midline straight. up like a fire rider, like a doggy. All the way up and then back to neutral. Three sets of 10. Last one. Turn your feet out. Settle into a good quadriped position. And then just bring your bring your feet back or bring your torso back as far as you can until you feel that. Keep this at 90°. Your knee at 90°. All right. Camp out like this for how long? 2 minutes. Oh, that's miserable. Now, so what was that? This is going to be eight drills. So, now comes the exercise portion. We're going to do a bridge reach over. So, before I drip sweat all over my floor and die, you're going to reach all the way up with the hand across the body. So, you're going to bridge out hands like this. Gator arms for all you jiu-jitsu guys, right? Keeping keeping that arms in. You're going to bridge out and then you're going to push across. Come back down. Across. Come back down. Across. Come back down. Across. How many? Three sets of 10 each side. Yeah. And now let's fix that hip hinge real quick before I melt. Sound like the wicked witch of the west. Would you like some aqua purifica? Oh, it is really hot in here. So, we step into a band without eating it like that. some dirty knees. We load up the band. Now, we're going to work on hinging the hip because this is a movement that engages a lunge, a run, a squat, a deadlift, everything. So, we want to keep our midline really tall. So, the easiest way to do it is get our hands behind us, push the hip back, keeping your midline straight. Don't need a bike or anything. And then squeeze your glutes and push the hip open all the way back. And then squeeze the glutes and push the hip open. That's all you got to do. It's really that easy. You don't don't have to get complicated. If I eat it on this, I'm just going to leave it on the video. And that's it. Eight moves. You're not going for your hips in a garage. 97° Smash Works. Another day. Killing it. Keeping it real. I'll check you guys out tomorrow. Peace out.