You know, I I realize that I come out here and I talk about peptides and nutrition and pharmarmacology and physiology and human biology and health and injury mitigation disease solutions. But I I was inside and I don't know maybe some of you guys are going to go I just what peptide do I take bro? I you know then I'm not for you because you really don't want to be a juggernaut. You don't because you have to have the whole machine running right which means you got to have your head right too. And everybody talks listen I am so tired of the mindset coaches everybody trying to be Anthony [\h__\h] Robbins. Who's Anthony Robbins? Anthony Robbins. Do you know why? Because he's Anthony Robbins. Same reason why Brian Tracy is Brian Tracy. You know, Dennis Weightley is Dennis Weightley. All the It doesn't matter who you're listening to. The people that talk about self-help and if you go self-help is woo woo [\h__\h] that's fine. You knock yourself out. But this isn't self-help. This is even then self who you need to help yourself. I I just I don't understand it. Sometimes it gets frustrating cuz people go I had somebody send me a message yesterday. Well, how did you beat cancer, man? And I said, well, I stopped listening to modern medicine. And that's coming from a doctor. me and I would I don't listen to guys like me anymore because most guys like me are full of [\h__\h] I am not. But it took me a while to realize I'm not the doctor like most people are. I mean, I changed what I did intentionally because I got tired of being pigeonholed into what the medical world tells me I can and can't do, what pharmaceutical companies say is going to work, it isn't going to work. The FDA is all full like everybody is a liar when it comes to going, I want what's best for you. They go, I want what's best for me. I don't come out here and ask you guys for money. I don't. I tell you about what I have because you guys keep asking me. Hey, where do I get where do I get all the research chems and the peptides? Elite Biogenics, you ask. So, I just tell you. I don't I don't pepper you with ads. I don't. Dude, either you do or you don't. Hey, man. How do I work with you? I tell you, I have three different ways to do it one- on-one. You're going to pay me 25 grand for 25 days in the cure program to fix whatever health problems you got if they fit within 25 days. I decide that, not you. or you pay me $100,000 for a 100 days and the whole and it's and I will solve whatever problem you have. I guarantee that because I don't take people that aren't going to listen to me and aren't going to do exactly what I tell them to do and that I I know for sure I can help and that's it. And then I have one-on-one coaching with me which and if you go, "Oh, another coach." Nah. Business, mindset, marriage, God, relationships, fitness, all of it. $100,000 one-on-one. And then I have my mastermind. It's five grand every year. That's how it works. I I just those are the programs if you don't like them. If you want something cheaper, if you want to dip your toe in the water, I'm not for you. In fact, I don't want to even try and attract you to my program. I don't want people like that. I don't want anybody that's cheap. I don't want anybody that goes, "I'm looking for a deal or a promo code or can I get it for a little less or can I test it or is there a 90-day money back guarantee?" I don't want anyone like that in my life. So, I just don't I don't even entertain it. So, if that's what you're looking for, you might just want to piss off because I am not for you at all. Yeah, that's where my head's at because I know what I got and I know how exceptional I am at helping people. You know what else I know? I also know I'm not an attorney. So, if you ask me for legal advice, I have no damn clue. I'm also not an architectural engineer. So, I have no idea how to do that. That what I'm saying is I'm really good at what I'm really good at and everything else I don't pretend I'm good at it. Social media has become this place where everybody is good at everything and yet nobody's really good at anything. Nobody excels. And the people that excel have to fight through all the nonsense and [\h__\h] of bro science and liars and hypocrites and insta experts who all think they are the next thing yet they they don't even have a thing. They're just terrible at what they do. They're just making a lot of noise. It's puffery non-stop. But I realized something inside. I was talking to Brandy and I thought, you know, the whole point about what I do is to get people further in their life and give them the tools and the and if you take the information and now you can make an educated decision and go whatever direction you want, good or bad, that's on you. But at least you know, which is why I come out here and I go, "This peptide does this. This serum does that. This serum does this." Which is the same reason why I'm tired. If you're an Insta bro or one of those Insta experts, I don't give a [\h__\h] if you have an IFBB card, how shredded you are, or how many people you allegedly have helped. If you don't know human biology, you need to shut the [\h__\h] up when it comes to giving health advice cuz you don't know. What you know is how to make a bunch of noise on your own behalf and claim that you're an expert. But you want to really prove it, get online with me live and I'll set your skull on fire because that stuff bugs me to no end because your health matters to me. Because I actually take it seriously when I go above all do no harm. Above all, do no harm. But that goes for when I teach you how to change your psychology, change your marriage, change your connection with God to make it right. Get your relationship with your spouse right. Change your fitness, your health, your physicality, your disease mitigation, all of that stuff. That matters to me. Your money, your business. So anyway, that was my 5-minute rant here at the beginning of this podcast. And here's why. I had somebody send me a message. This was the trip. It was it was Brandy and I talking and we were talking about how people always just put it off till tomorrow. I had a guy I was friends with this guy. He's I don't know. He's he's just a liar. Everything was I'll do it soon, bro. Don't worry. I'm almost there. Just one more thing. I'm almost there. I'll get around to it. I'm so close, bro. Just I have a couple of demons. I I got a tiger by the nonsense that came out of his mouth. But nothing ever came to fruition. It's been almost two years. I just don't have time for people like that anymore. Get out of my life. But you need to do that with your life. Most people cling to people because they're so desperate for attention instead of that. But then they go to bed with regret. Are you where you want to be? No. Then what are you doing? It's because it's the tomorrow. It's the tomorrow syndrome. You could call it's like a disease. Like tomorrow is a lie. Tomorrow that's what people do. And I had this guy go, "Man, I'm hoping this drives me insane. You can tell I'm just lit." people that go, I can't wait until hopefully I can get things put together so tomorrow I can sign up and work with you. Tomorrow I can join your mastermind. Tomorrow I can What are you waiting till tomorrow for? Max out the [\h__\h] credit card if you want to do it. If you want to do it that bad, then max it out. Go take a heloc against your house and join if you want to have me oneon-one. If not, then quit saying you want it that bad. Oh, I'm going to try a workout, but I'm only going to do 10 minutes, not an hour. Then you don't want to train with me. You don't want my workouts. I could do this about anything I have. Because unless you're willing to do everything I do, then you are never going to get what I've got. Just like if I look at like my buddy Dan Martell or Brad Lee or like all these people that I know that I actually have a lot of respect for Bedros Coulian, these people if I'm not willing to do what they do, I can never expect what they've got. And for some reason, social media has poisoned everybody into thinking, "Yeah, but you can do it tomorrow and you'll still get the same results." Not a [\h__\h] chance. Tomorrow is the biggest scam. It's the biggest scam. You guys going, "I'll get it together tomorrow, bro." Don't even send me a message. Don't even offer. Because if you come up to me tomorrow, I'm probably just going to say no. Why? Because I would never wait till tomorrow. I squeeze the trigger today and then I figure it out. I throw it up in the air and I fix it on the way down. Which is exactly why I've made it further than most people that have anybody that's gone through what I've gone through. And it's not an arrogant statement or an egotistical statement. It's a confidence statement built on the receipts of all the things that I've done and failed and got back up and done again. Tomorrow is the biggest spam, the biggest scam you've ever bought. The biggest scam you've ever bought. It's the lie that you whisper to yourself at night so you can feel righteous while doing nothing today. And the And this is where I'm This is what's funny because I'll post this and it'll get a fraction of the engagement, a fraction of the likes, a fraction of the replays because people go, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, but what's the hack?" This is the hack. Stop waiting until tomorrow. There you go. You don't even have to listen to the rest of this. It'll probably take me another 25 minutes to explain what to do, but you don't even need you to stop waiting till tomorrow. Just start right now. Whatever it is, it doesn't matter what it is. And when people go, "It's not that simple." You're a liar. You're a liar. You just self-righteous just to do nothing, man. The problem with lies is they don't just sit there, you guys. They multiply and metastasize. It's a cancer. And before long, you're living in this prison that you've built entirely out of your own [\h__\h] Think about this just for a half a second. Yesterday, yesterday you had more time than you do right now. Agreed? And today you have more time than you will tomorrow. That's not philosophy. That is math. That's arithmetic. So riddle me this. If you've got goals, money, muscles, marriage, life, relationships, sex, business, promotions, houses, cars, whatever. Even the respect of your damn reflection in the mirror, why the hell would tomorrow ever make sense as the place to begin? Here's the comedy, you guys. People defend tomorrow like it's their religion. construct the most beautifully articulated college essay level arguments for why it's better to wait. They sound like an attorney for procrastination. Well, tomorrow I'll be more rested and I'll have more energy and I'll be in the right headsp space. You know what that translates to? I don't want to be uncomfortable right now, so I'm going to dress up cowardice in a tuxedo or a nice suit and call it logic. Make it make sense. Hey, spoiler alert, by the way. It doesn't. Just means you're a liar. Listen, the second you scratch the surface of tomorrow's promise. Listen to me. Two things show up every time. Just two. Whatever you push off will be harder tomorrow. It'll cost you more money or energy have a greater chance of failure. Your debt of effort compounds daily. It's like interest on a credit card that you never pay off. And the second thing is you're a liar. Not the cute I told my kid the tooth fairy is real. Not that kind of way. I mean the I've been gaslighting myself into mediocrity for decades kind of way. And once you see that, you are faced, you're in a conundrum. You're faced with a decision. Do you eat your own crow and admit you've wasted time and start hammering away at the thing that you should have been doing all along? Or do you double down, polish the lie, and go to war with anybody that calls you on it? And guess which one most people choose? They pick war. War against reality, against today. They fight their spouse, their kids, co-workers, even their own [\h__\h] biology if it means they can keep tomorrow intact. Because once you've built your ego on the scaffolding of procrastination, every single attack on tomorrow feels like an attack on your identity. You can't make just look around. This is what you see. Social media is oh god it is a museum of tomorrow defenders. Entire tribes exist online whose purpose the sole purpose is to glorify waiting and mediocrity. Just glorify the [\h__\h] out of mediocrity. glorify being proud of less than you are capable of attaining and achieving. They call it self-care or acceptance or realistic goals. You know what I call it? Publicly quitting and or publicly justifying quitting so you can get likes for being lazy. And it doesn't stop at self soothing. I mean, these groups, they they recruit you guys. If you're listening, you might even be part of one of these stupid gay groups. They become movements once something is a like the groups grow. You just add members. all these lazy, good for nothings with a purpose. A purpose to be lazy and good for nothing. And once something is a movement, it's enforced like law. Like you you can't just say, "No thanks. I'd rather be exceptional." That's hearsay. They'll punish you for refusing to kneel at the altar of mediocrity and average. Make it make sense. The sickness it spreads, you guys. Losing is now reframed as winning. Failure is reframed as something noble and righteous. Victimhood is it's a crown that people they compete to wear it. Tell me that's not a disease. It's an autoimmune disorder of the culture where the body attacks itself and then brags about how strong the disease makes it. Show me. Where does that work? I want to know. I'll wait. Yeah, I'm irritated. I want to know. Show me. You know what the most corrosive part of this cultural cancer is? People outsource their self-worth. They rent their value from strangers on screens. Tell me I'm enough. Validate me. Like my post. Here's the brutal math, you guys. If your worth depends on somebody else, you have no worth. You have a lease and this that that person or platform, whatever, walks away, your value disintegrates. The only antidote to any of this are receipts. Receipts, not Best Buy or Amazon receipts. I mean receipts of suffering, of doing things you just didn't want to do, but you did them anyway because they stack the bricks on the foundation of who you're becoming. Every rep in the gym, every awkward sales call, every line you write and then delete and then write again, those are receipts. Stack enough of them and you build a fortress that's so impenetrable of self-confidence that nobody can bulldo this thing. And you know what these people will call you? They'll call you arrogant because they can't even understand. They don't comprehend the meaning of the word because that's not what it means. And then when they finally do, they call you egotistical. Good. Have an ego. Have a monster ego. Because when you back it up with performance and results, it's not an ego. It's called a [\h__\h] resume. I mean, here's the binary. Every action, every every action you do either moves you towards your target or away from it. Agreed. There's no neutral. Both directions are uncomfortable. The difference moving forward hurts now. Regret that's forever. Hurts forever. And regret is non-negotiable. It's not a maybe or AI don't know possibility. It is a certainty. You can dress it up. Call it contentment. Call it acceptance. Call it present and connected. Your brain knows the truth. It knows you lied to yourself. I'm going to drink some coffee because I just feel like it. Stay with me or don't. That's on you, man. You don't get stronger lying to yourself. I've been down this road. It doesn't work. You don't get more free. You just get better at being a liar. That's a skill most people master, by the way. Defense of procrastination. You know what repetition does? Feeds neuroplasticity. Remember, your brain doesn't recognize good, bad, happy, sad. It doesn't. It doesn't. It recognizes reps. And repetition builds whatever skill you are building. And if the one thing you repeat daily is, "I'll do it tomorrow," congratulations. You are an expert in deferral. You've hardwired your brain. Here's what you've done. You've hardwired your damn brain to equate comfort with safety and discomfort with your death. Okay? So, if that's the case, well, you're going to die anyway, right? I mean, you get about 4,000 weeks on this rock if you're lucky. Do the math. Yes, I'm right. That's it. Not 4,000 years, you guys, or infinite retries or a bunch of extra lives. 4,000 damn weeks. And every tomorrow you defend is one day less, one less today that you're ever going to have. One more erosion into the time that you've gotten. You've become so complacent with your time and gone, "Yeah, I bet I'll just do it tomorrow." Oh, here's just another guy. Rah rah about time. But I'm not doing it for me. I'm doing it for you because I've been you. I've been the guy that goes, "I'll do it tomorrow. I know I have more time. I'm 5 [\h__\h] two and I regret every single day, including right now on this podcast, not starting things way, way earlier. And all I can do now is stomp on the skinny pedal and give all I've got and bleed for all of you [\h__\h] to help you have a better life so you don't make the same mistakes I did. Cuz that's what someone does who's learned is they transfer that knowledge so somebody else doesn't have to suffer as badly and gets to where they need to go more quickly based on the mistakes of others. So they don't have to make them themselves. I wish I had me four years ago, 5 years ago, 10 years ago, 20 years ago, but I didn't. But you do. You do. And still people act like time is some kind of renewable thing. Like you can burn years on TikTok and then just file for a refund. You know, Time doesn't have a customer service agent. I don't know if you know that, but it doesn't. I'll just help you. There's no number. There's no hotline. There's no email you can send. Time is gone. What's worse is platforms themselves are designed to reinforce the architecture of your own destruction. You scroll long enough and you get rewarded for staying weak cuz you try and leave and you're going to be shamed right back into line. So congratulations. You know what that's called? It's called a cult. You just didn't notice because you pick your own filters. You did. They let you. They just go ahead. You pick your filters, but we won't let you leave. Come on in. The water's fine. That's what you do. Here's why tomorrow feels so seductive. And I mean just like it's like just it's seductive. You're like, "Yeah, give me tomorrow, man. And I'm going to buy into that all day like you're just running rails off the coffee table and just going, "Yeah, I know this Coke isn't going to hurt me cuz I feel good right now." Here's why. Meaning, the meaning comes from you. By the way, your brain has three questions that run on an eternal loop. They never stop. No matter how much you want to argue with me right now or some psychiatrist or psychologist that wants to try and knowledge flex on me, shut your mouth. I'm right. I've just simplified it enough to make people not need you if required. Your job as a psychiatrist or psychologist is to be there when they want to quit and give them a way to keep going and the tools to do it in a way that doesn't cause any harm to their life. Just like a doctor, just like anybody that's going to help somebody. Your job is not to do it for them and be the addiction cuz you've just replaced one addiction for the other. Now, which is why I don't want anybody addicted to me if they're a client ever. If I do consulting, I would rather go in and consult with a boardroom of people, with some executive, go to somebody's house, get on the phone, do a Zoom call, whatever it is, once, twice, and call it a day because I gave you everything you needed. Now you don't need me. Versus going, I have to make sure that you pay me forever. You're just going to pay me a lot upfront. So what? You got the results. Now I made sure you don't need me. The reason you stay with me, the reason people join my mastermind, just to be clear, is not because of the eternal payoff that I get. Most of the time you only have to pay me once and you get lifetime access. So, where's the uh the automation of money just showing up? Doesn't exist. I have to continually do my job. It's the worst business model ever according to a lot of experts cuz I don't have recurring revenue. Really, do I? I don't have recurring revenue. Everybody pays me every month. I have to keep having new people show up and they're like, "That's a terrible business model." It's an incredible psychological model. It's an incredible mo model on above all do no harm. It's an incredible model to go, I want to make sure that you are as healthy physically as possible. I want to solve every damn disease you've got. I don't care what it is. Fix every injury you've got. I want to solve your psychology. I want to fix your fitness. I want to solve your marriage. And I want to give you the tools so you can do it. The reason you stay with me in my mastermind or you do one-on-one with me is because every time you want to quit, you have somewhere to go who's going to kick your ass and make sure you don't and then give you tools, not just yell at you and call you a [\h__\h] Someone who goes, "Here's how you handle it, man." Cuz I've gone through it. You know what the most one of the most common things I hear on my Q&A on Mondays? No, it's not free. By the way, my Q you guys is it free? I'm not for you. Don't even come near me with your discount asking codes and all this stuff. Don't I don't want you. That's how simple it is. I don't want you at all. If you want to get something for less money or get a discount or try and weasle your way in, I don't want you. In fact, I'll find a way to charge you more because I don't want anyone that doesn't go, I'll bleed for what I want because it's that worth it. Cuz I get one precious life on this planet. I just talked to Brandy about that today where I said, you know what was the most frightening thing? Not being able to breathe. I think it's one of the most frightening things you can have happen to you because you can't do anything about it. You're trapped. And I remember it all too well. When that mass was growing, I couldn't breathe. When like it was terrible, my lung capacity was so bad. Stick a McDonald's straw in your mouth. I use that example all the time. Plug your nose. Spend 10 minutes like that. I've spent the last 4 years like that. I will spend the rest of my life like that. And there's a good chance my life has been limited because of that. So understand it is a terrifying feeling. Every single time I get off the a dine, every time I do a row or I run or I do in all my workouts, if you see them, you can I have people still to this day, bro, you don't work out like that. Come train with me. Make sure that the medics are with you. Again, not an arrogant statement. It's also not my intention to hurt anybody. It's that I have a different capacity and I am searching for that limit. I don't have a ceiling because I know tomorrow I'll do more than today in the gym. And the reason is because I know if I can do one more, I owe it to do one more. And if people go, that's not a healthy way to live. That's okay. You can choose that. I just don't. But you can't tell me that I can't choose that. But don't complain about where you are. Especially in relation to where I am. The meaning I give events is different than you. Which is why I make it further than most people, why I keep going and most people want to quit. Why I work 16, 18 hour days sometimes. The last 3 days I have slept the total the last 3 days. And you guys can go that's unhealthy. my business partner and close one of my best friends in the world now knows damn well I don't and he even he was like bro you need to sleep man I I I can't have a broken business partner but in the last 3 days I've slept less than 4 hours and not because I'm not tired I've been exhausted exhausted because I had things to do and those things were things I said I was going to do that day are you that committed or you more committed to somebody going well you need your rest bro you're right sleep is important keeping your word is more important so I have to again demeaning I give that meaning. My wife knows she can count on me. My wife knows that I will die before I let her down and there's no hesitation in that. There's been plenty of tears in our life together and some good, some bad. But what I do know is I am never ever going to break my word to my wife. And I think that the problem is that it becomes something that's almost tolerated now. That's okay to break your word. You gave it meaning. But that's what I mean. That's why tomorrow feels just so beautifully seductive and well curated. It's such a beautiful excuse is because you give it meaning and you ask these questions over and over again. And that's what I was saying is you can go no I don't bro I actually have a different set of questions. No you don't. You have something happen or something you want to have happen or somewhere you want to go anything any thought that goes through your head you instantly ask what meaning am I assigning to this event to this thought to this experience what meaning instantly it's reflected for most of you and what feelings follow that meaning that's question two and the third one is what actions do those feelings drive so the problem becomes you give it a meaning that doesn't serve you then you have feelings follow and then you take action that takes you in the wrong damn direction so if you decide I listen to me if you if you I'm going to tell you this is how you have to do it. You don't have to listen. You can find some other psychological hack or some I don't know whatever. Personally, I look for people that are winning and I go, "How are you doing it?" I don't go, "How are you doing it? Why is it easy?" I just go, "How are you doing it? Can you teach me?" But if you decide comfort means danger, it means pain. And you feel fear and your action is to retreat. Go ahead and repeat that loop thousands of times and your brain gets Olympic level skilled at quitting. But meaning is fabricated. You guys listen to me. Meaning is completely fabricated. You gave it to the event. The event didn't have any meaning. It's just an event. The meaning you give an event becomes the event. You can strip it away and reassign it anytime you want. You can you can decide comfort means growth. That fatigue means progress. And it's fatigue means you're winning and you're crushing it. You are the one that assigns those values. Awkwardness means practice. When you go in and you suck at something, same event, new meaning, new feelings, new actions. The end. Your brain isn't built to care about happiness or sadness. It cares about repetition. That's it. You don't get what you want. You get what you rehearse. The solution is simple, you guys. It's not easy by any means. I I This isn't me bragging about suffering and but you're going to suffer. It's required. Somewhere on social media, some imbecile and all their idiosyncrasies decided that suffering is a bad thing and that taking days off in pursuit of your goals is a great thing and that when you're present and connected it trumps anything else, but present and connected is a feeling. I'm not saying spend 5 minutes a day with your kids. I'm saying look at the life you are trying to create and is it going to benefit your kids and your wife? If the answer is yes and you are finding a way to not do it to get to that point, you're doing them a disservice and you're lying to yourself. You need to stop giving tomorrow the crown. Just resolve in advance. I do the damn work no matter how uncomfortable it gets. Period. I resolve in advance to never quit. I resolve in advance to say it's my fault. Brian Tracy is one of my favorite people to listen to, you know, and he's dry. He's suitaring. The world whenever he passes is going to lose a very great man in my opinion. And I would love to shake hands with him and just tell him how much he has had an influence on my life. Probably the single most influential person that I've never met is Brian Tracy. And even just now like it it emotionally I feel it how much I would love to just shake his hand and go you don't know. You don't know the days and the nights that I've listened to your se in your silver zip open CD pack. If you know it then you know it. If you don't then you had like 20 CDs in it. It's like a success university or success something. I forget what it was called but I've listened to so many of those CDs. Focal point one of my favorite books. And because he says, "I like myself." But you can't like yourself until you give yourself meaning to like yourself. You can't like yourself until you keep your word to yourself. You can't like yourself until you actually start moving in the direction you want to go. Because your brain knows where you keep all your secrets. So if you go, "Hey, listen. I like myself. I really do, man. I like myself and I think I'm great and I'm moving towards where I want. I love the life I'm in." And yet your brain goes, "You're a [\h__\h] liar. You're a dirty liar." Why? cuz I know the thoughts running way back over here that you're telling yourself, "Yeah, but I'm not doing what I said I was going to do, and I'm I really want to, but I'll do it tomorrow." And your brain goes, "Tomorrow's a lie, too, man. But don't worry, we'll make sure we stroke your ego and make sure you feel good about it and find all the people that support you so you're okay, bro." That's what your brain does. But it still makes you realize that you're a liar. But he goes, "I think I can. I think I can. I think I can. I think I can. I think I can. I think I can. I know I can. I know I can. I know I can. I know I can. I like myself. I like myself. I like myself. I like myself." He says this over and over and over again. And the other one he says is it's my fault. Resolve in advance to never give up and you will always win because you don't go until you feel uncomfortable. You go until and what I mean is until you get it. So that's what you have to do. You resolve in advance. I do the damn work. I keep my word to myself and I resolve in advance to never give up no matter how uncomfortable it gets. Period. And then you operationalize it, which is how I do it. There's no secret to what I do. People pay me hundreds of thousands of dollars, millions of dollars a year I've made doing this, teaching people how to do this. And I just give it away. But sometimes people need a little more, which means I need to go down into a situation to go, let's figure this out from square one. And that's what's required. And that's okay. People ask, how do I work with you? You just figured it out. Send me an email. Say, I want to work with you. And I'm selective. Don't get offended if I say no. But I'm selective because I want people that want to win. And there's nothing that's going to stop them. They just need someone to help them get there because I have a coach. And that's why I pay my coach. But you operationalize that thinking. I keep my word. I never miss. Because when I say I never miss, I don't. You write down every step required to get to the life you want. This isn't goal setting. This is actually doing something about where you are. You write down every step to get to the life you want. Every step required, whatever it is. But I'm not talking like Pinterest affirmations and stupid screenshots of memes and garbage that you see on social media. Not manifesting abundance, but actual steps, actual action steps that are small enough to be done in one day. That's the criteria. They have to be able to fit in the box of one day. And you might end up with hundreds, if not thousands. It doesn't matter. My first time I did that, I had 941. I did three a day. It took me less than a year to completely change everything in my world. And I started from nothing at 48. Lost my house. Had a builder rip us off for almost $2 million. Still trying to ruin our life, trying to bury the evidence, trying to hide the truth, trying to keep the websites offline. They're exposing the black mold and all the crap in the house. I told you 100 New Dominion Drive, Royce City, 75189. That was my wife's dream house. Whether you look at it or not and go, I expected more. I don't care. That was what my wife wanted. Everything we worked for was in that house. We gave him everything we had. And he took it all. The foundation cracked. The house broke. It needed half a million dollars of work the day we turned the key into the door to walk in. If somebody goes, "Oh, you should have got the inspector." You know what building You know what inspectors do? Tell you that everything works. You know what contractors do? They tell you what's broken, what needs to be fixed. You know who you hire next time you build a house or buy a house? And I don't mean this is afterwards to inspect it. Don't hire an inspector. Hire a contractor and have them go through that thing. Give that house an enema. That's the lesson we learned. Half a million dollars on a house that was millions. I've watched my wife fall apart and cry and look at God and go, I don't understand why we've had to go through this. Why this horrible human being, Lucian Tujack Jr. keeps trying to do this. He's a rich man. He lives on an Listen, his address is on Crooked Lane. You can't write this [\h__\h] It's I'm not kidding. Really message me. I'll give you his address. crooked lane and he's a crooked son of a [\h__\h] and he's conned a ton of people and hurt a bunch of people and ripped off a bunch of people. I mean, he tried to imprison my wife and I for putting up a website telling the truth, nothing malicious, pictures of the infested insulation with black mold, everything. I've gone over this before. I don't need to talk about it. The whole point is that we just still didn't quit. You want to keep attacking, you have to resolve in advance to go no matter how uncomfortable it gets, you don't quit. So, that's where I started though. Missing a lung because of the black mold in that house and the rem desav lifespan because of that and started with nothing, no money, no idea how to do anything. 141 action steps and in one year I was a completely different person in a completely different life because I look at my wife and I go, you know, Brandy deserves it all. I look at my kids, Pearson Hope deserve it all. And I go, keep going, Trev. You keep going, Spartan. My son started that. The Spartan, you look like Kratos, dad. Yeah, you look like a Spartan. And it's never stopped. Everybody calls me that now. I didn't ask for it. I take it. It's true. But you have to write down every step required to get that life you want. Because if you're looking for the shortcuts and the hacks and spending all day surfing Google and social media looking for somebody to give you an easy answer, you'll find it. It just won't take you to where you want to go. That's why I said not the affirmations. Screw your affirmations in your manifestation. I'm going to manifest this coffee cup according to Rhonda Burn. That's after stealing Wallace Waddle's stuff. Interesting. But they have to be done in one day, each step. And then each day, pick three. See, this is where people go, "Ah, this is a lot of work." It's always a lot of work, you guys. If you saw me when I began four years ago, if you've been hanging out with me for at least that long, you know how much work I've put in. And I still do. I come out here every day cuz I actually give a crap cuz I want you guys to win. And yet, this podcast right here, this episode, it'll get almost no traction. And yet, this one is the most important one because it's what all else is predicated on. You know what it is? It is the Mottz C of getting everything you want in your life, including your health. MS C is the peptide that all else is built on, by the way, if you're wondering why the hell I even said that, because it works on it. It's actually in your DNA, right? Like, it's it's in the genome. Like, it tells those little nuclear reactors, mitochondria, to just churn out ATP and everything. It is the currency of your life. That's why I said it. No ATP, no life. There you go. You're welcome. But each day, pick three from that list. And you probably add to that list as life goes on. I have just three. And you don't go to bed until they're done. No matter how tired you are, no matter how much you have a headache or how frustrated you are or how sexy your spouse looks naked laying on bed on the bed going, "Come on." That's your playbook. I mean, that's that's your that's the jailbreak for this entire life that you're stuck in. And the second you skip here, listen to me. The second you skip, you're not just missing a you're reinforcing the skill set of staying stuck. So, you're either building the the skill of progress or you're building the skill of being a loser and paralyzing yourself to do it. There's no middle ground. There's no, well, there's kind of a gray area, Spartan. No, there's not. There's not. Listen, here's what happens. It's fine, right? You get to be God with a crayon. Just start writing stuff out. But the moment the hammer hits the hand, reality checks in. You need the boards and the nails and the plan, and you got to start putting in the work, and you get the calluses and the bruises and the cuts and the scrapes and maybe broken bones. The wood is heavy. The nails are sharp. And suddenly, it's not a dream. It's a bunch of [\h__\h] work. And that's where people run because they mistake hard for wrong. But hard isn't wrong. Hard is the cost of admission. That is the price you've got to pay. And the bill only gets steeper the longer you wait. Just so you know, yesterday you had more time to do it. But for some reason, a lot of you guys are going to hear this and go, I'll do it tomorrow. Let me just hammer this nail in just so you understand why I'm leaning into this so hard 35 minutes in or whatever it is. Tomorrow is not easier. Okay? I need to hammer this home for you. Tomorrow is not easier. It's not more forgiving. It's ruthless and tomorrow sure as hell is not your friend. Tomorrow is a it's a thief. It is a rotten and dirty thief and it steals today's opportunity and disguises itself as future comfort. But tomorrow never delivers because by the time you get there it's already today and you're still the same person who lied to yourself yesterday. You will die as uncomfortable as it oh that's morbid. You will die. That's not pessimism. That's a probability. And every tomorrow you defend will mock you on your deathbed. this. How do you not get this? The life you wanted was always available. It just required the courage to start when it mattered today. See, it's easy to talk about tomorrow. But I said at the beginning, tomorrow's a lie, man. It's the greatest scam ever pulled. And you fell for it. Hook line and sinker. So did I. So did a lot of other people. I've had plenty of I'll do it tomorrow. Plenty. And they cost me every time. And if you look back at them, it's easy to go. You just go to war with that irrefutable logic that says, "Yeah, but tomorrow's different for me, bro. It actually is easier tomorrow." No, it's not. Because tomorrow, if you and I start and we have to go a certain distance and we have two days to do it and I start today and you start 24 hours later, the chance of you getting there is radically reduced. The chance of you getting injured radically increased. The chance of the cost going up inevitable and the chance of your failure skyrockets when all you had to do is start at the same time as me. And you guys, you already know this. Part of me is like, I don't even know if I'm going to post this podcast. But I'm not telling you something new. I'm stripping away the excuses you wrapped around truth. All the lies and the [\h__\h] you neatly packaged around the truth. You don't need better logic. You need bigger. You need a more titanium in your damn spine. You don't need a tomorrow. You need today. Like right now. Because this moment, listen to me, this moment is the most time you're ever going to have again. And you've heard it so many times and people make little clips and memes and cute little posts about it. Today is the most time you're ever going to have. But you need to actually understand what that means. Because if tomorrow you were going to die and you knew it, today would have a different value. But since you don't actually know your date of your demise, you offset everything till tomorrow. But why is the day before your death if you knew more valuable than today when you don't know? It's not. You just give it meaning like it is. So if you waste it, if you choose tomorrow, I mean really, if you waste this time, you just choose tomorrow one more time, you've chosen regret and weakness and the slow death of your own success and potential and life and beauty that you can create and the capacity that you're never going to reach because there is no capacity. You just have given yourself one. So stop lying because you're renting your worth. Stop it. Stop worshiping tomorrow like it's going to save your ass. Tomorrow doesn't exist. There is only right [\h__\h] now. Today. And what you do with it is the it's the only receipt that you'll ever have to prove you were alive. I hope you get something out of that. I got to go. Never miss.