I see a lot of people on social media making accusations of cheating in whatever capacity it is, but at my age, I think most people who cry about cheating, they're not seeing the game clearly. They're not being cheated, they're losing. And they're angry that they're losing. So they cry that somebody's cheating. They've trained their psychology to prefer being lied to by themselves because it's safer for them. It's safer that way because if someone else is cheating, it means that you never had a shot. So you could never have won. And if you never had a shot, you don't have to feel bad about not trying harder and putting in the work which was originally required in order for you to beat the person that you're complaining is cheating, whatever the situation is. But you see the trap, it's perfect because it preserves the self-image at the cost of your potential. And if you understand that, that's a real problem because you get to stay the same and still believe that you're the hero of the story, but neither one of those are benefiting because you're not the hero of the story. In fact, you're the main villain of that story and it's your own story and you're staying where you are, which is not where you want to be. And this whole thing started because someone dared to win. Someone dared to do what you said to yourself was impossible. So, they leaned in. They sacrificed and they didn't ask for permission. They didn't care about acceptance or approval. And then they got the result. Now, from the comfort of your couch, you scroll past the result and your knee-jerk reflex is to say they must have cheated. And I've seen this in all kinds of things because the problem is if they didn't then you're not unlucky. You're just behind. And that's the truth that most people don't want to hear, but it still is the truth because social media has created this world where success is no longer admired. It's interrogated. When you see people making strides in whatever it is they're doing in their life, whether it's losing weight, building a business, they get married, they have a great marriage. You can find any subject on social media and if they are ahead of you, they are automatically cheating according to probably 98% of the mass population. Because now achievement doesn't inspire. It offends people. If someone is in better shape than you, then they must be on drugs. If someone's wealthier than you, then they are scamming people. They're conning people. They're ripping people off. There's nepotism. They have an unfair advantage. If someone has a great relationship, then they must be manipulating their partner or they're hiding something because it's not possible. We develop this reflex suspicion of exceptional. I used to go to hockey games with my dad, the Winnipeg Jets, right? And my dad would yell. His favorite phrase when we were watching hockey games, whether it was on television, hockey night in Canada, man, if you know the theme song, but his favorite phrase was deck him. And he would always just love it when somebody would just come and go you right into the boards. My dad was an incredible athlete when he was younger. And I mean, like I said, he passed away at 67 years old. But he was athletic. I mean, this guy had all kinds of athletic skills. And what was interesting is not once did I hear my dad yell cheating when the Winnipeg Jets lost to the other team. Not once. I never looked at victory or loss. The victory being on the other side of the equation, someone against me, against my team, whatever it is. I never looked at them as cheating. I looked at them as going, "Well, they were significantly better than I was or they were significantly better than the team I was rooting for." I never looked at success as something I needed to question. That's new and that comes from insecurity. And it's not this reflex suspicion of excellence. It's not because excellence is immoral. It's because it's inconvenient. It reveals this gap between what we say we want and what we're actually willing to do to get. You've probably maybe but I would say most of you guys have probably noticed it by now all over social media. It's all over the news. It's everywhere. It doesn't matter even in movies and television shows and streaming and social and YouTube. It doesn't matter. Cheating has become the go-to accusation for anything that threatens your comfort zone. Except here's the twist with all of that. Most of what you label as cheating isn't cheating at all. It's just the effort you weren't willing to give. The sacrifices, the discomfort, the struggle, the pain, the adversity that you weren't willing to go through, even simply the resources you weren't willing to go out and find. It's not it's the resourcefulness you don't possess because you don't want to and so you call it unfair. But the moment you confuse effort with illegitimacy, you've alienated yourself from the ability to get better because you've declared the finish line off limits. But only like unless it's reached your way, right? You've declared it off limits for you. because now you've labeled it as impossible without some kind of advantage that you don't possess that you're not willing to go do which is the work. It's nothing else. So unless it's past the finish line your way on your timeline and using your values, that finish line isn't possible for you. That's not fairness. That's narcissism. It's narcissism with a victim complex. And that is rampant. You hear it all the time. I could be rich, too, but I won't sell my soul. I could look like that, but I care about real health, not vanity. You see that with people that are fit and strong. I get it every day. I am 200 lb, 510 and a half, 5'11 with the right shoes. At 52 years old, missing one lung. and I can outperform anybody I've ever met. It's not an egotistical statement when you can do it. It's a resume. I'll say it again and again. Not for any other reason other than I'm willing to take it further than most people, but according to people that aren't willing to do, I must be cheating. I'm wearing a very expensive watch. I must be cheating. I'm living in a beautiful home. I must be cheating. I have a 20y year plus marriage. I must be cheating. I have this beautiful podcast studio that we built. I must be cheating. That's the reflex, the knee-jerk reflex for modern society. I could have that kind of relationship, but I won't settle or fake it. talking about marriage. It sounds virtuous and noble and it gets all the attention and the likes and the applause and the accolades on social media. But what you're really doing is shielding your ego with a BS story because you've weaponized morality to avoid all your responsibility because you're telling yourself that the reason you don't have what they have, whoever they are, the people you are looking at constantly on social media who are winning because they are only posting their highlight reels. The reason you don't have it is because you're simply better than here's the great lie about that. You're not morally superior. You're acting like a coward. Because if you were honest, you'd admit it. You're not operating from a place of virtue. You're operating from a place of jealousy and envy all suited up in pseudo ethics and integrity. That's a neat trick. By calling someone else's success immoral, you don't have to ever pursue your own because now you get to just sit on the sidelines in your self-righteous bathrobe judging the people who are actually in the arena like me doing the work all while pretending that the reason you're not even in the game is because the rules are corrupt. Except the truth is this. You never even learned the rules. And now instead of looking at the game, studying the game, and becoming exceptional at the game, you're throwing rocks at the damn scoreboard. How does that make sense? We live in an age where people scream cheater at anyone who is playing harder, longer, faster, more invested of themsel, and smarter than they are. I watched somebody on social media whine going TRT, you're cheating. It wasn't to me. I'm just saying in general, and this is coming from somebody who was on TRT who said that I was doing it. It was cheating. You're not really doing the work. That doesn't even make sense. Fasting, you're cheating. You're cheating your system. Hiring a mentor, cheating. Making money online, cheating. building a business, cheating, spoiling your spouse, cheating. Why? Because it works. And if it works and they didn't do it, then they have to explain why they're behind. And the easiest explanation is always, well, they're cheating because it offers absolution for yourself. But ask yourself this. Be honest. Ask yourself this is I will expose how wrong your thoughts are about cheating in one sentence. Would you be okay with the exact same tactic if you were winning instead? Would you be calling it cheating? If you were the one with the outcome, if you were the one victorious, putting points on the board with the money, with the relationship, the body, everything, would you still accuse? Would you still accuse them of having an unfair advantage if you were winning? If suddenly you had the same advantage, and I put advantage in quotes cuz it's not. Accountability and responsibility are not an advantage. Although now they are, but that's just being an adult. I'll help you out. If the roles were reversed, you wouldn't accuse any. You'd call it strategy. You'd say, "Oh, my hard work is finally paying off." You'd say, "Doing what it takes, grinding." You'd post all your memes and brag about the work you're doing. And that's the point. Most of what you're labeling as cheating isn't an ethical problem. It's a performance problem. It's a behavioral problem. You're not mad that they, according to you, broke the rules. You're mad that they beat you. And now instead of fixing yourself, you're attacking their outputs and what they've earned regardless of how they've earned it. You're attacking them because you're not willing to do the work. Because part of why you say that is you say, "What's the point? I'll never win." And then you stop. Remember what I said? When there is always a best move, even if none of the moves will make you win, one of them is still better than all the other ones. Why aren't you doing that? Because I'll tell you, one out of every 10 of those that you do is going to help you win. Well, if one in 10 times you win and up until that point you stopped trying when there was no best move, all of the sudden you start putting points on the board that you never did before. Listen, get a little psychological about this. Most people don't even realize the accusation of cheating isn't about the other person at all. It's about the part of you that knows you've been cutting corners, knows that you haven't been doing things, that you've been shortch changing yourself, that you've been looking for a hack or a shortcut or whatever it is. It's projection because you accuse others of the very thing that you're guilty of doing quietly and honestly, consistently, but internally. You're doing it yourself. You're not doing it on paper. You're not doing it in business. You're doing it in your own psychology. You cheat yourself every time. You don't do a workout. Every time you are faced with nothing but bad decisions, but one of those bad decisions is a better decision than all of the others. You don't bother. You sit at home, turn on the TV, cover yourself in a blanket, and take a mi day or a sad day. You hit snooze. You eat the food that you shouldn't be eating. Go above your caloric limit when you're trying to lose weight. You make up excuses to not do the workout cuz your thumb hurts, your knee hurts, or you're not willing to do something that will 100% help you. For example, if you look at the Wolverine protocol, it will hypothetically under all research conditions solve all your injury problems inside of eight. Anywhere from 300 bucks to a,000 bucks depending on how much research you need to do. But you'd rather find somebody that takes your insurance and spend six months doing PT. That's not going to work. Go see a chiropractor that thinks that adjusting C2 over and over and over again is going to fix your hip flexor problem, your partially torn hamstring, your altered mechanics, your screwed up attitude, whatever it is. Every time you say, "I'll start Monday." Every time you think you're working hard because you're telling somebody else you are, but you're not really. So, you're scrolling your phone. Those are all the things that you're doing quietly and internally and extremely consistently. But instead of confronting that ugly dark shadow, you look out and you declare war on anybody else that holds up a mirror to your life through their success. You call them fake, unethical, lucky. They have advantages that you don't have. You know what? Most of the people that I know that are incredibly successful have been in the worst positions that life could have ever. They've had the most horrific experiences, the most catastrophic situations, and they've gone through more adversity than anybody else I know. Because I've had so many people when I was first going through everything, I would do the same thing, bro. No, you wouldn't. You know how I know? because I used to tap on the profile of people that said and I looked at everything they were posting and talking about and all the comments and things they were writing about and I knew exactly what kind of character they were. A weak one. And if that was you, why are you getting angry? I'm holding up a mirror and you're declaring war on me for calling you out. The problem is it's easier to hate the reminder. You just fix the gap. It's a pathological refusal of personal accountability, of personal responsibility. It's the refusal to accept that the path to your own success is uncomfortably long, inconvenient, and personal. It's all you. So instead of walking it, you look out and you tear down the people who've done it before you. That's not morality. That's cowardice claiming heroism. You're wearing a cape, but it it's a waste. It's a coward cape. It's a victim kit. I mean, you want to know what what actual cheating is? Listen, this is what cheating is before you guys lose your mind. It's breaking defined rules with with the intent to deceive. It's running a marathon 26.2 miles. Like, if I run a marathon 26.2 2 miles and 2 miles in. I cut through the bush and shorten the race by 15 miles. And not only do I shorten that race, I get in a car and I drive to the finish line and then I cross the finish line ahead of everybody else. That's cheating. It's It's because the course is pre-agreed. It's stacking a poker game with a bunch of marked cards. It's forging numbers. It's falsifying records. That's cheating. Intentional dishonesty in a defined framework is the easiest way to explain it. Except here's the thing. Most of life doesn't have this defined framework. You keep defining the framework according to your emotions. There's no referees or clearly drawn lines and there is no universal scoreboard. But you keep putting lines in based on where you're at. So the rules keep changing according to your emotions and your status in the hierarchy of life. Wherever other people are, you define the rules based on that, not the rules themselves. Because the rules in real life are variable, but not because of what I'm saying where you try and take advantage of that, which is what most people do. They take advantage of the rules and they play them to make sure that they are the victim and people that are winning are the cheaters. Yes, the rules of life are variable because there's multiple games being played simultaneously. But success belongs 100% to the people who adapt, not to the people who complain that somebody else learned faster. If I learn something after doing it twice and I become exceptional and somebody else learns something after doing it 45 times, I'm not cheating because I'm ahead of them. I'm smarter because I applied the knowledge faster. That's my definition of intelligence. How many times you have to see new information before you apply? So when you call somebody a cheater for doing something outside of your comfort zone, what you're really doing is you're mistaking creativity and adaptation for corruption. And you think ambition is egotistical, not even egotistical, arrogance. And you think that because they're doing so well and they're excelling, there's something that they have that you don't. There is their psychology. Their psychology is better than yours. Except in doing all of that and pointing at something, you're teaching your brain that striving is equal to sin. And that belief, just to be very clear, is going to cost you everything. You can't succeed because you get in your own way. Because now you've labeled success as evil, as bad, as negative, and you interrogate your own intentions. There's a pattern here. People who lose consistently eventually swap their excuses for ideologies. They turn all their limiting beliefs into systems and start saying things like, "Well, I don't believe in shortcuts." becomes a morality thing, right? I care more about balance. There's no such thing if you want to win. My wife was a former pro alete, soccer player, exceptional athlete. There was no such thing as balance in her life when she was doing that. My wife and I are entrepreneurs together. There is no such thing in balance in our life. And we love our life. We love to work because we don't look at people ahead of us and go they're cheating. We look at people ahead of us and go how are they doing it better and then we move better. But those limitations that a lot of people go out and have that they've built these ideologies because their observation of excellence is that that person is cheating and now it must must become an interrogation whether it's to them or to the other person. That's where the statements come from. I don't believe in shortcuts. I only want balance. I believe it. Balance is required. You know, I don't like those other people. I don't like those kinds of people. I want to do this the right way. If being in more pain and making less progress is doing it the right way, your psychology is once again corrupt. Because all of those things are self-imposed constraints that are built just to justify your avoidance. You've convinced yourself that struggle is noble, which in some respect it is. But choosing to struggle and suffer more when there is a way to go through the same adversity with a better technique. That doesn't mean you're on the right path. A lot of you guys go, "I'm going to make less progress. I would rather make $32,000 a year daydreaming about making $1 million a year. because I'm not going to stoop to the level that someone who's wealthy has obviously stooped to which makes me morally superior. But that's not true. You're just not willing to do the work that they're doing. I could do this with marriage. I could do this with health, with body, with children, with anything. Because you think pain equals purity. But that's not the case. Because the moment here's why. Because the moment someone bypasses your pain with better tools or science or technique or tactics or strategy or simply psychology, they're just willing to endure more. You lash out, but not because they're cheating, but because they're disproving all of your world views. Okay? So now they're showing you that your path of suffering isn't really the path. They're proving that being precise and learning new information and improving over yesterday is a much more productive strategy. It's what I said. The way to win is to take the wins of yesterday and demand that they become the standards for today. And you run that on repeat until you die. The secret to success is that. That's the hack. But in order to be able to do that, you have to look at success as something to achieve, not something to interrogate. So now I mean you have a choice, right? Evolve or condemn. It is always that binary. Most people condemn because it's easier to moralize than to just evolve. Just evolve your own behavior, your own conduct, your own character. Listen, the easiest way to explain this is the people yelling cheater the loudest are inevitably the ones doing the least. They're not dialed in. They're not improving at all. They're on the hamster wheel and they're working. They're busy. They run the wheel for a year at the same pace with the same amount of effort 12 hours a day forgetting that they're in a cage because they're not improving on what they did yesterday. You cannot improve your life if you're going to do that. Because 1% over yesterday, everybody's heard this, but people go, "Yeah, I've heard it. What else do you have?" That once again, if you look at success as the only option, you eliminate all other options and you stop searching for another option. What you do instead is go, I did this yesterday. How can I improve that? But it's what I said on my podcast yesterday or the day before where the victory loop is find the thing whatever it is do the thing look at how you did the thing and ask how can I improve that by 1%. And then the next rep do the thing again with 1% improvement repeat. I've lived the last four years of my life like that and I've created an exceptional life. And for 15 years before that, I was working, grinding, and it was beating me up because I would see people doing better than me and I couldn't figure it out because I was working so hard and it would make me bitter. But then I realized I wasn't working in the direction I should be. I was just doing the same task on repeat and I was becoming more efficient at what I was doing while I was lying to myself about how hard I was working. It would have been very easy for me to slip into that mindset going, "All those other people are cheating." In fact, I've never seen them doing more than me. Never. It's never somebody above where I'm at ever. It's always the people doing the least, yelling up from the bottom. And like I said, it's because they're not committed or dialed in and they're rationalizing. They love these long debates about ethics. They'll leave you a seven paragraph comment on your Instagram feed while quietly failing every single metric in their own damn life. They have no muscle, no wealth, no finances, no money, no passion, no connection, no marriage, nothing. They sure as hell have no forward momentum whatsoever. But they have a lot of opinions about yours, your life, your momentum, your money, everything. They have the opinions about you and your success. That's modern martyrdom. That's a martyrdom complex. Self-righteous underperformance. How is that benefiting? You take that to your grave. If that's you, you're looking at people doing better instead of asking, "What can I learn?" And then what happens is you spit out, "Well, they must be cheating." And then the cycle continues. Maybe there's something that's almost seductive about believing that success is built on cheap because well then it means you're not failing. You're just righteous. I think that's it. You look at it and you go, I'm noble. I'm righteous because I'm not willing to stoop to that. You're not stuck where you are. You have ethics and principles and integrity. You're loyal to the real way. You're not lazy. You're loyal to the real way. But that's all a fantasy. It's this fantasy that protects your identity because you're sacrificing all of your future potential, bankrupting you emotionally, financially, physically, and it keeps you applauding your own mediocrity. Oh, this gets me worked up because it bothers me because I see it so prominent on social media where people are looking around judging everybody else but never looking in the mirror. But the judgment comes from being shown a mirror. They see their own life and they know where it is and they hate it. So they look at somebody else and they go, "Well, I could do that if I was willing to stoop to their level." But that's not the case. I told you my mom said you have to step on people in order to be rich. But that's not the case. And thank God I didn't. I love my mom, but thank God I didn't listen to that mindset because had I adopted that as my own, I would have gotten in the way of every success I've ever had. And I'm still not even close to where I because thinking like that starts to consume you and then you start seeing ghosts in every winner, right? You believe that purity to be morally superior and ethically pure requires poverty. And the worst part is you start training other people to do the same thing. And that's why this stuff is spread like wildfire across social media. That's why even this kind of thinking usually gets all kinds of negative comments and hate which doesn't even make sense because I'm exposing a rip in your own psychology that is causing you to have all the problems that you blame other people for or tell yourself that you're not willing to do what others are willing to do which makes you morally superior even though you want their success and now because you label success as an abomination. This is how entire generations get destroyed. You're going to teach your children this and not even your children, any children that are watching. And not because the generation or the children lack the opportunity. There is infinite opportunities around right now. Trillions of dollars sloshing around in the economy. Stick out a bucket and get some. It's because the reason these generations get demolished and sit down idally and watch everybody pass them crying that well they're cheating and I'm not willing to do that. I hold myself to a higher standard. All of that it's they're not going to succeed but it's not because they couldn't do the work. It's because they couldn't stand to see someone else win in a different way. They don't like what they perceive as an advantage when it's somebody that says, "Well, I'm doing it this way because it's better, faster, and stronger." This allows if you change your deadlift technique, you can add 100 pounds the next lift. I know because I have a world record holder deadlift, a powerlifter in my group. His name's Mike Lucia. This guy is a powerhouse. He said he had a coach tell him to change his deadlift technique and his next pull was 100 pounds. That's not cheating. But see, some of you guys would go, "Well, that's cheating. Nobody told me to do that." That's not cheating. You don't like it because you didn't know it. Yeah. I'll give you a litmus test. Ask yourself this. This is a litmus test for you guys. I think a great question would be if you had the exact same tools and methods, blueprints and tactics and outcomes as the person that you're judging, would you still think it was cheating? The next time you see somebody, the next time you see me and you go, "He's wearing a $350,000 watch or he's all fit and I wish I was like that or his marriage is." It doesn't matter if it's me or anybody else. Somebody that you look at that triggers you and gets you upset. By the way, triggering comes from you, not them. If you had the exact same tools and tactics and blueprint and strategies and guidance and mentor and methods and all the outcomes that they have, the person that you're judging, would you still think it was cheating or would you call it success? And here's the problem. I'm going to expose all of you. If the answer changes based on whether you're the winner or not, then cheating was never the issue. your ego was. Because most of what people call cheating is nothing more than their personal refusal projected as judgment. It's fear, jealousy, envy, and stagnation that they're very aware of that's screaming at progress of others. Here's my advice to all of you. Let the world scream. Let them point it. Let them throw their digital stones because they're shrinking themselves with every accusation. It's not you, unless you listen to them. But you, this is what I did. Stayed in the damn arena. Stay in the arena and evolve and push and excel and strive and build and create and grow. And when all the people around you send you hate messages or you look in your comments and it's nothing but accusations and anger and bitterness and envy and they all cry foul, you cheated. Smile. Look back with a big giant grin because you're going to know the truth. And the truth is this. It's not cheating. It's the sound of somebody doing what those people never had the guts to try. That's how you have to look at this because everything you hear, all the echoes, all the complaints, all the whining, that's the sound of their lack of accountability projected as envy and morality because a person that's still in the arena is still you regardless. That's what exceptional is. So, if you think other people are cheating because they're doing better than you and you have the same tools as they have and that changes, if your answer changes, I'll say it again. I told you I was going to expose you on whether you're the winner or not, then cheating was never the issue. It was your ego. I got to go. Never miss.