Honestly, the more successful you become, the faster your day goes by, and the less successful you are, and the less purpose driven you are, right? You have no idea where you're going. You're feeling lost and overwhelmed and frustrated. the longer your days drag on. I'm blinking right now and I've already been going for the entire day. I've been up for 12 hours and I've been running non-stop. I get probably oh, I don't know how many messages every day actually I do. It's at least 50 every day from people asking me what my morning routine. You know what's wild to me? I think a lot of people just have a serious misconception about about what to do when they wake up in the morning. And it's not just about routines. It's I think it's deeper than I think people have just forgotten how to be people. You understand that people have complained about their height. I wish I was taller. I wish I was shorter. I wish I had different hair. I wish I had Welcome to genetics. The only people that could ever get their knees done are the stories told on white chicks. If you know, you know. She says, "Oh, we got our knees done by who? Dr. Dre." Yeah. All of that. It's a funny movie, by the way. If you haven't seen White Jakes, you need to. Those guys are hilarious. But I really do. I think a lot of people have I get asked about my morning routine all the time. People have forgotten to be people. Just how how to be people. Like they've forgotten, listen, they've forgotten how to eat. They've forgotten how to sleep, how to talk to each other, how to be in relationships, how to resolve conflict, how to navigate problems. They've definitely forgotten how to have sex because they learn everything from social media that isn't even Only Fans is not sex. Nobody wants a girl that's been run through. Man, I don't care who you are. If you want that kind of wild crazy sex, I love it. I have the most incredible sex life with my wife. We have there's no inhibitions. Literally, this like, you know, oh, tonight we're going to do position 27 and damn it, I forgot the [\h__\h] and the golf ball. You got a communication problem. You don't trust your spouse. you don't trust yourself. But I think all of this stuff about forgetting how to be a human and how to like my morning routine has been the same for 4 years. I've posted it every single day and I still get asked. I think it's because like people have forgotten all this stuff because I think the modern mind has been hijacked by this this digital dopamine machine just feeding you neverending buffet of biohacks and insta coaches, Insta gurus, and my routine's better than everybody else's and these BS wellness trends and shortcut solutions that promise to do all the work for you. Nobody is operating with any intention anymore. You're just reacting to some marketing funnel that you see that comes across your feed, whether it's this one or not. I just go to the next thing. That shows how juvenile people are. He hurt my feelings. He said this word. I'm going to let him know. Like, that is like two candidates. Politics. You look at at Kamla and Trump. I don't care who you voted for. I know who I voted for. And if you go, "Oh, I don't like you." Now, listen, I like Trump. I don't care. And even though he's made some hard turns, I'm not a fan of. He's the better of the two. But trying to register your disgust with all of the candidates by not voting at all makes you an imbecile. That's not politics. That's temper tantrums. candidate A. I like candidate B a little bit, but I can't vote for candidate B because I disagree with some of the things they said. So, I'm not going to vote at all because that's how I'm going to register my disagreement and complaint. What are you, toddler? There is always a best move. And a lot of you guys forget, right? Again, you're reacting. You guys just a bundle of reactions everywhere. So, I'll give you my morning routine. I'll walk you through everything. And this I am obnoxiously successful because I choose to. It's not because of my morning routine. Like I said, I get asked it's got to be 50 times a day on social media from you guys. And here's I mean, the funny part is I post it. I mean, I really do. Just go back through my feed for the last four years. I've never missed a day ever. So, my question is, why do people keep asking? And I think it's because deep down they believe that they think there's some hidden tactic that I'm using to get ahead that they don't have access to. and one day maybe I'm just going to drop it as if I've stumbled across some ancient scroll of wisdom that they've been denied for their entire life. They're not actually looking for clarity. They're looking for a shortcut and a cheat code. I know people that go coffee is a cheat coffee is a shortcut. It's inauthentic energy. You're ridiculous. This is one of the most studied chemicals, compounds on the planet and it has more beneficial things in it than just about anything else you'd Spartan hoping that I'm going to give them some like some edge that's going to let them skip the pain and the frustration and the anger and the bitterness and the struggle the process and just teleport them right to the finish line, right to the payoff. off. I will save you all the suspense. I don't I have no secret and neither does any of those Insta coach, Insta gurus. God, there's a lot of those guys out there, right? I don't understand. Listen, I was at the It's such a wild world we live in. Two people can have the exact same number of years and they look nothing alike. Okay, you want to know here? Listen, check this out. I was at the post office the other day and I was talking to a woman that works there and I asked her how old she was. You'd think I slapped her in the face and shot her dog. Apparently, it is so incredibly inappropriate to ask somebody their age, especially a woman, that you should be crucified. You should just get the guillotine. You should be beheaded. That doesn't even make sense. I'm 52. I don't care. My wife is going to be 46. She doesn't care. Why? Why? Time is a purely human construct. We made it up. Like, if we're really being literal, someone born on a leap year technically has fewer birthdays than you. So, what does age really mean? So, if they're born in a leap year, how old are they really? Like, we're running our lives on this calendar system that doesn't even make sense. We should be in a 13month, 28 per month, day per month cycle. Almost every system on Earth runs on a 28 day cycle. You want to know part of my morning routine? I run my life on a 28 day cycle. Everything Everything runs on 28 days. Your body, the moon, tides, hormones. So why does society run against that rhythm? Because disruption creates massive addiction and dependency by companies that want to make sure they control you. Because when you're confused, you are easier to manipulate. And if they keep you detached, this has to do with your morning routine. If they keep you detached from natural order long enough, you are going to start to think that they have the answer that you need to feel normal. That's the con. I mean, she answered me. She was 52, by the way. Same age as me. I gave her a high five. I said, "You've been on this planet 52 years, man. Nice work." Whack. Listen, here's the truth. Everybody, everybody, no matter how many arguments you see in social media, everybody would rather be healthy and strong than tired and sick. Agreed? Any of you guys want to be tired and sick? No. You want the sympathy that comes with it and the enabling that comes with all the people that go, "We'll take care of you." Yeah, but you hate who you are and what's going on in your life. Nobody wants to be like that. Most people engage in habits that are objectively harmful. Let it land. These habits that are proven to destroy energy, sex drive, metabolism, cognition, muscle function, and yet they do them anyway. Why? Because of repetition. You've been exposed to these patterns at a high enough volume with enough emotional charge to make them feel more makes them feel safe, right? It's not coincidence. That's neuroplasticity. I've said this before. Your brain doesn't care about truth. It doesn't know what truth is. You define something as truth or not. Your brain recognizes reps. That's neuroplasticity in the simplest form. The formula for becoming proficient at anything, anything is simple. Do the reps. Which means you can become very proficient at doing stupid things. So let me ask you, how many reps have you run through your eyes, your ears, your skin, and your corresponding psychology? How many how many reps how many of those reps, those patterns have actually moved you forward and helped you? I'd argue very few. Most are killing you very slowly and you just keep right just going along with it. Look at what people feed themselves. Not just with food, but with media and noise, with ideologies and indoctrination. Look at what they binge. Garbage television, fake friendships, these narratives that tell them they're perfect the way they are while they're falling apart physically and emotionally and psychologically. You can get an AI girlfriend and they're just going to support you non-stop. That's the problem. There there's no dissonance where you guys are forced to figure things out, where you have to fix something. Like, I've been married over 20 years. My wife is my best friend. Of course, we are. It's the best thing we can have happen because the end result is we've solved the problem and move forward. We become better for it together as a team. It is always Trevor and Brandy versus the world. She's my best friend. Oh, I love my wife so much, man. Like, she is my best friend. Just seeing all of the stuff that you are binging and absorbing and pulling inside you there. It's training you to demand validation instead of change. It's all interrupted very strategically by a lot of pharmaceutical ads. I mean, is it any wonder that people constantly believe that something's wrong with them? They're never told anything else ever. This is the most random podcast ever, but I mean really, it's like I really feel for that the young boy that is told he is not needed by women on social media or around him because last time I I looked, young boys grow into men and being told that men aren't needed by some feminist that thinks that men aren't needed. But hey, you do you, boo. Listen, whatever morning routine, let let me get this straight. Whatever more, because I could go on all day on this one. Whatever morning routine you do is your business. I'm not going to tell you that mine is some revolutionary system that's going to unlock the god tier version of you, the ultimate hack, cuz it's really not. It's not flashy. It sure as hell isn't branded. It's not even for sale. You could just copy it. But I will say this without any apologies is that the modern coaching space is full of complete nonsense and BS. Insta coaches and mindset influencers and morning ritual experts and I did all this stuff and look at me. I'm present and connected and all these people are popping out of nowhere with zero credibility and just started marketing solutions. They don't even follow. It's all a performance. You know, you could follow me around all day 24/7, 365. Oh, I'm exactly who I say. So, if you don't like me now, you're not going to like me in person either. In fact, you'll probably like me even less. But you've got people running around talking about how they get up at 2:45 in the morning, drink some radioactive green sludge made with some proprietary blend that you can only get through their link, and then meditating with magic noiseancelling headphones playing at 528 hertz frequency, blessed by some Peruvian shaman that lives in a yurt. And then they're doing a thousand burpees in the grass while screaming positive affirmations into the soil while their neighbors watch. No coffee, of course, because coffee is toxic. But don't worry, they've got some supplement stack that's clean and only costs about 900 bucks a month. And then it's journal for a couple hours sitting in a cold plunge for 30 minutes and by noon they're finally ready to start their damn day. Cuz I'll bet my bank account most of them aren't doing a damn thing that they're preaching. They're selling a fantasy. I'm not even telling you to buy anything. So, I'm I'm selling you results, but the purchase price is your commitment. Now, listen, since you're wondering, cuz I you're like, "Hey, when are we going to get to this morning routine?" Looking at the clock on the top, it says this for 16 minutes already. I mean, it's a trippy world we live in, right? I've filmed my morning routine every single day for four years. I started off with an oxygen machine keeping me alive while I struggled to do one rep and then go in the house cuz it's all I could do. My morning routine takes me 20 minutes. That's it. And you I know my morning routine works. I mean I know for a fact I have arguably the most effective morning routine on earth for me. Here, here's the proof that it works. I'm healthier, stronger. My marriage is better. My kids are businesses are crushing. Clients are higher caliber, which means I have better clients, not cheap ones. My sleep is better. My life is phenomenal because I'm always moving closer to my goals. And that's the only real metric that matters. It might not work for you. That's fine. So what? But listen, I'll give it to you line by line if you're listening to this. So maybe I'll timestamp it on some automatic AI that can help me write this copy that I'm going to put underneath this episode or my tech team will do it. I wake up at 5:30 every morning. No matter what, whether I got 10 minutes of sleep or 7 hours of sleep, I don't care. And some mornings, a lot of mornings, my wife and I have sex. Amazing way to start the day. I brush my teeth. I drink a ton of water. 16. I don't really measure it, but I'm guessing probably around 16 to 20 ounces. Not because of some protocol or somebody said, just because I'm thirsty. I eat a half a slab of homemade bread. It's about this thick. It's about inch and a half, two inches. My wife bakes it every day. It's got four ingredients. Butter, salt, yeast, and flour. No salt, water. That's it. Five ingredients. That's it. My wife is a best cook, by the way. She's a chef, but she bakes a loaf of bread every day, and we eat a loaf of bread every day. So, all you guys going, "I can't eat bread. I'm celiac disease and and I'm No, you're not. You have a chemical problem that you don't agree with the chemistry put in the bread. The square wonderbread that's sitting in your fridge. Get a quezin art bread maker, 2-lb loaf. The bread is so freaking good. So, I eat I take a slab of bread. I eat half of the slab. It's covered in butter and salt and cinnamon and as much honey as I can drape over this thing. It spills all over my plate. Looks like syrup. I drink two shots of espresso, one full carton of egg whites, right? Real egg whites. It was better when we had chickens. I read an action list in my journal that I wrote before. Three to five things. So, here's what I do. I come up with this action. Because people ask me, "How do you come up with this action list?" Easy. I take a piece of paper and I write down everything I don't like about my life at some point in the year. Doesn't have to be at New Year's. To pick a time, I write down everything that I can't stand. on one side of that piece of paper, I draw a line down the middle. Everything on that side and then I on the side on the other side, I write down everything I want my life to look like. If I go, you know what? I don't like my Porsche anymore. I want a Lamborghini. I write it on there. What kind? This one. I want this house. I want this much money. I want this kind of fitness. I want to be able to run this fast. It doesn't matter what it is. I'm always looking for the next target. If you think for a second that you're like, you know, my life is pretty good. It should be happy, not content. And then I come up with all the steps required to get to that other side of that piece of paper. The first time I did this, it was 941 steps because I was missing along. I hated my life and I was pretty sure that everybody was betting against me and I would bring it because I knew my wife wasn't and my kids weren't. That's all I and God I wear the armor of God 24/7 365. So what do you got? You can't come against me, man. You can't. I mean, people are even afraid to say that. I believe in God, but I don't want to tell anybody. I believe in God. God is gangster. He has my six all day long. Tells me what to do and I just listen. But that's how I come up with my action list cuz now I have a list. I mean, imagine if you had a stack of paper and all it had was checkboxes in it. And if you went through all the things next to those checkboxes, by the end of the list, you had all the things that you wanted. That's what I do. I sometimes every six months, sometimes every three, sometimes every year. Whenever I get close to the end, I just make a new list. And I'm always looking for more. Can I lift more? Can I run faster? Can I do more? Can I love my wife more? Can I spend more time with my kids? Can I do something? Can I teach more? Can I learn more? I mean, I'm getting bees. Why? Just cuz I want to learn about bees. I'm going to get a whole bunch of bees. They're going to be way out in our property. I just get a bunch of honey. I'm not going to get it to sell. I just want it. Why not? Can I shoot further? Can I like I just look for things. I set targets non-stop because I'm always trying to push capacity because you know what? I've never found my capacity. I firmly believe that God has not given anybody a capacity. I think the devil puts that in your head. And it comes in the form of all the people trying to get in your way because they're too lazy, too much of a coward to do the work. So, they don't want to be left behind. Remember what I said? People see you through two lenses. Their position in your life and your position in theirs. And when your position alters or changes in relation to all of that, they get mad and they try and pull you back in. Buddy Bedros explains it the best. Crabs in a bucket. they pull your ass back down into the bucket. That's where I get my action list. Here's the caveat. Every one of those action steps has to take less than a day to complete. Which means if you It's like factoring in mathematics. If you, and I've done this, I've gone over this before. I think I did this probably January for you guys. And you remember factoring lowest divisible number. You take a number, just keep dividing it out until it can't be any smaller. That's what I do with this these action steps. So if something says let's say I want to I want to lose 20 pounds. Great. The reason people stop is because they go I want to lose 20 pounds. They keep getting on the scale. They see half pound one pound back up a pound. You you didn't do it right. I want to take what I eat and make sure that I'm always moving in the trajectory I want. So I'm going to take my body weight in pounds. I'll give you some information. Determine your resting metabolic rate. I'll help you. You want to lose weight? Take your body weight in pounds and times it by 12. That's how many calories you need to eat every day to lose weight. Take that same number, the body weight in pounds, and times it by 1.5. That's how many grams of protein you need to eat. Now, take that number that you just had, and times it by four. That's how many calories the protein equals to for the day. Take that number that you just got from the protein, the caloric load of the protein, and subtract it from your original number that you took time 12. That's how many calories you have left over. You can eat whatever the hell you want. You want to eat sleeves of Oreos, knock yourself out, you will not get fat. You won't feel very good. But that's how you lose weight, which is also how you do it without dieting. You're welcome. This isn't hard. That's why I'm telling you the gurus and the insta coaches and all these BS mindset people going, I have some proprietary blend. No, you don't. You have a program that you want to make complicated so that you can sell it. Everything here, you have. God gave you everything on this planet to use and then some. You're not running out of resources. The planet isn't going to kill you with global warming. We do not have too much CO2. But they make it complicated so you don't understand because a confused population is just like a confused prospect. They'll never buy which means a confused population will never question because they'll understand the sciences really. It's formula is like a thesis. I don't even know what that is. How they they have a bunch of letters and numbers after their name. and they're clearly smart. They're wearing a suit, so they're clearly smarter. When the epidemiologist is talking about politics, you're not qual smart. Stop listening to people just because they're wearing a suit degrees. Don't listen to me unless I prove that I know what I'm talking. I have a bunch of degrees after my I can wear a suit if you want. That's what I'm trying to tell you guys. Stop listening to these bozos on social media. Most of these guys are liars. I I'll put an open challenge. Shots fired. Find me somebody, anybody that talks about how great they are and how awesome and how complicated and convoluted their morning routine is, how consistent they've been. I know one person, one who has been consistent as gravity with his morning routine. Wes Watson does not miss. He doesn't miss his morning routine. I don't care about your personal or emotional opinion or whatever. He doesn't miss. So stick to the facts. He gets up and does his burpees every damn day. He's pretty successful. And this isn't a conversation about who's real coach and who's not and all this stuff out there. I don't care. Has nothing to do with this. I have nothing. I like Wes, so I don't really care. A lot of people don't like people that tell the truth. Again, I'm not getting into that. So get out of my comments if you're going to start talking about that. I'm just using an example. I'm waiting for someone to go use a different example then. That's offensive. Get off my podcast. We're not going to get along at all. Or you know what? Come here. Let's do a couple of rolls on the mat. Let's have a conversation. Last person standing is going to be the one who wins the argument. I literally I want to go to all these coaches houses and I want to just knock on their door and say, "You guys are full of [\h__\h] man. You're not doing anything you're saying. Let me see your bank account. Show me your bank account." And people get mad. That's offensive. That's not new business. Show me your bank account. If you got nothing to worry about, show me your crypto wallet that has all this money in it. Show me Show me the fact that your car is paid for. You know, I I know this other guy, he is so successful. I don't know if I'm saying his name right, Pedan. But this guy, man, I watched him go through a stack of titles. We're talking like Bugs and Lambos and all kinds of Bugattis and Lambos and Ferraris and exotics and stuff. This guy is worth a ton of money. Whether you like him or not doesn't matter. He's got a track record of being successful. So, if you want to criticize people that are doing better than you, don't take the negative emotion and words out of your mouth if you're going to criticize people that are living a better life than you. Winners never say that. Never. So, just keep that in mind. So to come back to consistency so you can get back because you're like, "Okay, where'd you go? You just took a big segue." But listen, I write down the steps so my life turns out the way I want it. I design my life to react to what I want to become what I want to I control my life. And people go that's not possible. Then there's part of the issue is you don't believe it's possible. You're speaking negativity into your life. I just don't do that. It's careful what you say. I told you, my wife says this all the time. Careful what you say. You're listening. So, I write down my actions the night before. And it's not because I want to sleep on them or anything like that. That way, they're done. And I pull them from that list. And everyone has to take less than a day. And I don't do more than five. I don't care how easy they are. Usually, it's three, but they take me a long time. And once I I read that in the morning, so I've drank my carton of eggs. I've eaten half my slab of bread covered in butter and cinnamon and salt and as much honey as I can fit on that thing, soaked into the bread and then I go out to my gym. I go out to my gym and I stretch and then my morning routine, this is not my workout for all you guys asking, is this your workout? No, this has nothing to do with my workout. This is just mental. I talk to God for as long as I'm out there. And I do 100 pull-ups, 100 squats, 100 push-ups, and 100 bicycles every morning. That's my primer for my day. It's not my workout. Takes me all of this takes me less than 20 minutes. And I've actually filmed it and posted it for somebody that's like, "Oh, [\h__\h] I want to see it." You're not doubting me. You're doubting you. So, I don't care. Stop thinking you have to prove anything to anybody. Just keep winning. How about that? When I'm done that, I catch my breath. I always film it because I put out my morning routine. And again, it's not for anybody else. It's to show that I do it for me to hold myself accountable. And then I go inside and I grab my wife. And while I'm in the house, I down half a serving of creatine. Then we go outside and we destroy, I mean, murder a workout together. I mean, obliterate it. She was doing lunges down the front street with knee sleeves on in a vest, walking all like out my gym. I live in a This is a big place. Out the gym, down the driveway, walking down the strip, lunges down the street, hand on the vest. My wife is such a savage. And then she got to the second mailbox and then ran the rest of the 800 and ran back five rounds along with pull-ups, burpees, plank, squats. That's an ugly workout, man. But my wife will also crank out 285 back squat for five. She's going to be 46 next month. She's 5'2, weighs [\h__\h] 20. Oh yeah, my wife is gangster. Might creep on my wife all the time. But when I'm done, okay, so we're all done. We're all sweaty. We finish up. I dry off, pull in the cars, and then I come in the house, eat the other half of the bread, another carton of egg whites, another shot of espresso. I love coffee. Or just a cup of coffee. I chew 4 milligrams of rugby. Yes, it has to be rugby. 4 milligrams of rugby nicotine gum for about 20 25 minutes here. Looks like this. That is a piece of chewed rugby gum. Do not swallow the spit. It'll make you sick. It'll make you regular as hell and not in a way that you enjoy. Shove it into the pouch between your gum and your cheek. Just keep chewing, spitting, move it around your mouth for about 20 minutes. You're welcome. 4 milligrams. I take 100 milligrams of medafanil. And then I shut the world. Put on a set of headphones. It's to shut everything out. And then I work. And I get to work on all those things that I need to do that I wrote down the night before until it's done. No breaks, no distractions, no debate, no food, no nothing. Water and coffee. And I do it until I'm done. And usually I'm out here in my studio because it has a door and it's cool as hell in here. Looks like a mix between Star Wars and Tron. It's awesome. All designed by this guy right here. But listen, here's the And there. You're welcome. There's my morning routine. I told you I'm on track. My business partner and I are on track to build a $10 million business in a year helping people, helping you guys because nobody else has the balls to do it. You know what? For all if you happen to listen to this and you were one of the people that sent me the message today, I had five of you that sent me a message today. All very similar going, "Thank you for coming out and sharing all this information and helping me because nobody else is doing it." And the millions of doctors out there that are sellouts and liars, docs, I'm talking to you. Thank you for being the doctor that actually steps up and has the balls to help people. I am here to help you because I give a [\h__\h] about you. You might not like the message because you go, "You hurt my widow fee wings." But you know what? Maybe you should reach in your pants and grab the balls and remember that you have them. And that when I come out here, it's not because I'm going, "Hey, by the way, buy my proprietary coaching program or magic formula." When I give you something, whether it is peptides, sarm secrets, nutrition, health, I don't care. I tell you exactly what works because it works. When I go, this is how you make a whole bunch of money. $115 every hour, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. That is over a million dollars a year. $2,740 bucks a day. If you pull that off, you have a millionoll business. This isn't hard. Most people are complicating it because they're buying complicated programs. I don't know what to tell you, but I come out every day on social media and I tell you how to win. And by the way, here's the twist with everything that I've just shared because you know what most people are going to latch on to with everything I just talked about for the last half hour. Modafanil, espresso, and nicotine. That is all they're going to hear. And they're going to split into two camps primarily. Camp A. That's why he's successful. He's taking these enhancers. I would never do that. That's a sellout. That's a shortcut. I do things the natural way. And that's why you keep losing. By the way, it is natural and can't beat sick. That's so badass. I'm gonna go grab some odapanil and some nicotine and espresso right now and they're going to just start smashing it like it's going out of style. Both groups, just so we're clear, missing the point entirely. Neither of those approaches are going to fix your problem. You understand that? The problem is never biochemical. It's psychological. You do not need my routine. You don't. You need to build yours around what is missing. Look at what you're missing. Listen, let me break this down as as just a guy who is sick and tired of the lies I'm seeing on social media. If you're tired all the time, you don't need to go out and get some genetic testing. Sleep more. Drink more real water. Drink some coffee. Try nicotine. You distracted all the time? Change your damn environment. turn off your phone and lock the door and get things done until they're done. If you're feeling lost and just purposeless and I hesitate to use that because people go, "You just need purpose." You need to know what you want your life to look like. That's your purpose. Talk to God a bunch. But if you're lost all the time, define what the hell you want your life to look like. Then act accordingly. If you're weak, fix your diet. Lift some heavy weights. Yes, you need to lift heavy weights. Lifting heavy weights doesn't make you bulky, just so we're clear. Unless you want to be bulky. So, train every day. No exceptions. Cuz last time I checked, nature doesn't take a day off. Get out of here. Find out anything in nature that takes a day off. I'll wait. And we're supposed to be the the rulers of all of this under God. Then you would know you should train every day. And if you quote the Bible saying he said keep the Sabbath or remember the Sabbath, keep it holy. He did not say sit on your ass and do nothing all day. In fact, he said your neighbor's ox cart goes into a hole. You get over there and you pick it up regardless of what day. By the way, the Sabbath was a Saturday. So, as soon as you say Sunday, I know you're cherry-picking the Bible. Nobody likes it. But if you're feeling soft, get off social media. Stop following the Insta Coach liars that they're a mile long. Dude, I cannot stand them because I've been online for over a decade in social media. And if you're about to go, "What about your screw-ups?" I'm not talking about that. I fix my stuff and I Listen, Lou Holtz, say you're sorry, make amends, move on. You guys spend half your day drinking poison, waiting for the other guy to die. And what I mean is that you drink the poison with just animosity and negativity and bitterness and holding grudges, and then you're waiting for them to screw up their life. never going to happen. Most people don't even know you exist. So, if you're feeling soft and you can't get your life in order, get off social media. Stop following liars. God, stop drinking. Stop being the mouthpiece of your own failure. And for for the love of God, stop speaking weakness over your life. Careful what you say. You're listening. Every time you say, "I'm tired," you become more tired. You are casting spells on your own life. And if you do not understand that, you need to pay more attention to the power of the words that you speak. Because if you doubt me, go ahead. I'll give you a blanket challenge. If you doubt me and you're you're that arrogant. Like if I didn't care, I wouldn't be out here telling you this stuff. You guys get that? It's like the child that gets mad because the parents go, "No." And yet it's because it's going to make sure that child is safe. That's someone who loves the child. The parent who doesn't love the child goes, "Uh, do whatever you want. No, you want to smoke and drink and you're 14 years old. No problem. Here's your cell phone. No restrictions." No problem. I trust you. If that's you and you're a parent, you're an idiot and you're the problem. But let me explain something. If you don't get that the words you say define the life you need to stop and start thinking about how you speak. Cuz you don't believe in any of that. That's fine. Go home. Go or wherever you are every day. Go to your bathroom. Look yourself in the eyes in the mirror and tell yourself you're going to die of a horrific terminal disease every day. Say that every day. I bet you don't make it 30 days. And if you want to go, I'm going to take that challenge. Every time you say, "I can't focus," you give your brain permission to stay distracted and weak. Every time you say, "I'm not that type of person. I don't work like that." You write the final chapter of your life before you even start living it. Shut up, get up, and go build something that matters to you. And if you go, "Well, maybe I like my life like this." Would your life be better if you had more money? Everybody's answer should be yes. And if you say it's not and then you go on not about materialistic things, go live in a rainforest in a yurt then enjoy your day. But then stop complaining about where you are. This isn't complicated. Everybody wants to be more fit. I'm fit as hell and I want to be more fit. And I'm missing a cylinder. This lung is gone. You have no excuses. And I come out here going, I find time to do this. Like even making the comment about going, I'm building a business helping you guys, by the way, better than anybody else. I will go toe-to-toe with anybody when they go, oh, I don't know about that. Yeah, I am. Because I actually care. And it's going to do over $10 million because of helping people because of you guys. You want more money. You want better fitness. You want better psychology. You want to be able to speak your mind and have your freedom and state your case and claim your space. You want all of that. And a lot of people are going, "Well, what's the secret?" The secret is you need to accept that's what you want and then go to work. This this [\h__\h] isn't hard. It's really not. You want my morning routine? Copy every single piece of it. How did you make your goal list? Go back and listen to wherever that was. How did you set up your action steps? Go back and listen to it. I'm not going to go over it again. It's just listen, the social media lie machine has made it complicated on purpose. They're feeding you fake truths and high volume and they're praying on your hope that someone else has the secret, but no one is keeping anything from you. You're just listening to the wrong damn people. Really, I've had my worst month, but I'm more present with my kids. You're listening to the wrong guy. If you think that losing is the new winning, you're listening to the wrong person. If you're listening to somebody that goes, "All marriages are garbage," you're listening to the wrong people. How bad do you want the success you keep talking about wishing you had? Then pick a morning routine that moves you in the direction of all the goals you have. And do not ask yourself the same question. This when you're about to do something, is this going to move me in the direction of my goals? Not some roundabout convoluted argument that you come up with in your head where you can logically define it, but I mean really, is it going to move you in the direction that you want to go? If the answer is no, don't do it. If there are people in your life that aren't helping you get there, exercise yourself from that group. You want to win, you don't need a guru. You need a damn target. And then you need to become the person that only obsesses about hitting that target. You need some discipline. You need to put your reps in. I think the biggest struggle for people is they're looking and waiting for the next secret to show up thinking that it exists. Drinking some guru drinking his mushroom juice and talking about how you're not taking the right version of something methylated. Listen, I know this. I said it before. God is real. I hell is hot. I know the Bible is undefeated. I said it yesterday. And I know that if anybody comes into this the comments with anything other than that was awesome. And if you go, well, you don't like criticism. No, I don't like negativity. If you didn't like it, this world is free enough still that you just don't have to listen. But your opinion, if it's anything other than positive, is worthless because what you're really doing is trying to bring somebody else down because you don't like where you are. When you speak negativity and if you go, "Well, what some of the stuff you were saying was negative." No, I'm calling out the liars. And that's called having standards. But if you go into the comments and start dropping trash and hate, it's not going to affect me, but it affects you because you got triggered by something, which means it was the truth. I gave you the blueprint that works. And the only reason you're not going to do it is because if you do, it's going to expose that everything that you've been using as an excuse has been a lie created by you to keep you in a place where you demand to be accepted and tolerated and approved. What you want is permission. You don't want to change your life. You want permission that yours is okay. Which is why you get recruited by all these weird groups where they have a litter box in their bathroom instead of a toilet and they're about two to three bills overweight and they go out and they argue with people just for the sake of arguing. I gave you my morning routine. You decide what you want to do with it. But I'll give you some advice. Whatever it is that you want, just start. And every day get up at the same time. No m I don't care if you're tired. If you're either going to be in camp A or camp B, good. Then you're going to crush it and everybody else is going to call you lucky and think you have a secret. So whatever it is, just start. Don't stop. Don't stop at all. Like you stand on the skinny pedal until you die or get to where you want to be. like you don't come up for air until you have the whole damn thing. That's how you do this. And somewhere that's been lost in the world of mindset and insta coaches and gurus and people saying there's some hidden secret. There's not. The secret is you just have to get off your ass and stop listening to people that say there's a secret. I got to go. Never miss.