It's wild. This phone here just makes nothing but noise next to me. Anyway, totally irrelevant, unrelated to the podcast. So, I've been getting a lot of requests for this one, so I figured I would finally just do it. It's Parkinson's disease, and uh Parkinson's disease is not a disease. It's a failure of biology. I'll explain it. And I really hope you guys are starting to see a pattern here with what happens to biology. And this is the only time you're going to hear me ever say this. I mean, maybe more on on podcast, but it's the only thing I'll ever say is you need to get this word out. Everything I'm saying, you need to get it out to the world like with as many people as possible. And if they say, "This guy doesn't know what he's talking about. He does." I don't care. But the only way things are going to change is with people going, "All right, I'll help you change the world." That's all I want to do. And it's frustrating because I'm not in this for the money or the recognition or anything. In fact, when you know I I got to talking to Steven, the best friend of Bruce Willis, it's the first thing I said. I don't care if Bruce ever knows who I am. I don't care if anyone knows who I am. I don't care. I want people to get better. And I'm so sick and tired of the the people coming out going, "Let me tell you about how great I am and why you should buy from me or why you should listen to me or why you should, you know, take my 15% off or why I will railroad anybody that's trying to do anything outside of the medical industrial complex or the big pharma or even in the in the insurance companies. And I'm just I'm done. I'm done with it. So take me however you want. It doesn't really matter. Don't listen to me. Listen to me. But I don't come out here for me at all. I I know these answers. I'm coming out here to give them to you. And it's not to have somebody get in like you guys need to grow up if you're getting in my comments. I'm 52. I'm a grown man. And you guys act some of you guys act like a bunch of children with your comments. And I just to be honest, I just never read them. the YouTube comments. I've said it before, you can put them all in there and argue amongst yourselves and have a little cat fight or trash talk me all you want. I don't read them. I never do for that reason alone. Believe me, I have toyed with the idea of just turning off my comments on YouTube because some of you people are just embarrassing. And the rest of you guys that are sitting here going, I have questions. Can you help me? All right, I'm doing everything I've got to give you everything I've got because I do believe that that's my purpose here. I really don't care what somebody says. I care what I say when it comes to helping as many people as possible, but I'm just I'm done with the medical system. It's an embarrassing system and they're going to try and shut me down. All the bro science Insta self-proclaimed experts are going to come at me. Bring it. Because when you just stop giving a crap about anything but the information you're saying, I mean, really, I just don't care. You kind of get immune to things like, I just don't care. And people go, well, that's not the right attitude. Maybe to you, maybe you care about the opinions of other people. Maybe you care about something. You care about things that really have no bearing on your life. Only they only do if you allow them to. But I just don't. If I can basically puke out as much information as I can to give you guys everything and somebody, one person hears this podcast and goes, "Wow, that that changed my entire life." Then I won. I'm good. That's one person I already helped. And what's really wild is you guys listen to this. I didn't even do it. I didn't even do that. I just gave you the information. You did it. You guys have to understand that if you have the information, I didn't do anything for you. Like, I really didn't. If I give you all of the answers on how to solve all of your problems, believe me, I get in my in my stories and I try and bang out. I have a life. Believe me, it's busy. Like I said, I'm not kidding when I say I work 14 to 16 hour days. I work long to help you guys. I build all this stuff for you. This isn't for me. I remember, I walk around with this stuff rattling around in my brain all the time. I don't do this for me. I do this for you. But I try and answer as many of your questions as I I can. I have people that you guys get in my questions and you get mad because I haven't answered your question. Maybe it's just a stupid question. You ever think of that? >> Yeah. I mean, sorry, not sorry. I have one dude, he's like, "Well, it's third time and still nothing. Dead silence, bro. How come you're not answering my question?" For that reason right there cuz you're entitled. Do you think I should? You're the guy that I want to send a bill for about a half a million to just because you're obnoxious. Yes, I'm serious. You know, the best way to get somebody to respond to you is actually act like a civil human being, not a jackass. Just saying. There's that phone buzzing right now. Look at this. Oh, yeah. Big surprise. Potential spam. Anyway, I understand Parkinson's disease, this is driving me nuts, so I have to turn this off. Go to voicemail. Parkinson's disease is a trip because it is labeled as a death sentence. Really? L-dopa. The side effects, there's no such thing as side effects. I've said this before, but the effects that happen because of that turn into the most radical catastrophe. You get this writhing and disynesia. Like, it becomes just chaos in a human being because they're trying to give the raw materials to your brain and hope that a few cells scavenge up and make dopamine and and it causes all kinds of toxicity issues. But you're never going to hear a medical doctor say that. You're never going to hear a a pharmacy, a pharmaceutical company say that. Never. You'll never hear an insurance agent sitting behind a desk in the Philippines answering your question here. And it's not racist. It's just a fact. Sitting here while you're asking about your, you know, whatever or Allstate plan, whatever it is you have, Blue Cross, Blue Shield, whoever you use on whether or not your doctor is approved, you understand that you should always get approved, right? If you're spending a,000 bucks a month on insurance and someone says you can't go, they're not in your network, you should give them the finger. The problem isn't with the doctor, it's with your insurance company. But you guys go and yell at the doctor. That doesn't make sense either. But hey, they've got you well conditioned. I know because I've dealt with people like that that got mad at me because their insurance didn't cover what they paid me for and then proceeded to use. What? Go yell at your agent. Not me. I did exactly what I was supposed to do. But you you guys have been conditioned to think, well, anyway, this is a whole other conversation about the ridiculousness of insurance. But the point is, I want you guys to have the answers. And we're taught to see diseases like Parkinson's is is a frightening. I have a friend of mine's mom that died of Parkinson's disease and it ruined her. I watched her decline and it was at an alarming rate. And so this is slightly personal and I was young. Like I was 18 years old when I saw this happen. It was terrible to see. But we're taught to see disease as this collection of very unique monsters. And you already know my theory behind disease, the three failures of biology. The point is disease is this collection of unique monsters. That's what you're told, right? Cancer, heart failure, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, dementia, all this stuff. Each one this separate beast with its own unique little name, which is what gives it a label, its own specialized and failing arsenal of treatments, by the way, that come married to that label. That is such a critical error of perception. It is its diagnostic illusion. And I have to say this because this is yet again the failure of modern free speech. None of this is meant to treat, not medical advice. Not meant to diagnose, triage, advise, prescribe, even help, nothing. This is just hypothetical, entertaining, and educational theory for you guys to just ruminate on. That's it. If you know, you know, because it just that aggravates me. But the reality is this. Like I said, I have three biological failures that I am distilling down and showing you that every disease is a product of those three failures. Every chronic degenerative disease is not a unique monster. It's not. It is a final common pathway that's this predictable biochemical end point of three universal systems breaking down unfortunately in concert. There's no clearer and more devastating example of these three things in action than the disease right now that I'm going to tell you about than Parkinson's. You can literally check the three boxes, right? Energy bankruptcy because look at the the universal currency of your life of your biology is ATP. That's one of the failures I talk about. You have this energy crisis, this energy bankruptcy, excuse me. Without it, a cell can't maintain its structure. It can't communicate. It can't repair itself. It can't have nothing works. It's like your car just sits in the driveway, just rusts without gas in the tank. The power plants are the problem. The mitochondria, they fail. And then the energy problem, the crisis that we have is accelerated by the inflammatory civil war that you have that bathes every single organ and cell in your body with an inflammatory cytoine storm. lowgrade systemic inflammation. The body's own immune cells, confused and activated by modern toxins and diet and drugs and influenced by whatever it is, EMF, everything that we beat ourselves up with, become little arsonists pouring all of these inflammatory chemicals into the already burning building directly attacking the fragile machinery of energy production. So now you not only have the energy production issue, you have something that's going, I'm actively trying to burn it to the ground. And then here's the worst part. This is the third failure that seals the fate of this entire picture. The communication breakdown, the hormone signals that are supposed to unlock the cell and allow fuel inside stop working. The cell is starved in a sea of plenty. It's staring at the locked fuel depot and it can't access a damn thing. It has no insulin resistance. it can't work. So the energy bankruptcy becomes absolute, right? The the system's not working. It's not producing ATP. You're busy pouring, not you consciously. Your system is pouring inflammatory signals and cytoines and torching the the production center, the factory. And then the factory that needs fuel to try and do anything, the doors are locked. So it can't even get the fuel. So you that's insulin resistance, right? This is the problem. Energy collapse, inflammatory fire, and a fuel line failure is essentially, you want to look at it as a car. I mean it's the best way I can give you this but apply this model to a population the most energy dependent exquisitly sensitive cells in the human body the dopamineergic neurons in the substantionigra of your brain see this and this is why this is all about this is Parkinson's the energy production crash you see the neuroinflammatory fighters that just torches everything you see the insulin resistance that locks glucose out which is the brain's primary fuel out of the starving neurons the tremor, the rigidity, the slow movement. Those are not diseases, you guys. They're not. That's not the example of the disease. It's not. That's the smoke. That's the final visible readout of this three system collapse. I've been saying this for years. I just finally am getting noisy about it, but I've been saying this for two decades of seeing patients. We've been taught that to basically to wave away the smoke while the house disintegrates, burns to the ground. Yeah, I'm not waving at the smoke. I just want to put out the fire. Like I'll go over the moment by-moment biochemistry of this entire crap show biochemistry or this entire crap show catastrophe and then systematically reverse it because I I don't believe there is a disease on the planet that cannot be reversed. I don't because they're not really diseases. They're results of catastrophic failure in the system. You are built robust and you've been taught to think otherwise. You don't need drugs to manage the smoke. You need biochemical protocols that actually tell your system what to do properly and get the confusion out of the way. Kick the lock doors down for the fuel supply and you can turn out the fire and rebuild all the power plants. That's all you have to do. I mean, essentially, I'm I don't even want to tell you about Parkinson's. I want to tell you about the cause and how because listen the most comfortable profitable catastrophic lie that the medical establishment has been selling you for decades is that Parkinson's disease is a mysterious and very incurable neurodeenerative disorder that is like it's this life sense of you ready what do I always call this managed decline I am sure the the medical establishment can't stand me good because I can't stand them either and you know what's funny is I realize the louder I get the more I push the more I show up, the more I give answers, the more the liars and the ones who are hiding. My dad always, my dad was a preacher, and I've said this before. He's always said, "The ones who make the most noise pointing at other people are usually the ones with the most to hide." I'm not pointing at anybody. I'm going, "Dude, here's the freaking answer." The ones who start trying to attack me are the ones who are going, "Shit, don't look my way." Or I'm systematically dismantling their entire business, their life, their paradigm, their dogma, and all their pseudocience and their bro science, even their real science that they're hiding behind that are lies. Because these people aren't just wrong. You guys need to listen to me. I I have nothing to gain here. I have nothing to gain. What? Because people know who I am? I don't give a crap. I have nothing to gain. It is scientifically illiterate to think that a disease is not a result of systematic failure within biology. It is. It's ridiculous to think. I'm going to burn that lie to the ground that that's what people think it is with basic biochemistry that you guys will all understand. Strip away the jargon from Parkinson's. It's not a brain disease. It's not. It is a systems failure. It is a very specific localized fam in your brain. That's it. The substantia I said this before if your midbrain you have this population of cells dopamineergic neurons their job is to produce dopamine which is the neurotransmitter of smooth coordinated movement motivation reward right you get on your phone you're oh dopamine hit pow pow right Parkinson's is the progressive extermination of these cells the symptoms right the the tremor the rigidity right the brady caninesia that's just the screaming of your brain that is freaking out starved of dopamine. So, modern medicine's solution to this beautiful famine is they don't send food. No, no, no, no. That would make too much sense. They send a newsletter or a text message about food and they really listen to me. I told you at the beginning what they give you. They give you something called L-dopa. L-dopa, Levodopa, right? If you don't know what I'm talking about, which is considered the gold standard by who? By whom? Who who considers that the gold standard? The pharmaceutical company, the doctors who are doing two things, jack and [\h__\h] It is a dopamine precursor. The logic is childishly simplistic. Your cells are dying and they can't make dopamine. So, let's do this, people. Let's sit around this boardroom table and go, let's flood your system with the raw material and hope the few survivors can turn out a little more. That is a monument to therapeutic failure. That's what it is. It it actually even just saying it makes me just makes want to throw this can at the wall. Like, it makes me angry because people are suffering and dying because nobody's giving them the right answer. And then a guy like me comes along and some jackass goes, "It doesn't matter." Anyway, some board member, some CEO, some whoever goes, "We need to shut this guy up. He's starting to tell the truth." Yeah, you know what? Get in the ring with me then. I don't even care if you can fight or not. You might be the most dangerous person in the world. I'm still going to get in the ring with you. Why? Because I know I'm right. If you're not willing to fight, even at a loss for what's right, then you never believed it in the first place. The side effects of L-dopa of levodopa are this horrifying testament to this shortsightedness of the treatment because watch within 5 to 10 years the majority of patients on L-dopa develop L-dopa induced disanesia. It's what I was saying at the beginning involuntary writhing twisting movement. So you trade a tremor for this grotesque dance. The drug itself becomes toxic. And here's why. Because dopamine metabolism generates ROS's, reactive oxygen species. I talk about these a lot. Free radicals. These are catastrophe. These are just a roving band of catastrophes waiting to happen in your body. They further accelerate the very oxidative stress that is killing the neurons. That's why this doesn't make sense. So, you're going to generate more of the things that are destroying the things that you're trying to save by giving it something that isn't saving and actually causing more problems. The treatment feeds the damn disease. You don't have to believe me. Look it up yourself. Just for the love of God, don't use Google. And then come the dopamine agonists. Pranny, Rapinerol, right? These don't even try to make dopamine. They just mimic it. They bind to the receptors and the side effects. Impulse control disorders, pathological gambling. No, I'm not kidding. What was the other one? I read compulsive shopping. Really? I'm not kidding. We're not treating a disease. We're creating new psychiatric ones. The problems become so immense that you wind up just chasing all these symptoms with more stuff. Listen, don't forget all the nightmares that I used to my friend's mom. I remember she used to tell me she had the most horrific nightmare. Screaming, terrifying. the orthostatic hypotension blood pressure that changes when you change position. You basically faint when you stand up. And if you go, I have that all the time. Well, congratulations. You have low blood pressure. Check your wrist right now. If you have a pulse, it's you probably is sitting at about 75 80. Good. You're healthy. They'll add there's your little quick hack for blood pressure. It's not a guarantee before you go, well, that wasn't right. You guys just Some of you guys just want to argue. They'll add MAOB inhibitors like recagaline, delegaline to slow the this is they do this to slow the breakdown of what little dopamine you've got. Remember dopamine goes in crosses the syninnapse and then it gets taken up again. So it it that created broken down essentially. But the side effect the insomnia is you're not going to take a drug for it but they're going to give you one anyway. Hypertension. So here's the last one. You're going to love this. No, I'm not kidding. And if you eat the wrong cheese, hypertensive crisis that can kill you. Nope. Not kidding. But nobody's told you that, have they? Here's the final admission of defeat by the modern medical establishment. Deep brain stimulation. Brain surgery. Please listen to me. Deep brain stimulation. They give you surgery to implant electrodes to artificially pace a dying brain. Your brain. My brain. You're going to put electrodes in my And the way they do it, listen, this is the medical equivalent of jump starting a car with a dead engine by attaching cables to the damn dashboard lights. It manages a symptom. It does nothing for the underlying pathology whatsoever. Nothing. The entire approach is predicated on a fundamental error that Parkinson's is a dopamine. See, do you understand why I'm explaining this now? It's not it's not a dopamine problem. Park dopamine deficiency is a symptom. If you spend your life treating symptoms, you're going to have symptoms forever because the second you stop the treatment, the symptoms are still there. You've just muted the symptoms. The disease is a death of neurons. The symptom is the dopamine deficiency. And we even know exactly why they're dying. I've said this before. The cause is a pathological cascade. It's this perfect storm of cellular neglect. Follow me. I'll explain. I'll go line by line through this so you actually get it. Mitochondrial dysfunction is number one. The power plants of these neurons are failing like left, right and center. So energy production crashes. The protein misfolding happens. So so alpha sinuclean proteins clump together into these toxic. They're called Louis bodies and they clog the cellular machinery. Oh, I'm not done. This gets even worse. Oxidative stress. You guys hear this all the time. So it's become something you're just like it is catastrophic. The failed mitochondria leak free radicals burning the cell from the inside out. It's like you're perpetually in a microwave and it's cooking you from the inside out. neuroinflammatory problems. So the brain's immune cells, the micro ga specifically, go haywire and they just piss gasoline all over the fire with inflammatory cytoines in your brain. Well, there's more. You get loss of neurotrphic support. So the brain's natural fertilizer, gal cell derived neurotrophic factor, it's called GDNF. Look it up. It almost goes to non-existent. It it dwindles to near zero. But it here's what the problem with that. leaves neurons without the signals they need to survive and repair. You marry this all together and you have the perfect storm of cellular neglect. None of this none of the current treatment. None of it addresses this. None of it. Do you understand that? Right. They're treating the result of all these. How does that solve the problem? It's like seeing a house that's on fire and focusing all your effort on propping up the mailbox because it's leaning. House is over there, dumbass. So, let me explain how to put the fire out and rebuild this damn house and stop worrying about the freaking mailbox. Okay, so the strategy is not to manage the decline. It never is. It's to reverse the pathology, excuse me. It's to reverse the pathology by attacking every single facet, node, angle, whatever you want to call it, of this cascade, but at the same time, cuz if you're doing this compartmentally, you're going to wind up with compartmental results. It doesn't work like that. Your body is a dynamic unit that is constantly in flux. If you don't address the entire machine, you're going to have problems in other areas. So, you need a full spectrum biochemical offensive. It's it's not alternate medicine, by the way. You're not rubbing some root on your eyeball. This is and and I got nothing against natural medicine. I really don't. I think they got some really great stuff, but some of the people out there are just coming up with outlandish things. Stirring your water with a glass rod does not change the hydration level of the water. Just so you know, there's zero physics behind that or biochemistry or physiology or human biology. I could do this all day. It does not exist. Sorry, not sorry. Stop lying to people. I don't sell glass rods. I don't sell magic water. You want water? Get a zero water filter. I don't even get money for it. Go get a zero. If you don't have a home filter, get a zero spelled just like it sounds from Amazon and let it just spit out nice clean water. Even tells you when to replace it. It's the best one I've used that is a version that sits on your counter. You're welcome. So, I'll go through this step by step as simple as possible if you want. or well that involves an email and an exchange by wire because you want to join the black card, join the black card. You want to join unbreakable, you don't get blackard at all. Black card is where I answer questions and you do not get me one-on-one and I actually solve real problems. And if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, great. If not, don't. That's okay. I'm still showing up. I'm 300 plus episodes in. I've never once been like, "You're not buying from me. I'm not talking anymore." That's what toddlers do. Those are the same toddlers, by the way, that send out emails trying to say that I apparently, I have to address this because it was hilarious to me. I don't even know who this dude is. This guy Jay Campbell. I don't even know who he is. I looked him up. I'm like, what a dorky son of a [\h__\h] I do know this. If he was in front of me, I'd put him on the mat and put him to sleep because the tasteless conduct of that says nothing about my character. It says very It says a lot about his lack of saying that I manufactured disease. I don't give a [\h__\h] if I lost my license. I don't care. You can even look it up. Her name's Christine. That's the lady that took it. I don't care. It was for recordeping for a body by laser. It had nothing to do with anything with a patient. You can look it up. It's all in there. I just don't care anymore because I'm not, you know what the beauty of not being with the AMA or the CCA or the ACA or anything like that is? There's nobody, you guys need to understand this. There's nobody with their thumb on your head telling me I can't do something. But nobody sees that. They go, I don't care what you think. You do realize that knowledge is still here and I still come out here to help you, right? Like you get that part. The point is this piece of paper doesn't define anything good or bad. I don't care. The other side of this equation is the tasteless conduct, the juvenile cowardice of sending out an email blast to try and undermine me saying that I manufactured a disease while my wife was hysterically outside a hospital locked out, escorted out by the staff here in my town. or the the two to three times three she's had to resuscitate me while I was blue or the bruises the size of an ice cream pale lid on me from chemo or the swelling I would get or the puking in a Homer's bucket next to her while she slept on the floor next to me watching reruns of friends or the fact that I lost weight or I walked with a cane all those things but I must have made those all up it's must it's an elaborate play or the fact that I was 155 lbs at best big old knobbyby knees and skinny in a wheelchair with a laundry list of medications and my son had to sleep in Oh, didn't have to. He chose to sleep in our bedroom to make sure my wife wasn't alone while I was in the hospital for weeks. The tubes coming out of my chest, the lung miss like I just I don't even know how much more of a coward and how tasteless you can be to do that. But I was embarrassing as a that's not a man. But hey, you do you, man. Because the worst part was was the marketing at the end. Do you want a guy like that or do you want a guy like me? That's embarrassing. And I do know this. I don't I think talking poorly about other people just discredits yourself. But I do know this. When you are heavily invested in peptide sciences, the company, and they push orals heavily, that's a lie. Oral peptides do not work. Regardless of the nanotech or the interic coding or whatever they say, they physiologically according to human biology. But when a guy like me comes out and proves it, they get mad. So, I like that people get mad because that means I'm going the right direction. What I think is embarrassing on his part, not mine, is that I don't even know who this dude is. But to send something like that and try and discount something that I was very vocal about and showed everybody I didn't miss a day. My oxygen machine laying in bed like the somebody saying I that the X-ray. Are you kidding me? First of all, I'm not running around my life proving things to anybody for the internet for the sake of any publicity because I just don't care. Second of all, that was the worst hell I've ever gone through and I've gone through that multiple times. So, I I don't care what someone thinks. What I do, I'm embarrassed on his behalf. But those are the people that you have to consider are making the noise to demand that you look their direction and buy their product. I don't care if you buy my product. I don't care if you join my black card. I don't care if you listen to me or you don't. I don't care if I have millions of followers or one follower or none. I care that if I give one person the information and it helps them, I win. I don't care about a discount code or a shaker cup or a free T-shirt. I look at my wife and my two kids and I go, that's right there my reason. Because I think somewhere out there there's somebody with the same wife and the same kids or a husband and kids and going, I wish I had the answers, but no doctor's giving me. And I keep falling for these insta gurus and the insta bros with PhDs. and I'm going, I'll just give you the answer. I don't want your money. Just do the job. But if you go, I want to work one-on-one with you then. Well, yeah, there's going to be money. Do you know why? Because you're taking time away from my family. If you want to know the truth, that's why. So, you damn well are going to compensate my wife and kids for why you're taking me away from them. And I think that's absolutely fair. If you don't, that's okay. I'm not here to impress you. I'm here to give them a great life, my wife and kids. So, just so you understand, oh, I'm very aware of the nonsense in the world. I just pay no attention to it cuz I don't have time. I'm 52. My time is very short here. So, I'm going to dump everything I've got on you guys and give it all to you. You do what you want. Judge me, don't judge me. I also don't care. That's the beauty of being me is when you just you get to a point in your life and if you haven't gotten there yet, you will where you just go, I give a [\h__\h] My wife adores me. I adore my wife. My kids adore me. I adore my kids. The end. God, man, he is he is my gangster, man. Do what you got to do. You have to look at Parkinson's disease. There was my slight rant for you guys ago. He's always manting. Okay, then don't listen to me. Go listen to that AI dude that keeps stealing my stuff, which my tech team is successfully dismantled. You have to stop the damage in Parkinson's first. You have to douse the oxidative stress and the inflammation. That is first and foremost. If you do anything else, you're you're doing it backwards and you're going to wind up having this cuz it's still smoldering and you can't put it out, right? It's like it's like phosphorus. It just won't stop burning unless you use copper, right? And I don't I'm just using this as a chemical reference. So, methylene blue. This isn't some new age thing, by the way. This is so old and it's been like over a decade. It is a very potent electron cycler. It bypasses that broken mitochondrial complex in Parkinson's restores the energy production. Remember what I said there's an energy issue. And the other part is it's a very powerful antioxidant. So, it reduces the ROS, the the reactive oxygen species, the oxidative stress that's frying all the neurons. SS-31 mitochondrial targeting peptide that attaches on the inner membrane, the inner mitochondrial membrane that stabilizes it, prevents a bunch of leaks. What it does in a in conjunction with that is it cranks up energy production. So, it's it's like a structural engineer for a power plant that wants to work, but it's got a big crack in it, fills the crack. There's a couple of other things we can go. But now, all right. So now, now you have to clear out all the debris and garbage and metabolic problems and injury that's that's holding you hostage. EPC57 every single day of the week. It's like a bodyguard peptide reduces systemic inflammation, protects endothelial lining, accelerates tissue healing of every type including neurons. A micro gleo inflammation. Remember the inflammatory issue with the microglea TB-500 which is the actin the master regulator of actin the cells scaffolding right no sc no no cells can work without that promotes cell migration which you need so it allows the cells to the everything to get to the site that is requiring the repair it promotes cell migration repair survival clears out all the damaged cellular structures cerebral by the way I am not subq I'll leave it at that everything else I can't say sorry if you don't like it. I can't do anything about it. That's just the way the laws work. This is a neotropic drug that is widely used everywhere but here, by the way, in North America. Wonder why? It's this peptide cocktail from I don't even want to say this, but you guys are going to freak out. Pig brains really contains all kinds of neurotrphic factors. It's like this full spectrum kick-ass fertilizer for your brain. It promotes neurogenesis, synaptogenesis, and survival of all the stuff here between your ears. directly addresses actually the loss of trophic support that I talked about before. You have to stimulate the brain's innate repair mechanisms and then restore communication because that's a huge problem right the dopamine issue. So you need peptide therapy. The way to do this cuz you have to up if you remember BDNF remember GDNF. So you have to upregulate GDNF CJC1 1295 and I pamarillan or tesamarellin and I pamellin they both work very well. These are all growth hormone secrets without getting into the fancy details cuz I'm already in this for 36 minutes. The primary goal here by the way is not muscle growth. It is a very potent and sustained the only time I'll say this sustained. You need the sustained upregulation of IGF-1 which is the primary driver for the production of GDNF. That's why I'm saying it needs to be sustained the brain's because it's the most potent fertilizer that the brain has specifically for dopamineergic neurons. So you're not just protecting the neurons, you're giving them the explicit chemical the you're giving them the explicit chemical command to regenerate. I'm not done. Epitoolon remember telomeirs causes timmerase to start cranking out which protects the telomeirs. It helps reverse cellular aging. And critically, by the way, it upregulates the production of tyroine hydroxilase, which is the rate li is why it's awesome. This is the stuff nobody tells you. This is the rate limiting enzyme for the production of dopamine itself. So, you're rebuilding the factory, not just the product. Five amino, which is the nuclear option against metabolic dysfunction every day of the week. It's right up there with BPC1 tissue healing of all cells. This is the nuclear option for all metabolic dysfunction. inhibits the enzyme NNMT which is really almost always disregulated in any neurodeenerative disease. So it restores proper and don't start throwing things into the mix by the way. You guys are going to hear this and go so if I take that it restores proper NAD+ metabolism and mitochondrial function but it does it at the genetic level. That doesn't mean you start taking vials of NAD+ and going I'm going to add that cuz it's better. I have one guy that listens to my podcast and I was like hey you wearing your nicotine today and he goes yeah I got two of them on. What in the holy crap are you doing? More is not better. Stop being stupid. Stop being It aggravates me. It makes me want to slap him in the head. He's a good kid, but I'm like, "You got to knock it off, man. Pay attention to what I'm giving you and only do what I'm giving you." And you know who you are. Otherwise, I'm going to kick you out of my group. Then you have to flood the system with the fundamental currency of cellular energy. This is where I'm listen before you guys go, "We thought you said no NAD+." Yes, NAD+ and NMN, but don't use and and it becomes a matter of method of administration. Orals are mostly useless because of low bioavailability. Injectable NAD+ gives the direct substrate for every energy dependent process in the neuron. Period. Fuels P Ap enzymes for DNA repair. Certuins for epigenetic regulation. The mitochondrial ETC itself. Electron transport chain. This is like cash infusion for the business you're trying to build. It's like the bankruptcular economic crisis that is going on. This gives it the money. PPA or delta agonist. This thing's so gangster. It does so many more things than just go makes your cells a little more friendly and more oxidative. Wrong. Forces the body to become this fat burning machine which improves mitochondrial efficiency and biogenesis which means create more but particularly the brain. So it makes a bunch of new power plants which help you create more ATP which gives you the energy to create more repair to solve the problem. It makes you hyperefficient. I don't talk about this a lot. SR909. So this is an agonist that increases mitochondrial density drastically. Also respiratory capacity. So it resets the cellular metabolic clock. Now the broken body, listen to me, a broken body doesn't work. It can't heal the brain because it's too busy trying to manage everything else. So I'm talking about hormones, testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, things like that. And clomophene. This is going to restore. This is important. And you you guys are going to hear this and go, "What what does this have to do with it?" First of all, it restores functional physiological levels of testosterone in men and women. Testosterone is profoundly neuroprotective. And yet, what is the first thing they do when they start seeing you're in a crisis? Oh, you better get off the testosterone. That's the last thing I would ever advise a patient. Hypothetically, if you had a prostate issue, that's the last thing you want to do. If some doctor says that, you need to turn around and walk right the hell out of that office and go find a better doctor. Fire that doctor on the spot. I'm sure that's going to get me all kinds of static. I don't care. I'm going to tell the truth. The truth has been demonized and I'm not going to I'm not going to take it. I'm just going to keep telling you the truth and giving you the answers. You what you do with them is up to you. It upregulates androgen receptors in your brain and is a critical component of overall vitality and anti-inflammatory function of your body and your neurology. Kissepin regulates the HPG axis with a little more nuance but neuroprotective effects as well. Things like ostine, RAD-140, ostine would be better. Those I think those are a great idea in this, but I'm not going to go over those because there's too many facets to this. But if you just stop there and you end with Kiss Pepin and you you function, you put this all together in a beautifully orchestrated dosage dependent controlled monitored treatment protocol hypothetically for your kangaroo. Parkinson's doesn't stand a chance. But you will never ever find a doctor telling you to do this ever. You will not. How many doctors have you seen tell you to flood your system with BPC-157 when you have an injury? None. None. What about TB5, KPB, SS31, MOS C? You hear any of doctors talking about that? No. I have somebody that's in my group that told me that they had a they brought up peptides and the doctor says, "Forget it. I don't don't you dare do those. They're terrible. They're dangerous." And he went, "What do you know about peptides?" And the doctor said, "Nothing." Then how do you know they're dangerous? Cuz they're not, by the way. The dangerous things are the catastrophic wrecking balls and sledgehammers that you throw at yourself called drugs. Listen, I got nothing against modern medicine when it saves a life. I have everything against it when it's used as a a lie to say this is to for managed decline. Your body's a beast. So, let it be one. The protocol I just kind of put together here is not a magic bullet. It is a very well orchestrated compound specific protocol. Somebody's got Parkinson's and you should put me in front of them. No, there are no dosages in this. There's a reason because I'm tired of having sensors chase me around all the time. But I'm also building out a Rumble and Substack. So you guys can come find me there and I can say whatever the hell I want. And that I put it all in there, baby. Or you just join the black card, stick a crowbar in your wallet, and stop buying stupid things and maybe buy a few less white chocolate mochas. I don't know. I don't know what to tell you. I just, you know, it's like it's like that story that grandfather and her granddaughter's walking down the beach. There's these sand dollars everywhere and she's like, "What are they doing?" Grandfather's like, "Well, they're all going to die cuz they need to be in the water." And she's like starts throwing it back into the water and the grandfather says, "You know, you can't save them all. There's so many." She's like, "Nope, you're right. But I can save that one, that one. That's as many. That's what I'm doing. I can't help all of you. As much as I'd want to, I can't. But I'll give you guys the information and you decide what you do with it." I've said it before. Each one of the things I went over is addresses a very specific section of the pathological score in this symphony uh of repair. Methylene blue and SS31. I'll even go over methylene blue and SS31. quite the oxidative section of this C157 a TB-500 calm the inflammatory section GHR GHRP peptides are the guidance they're the conductor of this entire thing they cue the production of GDNF and NAD+ is the electricity that's powering all the lights inside the building it's the easiest way to explain this current model of Parkinson's care is paliotative hospice stationed at the top of a cliff handing out blankets to for the people who have fallen off already. Make it make sense. The model I'm describing is a fence built at the top of that cliff. It's the rescue team. It's the rehab facility that says, "No, no, no, no. We're not going to let you go any further." And the number of people that are going to subscribe to this are probably very, I don't mean my channel. I mean, to this answer are very little. But this isn't hope, you guys. None of this is hope. This isn't wishful thinking. This is a real blueprint designed to help people. Built on irrefutable biochemistry and human physiology and human biology, endocrinology, neurology. It's built on the facts of how the body works. I told you I nerd out all day about how the body works cuz I love it. Cuz I think it's the coolest thing I've ever seen in my life outside of my wife. And it's still her biology that I love, right? But it's doing it in the language of cell receptors and electron transport chains and peptide sequences. And that's how this works. The tragedy of of Parkinson's, please listen to me if you've seen somebody go down this road. It's a terrible road. The tragedy of Parkinson's is not the disease itself. It's that the tools for its reversal have existed in scientific literature for years. They're just languishing there in plain sight, ignored because they don't fit the profitable, pathetic paradigm of managed frigin decline. You're treating I told you treating the house that's burning down by making sure the mailbox isn't leaning over. Let the house just torch. You have a choice. Every time I get off this podcast, I shake my head and I think you got all the I go to my talk to my wife and I go, "These guys all have a choice every time." And like my podcast, this these YouTube videos, they should have millions of views, but they don't. I don't care about you knowing who I am. I think for the answers. The question isn't if you can reverse Parkinson's, you guys. It's not. I fully believe it's reversible. I don't care who challenges me on that. I don't care what neurologist wants to come in here or some jackass that just wants to try and attack me. I don't care. It's reversible. But you have to make the choice to go, I'm done with choosing decline and I'm choosing repair. But that goes for everything. Whether it's your business, your marriage, your health, it doesn't matter. But you're conditioned to think that decline is the only direction. I disagree. Anyway, hope you got something out of that. I got to go. Never miss.