So, I think one of the biggest problems that people over 35 usually run into is constant aches, constant pains, injury, problems, torn, ruptured, surgery, all the things that happen. Like, imagine this. Like, you get up and you go to the gym and you do your thing. I mean, I'm 52 and I've had my fair share of injuries and if you followed my story, you've seen I've been through some pretty serious problems health-wise. I mean, right, I'm missing this cylinder. This lung is gone. And I think had I listened to the medical profession as a whole, I'd be dead. And that's not a loose statement. I mean my wife saved my life because I left the hospital when they decided to put me on rem desae and a couple of days in I was getting worse not better and if you understand rem not a matter of it might well it only does sometimes 54% mortality rate that's appalling if the FDA and the DEA and big pharma and all those people say those are acceptable numbers uh the hell with you I was put on this planet to help as many people as possible when I woke up four years ago after they pulled that lung out and that tumor out of my chest know that I only have one mission and that is to help as many people as possible in as many ways as possible which is why I made my mastermind. It's a community. This isn't some rahrh motivation group. It's a group where you get a doctor on demand me. Yeah, I've been a doctor for 25 years and you can ask me questions all day. I'm not going to prescribe anything to you in that group if that's what you're coming for. But if you want answers because you're not getting real answers, answers that work. I'm very good at what I do. And every Monday I do a Q&A where it is a free-for-all. I don't care what you bring me. If you can't get your business to grow, I help you grow your business. I have six businesses all doing over a million dollars a year, which might not sound like much, but some of them are doing over 10 and they all started from zero four years ago. I started with one and I struggled and I knew nothing and I wish I had me current me four years ago, all the knowledge. So, I just come out here and I help you guys out. But I tell you, join the mastermind. It's not your typical mastermind where we just sit there and talk about sales and what the next hack is on Instagram and how to grow your following because I think following and and likes and engagement. I think that's all dying. I think the internet is filled with just it's the dead internet, right? 80% of the responses that you get on the internet are bots my opinion. And I think communities are the next thing that are going to take off. And I think communities are going to be what separate the people that are incredibly successful and everybody else over the next at least 5 10 years my opinion. So I build my community and if you want to join, yep, there's a fee. Nope. I'm not negotiating on it. In fact, it's going to go up. You know why? Because I'm becoming more and more in demand. And it's not an arrogant statement. It's a fact statement because I'm very good at what I do. I will grow your business. I will fix your health and your problems. and I will change your psychology and your limiting beliefs, whatever they are. And every week, I come on for as many hours as it takes with my mastermind group at 5:00 on Mondays and I answer whatever questions they give. It's essentially like getting me one-on-one without the $100,000 price tag. To think that that isn't worth it is then you don't want to win and you don't want to be healthy. go back to taking your Tylenol and success isn't for you and enjoy all the excuses that you make. And that's okay. My group isn't for you. But my mastermind is the place where people come to be surrounded by millionaires or future millionaires and people that if they're not healthy are on a road to being healthy and people that have destroyed relationships on their way to fixing their relationships either with themsel, with money, with their business, with food, whatever. And yep, we talk about God. So if you can't hang with God, don't come hang with me. We're not going to get along. But come back to injuries because that's what this is about. and I kind of drifted off there for about 3 minutes. But understand that injuries are a very big dollar game. A shoulder surgery at 21 isn't expensive financially for just the shoulder surgery. Anywhere from 10 to 20 grand depending on what you're doing. And I'm not talking about what insurance covers or anything like that. I'm saying out of pocket. And that's not the issue. It's the long-term damage that that shoulder surgery causes. And I'm just using this as an example. But now you're in a wedge. You're strapped to yourself and you can't move until that's healed. Until the orthopedic surgeon says, "Okay, you're good to go." I think orthopedic surgeons, for the most part, are liars and money grubbers. I think most doctors are liars and pharmaceutical reps and drug pushers. And I want to put you all out of business. I want you guys to all crawl around on the ground in the same discomfort and hell that you've put your patients in while you lied to them and took all their money so you could live in a big house and drive a Rolls-Royce. I don't care if you have a big house or you drive a Rolls-Royce. I care that you hurt people to do it and it pisses me off and I am a doctor. So, I'm coming for your head. And if that gets me censored, banned, whatever, I don't care because I know what I'm doing is right and I give out answers to help people. And I created my group to help people. By the way, if you want to join the unbreakable mastermind that you need to message me, I'm not chasing you down. I'm not begging you to join. I only want people in there that want to be in there. And I don't want to be king of the [\h__\h] which means I don't let [\h__\h] in my group. And if that's blunt and binary and offensive, well then clearly I'm not for you. But if you want to really take care of your body, and we go back to that shoulder surgery, that shoulder surgery extrapolated out over 40 years is a half a million dollars. Follow me. You get the shoulder surgery, but now certain things you can't do, which limits your ability to earn some money. Whatever you might say right now, don't argue with me. I'm right because I've done the research on it. But then you need subsequent surgeries, and then you need PT, and then you need chairo treatment. And if you don't do any of that stuff, it just becomes significantly worse until you need a shoulder replacement and now you can't do anything. And I'm sure there's somebody out there that's going to say, "Well, I got a shoulder replacement. It was the best thing I've ever done." I'll go toe-to-toe with you right now with my workouts and how I function and how great I feel at 52 with original equipment. And you take your titanium ball or your stainless steel ball in your shoulder and go toe-to-toe with me. I will mop the floor with you. Original equipment is always better, 100% of the time. So argue if you want, but I'm not here to debate. I'm here to give you facts and give you options so you can get out of this. I put together a protocol. I had some guy go, "You didn't invent it. It was this doctor." "No, it wasn't that doctor." And no, I didn't invent it. I gave it a name. And it's something called the Wolverine Protocol. This is, by the way, not meant to be any advice, prescription, you know, diagnosis or anything. This is just purely for research and absolute entertainment. Wink wink, if you get what I'm saying. Got it? I just need to say that so people don't freak out and go, "Oh my god." Even though I could go out and give you a Coca-Cola commercial and I'm going to tell you a bunch of these are probably not that good for, you know, as I drink, but nobody's going to censor you for marketing Coca-Cola. See what I'm talking about about the money? So, you get the shoulder surgery and it corrupts your entire life and your physiology, your biomechanics, your anatomy. for the rest of your life when it could have been prevented. I know because I had a full thickness tear of my suppinatus. What's even more interesting is people went BS and I got imaging all day long and I've realized that the internet is filled with people that go prove it hoping that you can't not prove it because they want to see that you can. So, anytime somebody asks you that to prove it, that tells me their business and their mindset, not mine. And so, I've stopped because I just don't give a crap about your opinion. I'm a walking billboard of everything I do that works. I'm fit. I'm strong. I'm athletic. I'm mentally indestructible. I have psychology that is so powerful. I only have self-confidence and selfworth. And I built it all myself. I have an incredible marriage of two decades. I have plenty of money. And I know how to make businesses grow from zero. Whether it's brick and mortar or online, I don't care. I will help you. That's what I do. So, I don't need to prove it. My existence is proof enough. So, the people that ask, "I don't know. I want to see it." Because you're floundering around at the bottom and you're tired of buying $39 programs and wondering why they don't work because you buy $39 programs and you put next to no money into your own health and your own business and your own finances and you keep waiting for somebody else to do it. I don't like you guys very much if that's you because you're a coward and you're lazy and I don't like either one of those. and add a liar on top of that and we got nothing. All right, I don't even want you in my life. That being said, you have this shoulder surgery and it screws up. Now you're training, you put on weight, you get in your own head, you can't do things, you can't write, can't play with your kids. I could go on and on about this. It could be a knee surgery. It could be carpal tunnel syndrome. It could be a crick in your neck. It doesn't matter. How about this? You wake up and you go to the gym and halfway through you go, "Damn it, I'm injured again." Now what? Let's go dark. You tore a muscle. There's four muscles in your rotator cuff sits muscles, right? Let's say you tore one. Super spanatus. Say that. Like I said, I tore mine full thickness. I had three orthos tell me I needed surgery. It was the only way. There was zero possibility for any other kind of rehab. I put together this protocol. And 12 weeks later, I was doing handstand push-ups. I filmed every single aspect of it, including the rehab I did. And the one orthopedic surgeon who ate his words went, "Whatever you're doing, keep doing. That's awesome." The other two wouldn't even see mewards. That tells you their arrogance, right? To know and not to do is not to know, which is what they were doing. They were liars. They want to cut you open. That's their first reflex. You're with the wrong person. So, let's say you tear your rotator cuff just like me. No, rotator cuff isn't a thing. It's a combination of four muscles before somebody goes and it's not a rotator cuff either. Cuff. Cu FF. And there's four muscles. Let's say you tore one or you tweak your knee at work, not even working out or you know you got this lower back that every time you wake up and your wife it's the middle of the night or it's morning and your wife goes, "You know what? Let's just make out." And you're like, "I can't cuz my low back is trashed and you can't even touch your toes." And you've tried all the stuff that they tell you. If you look it up online, they're going to tell you the same thing. Rice or Price, both of which are [\h__\h] Ice rest and maybe a little bit of PT and a and a Cairo. All of that. And what do they all tell you? They all tell you the same thing. Give it six months, right? Give it five to six months, take some kind of NSAID, ibuprofen usually is what they recommend. And then after that, it becomes let's talk about surgery because it might be our only option. That's not a plan. That's surrender. And that doesn't help anybody. But how about this? What if I told you you didn't have to do any of that? And if your body could rebuild faster, stronger, and more completely than anything else. Because that's what I'm going to explain. If you just listen to this episode, I'll tell you exactly. There's no pills, no fluff, no magic. This is molecular level leverage to tell your body to do exactly what it's designed to do and heal the way it was supposed to perfectly and before time and inflammation and future injury all get in the way. By the way, it's not some anecdotal research. You ask any old school powerlifter and they will tell you they've been using this forever. I don't know if you've seen powerliffters, but I know plenty of them. One of my buddies, Jesse Berdick, is a fantastic human being and an incredibly knowledgeable man and a powerhouse of a human. This guy lifts cars for fun. He is so strong and yet he's still pretty agile for what he is. Yes, he had a hip replacement, but that's from bad mechanics for 20 years. That has nothing to do with this. But he'd be the first to tell you exactly what works and what doesn't. So, these are people that know what they're doing. Cohen, right? Larry Wheels, all these people that lift monster weights. The people that don't buy into this end up doing something else and it ends up costing them everything that they wish they could still do, which is be alive and do functional things. And once you understand how this works, I promise you, you're never going to live with it again. I didn't. I stopped. I went I refuse to be in pain. So if somebody goes, "Oh yeah, but if you go and take peptides, that's cheating." Feel free to punch them right in the face because that doesn't even make sense. That's coming from somebody that refuses to do it because they don't know anything about it. And they go back to going, I'd rather go get surgery, which is incredibly risky. And I'd rather take all kinds of chemicals. Drugs cause problems. Peptides give signals. They're not the same. So here, let me break down what happens when you get injured. Okay, so you tear tissue, whether it's even micro tears, it's always the same, right? Muscle, tendon, ligament, or maybe even some cartilage. Like it can be bad. And then inflammation kicks in. And then there's swelling and pain and stiffness and all the fun things that come with it. And your body begins this long, slow, arduous process of healing. It's doing what it's designed. Except, here's the problem. It doesn't heal very well on its own. Your body doesn't do it very well on its own, especially as you age. So, I'm 52. When you're 19, it's like you can stab yourself and watch it heal. Like, you literally are Logan. That's how fast you heal. When you're 10, you don't even make it home after wiping out on your bike before all you have left is a scar. But when you're 52, it takes significantly longer and you have to undo the combination of all the things you've had happen to you before. And then you have to fix your really screwed up mechanics. So there's a lot of aspects to this that aren't they're not complicated. People just don't know anything about them, so they don't do them. That's what people do. They don't I don't know about it. I'm going to go do what I know, which is take a pill, get a surgery, and hopefully cross my fingers and it'll be the best. Where do I send the check? And then they complain that their insurance doesn't cover it. That's the problem is you're looking for the cheapest. I didn't look for the cheapest thoracic surgeon when I was in the hospital. I asked God and then I thanked him for the best one in the world. Dr. P was the guy that did my surgery and he was he is look him up. He's the best surgeon in the United States. He just happens to be here. That's pretty rad. You doubt God. Boy, we're going to have a whole kind of conversation about that. But here's what happens when your body does the work on its own without some signal upgrades. and that is it doesn't regenerate the right tissue. It doesn't rebuild fast enough and it doesn't get you back to 100% unless you intervene. So most people assume that that healing is about rest. And I hear a lot of you insta gurus coming into my feed and running your mouth and have no real knowledge. You have headline knowledge. I was going to say I don't mean disrespect, but I do. Stop. Stop giving people advice. Stop telling people you know what you're talking about and stop pretending you do. I will go live with anybody toe-to-toe on the things that I know damn well that I'm an expert in and I will bury you if you challenge me and say that what I'm saying is contradictory to what you're saying because I know I'm right. Here's why I know I'm always right. And my wife laughs when I say this. But do you know why I'm always right? Cuz I don't open my mouth when I don't know. Most of you guys do. And then you're running all Everybody is selling something. A hack, a gimmick. This isn't a hack or a gimmick. This is just life what I'm telling you. So unless you intervene on the healing. Have this bug on me. Unless you intervene on this healing. It was a mosquito just trying to eat a hole in me. Texas. We got some wild mosquitoes. Unless you intervene, it's not going to do the thing in the right way. And the thing is healing you so you can go back to 100%. Not healing so you can get back in the game. But you have to now play at inter mural level instead of D1 level. Does that make sense? So it's not about rest. It's real recovery takes instructions and communication between cells. And your body doesn't heal from injury, just so you know. It heals from signals. It receives signals and the signals tell your body what to do. And that signal gets weaker over time, especially after 30. And if you have a ton of chronic damage, which anybody that has like I'm 52 again, I've played life hard. Most people in their late 40s and 50s have played life hard because we play differently than all the Gen Z people here that don't get out of a chair and they freak out when their cell phone doesn't work right or their frozen pizza isn't cooked right. This is why old injuries linger because when like scar tissue builds and flexibility drops and that's where this protocol comes in. So let me explain what it does. Okay, it's simple. It's a combination of just three incredibly powerful peptides. BPC-157 which is made in the gut. TB-500 or thymus and beta 4. They're very, very similar and they're interchangeable. And then G, which is copper, right? So each one does a very specific job. It's the signal. It says what to do. It says start repairing the tissue now. Stop inflammation, build blood flow, and recruit growth factors. That's how BPC works. If you want it in a nutshell, we can get into the deep physiology if you want, but I don't think most people are going to understand it, and it just doesn't matter. TB-500 is like the foreman, right? So we have the signal collar. We have the foreman on the job site which that's the TB-500 which says regenerate muscle fibers, improve flexibility and reorganizes scar tissue properly. And then GHK-Cu is the finisher. That's what comes up and polishes it up. Fixes skin, nerves, blood vessels, and cleans up all the oxidative stress that's lingering from the injury. So individually they're great. Together you're like a comic book hero. hypothetic because you don't just reduce pain, you rebuild and you don't manage the injury, which is a stupid statement. When I hear people go, "This is pain management, injury management." How about pain eradication and injury repair, injury reversal? That's what this does, right? That's why I called it the Wolverine Stack. Because when your body runs this playbook essentially, it doesn't recover, it regenerates. I don't know about you, but I that's all I would want, right? Like keep this simple because think of your injury like AI'll go back to using foreman and a shot collar, a single collar and a finisher, right? So if it's like a construction site, you've got a torn tendon or damaged tissue of whatever sort and right now your body is trying to fix it and it's working with a broken blueprint and half asleep crew and no real raw materials. That's your construction site. So it's a disaster. Here's how the Wolverine protocol fixes all of that so you can compare one side to the other. Normal the way you are and then upgraded signals. All it's doing is telling your body to do something better. That's it. It's not giving you something. And I think that's where people are very confused with peptides. All it does is say, "Hey, you have all these tools, but you're not using them. Here's how." That's what it does. There's no dependency. There's no drop off. There's no failure. There's no addiction. None of it. It doesn't work like that. So BPC57 is it's like the project manager, right? Tells the body, fix this now, shut down inflammation. I said that before. And then bring in workers and start laying the new tissue, right? TB-500 is the head builder and comes in and says, "All right, let's increase this protein called which helps build new cell structures, breaks down scar tissue, and improves a ton of flexibility." It's night and day. It's gymnast level of flexibility versus concrete level of flexibility, right? And then G, the copper is the quality control. That's the QC. It makes sure that it just ensures that this happens, that nerves regenerate, skin heals cleanly, and all the oxidative damage is cleaned up. Think of it as your anti-aging upgrade is the easiest way to explain this. So together, what they do is they turn this injury site into this high performance, rapidfire, elite team on the job site, right? So you go from limping around and taking it easy to real recovery at the cellular level. So there's no guesswork either. You're not going, I don't know. I'm going to try this. I'm going to go get my theraun. I'm going to rub some weird cream on and hope that it gets better and yeah, that's what worked. No, it didn't. And orals don't work. Just so we're clear. I don't care what somebody says. Show me your blood. I will tell you right now, you can't. So just keep that out of the equation. But there's no guesswork when you do this. It's just biochemical precision, right? So, if I was going to run a research study, since apparently I have to pad everything that I say because otherwise some sensor is going to freak out and say you're giving misinformation and one of the fact checkers who's not a fact checker at all is going to say wrong. You should be talking about politics instead. But I can push every drug under the sun. And by the way, I'll just say this. This is for educational purposes. It's not FDA approved. And this is a research-driven piece of guidance. Are we cool? So, you got to mix the peptides. It's called reconstitution. So, if I was going to run research, it would be 1 milll of bacteria static water. Don't take it out of your tap or your toilet. Drop it into each vial. Gently. Don't shake it. Swirl it between your hands very gently. And then throw it in the fridge. That's step one. Step two is actually using it. So, BPC57. I used to go 250 micrograms twice a day. I've changed 1 milligram at the site of injury every day. You're going to go through multiple vials at 5 milligrams a vial. So what? Even if you had to spend $10,000 to repair yourself, it's not even close to that. Why wouldn't you? You'll go out and you'll spend 80 grand on a car, but you won't spend it on the equipment that drives the car, which is you. Wild, right? So, BPC57. Yeah, that got you thinking. 1 milligram at the site of injury every day for 14 days. Don't not in the belly and don't take it orally. It just doesn't work. It's just not bioavailable the way you think. Use a 29 gauge insulin meat. I get this question all the time. There you go. You're welcome. Get them on Amazon. TBs and beta 4. Very interchangeable. Take 5 milligrams once every 5 days. You already went over the reconstitution research instructions. Inject it into the belly fat. This one's systemic. So, just grab a pinch of belly fat. Fire it in. Nice and slow. Never shake the hell out of these things. Treat them like they're fragile because they are. They're fragments, right? And then GHK-Cu. It's blue in case you're wondering. Yes, it's supposed to be blue. No, it doesn't turn you any into anything weird. 300 micrograms every day subq abdominal fat. Can you mix thymus and beta 4 and GHK-Cu? Yes. But you're going to take GHK-Cu every day and thyus and beta 4 you're going to TB-500 you're going to take every five days. So if I was running a research program, right? How long would I do this? Depends on the injury and the severity, but I would run it for a minimum of 14 days for the BPC, but 4 to 6 weeks for everything else. And the determining factor for the BPC57 is whether or not it still hurts or is limited in function. So if you have a tear in 14 days, they'll tell you 6 months. I can't count the number of people that have been back in the game at full throttle in less than 3 weeks. Find me anything that does that. And the reason they don't like it is it's not P. So they can't make money on it. That's right. Screw you, big pharma. Oh, who knows? I'll probably get hit with a heart attack after that. They're just weird, right? They don't want anyone to be healthy. I'm just going to burst everything wide open for as long as I can, guys. So, I guess I'm still in the healthcare business, right? So, here's the issue with this. People don't know enough about it, which is why I'm just going to start telling people about it. I've known about this for 15, 20 years. Let your body do the work. Give it the signal to do the work at the best capacity. It's like taking everything your body has. It's like running a new map on my 11 Turbo S ECU map program and all of a sudden it goes from, you know, I add 150 horsepower just from changing the map and it actually runs better. It's like doing a full delete on a diesel and going, "Holy crap, now the engine lasts half a million miles and it has tons of more power and more fuel efficient." Go figure. Can't always trust the people that you think are looking out for you. Just so you know, I've never steered anyone astray. You might not like my answers. You might not like what I tell you, but I promise you this. It's the truth and it's going to work. So that's it. BPC-157, thyosin beta 4 or TB-500 and GHK-Cu copper. Three compounds, very little effort, massive return. The ROI on this is insane. Hundreds. It's like 100x. Here's what happens when you run it properly. Just so you can understand like real world results on a research study. Let's say you to I'll go back to the rotator cuff because that's what I did. Super spanatus is a rotator a cuff muscle, right? They told me under no uncertain terms three orthos all in California said surgery no other option and then it was 6 months of rehab after that and maybe a follow-up surgery because it was so bad. I did it during a snatch. I got really greedy and my snatch technique sucks. So it was uh 225 and I decided to go I'm going to add 10 lbs and 225 was a struggle and if you understand the ego involved in doing that you get it because I went it's only 10 pounds and then I realized that people that are chasing Olympic level improvements. Um, they'll put on a few ounces to change their strength, their weight that they're lifting. So, I realized what I did wrong, but I felt it snap. I heard it. It was loud. And down it came. And it was a nightmare. So, the doctor says surgery, the PT says 6 months, 8 months, prepaid. Give me 20 grand and I'll take care of you. I promise you'll be great. All the laundry list of things that Cyros and PTs and all these sports docs say. And I am a sports dog guy, right? Like that's what I did. So I know the whole protocol and your response should be like this. No thanks. Nope. I'm good. Why? Because I talked to the Spartan. I talked to Dr. T, man. I'm going to run the Wolverine stack. So week one, here's what to expect. So you actually have AI'll give you a layout of what the research should show on your kangaroo that you're doing this on. Pain is going to drop from a seven, eight, or a nine out of 10 to probably about a three. That would be week one. Yeah, no [\h__\h] You're going to sleep way better because your body's not freaking out and running at full throttle trying to figure things out. You gave it directions. And when you wake up in the morning, you're not stiff as a board except where you're supposed to. Right. Week two, most of the swelling's gone and your range of motion is probably 80%. If not 90%, and you're reaching overhead again without crushing and flinching, right? Week four, you're pressing weights probably 30 to 50% of what you were doing overhead, right? You're back at the gym. You're sleeping all night and you're moving like nobody knows you're injured. That's a month in. Week six, your surgeon's consult you canled and you are 98% recovered and there's no cortisone, no surgery, and no months of waiting for some doc to get you in so they can take imaging while you have degraded. You ever notice that, too? We have to get an MRI, but it's going to be six weeks. 6 weeks your body's already been going your body went to work the second that thing blew out. This is the kind of thing that you start yesterday. Hey, I had an injury. If it's like if I'm talking to you right now and mysteriously my shoulder explodes, I'm getting off the podcast and starting right. That's how fast this needs to happen and how much more beneficial this is. How long have some of you guys waited for an MRI or a surgery? That's insulting to the health of people. Just so you know, it shouldn't be long. It should be instant. You didn't hack your body, by the way. It's not some biohack Gary Brea [\h__\h] You gave it the tools to do what it has always been capable of doing, which is heal. So, let me go over a few research mistakes that I tend to see because how about we just keep you guys from screwing this all up. The most common mistakes that I see people making with specifically this protocol, but you could probably transfer this to a bunch, is number one, injecting everything into your stomach. BPC is sightspecific. It works infinitely better at the site. And if you go, what if it's your knuckle or your ankle or the corner of your ear? I don't care. That's where it goes. If your elbow is injured, learn a little anatomy so you don't lance the ulnar nerve. the funny bone and uh get to work. Go to the elbow. That's how simple this is. The second thing I see people screw up on is they stop too early. They stop the immediately when the pain is stopped. But the healing is stay on this 4 to 6 weeks and ensure that everything is done to the maxability. It doesn't matter if you go, "Ah, but that's going to cost me like 7 or 800 bucks." Uh-huh. You could spend a half a million over the course of your life screwing yourself up and going to repeated surgeries and PT appointments and doing weird little drills that you have to do that you could probably figure out watching some of my videos on YouTube. Just saying. Okay. The third mistake is people mix it incorrectly. They don't use sterile water at all. They pull it out of their tap. Listen, if you have no other choice, boil the water. 20 minutes, by the way. That's how long you have to boil it, in case you're wondering. No, boiling in the microwave for 60 seconds doesn't count. Microwaves aren't that good for you anyway, but that's a whole other topic. Use bacteria, static water, and always put it in the refrigerator after mixing. And don't shake the [\h__\h] out of it. Nice and gentle. Treat it like a newborn, right? And then I think a lot of people think that this replaces movement or rehab. This works. This isn't a shortcut to being lazy where you can sit on your couch and wake up tomorrow and you're healed. This is an amplifier, right? You still need to move and train smart and apply mechanical tension to lock in all that new tissue. What it does is it reverses the clock on your injury to the way you were before. And if you're trying to figure out whether this is for me, here, I'll make it easy. Have you had an injury that just won't heal? You got these little aches and pains and problems. Yeah. Then it's for you. Do you have joint pain, tendinitis, tendinosis, scar tissue, any of that kind of stuff holding you back? Let's see. Did you tear something and you've been putting off surgery for as long as possible or just trying to find ways around it and now your mechanics are so screwed up you can't even get your wallet out of your back pocket? And how about this? You're trying to stay active for decades and decades, not years. It's not a cheat code. It's an upgrade to your operating system. If you have any of that stuff, then this is for you 100%. It's not just for elite athletes. I've talked to soccer moms and dads and anybody. This is for anyone who refuses to let some old injury dictate their future or let some injury they have right now become an old injury and dictate their future. Right? When you get an injury, it's probably not that bad. You know what denial does? It delays all the healing. And if it hurts and isn't improving, that's a signal to actually start doing something. You can use this for your relationship, for your business. If you are going, I'm going to try this one more cheap ass thing to make my business work, what are you doing? What are you doing? You should just join my mastermind there. There's nothing like this mastermind. And if you're doing it with your injury and trying to ride it out because you think that's tough, they don't give out prizes for stupidity, man. Don't do that. If it hurts and it's not improving, whether it's your money, your relationship, or your health, now when is now a good time? And if you say, "I'll just rest it for a while." Rest does not repair tissue. It delays recovery. And for all of you guys that hate needles, okay, I'm going to address this real quick because I've had this question so many times. I just hate needles. It's a 29 gauge insulin. It's tiny. If you can handle a paper cut, then you can handle this. And if you can't handle a paper cut, you're probably not working out that hard anyway. If you say that, I'm going to try PT first, PT Cairo. Oh, my doctor says they're against it. They say don't do it. First of all, fire your doctor. If your PT says, I wouldn't do it. You should probably still do 10 months of PT with me. Can you pay this bill? Give them the finger. If your PT is on board to go, let's get you better as fast as possible and get you back in the game in the short a period of time possible. You want to run with that PT or cut all day, baby. That guy cares about you. Do both, right? Do the PT and the rehab and the Wolverine. This is amplifi. This is an amplifier, right? It amplifies PT. They work together incredibly well. And if you say this stuff sounds too new, these compounds have been around for decades and decades of research. It's new to the public, not new to science. It's new to the public because they've been burying all this stuff. You realize that anything that works, nobody wants you to know because it takes money out of people's pockets that profit off of you being sick, injured, and broken. I had one guy one time say, "I'll see how I feel next week." Send me a message on social media. Hey man, I'm interested in that Wolverine Protocol. Cool. Here's my site. Here's my company. I own Elite Biogenics. Here you go. Yes, it's trustworthy. It's all American, baby. You know what? I just And it was because of the needles and it's new. It's not new. I'll see how I feel next week. Five weeks later, it hasn't gotten better. That's the message I got. Do you think I should probably start? I'm like, you should have started five [\h__\h] weeks ago on your on your pet animal. I was trying not to swear on this thing. So, you should have started five weeks ago when it started hurting. That's when you should have started on your research project because I'll see how it feels next week is a code for I'm not going to do a damn thing. Pain is a signal. Listen. Respond now. And if you say, "I don't know how to inject. Learn." The I don't know button is a weak button that a lot of people are playing right now because they just don't want to learn. You want done for you. Well, you can have done for you. It's going to cost you a ton of money and time. Learn. I don't know how to inject. Learn. Takes five minutes. There's videos everywhere. This is your own. This is your body. You You get that, right? This is your body. Own it. And if you say it's expensive, compared to what? If you had to spend 800 bucks, let's just say, and it's not. It's probably more like $3 to $500, which is so cheap. And if you say that's expensive, oh man, you don't value your health or anything. Compared to what? Surgery, lost income, living with pain. This is a fraction of the cost. And you get your life back. And if your thought is, I don't want to mess anything up, which is another thing I've heard. Doing nothing is the biggest screw- up you can ever do. That's the mess up. This is simple, controlled, and 100% proven. By the way, the stack of receipts behind this is endless. And I'm 52. I'm going to play that card again because I hear people all the time say, "I'm too old." It's just age catching up with me. Age doesn't catch up with you. That statement doesn't even make sense. If you go, "I'm too old. I probably won't benefit. I won't bounce back. Age is catching up to me." and all that nonsense. This is exactly why you need it. Healing slows with age, but with the right signal, it still happens. It's this efficient. Do you want to run this research protocol for your study? Again, wink. Here's the game plan. You got to identify the injury. Figure it out. If you don't know, ask. But identify the injury. Chronic or acute. Write it down. Yes. Write it down. My grandfather always said a short pencil is way better than a long memory. I've said it many times. It's true. Write it down. Find where you can get the research peptides. Elite Biogenics. Hit. Find a quality source. Elite Biogenics. Research use only. Elite Biogenics. No shortcuts. Elite Biogenics. Have I said it enough? Reconstitute according to research protocols and dose properly. Follow the guide. Mix. Inject. Track. Keep it simple. None of this is complicated. Don't treat it like something you're like, "I don't know whenever I get around to it." That's how stupid people conduct themselves. Don't be a stupid person. Track your progress with how you're doing with your training, with your sleep, with your movement, with everything each week. Just write down how much like the pain levels and your mobility and your sleep and your function. Just do Why wouldn't you do that? It's so easy. It'll take if you go I don't have the time. You don't have the focus. That's the problem. It's not the time. Finish four to six weeks. And if you quit early, the onus is on you. Let your own damn biology do the work. Rehab and load the area. Rehab and load the area intelligently. Don't start today and tomorrow doing, you know, you hurt your knee and tomorrow you're doing jump squats with 225 onto a box. Don't get spazzy. It's not invincibility juice. It tells your body to heal fast and it works. It's not magic. You still need to move smart. And I hope all this makes sense. I wasn't even going to do this podcast, but I've been getting so many questions. I want people to understand the answers. I'll leave you with this. There are two kinds of people who get injured. Those who sit and wait and those who want to rebuild and get back in the game as fast as they can at the best ability they can. If your future depends on your body, which it does, then don't outsource all of your healing. Don't wait for somebody else to give you permission or wait till somebody like you guys wait. You wait because you want to find something cheaper, easier. You have to do your due diligence. I am a walking billboard of how healthy looks and I've been through hell. If you don't know, look me up. If you know, you already know. Your future depends on your body. So, don't outsource your healing. That's ridiculous. The Wolverine Protocol gives you control. It gives you control to repair, to move, to return to all the things that you like to do faster, stronger, and actually have some confidence. So, you know, you're not going to blow it out again or go, I got to watch this knee. You don't have to worry about it anymore because you are built the way you normally were. Nothing is you got back to 100%. That's how this works. You don't have to suffer or accept some weird timeline that some rehab specialist gave you. And you don't have to be the I used to be athletic version of yourself. Heal, rebuild, get back in the game. Whatever is wrong with you, it just takes the right damn signal and the courage to just do it. Dude, it is a 29 gauge needle. inject the instructions. That's what you're doing. You're injecting the instructions into your system and then follow the protocol and get all of your life back. That's the play. All you got to do is run it. This isn't complicated. So, I hope you got some information out of this. And if not, I don't know what to tell you. I don't think there's a more complete explanation on the planet than what I just did. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss