So, it's man, it'S4 o'clock already on Saturday, July 12th. And so, I get a lot of you guys asking me questions in my DMs. Sometimes peptides, sometimes coaching, sometimes money, but a lot of times it's about how to get over things, how to honestly anxiety and depression I get from you guys all the time. So, I'm going to go over anxiety. I was going to say depression, but no. And and I need to explain this and some of you guys are going to get offended, but I need you to listen to me because why are you fighting to defend a label? How delusional do you have to be that you fight to defend a label that you don't like that you're trying to escape, but you get in the ring and box your opponent to stay there? Ask yourself, do you like feeling anxiety? I could say this about depression. I could say this about being poor, being broke, being alone, having a miserable marriage, all of the things. Do you like staying there? The answer is always no. But then why do you get in the ring and fight to stay there? Why? Ask yourself. Don't sit there and come up with all these reasons and validations. Because if you heard me yesterday, I said, you know, most of you guys fight to validate yourself to yourself because it gives you permission to stay where you are and avoid the work. It absolves you of all the responsibility. Well, if you do that, congratulations. You're an NPC. Why are you fighting to stay in a place you don't like and going, you don't understand my circumstances. It's so much harder to change. I can't help it. I have I'm I get anxiety because of this. I get anxiety because of that. Why are you fighting to stay there? Ask yourself really that's a question you should look in the mirror and go why am I fighting to stay in a place that I can't stand that makes me break out in a cold sweat freak out get all knotted up get diarrhea lose my [\h__\h] get racing heart all the things that happen why are you defending that because you've been conditioned to that's why it is not a real thing let let me get this straight anxiety does not exist not the way that you've been told it it's not the way that you have been told or condition to believe it is not some uncontrollable external force. It's not a disease floating through the air like pollen or allergens or some kind of virus that you get off. I can't I've said it before. I can't come up and lick this microphone and give you anxiety if you come up and lick it next. It's not a disease. It's not. And it's it's I gotta tell you, I'm getting really tired of all the experts and pseudocience pixie dust spreading liars out there with PhDs. Listen, I don't care if you have a PhD. That means you paid for a degree. Your PhD doesn't mean anything. I know plenty of PhDs that are they're bloody idiots. And they're even dumber because they brag about how long they spent in school while they're still making $40,000 a year. Listen, stop defending the things that you know you shouldn't have done, that you should have corrected, that you wish you would have done earlier. Anxiety isn't something it's such a weird mind [\h__\h] that you guys think that you have to it's it's like you you're a child and you go, "Well, I need to defend my position because I I would rather defend where I am so I'm not wrong instead of accepting that there might be a way that's going to fix this problem. You want to make money, $115 an hour, every hour, 24 hours a day for 365 days a year is over a million- dollar business. And you guys come up with all the reasons and go, "Well, it's not that easy." Nobody said it was easy. Nobody said it was easy. But it's simple. Find something that you can sell somebody for a buck 15 every hour. And if you can't do that, you should not be in business. And if that offends you, good. you shouldn't be in business then because you're just going to dilute the pool out there of people that are fighting to be successful. You're going to screw it up for them with your cheap garbage products and your stupid customer service that doesn't exist. Like I am on my way already. I'm 30 days in and my company is already at a $3 million valuation. 30 days in. You want to know how I did it? You should probably message me and go, I need to sign up and I got all the receipts to back it up. financial money. I can show you line by line the way the trajectory it has right now. It's going to be a $10 million company in less than a year. My guess is probably more than more like a $20 million company. Doubt me all you want. I don't care. I don't need to prove anything to people, but that's what I mean. You guys defend why it's too hard. How does that even make sense? The ignorance, it it gets under my skin so much because I would never defend being sick. I never once defended cancer. I never once went, "Man, you don't understand, though. I'm missing a lung. I have cancer. I can't do this." I went, "Are you kidding me? That's all you got? Bring it. I'll show you exactly what how how capable I am. I'll show you exactly who God built me as. I'll show you exactly how much power is coursing through my veins." But you you guys don't do that. You guys fight to defend your position because you don't want to. You're more concerned about being right than living right and then you think your emotions are because of a lack of a pill. Anxiety is not something that happens to you. It is anxiety is fiction. It is a mental fabrication. And the only reason it's become real in your life is because you have decided to believe it. You've fallen in love with the excuse. That's what anxiety is. It's the socially accepted excuse for not doing what you know you need to do. And you have romanticized your own paralysis. You guys have managed to turn hesitation into identity and wrapped yourself in this warm blanket of victimhood. And you called it your personality. And the world, the world, this weak, coddling, dopaminechasing world has told you that it's okay and that you it's brave, that you're so brave and that it's valid and that's why you're stuck. I'll prove it. Take a medication for anxiety and if it absolves the anxiety, stop taking it and see if the anxiety comes back. If the anxiety comes back, you never solve the damn problem. I don't know how you guys can't figure this out. When my son was five, when my daughter was five, she would have known this and so would he. And this is offensive to you. I I make it make sense. You guys need to sack up and get some titanium in your spine. And I'm not talking about being tough and disciplined and all this stuff. And yeah, that's involved, but why are you defending something you don't want? You defend being broke. You defend being in a shitty marriage. defend being fat and sloppy and obese. You defend being in a job you hate. You defend that you were forced to take the jab, which is a lie. You defend everything about you that you are desperately trying to escape by getting on your phone and seeking distractions or turning on the television and driving your brain into oblivion watching a television show for eight hours. Meanwhile, you said just going to be 30 minutes, bro. You do not have time to screw around like this. You want a life I mean the one that you want where you don't have to look at the price on a menu or a house or a car and that you have the body that can take the hit and the abuse that you have a relationship where you know that your spouse has your six 24/7 where your kids are little leaders that are going to go out and change the damn world. That's what you want. Nobody doesn't want that. Nobody doesn't want that. But you guys are so busy defending where you are because if you don't that means everything that you have as a label is [\h__\h] And that means all the medication has to stop and all the therapy has to stop and you have to start growing up. I mean, I I'm not going to sugarcoat this. I've been doing this too many times where I just sugarcoat it. I'm not I'm not going to wrap it in some [\h__\h] affirmation pastel colored fluffy Instagram quote that you guys can spin off as a meme later. If you are crippled by anxiety, it's because you have sat down and made peace with weakness and you've allowed fear to open up shop in your brain and start calling the shots. You have literally taken a throne that you are designed to be sitting on. Whose life is this? You guys hand it over to somebody. It's like you handed the crown over to chaos and you wonder why your life sucks. And here's the truth about all of this. Anxiety is not even your enemy. You are anxiety isn't the enemy. You're the [\h__\h] problem. Ah, it just it gets under my skin. Not because you're broken, though. It's not. It's not because there's something wrong with you, because there isn't. There is nothing wrong with you. It's because you keep letting yourself off the hook. See, the word discipline gets thrown around, but 90% of the people that throw it around really have no discipline. They love to post Instagram quotes about it, but if you put them in a situation that demands their discipline, you will watch them just falter and crumble. Because real discipline does not allow anxiety to exist. When you are moving and building and creating and expanding and evolving and calling the shots and pushing your limits, there is no room for panic attacks. It can't happen. There's no time to spiral down. When you see the hill and instead of pushing the stisphus all the time instead of pushing the stone like Seephus, you are sprinting up the hill with that stone out in front of you with one hand because the mind is engaged in effort. And an ef an effort engaged mind isn't available to fear and panic and anxiety. It's impossible. And that's the part that nobody wants to say aloud because it trumps all of your labels and identities. You've trained your brain like Pavlov's freaking dog with bad habits. Ding, ding, bang. You start getting anxiety. You've taught it. Neuroplasticity. I've gone over this so many times. When things feel uncertain, I panic. When I don't have a guarantee, I panic. When I feel overwhelmed because I'm doing stupid things and I'm running on that wheel, not realizing that I'm in a cage, but subconsciously I know. I panic. When things feel hard, I run. When I feel pressure, I shut down. I I had a client say that when this happens, I just I shut down. I retreat. And then you wonder why life feels overwhelming. It's because you have reinforced the exact response that keeps you small. So, back up a little. Just back up a little bit. Just zoom the hell out for a second. Anxiety is not a thing. It is not a thing. You can find me every peer-reviewed article on Earth. I will never agree because I will just trace all the way back to who funded that peer-reviewed study. follow the money and it's going to show me that it's somebody that's going to benefit from you having anxiety. I don't benefit from solving your anxiety problem or making you have anxiety. I am just the guy out here telling you the truth because that's what I said I was going to do four years ago when I opened my eyes in that hospital. I could have had all kinds of anxiety. It's not a thing. It's a signal. That's all. It is your mind saying you are underprepared. Do you know anytime I've ever felt nervous or anxious or anything like that? It's because I wasn't prepared. I didn't do enough work to get on the stage, whatever it is, workout meeting, Zoom call, conversation, whatever. To know that I was in the driver's seat. I was unsure. That's anxiety. You spend your whole life unprepared because you halfass everything and you wonder why you suck. You are the reason those feelings show up is you are underprepared. You are misaligned with what you really want to do or you are indulging in all of the fears instead of facing it. What do you do, man? You guys, you cuddle it. You hug it. You make sure it's safe. You treat it like it's some real diagnosis because some psychiatrist told you. Psychiatry is the most [\h__\h] profession ever invented. Just to be clear, if you are a psychiatrist, you are a pathological liar to your patients, giving them mental illnesses so you can make money. I can't stand you people. You treat it like a diagnosis. You go online and then you start looking for people. If you have if you've been labeled with anxiety, you start looking for people. You get recruited by people who will validate your hesitation instead of just annihilating it. You guys, you look for other people who are also looking at the mountain and just running circles around it, avoiding it. And then you you sit around together and circle jerk each other and convince each other that you know what staying at the bottom that is profound. That is wisdom. How is it wisdom staying where you don't like? How is it wisdom staying where you cannot stand being? Explain. Make it make sense. If you go we don't some of us don't have a choice. We're crippled by anxiety. Yeah. Because you're ignorant to the the solution. The solution to anxiety is action. Because the cause of anxiety is inaction. You're welcome. I just gave you the solution. You're going to come up with a litany of reasons why it doesn't work for you. That's exactly the problem. Because you are married to your diagnosis. And what you don't want is a solution. You want someone to absolve you of all your respons your personal responsibilities and accountability to change your situation yourself so you can evolve into a better life. You do not want that responsibility. So instead, you go, it doesn't work for me. I need a pill so I can stay here and dent my couch and stare at the television and blame my anxiety. You want permission? Like all those people at the bottom just hanging out with you that we're we are so wise by being so brave and admitting our anxiety. That is not wisdom. That is a white flag flapping around dressed up as self-care. Self-care. Oh man. Let me ask you here. I'll ask you a question. Do you think the men who built empires, do you really think they never felt any fear? Do you think when I opened my eyes missing parts and went in a medical waste bucket, I didn't feel any fear? Do you think that the woman who raised children and survived cancer and built a company and held the family together never had any anxiety? Do you think the man who opened his eyes realized that he got conned out of over a million dollars, got lied to by a bunch of people, missing a lung, and burned through his savings trying to keep his family alive with no business skills in the in the direction he wanted to go whatsoever. Didn't feel fear. That guy was me. That guy was me. And now I'm building a company. Yet another one. I am five companies deep already. What? Five companies, bro? Let's see what they are. Dude, you are still working for a boss that pays you $19,000 a year so he can make six million a year. Instead, start taking notes. I've The beauty is I don't need to prove it to you. You need to prove it to you. The weak go, "Oh, yeah, show me." So they can look for something to go, "Ah, that's not it. I can stay where I am." You guys are missing the point. When somebody is winning, stop asking them to prove it and start taking notes. But I'm I'm building a company that its trajectory will probably hit 10 million if not more in a year. In one year. You don't think when when I started this I felt fear, anxiety, worry, lo like no idea, confusion, frustration? Of course. You think the people that have done all that and suffered and gone through all kinds of struggle and lack of knowledge, you think they didn't have any fear? Of course they did. The difference is they acted anyway cuz nobody said it was okay to stay where you are. That's the great separator. That's the line in the sand. It's the line in the granite. The people who win move forward in spite of fear and anxiety. And the ones who lose, man, you guys build altars and shrines to it and bow down to a ghost and call it reality. Make it make sense. Listen, I'm going to say this in the clearest possible way. You are not a victim of anxiety. You are a participant. You are complicit. You're actively involved in its presence. And every time you choose inaction every time you avoid the things that you know you need to do, every time you run and hide and tuck yourself under the sheets when there's something you should confront, you just throw another vote in the box for being a coward. You know what's wild? Just to be clear, this is how easy it is. You can just put a vote in a new box. Nah, I'm going to be brave. You know what bravery does? It unlocks a bunch of solutions that people that are cowards will never see because a coward looks at their chess board and only sees half the board is gone. Somebody who's brave sees moves that the coward's never going to see. And you could do that right now. Right now, you can get up. You can walk straight into the thing that scares the [\h__\h] out of you. Just terrifies you. Can you can you can let that anxiety wash over you and then you can do the damn thing anyway. And in that moment, here's what's wild. Something completely magical happens. You reclaim the authority over your own mind. Your psychology just goes, "Shit, this guy's driving." Listen, anxiety, it's like this this fog. It just It's thick and heavy. It you can't see two inches. The visibility is like a centimeter. But the moment you get up and you go, I don't care. I know that I can walk. I know there's nothing in front of me. So the moment that you walk through it, you realize it's just vapor. There is nothing there. It is a ghost. You keep waiting for the anxiety to go away before you move. But that is backwards. It goes away because you move. I said it. Action. Oh god, it decimates anxiety. You know what destroys all the hesitation and and fear that you have about taking action? Movement. Shatters it. Because I I mean, I had to do this, right? I was broke. I was broke. Missing a lung. Lost all my muscle. Lost my self-worth. I didn't know what was going to happen. I had no guarantees, no future vision, nothing. I had every reason to freeze, man. When you are in a doctor's office and they take an X-ray and they go, "You need to see this." And I come around the corner and there's a football in my chest. And he goes, "You need to go to ER right now." And then they don't let me leave. and then can't find a surgeon, can't find a bed. There's a bunch of COVID lies outside in the hallway, all being told lies, tents outside. And I'm gradually to the point where 3 days in, I couldn't even walk to the bathroom. I had to piss in this little plastic cup. And all I did was stand up and start thanking God for the greatest surgeon. Another 50 years with my wife, turning me into a juggernaut, giving me all the tools, the tactics, the strategy, the mindset, the brain power, the connection, the the savage, the wrath if necessary. from you, God, to do all the things that I need to do to make this place better, this planet better. And 10 minutes later, somebody opens the door and said, "Trevor Bachmire, yeah, your ride's going to be here in a half hour for your surgery tomorrow." Right when they told me they were going, just before they told me they were going to send me out of state, which I knew I wouldn't survive that flight. I didn't sit in a corner and say, "Okay, I need time to process this, man." I got up and acted. I did it every day. When I came home, I was broken. I didn't care. And it wasn't because I was fearless. It's because I refused to let fear decide where I'm going to go. I wasn't special. I'm not special. I'm not gifted. I'm not special. I'm just committed. I don't know how else to explain it to you guys. You think your feelings are the measure of truth. They're not. Feelings are a bunch of noise. It's the static between you and everything that you could become. Your anxiety isn't telling you anything new. It's not some prophetic voice, you guys. It sure as hell isn't wisdom. You know what it is? It's the old program, the old operating system that you're running in your head and it's screaming because it's dying and you're just like, "Hold on, let me save you. Let me run an antivirus to keep you there and keep you alive." You just keep feeding it. Do you know how many people I've seen beat anxiety? people that I've worked with, pe clients that I've worked, every single one who stopped giving a damn about how they felt and started doing what they knew. Listen, you you want to kill anxiety, then you need to kill all the patterns that keep creating it because just saying it, you can stop right here and you will not be able to do it because you're going to, well, he just told me to start doing. You're going to screw everything up. Don't you need to kill the patterns that are that are jacking up your life that are creating the anxiety. Get up at the same damn time every day. Whatever time it is that you get up right now, get up 10 minutes earlier, set your alarm, and never change that until it becomes easy, and then do it again. Train your body until you're ready to vomit. Every day you listen to somebody that tells you there's such a thing as overtraining, punch them square in the face. I think it's ridiculous. You cannot overtrain. First of all, you have to train to overtrain. Most of you guys aren't training. I train like an animal every day, and I'm not even close to overtraining. Just to be very clear, nature does not take a day off ever. Plan your day the night before. I do this. I've told you this. I write down three things that I'm going to do the next day that have to do with a giant list of action steps I need to take in order to get the goals that I've set. And then execute precisely, methodically, tactically. Get uncomfort. Look at all the things you can find that are uncomfortable. Just go there on purpose. Those are the receipts you need. Look at all the things that make you happy and comfortable and stop going there. Anything that distracts you, deny. Take anything that's soft. Get it the not swearing. Get it the hell out of your life. You need to starve the attention you're giving to your emotions and then go that's the life I want. You guys stop defending where you are. Feed where you want to go. Here's the secret nobody wants to hear. Anxiety doesn't survive inside discipline. It's impossible. It dies there 100% of the time. It suffocates when it doesn't get the oxygen of all your focus and attention, which everybody is telling you to do. The second you get a label, oh, you have anxiety. Yeah, me too. Let me tell you all about it. I take this medication. Is it working for you? You know, I had to go to see Dr. Smith and Dr. Jones and they gave me this thing and I sat on the couch and blah blah blah. What are you doing? When you stop feeding it, it shrivels. Stop feeding it all your excuses and damn drama. Listen, the most disciplined people I know don't struggle with anxiety. Not because they're superhuman. They're not. People like me are not. We're not. Stop doing that. We're not. It's because the days that I live are far too structured for chaos to come and creep in and invade anything in my life. My mind is just far too focused to even let fear get in and start doing anything. I'm too busy. You guys aren't busy enough. See, the people that win, they've designed a system that just makes anxiety irrelevant. You can do the same thing. One person did it, so can you. But you won't. Here's why. Because if you can't do it, not if you keep defending your weakness. Not if you keep arguing on behalf of your limitations. Not if every time somebody This is wild to me when I make a post and you guys just lose your [\h__\h] Not if every time that somebody challenges your victimhood, you scream mental health, mental disease, and then you retreat to the safety of your labels and diagnosis and your support group. none of which are going anywhere. You want a diagnosis? Here, I'll give it to you. You don't have an anxiety problem. You have a discipline problem. You have a behavioral problem. You don't need pills or hours of therapy. Punt your therapist. They're just bleeding you dry. Build a business. Build a savage body. Build a crazy, sexy, wonderful, loving relationship. build a life. You don't need a therapist. You need to take control of your damn life. You need principles and ethics and morals and integrity. You don't need therapy. What you need is something called the truth. Here's the truth. I'll even answer it for you. Anxiety is a test. And most of you are failing miserably. And it's not because you're incapable either. It's because you're unwilling. You are so addicted to other people's opinions telling you what you have, you forgot who the hell you even are. You know, you feel that knot in your stomach right now. That's you're kind of getting pissed off. Good. I hope so. That means you're alive. That means you're close to the thing that you need to look at and face. That means you are brushing up that next step of your life, that evolution of who you're meant to be. This isn't a pep talk. It's just facts. I've been where you are. But instead of stepping into it, you guys run away. You retreat. And then you go to escape and distract and numb it out. So, you just run away. Every time you do that neuroplasticity, you are reinforcing a rep that makes you worse, which means you get weaker and you're helping. Again, make it make sense. Every time you defend your stupid anxiety, you're making yourself weaker. How are I How many of you guys like being an anxious again? How many of you guys love the anxiety you have? Nobody. Stop sitting there and going, "You don't understand what it's like. It's crippling." Keep saying that. Keep saying that. Next time you start to feel anxiety, do burpees until you puke. I don't care what you're wearing. I don't care if you got a skirt with no panties on and there's people all over the place in the office. You're dumb enough to dress like that, then shame on you. Do it anyway. If you're in a suit and on the side of the road, you got to do burpees in the dirt on your way to the best biggest business meeting of your life. Who cares? How committed are you? You want to stay anxious or you want the life that you want cuz that one thing is getting in the way. You need to like you you lean in. That's how you get strong. I will give you the secret. You lean in. You stop resisting discomfort and you actually look for it. It's what I just said. Pattern interrupt the hell out of your life. I'm starting to feel anxious. Drop into burpees. What do you like? You guys take some kind of rubber band and smack it on yourself and now you anchor anxiety with pain and you think that's going to help you. You start getting anxious and you have a what? A link to a pill. Oh, I'm anxious. Where's my Xanax? Where are my benzoazipines? I got to take them. Oh, I'm freaking out. Oh, I'm just a little stressed out. Where's my cigarette? Where's my booze? Where's my distraction? Where's my Only Fans channel? Wait. Like, whatever you do. Are you nuts? Anytime something gets uncomfortable, which is I told you, anxiety is a signal. You want to lean in. That's what you want to do. I said it already. I I don't know how else to explain it cuz I've been you. You don't think I was afraid and anxious and frustrated and scared to death? I didn't know what the hell I was going to do with my family, even with this company I'm building right now. I had no idea how to do it. Now I do. I could do this in my sleep. If somebody said, "I need a blueprint to build a $10 million business in a year, I can do it. Guaranteed. Guaranteed. Cuz I'm doing it in real time." You want strength? You want to feel power coursing through you that is undeniable? Stop resisting discomfort and start looking for it. look at fear as a a a compass, right? You guys look at it as it's some kind of somebody cast a spell on you to ruin your life. You let it guide you right to the edge and instead of turning around, jump. Because every time you do that, that grip of anxiety that you feel right now where you're like, I don't know if I can do that, it gets weaker. It's not because the feelings disappear, by the way. It's because you've changed your relationship with them. You have stopped fearing fear for lack of a better explanation. You've stopped believing a lie. And and I want some psychiatrist, some psychologist and all their stupid degrees to go toe-to-toe with this and just pick it apart because it doesn't matter. You're still wrong. I know what I'm saying is right. You don't like it because it challenges what you've been taught. Except I'm right and my answer actually works. The lie that says anxiety is something you're stuck with that needs to be treated. That is something you need permission to beat. That's something that that others it's like something that others have to validate before you kill it. No, that's how you think. That's not it at all. You don't need permission. You don't need anybody else's. You don't need your therapist to go, "Okay, I think you should listen to this Spartan guy. I think he makes a point." If your therapist isn't going, "Let's do this in five minutes." I don't know what else to tell you. Then you want to stay where you are. Oh my, you know, I have to work through my inner trauma. My my I got this trauma bond with somebody and I get out of here, man. You're inventing labels so you can stay where you are. You don't need anybody's permission, you guys. You need your own freaking permission. You need your own permission to stop being soft and being emotion. Stop being emotionally reactive and stop waiting for emotion to kick in before you start doing something. You're not tired. You're not tired. You're not. You're undisiplined. And like I said, the reason you feel knotted up and anxious is because you are underprepared. And even my wife said this, Brandon and I were talking. She goes, "The only time I've ever felt knotted up is when I wasn't prepared." Preparation eliminates fear. And discipline gives you preparation. Discipline eliminates uncertainty. And order eliminates chaos. This is a long chain that this is how you're designed. You guys have just forgotten how to do it. So the next time all this anxiety hits, ask yourself, where am I unprepared? Where am I giving the script to fear? Where am I still addicted to comfort and softness? And if you sit there and you go, "Well, they're telling me that I should be connected to my feelings." Why are you hanging around with people that want you to stay at the bottom? You are not built for comfort. You're built for combat. You're built for battle. You are built, your strength is created in things that give you friction and resistance. Look at anybody that works out. Look at any athlete. The stuff that is really difficult is what makes them better. Your mind is the same way. And every second you avoid that resistance, you betray your own nature, your gift from God. The world does not care about your feelings. I don't care about your feelings. The market doesn't care. Your competitors don't care. Life doesn't care. Stop thinking that pretending you're special for being overwhelmed and frustrated. You're not. You're undertrained. That's it. You're undertrained and underprepared. You want to escape all the anxiety? Train harder. Do more. Train harder. Think more clearly. Get singularity of focus. Only look at one thing and stay on that path until you hit it, not until something easier shows up. Move faster. Get sharper. Get better. And when you get to the top and you go, "I can't move any faster. I can't get any better. And I can't work any harder." Scale. That's how you change your life. And the best part, you don't have to wait. You guys don't need some 21 days to fix my habit or 90 days to fix my habit or a 30-day plan or to find yourself or to get some incense or to start a supplement. You don't need another self-help book either. None of it. You need to make a damn decision. Like right now on this podcast right now, right here, you are done living like a victim and that you are done explaining why you aren't where you want to be and blaming it on your feelings. that you're done arguing for mediocrity. The moment you decide to act anyway despite pain, struggle, frustration, fear, pressure, despite the feelings, you get dangerous. You become dangerous, unbreakable, untouchable, undeniable. That's what you become focused because that's when and all of that stuff. That's when anxiety dies. And I said it before, it's not because it vanishes. It's because you stopped picking up the damn phone and answering the call. Stop waiting. You need to control your mind and you just keep handing that control out to everybody you can. And your mind's controlling you right now. Who's Whose life is this? You mean to tell you if somebody somebody or you mean to tell me if somebody tells you how you're feeling and they give you a label and that label gives you permission to stay where you are, you are so impently weak mentally that you go, "Okay, all right. Give me the prescription as long as it'll make it go away and I feel better. Where's the remote?" And if you go, "Well, you're telling me how to feel?" No, I'm telling you how to escape. If you refuse to control your mind, don't be surprised when life just keeps spinning you around in circles and aiming you nowhere. When your life falls apart, your bi finances fall apart, your business falls apart, your relationships fall apart, your all the potential that you have gets demolished from inside out, but you keep blaming everything else. And it's all because you couldn't master what the voice inside your own head. Anxiety doesn't own you. I hear people say, "Oh, anxiety owns me." Anxiety does not own you. You give it power by paying attention. So take it back. Take it back and never hand it over again. Ever. I got to go. Never miss.