There's a lot of things I don't know how to do. I count on somebody to teach me how because that's how I got to where I am right now is by listening to other people that know how to do it and I don't and then I pay attention and now I know how to do it. So I I bought her AI'm hesitant to give these guys a shout out cuz I don't know how well it works. So it was the best one I could find to charge up her lithium battery and I got her all hooked up and showed her how to use it and she was just so appreciative. You know, I I just think about mankind. It's And she's like, "What do I owe you for this?" I'm like, "Nothing. Absolutely nothing. It was a couple hundred bucks." Like, and that's what neighbors are supposed to do. You're supposed to take care of each other. You're not supposed to hate on your neighbor. You're supposed to take care of each other, which is why I come out here. I try and help you guys. And yet still, some of you muppets just complain and [\h__\h] and whine and you got to be right. If that's you, you're a twit. And if not, well, welcome to the show. So, listen. I I'm going to talk nothing. I'm I'm going to talk about nothing but just testosterone gear, juice, all whatever you want to call it, roids, right? Whatever. And I'm going to explain everything about how it works, why it works, who should be doing it, who shouldn't be doing it, and why all the nonsense is just fear-mongering and [\h__\h] Because, and this is all because I had some dude go, "Side effects of steroids and TRT are way worse than acetaminophen. You're [\h__\h] high." Not even close. And I'll prove it. Oh, I'll prove it with real time data. Yeah, this is Buckle up cuz I'm going to break your brain. So, let me get something perfectly. Let me be perfectly frank with you about this. The entire world is lying lying to you about testosterone. I can't stand these guys that run around. Listen, I don't care if you take it. I don't care if you don't. Again, before you guys take it as a personal attack for some giant juiced out guy or some guy that's like, I'm totally against it. Like, I don't care. This is information. You guys have to learn how to separate information and emotion. Let's work on being adults. Huh? Can we? I mean, I know it's hard for some of you, but can we do that? Can we work on not being toddlers? Grow up. They've made testosterone a villain. I even know a coach. That's all he did was talk about, "You're cheating. You're cheating. It's cheating." Then the person that's cheating is healthier than you are. So, okay. They've made it a villain. Some like steroids dangerous, right? This artificial cheat code that's going to make your heart explode. I've seen that. Your prostate get giant swell up, turns you into some ragefilled monster who beats the crap out of his wife and dies young. That's pretty much what they sum it up as. Except, let me I will tell you, every single word of that is a catastrophic, fear-mongering, anti-scientific lie. It's the single biggest piece of medical misinformation of the last probably 50 years at least. And it's costing millions of people, just so you know, this is how transparent I am about this. It's costing millions of people their health, their vitality, their longevity, their health span, their lifespan, their lives. So just give me like 20 30 minutes to knock this out so I can explain the physiology behind this so you actually know more about this hormone testosterone than 99% of the doctors out there and you're never going to look at your health the same way again ever. All right? Because otherwise, you're going to keep falling into this hypnosis of social conditioning, thinking that what you're being taught by some instab bro or insta guru or some yuts on social media that claims to be an expert who understands nothing about human biology other than what Chad GPT tells them and you're going to keep making mistakes. So, first listen, the big scary word that everybody hears, exogenous. It means from the outside. That's it. You're introducing a substance. Exogenous coming in from the outside. and introducing a substance into your body's already and and caffeine. It's designed to recognize it. Yes, in a certain kind of way. I mean, I realize it was a pretty far-fetched example, but it's my show. I don't care. But you're introducing a substance your body is already designed to recognize and use. It's not some alien foreign chemical. It's testosterone in this case. It's the exact same molecule that your testicles and your ovaries produce. Here's the beautiful, elegant, simplicity of all of this. Your body runs in something called a feedback loop. And your body runs on a feedback loop called the HBTA, hypothalamus, pituitary, testicular axis, HPTA. Now you know what it means. Every time you see it, when somebody's like, "Hpta access and they sound like an expert." Ask them what it actually means. Just have some fun with them. So think of it like your body's hormonal thermostat. So let me explain this in the easiest way I possibly can. Your hypothalamus is this guy in a control room and he sees testosterone. He's got a panel in front of him and he sees testosterone in your blood and if it's low he picks up the phone or he picks up he grabs a text. It sends a text and he texts the pituitary gland and he says, "Hey man, listen." He's the thermostat control, right? Hey man, we need more heat in here. Send out the signal. That's what it does. So then the pituitary gets the call, gets the text message, and it sends out the hormone. It sends another text and it sends out a hormone called luteinizing hormone, LH, luteinizing hormone, right? And that's the signal that tells your testicles, "All right, time to fire up the factories. Produce. Let's go." Now, when you introduce exogenous testosterone, essentially, you're essentially walking into the control room and you're setting the the thermostat to perfect. Whatever that ideal temperature is, you're setting it to the perfect ideal temperature. Let's say, I don't know, 74°, whatever. If that seems comfortable to me, it's where I keep my house during the day. 74°. So, the guy in the control room pulls out his little gauge. He looks at his gauge and it reads 74. Perfect. And he kicks back, puts his feet up on the desk, and he stops making text messages. Stops sending messages. Phone stops ringing. Factories, testicles, they all get the message. We're good. Stand down. So, they go idle and shut down production. So, this is where everybody freaks out. They go, "Yeah, it's terrible. It's what they call shutdown." And it sounds scary, but it's not. It's not damage. It's not damage. It's a pause. And And before somebody says, "Well, isn't that what hormone blockers do for people that are transitioning?" Don't even get me started. You're messing with somebody's gender. That's not even close to the same. So save it. If that's you, you self-righteous, sanctimonious, [\h__\h] up, narcissistic sociopath. Get your head out of my life. I don't even want you here. It's just a pause and it's perfectly logical and it's a perfectly predictable physiological response to an exogenous source because the body goes, I don't need to make it. You've provided the end product. So the body sees no need to produce it the moment you stop providing that product and the co control room again grabs his cell phone sees the temperature drop texts and the factories start up again. Is it that simple? No. But it's that's the mechanism of action. The idea that this causes permanent damage is like saying if you eat a [\h__\h] sandwich you're going to forget how to cook dinner forever. It's absurd. That doesn't even make sense. Except you know well what about those damaging side effects doc? The heart attack risk. The cancer risk. The prostate cancer. Let me I'm gonna vaporize this because it bugs me so bad. I need more coffee for this one because I'm Cancer is the biggest scare tactic on the planet. I've been through it four times. Yep. Scares the [\h__\h] out of me. Yep. Terrified me. Almost killed me. And you know when it almost killed me? When I listen to medical doctors. And I am one. I am a damn doctor. I would never give somebody that trash. Chemo radiation surgery. Stop talking in my comments if you're about to go. It saved my grandmother. No, it didn't. If it saved your grandmother. Your grandmother never had cancer. Oh, her lab tests say otherwise. Okay, I'm not going to argue. I just know I'm right. Listen, the entire premise that testosterone causes heart attacks is based on one of the most fraudulent I'll go over it. Tarded and retracted studies in modern medical history. The 2013 study by a guy named Dr. Biseria. It was so methodologically broken, so ethically and morally bankrupt that it was literally pulled from the journal. No, I'm not kidding. You can look it up. But the headline stuck. So, the fear was planted, which is exactly what the point was because the real data, the overwhelming undeniable truth, the this here, I'll help you out. A landmark 2021 study in the Annals of Internal Medicine followed over 24,000 men for a decade. A decade, 10 [\h__\h] years. The result, men whose low testosterone was treated with TRT had a 24% lower risk of heart attack, 36% lower risk of stroke, and a and a death from any 47% lower than the untreated men. So, let's say that again just to make sure that all the muppets that are arguing that testosterone is bad for you hear what I'm telling you. 47% lower all cause mortality. Smoke that. This isn't marginal, you guys. This is a tectonic shift in health outcomes. Why? Because testosterone is not just a sex hormone. It's a master regulator of metabolism and inflammation and vascular health. Just look at the organs. Talk organs. What What does TRT actually strengthen and protect? How about I just go over that? The heart. Testosterone. Look at the heart. Just look at the heart. The heart, just look at the heart. Testosterone is this incredibly potent vasoddilator. It tells your your blood vessels to relax and open up. Improves blood flow. Reduces blood pressure. lowers the strain on your heart bed. Increases blood pressure. No, it doesn't. What about the hematocrit? What about the increased RB increased RBCs? It improves cardiac output, makes your heart muscle more efficient. It dra drastic drastically improves cholesterol profiles. It lowers triglycerides and small dense LDL, the bad kind, while raising HDL, the good kind. Tell me where in that it is, where are the bad things in any of that? I'll wait. Let's just keep going. Your brain is packed with something called androgen receptors. Testosterone is neuroprotective by its very nature. It upregulates the prod the production of something called BDNF, brain derived neurotrophic factor. It's like it's like miracle growth for your neurons. It enhances cognitive function, memory, and executive decision-making. So, it makes you [\h__\h] smarter. It's this shield against neurodeenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and dementia and Parkinson's and multiple sclerosis. Low testosterone is a significant risk factor for all of those. TRT mitigates that risk. How about we just keep going? Testosterone massively improves insulin sensitivity. So, it tells your muscles to suck glucose out of the bloodstream like a vacuum cleaner, which is the one of the this it is one of the most powerful anti-diabetic effects known to medicine. How many times you see them prescribe that for somebody that has diabetes? Precisely zero. It reduces fatty liver disease. Fundamentally changes your metabolic health. Let's keep going. How about bones? Stimulates osteoblast activity, which are the cells that build new bone. Men with low testosterone have drastically higher risk of osteoporosis and debilitating fractures that will ruin you for life. TRT increases bone mineral density and makes your skeleton stronger and more resilient than ever. Oh, I can keep going. How about the muscles? Which is the one everybody's talking about. This is the one everybody knows, but they missed the why. It's not about your vanity, man. It's not. It muscle is your metabolic currency. There is a doc right now. That's all she talks about. It is your glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent system. It is your longevity engine. More muscle mass mean more muscle mass directly directly correlates with a longer lifespan and a better health span. Testosterone protects you from sarcopenia, the age related muscle wasting that makes people frail and weak and incredibly dependent on a system designed to take the money away from you. Now, you guys are so wrong about testosterone. But you guys will run out and buy Nyquil and Dayquil and all the allergy meds and take handfuls of Tylenol in protest to who you voted into office. Bunch of [\h__\h] toddlers. And here, let me go over delivery, too, before somebody's like, "Well, I take a cream." Boy, I'm going to demolish that and I'll prove why it's largely ineffective and why injectable is king. How about that? Oral testosterone is is a disaster. First of all, I don't care what you're taking. I don't care if it's anadrol50s which are incredibly hepotoxic or anavar which is still heptoxic because in order to survive first pass degradation first pass liver metabolism it has to be an alpha alkalated 17 molecule. This modification of its own or all on its own is literally hepattoxic. It is making it poisonous to your liver. It destroys your lipid profiles. It destroys your lipid profiles like medieval barbaric medicine. It doesn't work in topical creams. Let me touch that because you guys rubbing it on your vagina and in the back of your ball bag. Listen, they are largely ineffective for simply one reason. Skin absorption is wildly inconsistent. It can't be metered. You you're not understanding the the mechanism of action and I'm trying to help you, but you guys want to argue because somebody gave it to you and you want it to be right. I think that's the issue is a lot of you guys are in love with an idea, but the idea is false. You get these huge spikes and crashes. You you risk transferring it to everybody and anyone, your partner, your children, anyone else. The data on on its ability to reliably achieve stable physiological levels. Terrible. No, I'm not going to constantly cite research. I don't have time for that. I've read it. I know it's not. Trust me, bro. You could Google it. It's everywhere. Injectable testosterone administered sub administered subcutaneously or IM intramuscularly provides this nice slow steady release into the bloodstream. If you're like, I don't really like needles though. Do you like endstage liver disease? Well, it can't be that bad. Okay, then don't listen to me. Remember, I'm coming out here for free to help you. You can argue if you want. Doesn't change the fact that I'm still right. Injectable, nice, stable levels. Bypasses the liver. It is the safest, most effective, most researched, I might add, method that we have. Full stop. There you go. You're welcome. I get a question a lot from you guys about women. Should women be on testosterone? Unequivally absolut unequivocally. unequ unequivocally. Unequivocally unequivocally. Yes. When it's indicated, not any other time. The notion that testosterone is a male hormone is juvenile at best biology. Women produce it, too. It's in their ovaries. It's in their adrenal glands. It's just as critical for them. In women, just so you know, testosterone is a primary driver of libido, mental clarity, energy, muscular strength. So, why would you not want to have that in your system? It supports bone density, and it fights all the brain fog that happens when you start going through menopause, permenopause. It's not the only thing, but it helps. Listen, here's the clinical distinction and why it's not the answer to menopause. Because that's the question I get from a lot of you guys. Can I take that to mitigate the menopause symptoms? No. Because menopause is primarily characterized by this catastrophic drop in estrogen and pro progesterone. Testosterone decline is a part of it, but it's not the main event. It's like the halftime show. Giving a menopausal woman testosterone without addressing the estrogen and progesterone def deficit is like it's like trying to put out a house fire by walking up and just trying to pee on it. You're addressing a secondary issue while the primary structure keeps burning down. It's not going to put out the fire. It's not going to help. In fact, if you go it did for me, I already know you're lying because it can't. That means you failed human biology. Biology is on my side. I'm trying to help you. The woman needs she, let's call her she, she she needs estrogen and pro progesterone first or she needs to mitigate the problem and solve the fire and then add testosterone. So, if you're doing let's say you're doing my pmenopause or menopause protocol, great. Let's say you're doing estrogen and progesterone. Great. Whatever you decide. I I'm not here to tell you what to do. I'm here to help you so you can make an informed decision. Testosterone helps neither one of those. If you only or neither one of those are Let me back up. Testosterone alone will not replace any of those. None of those. You still have to have the That's why when somebody goes, "Listen, you're still having us take all these things." I'm not having you do anything. You're deciding to do that. But if you understand that you're looking for the easiest, cheapest, most simple thing to change your health, then you're not looking to change your health. You're looking to accommodate your in your convenience. You're looking to accommodate your laziness, your excuses. If you have to be a pin cushion 10 times a day to get your health where it needs to be, if you don't have to be a pin cushion at all and you can get your health to where it is, great. But you have to make sure that what you're doing is actually making you healthier. Estrogen and progesterone first. Testosterone is the finishing touch. It's like the final 10% that restores vitality, drive, lean mass, and the dose of course is everything because most people take far too much. A female replacement dose is a fraction. Oh god, it is a fraction of a male do. I mean, not even in the same league. Like, we're talking 5 10% max of what a man takes. That demands precision. So, when you get it off of a Reddit forum instead of someone like me or anyone else, you are getting some bunky ass information. Listen, testosterone is the literal king. You need to build a synergistic ecosystem so it functions the best. This is where you move from just simply replacing a hormone to capitalizing on what your body is really truly capable of. So, look at this. Look at men here. I'll even I'll even walk you through exactly how to put things together. How about that? Oh, by the way, I have to say this part because people will freak out. This isn't meant to treat, diagnose, prescribe, advise, cure. It's only hypothetical, educational, and just for entertainment. We got So, for men, it's like this could be the ultimate androgen protocol hypothetically. [\h__\h] freedom my ass. Here I am literally belching out health information to help you guys. And I have to put a caveat in there that maybe this is just not going to work. But if I owned Fizer, I could go on TV and tell you the most outlandish [\h__\h] about a drug and then stack side effects that will kill you after it while there is a family playing with a dog and having a picnic. Everybody's all happy. Yeah. Because you want to take Skyrizzy Renvoke what other garbage that they have you take for things that you could solve with about a dozen other things that actually make the problem go away instead of just manage the decline. So this androgen setup hypothetically the foundational stack I'm just hesitant to use that word testosterone and enclophen forget the HCG you guys and you're burning out your latig cells and clomophen is the elegant more effective solution anyway it's a selective estrogen receptor modulator a serum and it tricks the hypothalamus into thinking estrogen is low it picks up the tricks the hypothalamus into thinking estrogen is low it picks up the phone right and it starts texting the the pituitary and it says pump out more LH and FSH luteinizing hormone, follical stimulating hormone. Keeps your own productions partially online. So it keeps your own keeps your own production partially online and so it dramatically reduces testicular atrophy and it preserves the fertility far more efficiently than the old paradigm that most people the old bros used to use. I'm 52. I've been around. I've heard a lot of things. It's it's like the 21st century solution for HBTA communication, right? It's easiest way. So now, if that's all you're doing, you're going to have a problem because you're missing a whole bunch of levers that you need to pull. So if you want to add in things, this is how I would look at it because if I'm going to do something, I'm going to do it to the best possible ability. It's not like I'm going to go and buy I'll use my 911. I use it all the time. So take my 911 Turbo S and I get this great car. I put all these per performance upgrades on. I have ES motors. do the whole tune, do the upgrades, change the the rings, the connecting rods, the pistons, the heads, do the exhaust, do it all, everything. Turbos, up like downpipe, uppipe, all the stuff. And then I put garbage tires on it that I bought in some bargain basement place that are going to fly apart at 50 m an hour. So, I create this high performance machine, but I can't use it. I I hope that makes sense because that's what happens when all you do is take testosterone. That's what happens when all you do is take inclin. And you cannot take Enclomophane in place of testosterone. Let me quickly address that cuz people go I'll just take clomophane then because it'll up my own my endogenous production my internal right exogenous out endogenous in right well the problem is if you don't have gonads that are functioning properly so ovaries adrenal glands testicles then and I realize adrenal glands aren't technically gonads just bear with me cuz yes they work in the whole chain then inclapane isn't going to work because they tell your system to make more but if your system is incapable of making more it doesn't matter this is why understanding ing physiology for like the hundth time matters so much. God, I'd love to just teach a class on physiology. If you guys want it, I'll do it. Just because I I so many people come in and they give me information that they get bro science. It's just insta guru garbage. So, if you want me, you need to send it to me on Instagram. By the way, if you want me to teach you a physiology class so you actually understand human biology and physiology, you're not coming here like if you come in just to be an [\h__\h] and yeah, I'm going to charge you for it. It's not going to be much, but I'll charge you for it. But I'll help you so at least you understand your own damn body. Listen, you take world religion and representative literature and earth and geological sciences and I I took growth and motor development in college for the love of God in the faculty of phys. It was the dumbest class I've ever taken. I had to draw a shape on a piece of paper and then I had to go become that shape while I was running around the gym. I'm not teaching fizzed and that's not what I'm going to teach if I'm teaching fizzed. I'll teach fizzed like I learned how to be how to like Mr. Craig taught me when I was a kid. Yeah. It was don't be a [\h__\h] And then he made us all work and run and throw things and climb things and just get sweaty and gritty and we all had to change. And nobody got out of gym class unless it was swimming and then it was the women. That's the only people that ever got out of gym class outside of that. And it was the women that were on their period. If you weren't, I don't care if you were missing a [\h__\h] arm. You were doing gym class. You were doing PE. That's how it should be. You're like, "Oh, I'm just I have a weird form that allows me not to do." Anyway, 26 minutes in. I'm going too far. This is what happens. Bear with me. This is This is my show. Oh, if you don't like it, you're like, "Guy constantly deviates from the subject." Yeah, that's okay. It's my house. You don't have to listen. You know, I'm almost out of coffee. All right. So, listen. I get asked, "Okay, how do I build something for men? How do I build something for women?" And both of you guys ask me all the time. So, before I go any further, I'll say it again and again and again. This isn't meant to cure, treat, prescribe, advise, triage, whatever else people come up with. It is just purely hypothetical, educational, and for entertainment only. If you know, you know. Get all that garbage out of the way. I'm tired of having to say that in this massively free place that we live in, right? So listen, as a man, let's go let's go male first then female. So I'll build out exactly hypothetically what we would do. Now I'm going to drink this coffee, so I'm going to hold it in my hand. Makes me feel secure. Sorry about my nose being all stuffed up, by the way. Sometimes allergies, they just hit. So the foundational stack is always in this case, just remember I'm building basics. So before you guys get in the comments and start chattering away, I think this is better, that's better. Shut up. I'm giving you general stuff. You want me to work with you? Black card membership. Remember, there were 25 extra spots released. Yep. They're little bit more expensive. So, what you want to join the black card and have all of this stuff at the tip of your fingers and get all the access and you can actually ask me real questions. Yeah, you're going to want to do the black card. And if not, then don't. Don't. But don't get mad at me when I ghost you in the comments in uh Instagram when you're like, "Hey, just give me advice, bro." Yeah, black card. You know why? Because it protects me. That's why you want the truth. There you go. Cuz it protects me cuz I don't get I'm not a liability to myself if I do that. So the foundational stack testosterone and clomophene. Forget HCG. And Clomophane is a much more elegant solution. It's this selective estrogen receptor modulator. Serum. They have a bad rep. I'm not going to get into that right now, but it what it does is it tricks the hypothalamus into thinking that the estrogen in the male is low. So, it picks up the phone, texts the pituitary, and it says, "Pump out more LH and FSH, luteinizing hormone and follical stimulating hormone." And it keeps your own production partially online, to be quite honest. Keeps your own production partially online. So, it reduces testicular atrophy and it preserves fertility way more efficiently than the old paradigm that people used to use. It's like the 21st century for HBTA communication. So if I was putting together the ultimate ideal playbook hypothetically, I'd probably make it look something like this. Since you're boosting BDNF, brain derived neurotrphic factor with testosterone. Now you want to amplify it. Cerebralin, which is a neurotropic peptide cocktail that's neurotrophic and neuroprotective. So So it repairs neurons, enhances synatic plasticity, and builds cognitive resilience, so you keep your executive function for the rest of your life. Stack it with methylene blue in micro doses. I'm not going to get into it. black card if you want it, which is a mitochondrial jet fuel. I've called it this so many times because that's what it is. It's a incredibly powerful mitochondrial enhancer and MAOB inhibitor that turbocharges neural energy production and focus. This combo just makes your brain pretty much bulletproof so you avoid all the issues down the road when you're 75 or 80. I'm not kidding. This is how you have to think of yourself. What can I put in my system now to give myself the longevity and the ability to play the game as hard as possible right up until the end? And since testosterone improves insulin sensitivity, read a true tide, add that in, obliterates insulin resistance, crushes pathogenic fat, the pathogenic fat cells, creates this metabolic environment where nutrients are partitioned perfectly into muscle and not stored as fat. For mitochondrial biogenesis and insane endurance, I would add cardarine, which is a PP delta agonist. It permanently changes permanently changes muscle fiber types to be much more oxidative. So, it increases stamina, fat burning capacity across the board. This is like a metabolic nuclear reactor. And then since you're building muscle with testosterone, you want to protect the machinery because the tendons and ligaments and joints didn't get the memo. Works very well on bone and muscle, but not nearly as well on everything else. So, protect the machinery. BPC-157, which is the master healer peptide. I've talked about this. Everybody knows about it. Systemic administration. Stop thinking orals are going to work. They don't. It accelerates the repair of muscles, tendons, ligaments, gut lining, bloodb brain barrier. TB-500. This is its powerful buddy that they have to. It's like Batman and Robin. It promotes cell migration with actin polymerization. Genesis reduces the in the systemic inflammation which is the primary cause of almost every disease out there. This stack means that you train harder, recover faster, and you pretty much put yourself in a position to be almost injuryproof. Not invincible, but pretty close. And now to amplify the anabolic and regenerative effect of testosterone without the sides of exogenous GH growth hormone, use a GH GHRP stack instead because it's much more effective because it works indogen. It it forces indogenous production. So CJC1 1295 with DAC. It just lasts longer longer halfife. It gives you this steady like week-long pulse of growth hormone releasing hormone. pair it with ipamearellin this which is a growth hormone secret and it gives you this this clean pulsatile GH release with no prolactin or cortisol spikes. This it's going to elevate GH. It's going to elevate IGF-1 levels. It synergizes with testosterone for this almost wolverine like recovery and fat loss and reversal of the clock. That's how I would do it hypothetically if I were going to spin this together to hit all the levers. Remember testosterone hits one lever. You're a dynamic piece of biological machinery that has a lot of moving parts. This addresses all of them in one fell swoop. And yes, you can go deeper down this rabbit hole and build something completely incredible. But you don't need to. If I was going to do this and it was just for the fundamentals to cover all the bases, it would look exactly like that. Now, since I get a lot of questions about women, let's do a playbook for women because this would be much more about vitality. And yes, I know women like my wife is incredibly muscular. No, she doesn't take anything. But if it ever comes down to it, and she already said, "You are the only one I will ever trust to help me because I actually give a [\h__\h] about people." So that's again why people I say, "Blackard, you want to join and you want to come in and hang out and get all these answers and protocols and and tutorials and protocols that are made just for you and exactly how to work with dosages and everything else that you guys ask me all the time. the black card membership. If you want it, you're going to send me a message on Instagram or you're going to click the little link somewhere at the end of this writeup when uh when you look at the YouTube video. So, the the female stack isn't the same. Men and women are different. You guys stop thinking that you can just reduce the dosage and give that to a woman. That is not at all. That's like going, "Well, a diesel has an engine and a 911 Turbo S has an engine. Just swap the fuel." That's a great way to have [\h__\h] go really wrong. So, don't do that. female is much more about precision than it is about hardcore power. So, the foundation is still going to be estrogen, progesterone, and lowd dose testosterone, except there's an elegant way to enhance the entire thing. And even that, if you're going to be doing the pmenopause or the menopause layout, whether it's mine or or someone else that you feel is going to work, that's great. But if you're going to do that, that doesn't mean you can pull away from the hormones. For the most part, you probably can really reduce them. So you reduce a lot of risk associated with estrogen and progesterone. There's a ton of risk. Tons of HRT. It's unbelievable. The risks are proven. The cancer risks for real, not the bro science Reddit risks, right? So for a woman that's juggling like a thousand different roles cuz I see how hard my wife works and it's unbelievable. She's a machine. Deep restorative sleep non-negotiable. Dip. Dip is like the ultimate sleep architecture architectural engineer. It increases REM and deep sleep which was when the glimpmphatic system sweeps out all the like the amaloid plaques, the towangles, all the garbage that's in the brain. It lowers cholesterol pair it with KPV which is an anti-inflammatory peptide that modulates the immune system and reduces anxiety and believe me it exists for people. The combination manages the stress response that quite often on derails a lot of female hormonal balance because you're creating all these other problems. GHK-Cu copper. This is tissue remodeling at its finest. Increases collagen production. Elastin production. Glycosaminoglycans and supports follicular hair growth and it supports hair follicle health. Hey, listen. It I'm bald, but it I my wife has beautiful hair. It's like internal Botox. It works with testosterone's skin thickening effects. Not that weird like not like my calluses to give you this radiant, youthful, functional appearance. It doesn't just it's not like filler. Your skin actually goes the other direction back towards youth. M see critical. Wouldn't even think twice about it. In fact, that should be part of the male stack as well. This is a mitochondrial derived peptide that improves insulin sensitivity and the metabolic parameters surrounding it. It also tells the little nuclear reactors that you have that are cranking out ATP to make more reactors and make more ATP. And so now you fight the weight gain and the fatigue that is common in Perry and menopause as a female. And it's retatrutide hands down the most powerful metabolic operating system upgrade that exists known to man right now. Stop it with your tursepide and your semiglutide. Those are trash. And it has nothing to do with whether you get it from elite biogenics. It has to do with the fact that they're trash. We carried all of it. Now we don't carry anything but reatride cuz it's garbage. And I threw out a bunch because I'm not going to give them to somebody if I know full well they're going to cause you harm. How many of you other people could say that about what you're sailing? You can't. You can't [\h__\h] say it. You know it. That's exactly why I'm out here and you're hiding behind your storefront. I don't have a storefront. I own a company. They're not the same. So, Reddit truth tide. It handles insulin resistance, forces fatty acid oxidation, heals the hypothalamic neurons that have been abused by a myriad of stupid decisions over the course of your lifetime. Now, libido is a massive issue for women when they're going through pmenopause or menopause. So beyond lowd dose testosterone PT-141 this is a gamecher like it's not a hormone either it is a melanoordin receptor agonist that acts centrally on the hypothalamus to spark actually spark sexual desire independent of any hormonal pathways. So, just so you understand, for a lot of women, this is the missing key that restores a healthy libido. Like, hey, I'd like to have sex without significantly altering all of their hormonal profile and just demolishing their system. It is just, and I'll be very upfront with this, causes a little bit of a skin flush for about 30 minutes. And if you take too much, it's going to make your stomach feel kind of crappy. So, be smart about how you do it. But, it works. It's not this like magically I become physically prepared for sex but mentally I don't want to have it. No, it makes you want sex. NAD+ precurs NAD+ and precursors like NMN critical. I they should be part of everything you do because the norm the hormonal shifts of menopause they tank NAD+ levels. So now you get mitochondrial dysfunction, you get fatigue, you just have an energy crisis. NMN fuels these pathways that are that are critical for cellular repair, energy production, and longevity, health span, and lifespan. This is cellular level fuel that makes everything else just work better. If the energy systems don't work right, nothing else works right. This isn't just hormonal replacement. That's why I'm trying to explain this to you. This is a systemwide biological engineering miracle. You're not just filling a deficit. This is the issue. if you're It's like this one doc, she stitched me in her videos because I I basically attacked her and it was indirectly. I didn't know her menopause and she's known for menopause. All of a sudden, her people are coming up and questioning her and going, "Hey, what about this? Can I do this? This works. This guy seems to tell me a bunch of things that you're not telling me." Listen, if you come up and you tell me that somebody else is doing something and it works and it follows biology and physiology and it actually makes sense, great. If you tell me you're swallowing oral peptides because trust me, bro, they work, I'm going to tell you to take a flying [\h__\h] at a rolling donut because they do not work. physiology does not work that way. It doesn't alter just specifically for your emotions. But this doc got all weird about it and tried to tear me apart. Dude, you want to go live with me? I will set your [\h__\h] skull on fire. Go live with me. I'll burn you to the ground because what you're doing is you are manipulating people to think that your way is the only way. I'm giving you all the solutions I can. This doesn't fit the pmenopause menopause stack that I gave you. This has this is a variation that gives you the same end result. But if you only focus on one deficit like estrogen or progesterone, the problem becomes you have a whole bunch of levers that aren't being pulled. You're not actually addressing the problem. You're doing exactly what they want you to do is subscription model of healthcare. You have to take it forever. What if you didn't have to? And I don't know, but I do know this. I'm going to do everything possible to get my system back online if it starts to crash cuz I've been on the other side of this equation. It sucked. So, I am a walking billboard. I've said it over and over again of what works. I am 52. Look at me. Listen to me. I am a functional person in a way that most people never get to. And I'm 52 and there's nothing magical about it except I'm actually applying human biology and physiology to make the system work properly. I would think you would listen to me. I know how to build a business. I know how to have a great marriage. I know how to raise kids. I know more about human biology and physiology than most people will ever learn. I am exceptional at diagnosing. And when someone goes to challenge me in my own house, I will knock you in the teeth because you're wrong. That's why I stay in my lane, though. But you you need to build a resilient high-erformance human organism. Just understand that. I I think I mean I could go on all day, but just let me wrap this up with the only metric that truly matters. Life. Your life. Not mine, yours. We've already listen and I I went over this before. We've already seen the 47% reduction in all cause mortality. But how about I break this down so people actually understand. Testosterone replacement therapy, when done correctly, not like a muppet where you buy it in some gym bathroom, results in the following, just so we're clear. 30 to 50% reduction in risk of type 2 diabetes. 40 to 50% reduction in the risk of any and all cardiovascular events. I could probably just stop there. 35 to 40% reduction in risk of Alzheimer's and dementia. 50 plus 50 plus% reduction in risk of debilitating osteoporotic fractures that everybody is terrified of because they screw you up and a significant reduction in depression, anxiety, and overall cause mortality. This isn't about getting jacked, you guys. It's not about vanity. This is about This is about compressing morbidity. It's about adding life to your years and years to your damn life. It is about being strong and vital and powerful and resilient and clear-minded and independent into your 70s, 80s, even 100 years old, whatever. It's about preventing the slow, miserable decay that modern medicine has accepted as normal aging [\h__\h] It is not normal. It is pathological and it is 100% treatable. The data is very clear. The science is very clear. The fear is what's manufactured and you guys have it inverted. So, you have a choice. You can accept the lie and the slow decline that and the subscription model of managing the decline that comes with it or you can just go you know what the hell with this guy makes sense. Physiology is not going to lie. Biology doesn't lie and you can optimize and you can capitalize your one and only vehicle for this life. Your machine that you walk around in. Do not fear testosterone or the molecule or any of the peptides or anything else. Fear the ignorance that is surrounding all of that. Listen, my time is up. I got to go.