Man, I literally just ran out here from the house to the studio to knock this out because today's a busy day. I have a bunch of things to do. I get asked hundreds of times every day. How do you burn fat? How are you lean? So, I gave you my entire routine. So, do with it what you want. That was before. And then yesterday, I explained how to lose fat and gain muscle. And I'm still getting questions about how to burn fat and whether I'm using Reddit true tide and what if I add this to it and what. So listen, here's what I'm going to do today because you guys are going to keep asking me questions about how to do this. So I'm just going to help you. I'm going to give you the it's like the nuclear option to peel like I mean torch the hell out of fat off your body leaving everything else intact. This is the closest thing to a magic combination that you can possibly do. If you start peppering me with, well, what about this, what about that? I'm going to tell you, go back to this podcast and listen because physiology, human biology, all of it, this is how you marry it all together so you take fat and rip it off your body for all the dumb decisions that you've made to put it there in the first place, right? We're going to turn you into a human furnace. No, it's not going to make you a sweaty mess. It's not going to keep you up all night. It's not a stimulant. And this isn't meant to treat, diagnose, prescribe, advise, triage, whatever the hell else they're going to try and say I'm doing. It's just hypothetical, educational, and purely for entertainment. Now that I got that out of the way, again, I want to talk about it's it's Boy, I could go so deep into physiology on this. So, I'll keep it surface level because I got a bunch of things to do. Five amino. And most people hear it and they go, "Oh, yeah. I have that powder." Garbage. I'll tell you right now, if it's powder, garbage. I don't care who you are. Garbage. If you tell me you got results, liar. Show me the blood work. I'll go toe-to-toe with you all day because I know I'm right. Here's the issue, and I'll get into it. But it's not just it's not just a five amino that I'm going to talk about. There's a little tiny marriage of peptides that work so well. I don't I don't get why people go and buy thermogenics and nonsense other than the marketing. And that should just set off bells in your head about all the sheer amount of money and time you have wasted on crap. So, I'm trying to help you stop wasting crap or stop wasting money rather on crap and just start getting things that work. And again, like I said, this isn't a you need to go to Elite Bio and you need to buy it from my company. I don't care. Do I think it would be smarter? Yeah, because I'm the one out here giving you advice, telling you what's actually, let me back that up cuz I'm technically not doing that. I'm the one out here giving you information for you to make an educated decision. That's on you. But to buy from your hillbilly friend who has a connection that knows a guy who's friends with someone who gets it for this, you're insane. So that's why I come out here and give you information so you can stop listening to the Insta Bros. And every time you see one, you feel free to go ahead and punch the screen on your phone. Because here's what's hilarious about some of you guys. We live in a world where people are going to spend 3 hours researching which air fryer makes their chicken crispier, but they won't spend 5 minutes understanding how their own damn body burns fat. But you'll shove in all the stuff you can to make it go there in the first place. Like when I hear people say, "I'm trying to burn fat." No, you're not. No, you're not. You're trying to understand a system you don't even know exists. Because here's the truth. Fat doesn't melt. It doesn't shake off. It doesn't leak out before you wore a sweatb band on your stomach or you wore a rubber suit or stuck lasers on your body. Fat oxidizes. Period. That's chemistry. And if you don't know that, you're not burning fat. You're just sweating for the gram. I don't know what else to tell you. So, how about I just explain what actually works and I'll go down the rabbit hole on five amino MQ and why it works, why it's effective, why when you stack it with two other things, you basically go nuclear on all the stored fat and it'll go until you have none left. Do not do that. But that's how effective this is. So, first things first, because most people have no concept about what fat really is. Fat is not a passive blob sitting in your waistline or around your butt or your thighs or wherever it is. Fat is tissue. It is alive. It's vascular. It's alive. It's hormonally active. It talks to your brain, your liver, your muscles, and excuse me, and your endocrine system all day, 24/7, 365. It is not storage. Fat is communication. It is this metabolic stockpile, which I mean, I guess it would be storage if you look at it that way, but it's this biochemical loudspeaker. It's yelling at your body all the time. It's constantly broadcasting to your entire system, we're starving, or we're full or store more. That that's it. That's what it does. And even if you look at insulin, it is a fat storage hormone. And here's the problem. Most people don't understand that. They think sweating equals burning fat. They're not even related. Not even close. They think eating clean equals fat loss. Think skipping breakfast. Oh god, you guys. And you're skipping breakfast equals fat loss. None of that fixes the real problem. Your fat cells do not want to let go of energy ever. And here's why. There's this enzyme in a fat cell. It's called NMT. I've talked about this before. Nicotenomide and methyl transfer is what it is. Think of think of NMT as it's like a prison guard, like a bouncer in front of stored energy. And in obesity and metabolic dysfunction, which is rampant right now, NMT levels go up. The higher NMT equals a slower metabolism. Your fat cells basically chain themselves shut. That's the easiest way to look at it. They just lock themsel up. So, they lock themselves up and say, "Forget it. We're not going anywhere." So, you can be in a calorie deficit, you can be exercising, and yet your fat cells are sitting there saying, "Nope, nope. We're not letting anything out. Nothing." Which is why people plateau and why people will lose muscle before fat because it's easier. And your body is doing everything it can to go, I need this just in case things go sideways. You're fighting DNA. You're It's in your It's in your your code. Now, you have five amino mq. This is like it's like a like a hitman in a video game that goes to your fat cells to take out NMT. Just knock it out of the equation from far away too. It's effective. When you inject Yes, it's injectable. There is no powder that works. There's no oral that works. There's no cream that works. It is injectable. Period. Subq. When you inject five amino, which is all I'm going to call it right now cuz it's got too many letters and numbers. It inhibits NMT. There you go. I I could stop right now if you understand physiology. Like boom, you're done. The guards are gone. The bouncer's gone. The gates open. And suddenly your fat storage isn't storage. It's unlocked and it's available for use. But it doesn't stop there. It gets even better. This is why it's so awesome. When you when NMT is reduced, your body preserves NAD+. Now, we've heard lots of fluff and bro science about NM or NAD+. Let me give you some straight facts on this so you guys don't get inundated with [\h__\h] from more people. NAD+ is the universal energy currency inside every cell. more NAD+, more mitochondrial efficiency, more ATP. Remember, mitochondria are those little furnaces that churn out ATP. They give you energy that they're making it all day long. So, here I'll give you a physiology lesson. ATP is literally the battery pack for every single action that your body takes. That's it. We're I mean everything, lifting, thinking, walking, breathing, sleeping, doesn't matter. all ATP which is why I I went back if you go back to a podcast I was talking about about M C how it is the ultimate compound because it solves the equation at the most basic level which is energy no energy nothing else works so you can attack all the things in your body this is why it's so important to understand your physiology you can attack all the things you want if the energy isn't there to get those systems online it doesn't matter how efficient they are if there's no fuel so that's why this is really important so when five amino increases is NAD+. Now you're upgrading your body's power grid. The whole thing. If you look at neurology, neurons, oh man, they are ATP hogs. They consume, I said this before, about 20% of your body's energy while weighing about 2% of your body's mass. Yeah, put that together. Greedy little bastards. So when ATP is abundant, your brain fog goes away, your focus sharpens, your cognition improves, your memory improves, you feel like somebody upgraded your entire operating system from, I'm old enough to say, from dialup to like fiber. You're going from that slow horrible sound that comes from your phone when you put it on the modem to flicking a switch and an entire movie downloads inside a second and a half. That's how the difference is. That's how profound it is. When you unlock fat and improve NAD+, you also fix the insulin sensitivity issue, which is rampant again in other people. Which means that your pancreas stops redlinining all the time. Your blood sugar finally stabilizes and your entire hormonal orchestra starts playing a synchronous tune. something that actually sounds like music instead of a bunch of noise where people are dropping instruments and kicking things around all day trying to figure out why nobody's listening. That's not fat loss, like rehab for your metabolism, which is why this is important. I know I'm going to get a lot of feedback from you guys talking about, well, why does it have to be injected? Let me explain. Everybody loves pills because they're easy. But there's a problem. You swallow a pill, capsule, powder, drink, whatever, and it gets demolished by your stomach acid. It gets filtered through your liver and by the time it hits your bloodstream, you're lucky if 5 10% at the most survives. It's called first pass metabolism. And I've talked about this a lot, which is why oral anabolics are terrible. They're hepotoxic because they are alpha alkalated 17 molecules. They beat the [\h__\h] out of your liver. That's why pegalation for the most part. It's to make a compound last longer and resist first pass degradation. Why it's so hard on your system. And the byproduct isn't before you go peg MGF. What about that? Nope. By bypasses the liver and it's not peggalated in the way I'm explaining it now. I I'm not going to go deep into that, but that one's safe for the most part. But oral, anything that's pegalated that you eat that you have to swallow that basically leaves plastic in it's the easiest way to explain it. Plastic in your kidneys and your liver. Don't take that stuff. Don't take that stuff. Injectable five amino is it's a different story. It doesn't do any of that. It goes straight into your circulation. So, it's 100% bioavailable. It's got predictable effects. It doesn't play any games. It doesn't screw around with your system. And the dose you take is a dose that works. Period. You don't have to take a ton more just to get a little bit in your system. And again, the more you take, the harder your body has to work to get rid of it because anything oral that your body goes, "Okay, none of this fits my system." Your liver goes, "F you. You're out." So, it has to work to fight it. So, you're actually making your body do a bunch of extra things it shouldn't have to do. Injectable right by it. Which is why it matters. People are going to stick, listen, here's what's wild. People are going to stick needles in their faces for Botox. Botox in your face. They'll go to dentist to get a bunch of plastic teeth put in so they have a giant smile so you look like Jim Carrey from the mask. But you get squeamish and weird about an injection that actually changes your health. Yeah, priorities, right? Wrinkles gone. Sign me up, man. Where do I do it, bro? I'll I'll spend 100 grand on it. When it comes to metabolic health, which allows you to go get those needle, those Botox injections. Yeah, needle. No thanks, man. I just want a pill. Where's the cheapest one you can get to, by the way? Which is why most people stay stuck. Comfort beats logic 100% of the time. I can't help you. I'm just telling you the truth. If you don't like it, it doesn't matter. It's still the truth. So, so here's what happens once you unlock the fat cells and you start cranking up the NAD+. And I've talked about this a lot. I'm going to do it again because I think you guys need to hear this and I really want you to have the info and then do what the hell you want with it. Fat oxidation skyrockets. So, instead of fat being all locked up behind that officer, that bouncer, it's actually unlocked and burned for energy. Energy production goes through the roof. ATP, right? Mitochondria. So ATP goes up, which means you actually feel like your body has that extra gear or two or three. You actually feel like you're supposed to feel. Your memory changes. So cognition sharpens up. Neurons are fighting more efficiently. Brain fog is gone. insulin sensitivity normalizes. You actually have it. So you stop storing food as fat and you actually use it instead the way it's designed. And aging, here's the best part. Aging slows way down, baby. Remember what I said? metabolic dysfunction, systemic chronic inflammation, those energy, lack of energy, all those things rapidly accelerate aging. If you're trying to fight the clock, you want to make sure your system is working the way it's designed, not covering things up by turning up a stereo, which I've explained before. So, aging slows down. NAD+ is one of the molecules that is 100% linked to longevity. So, keeping that keeps the cellular machinery running a lot longer, more efficiently instead of just dragging. You don't get old. You don't run out of energy because you get old. You get old because you run out of energy because the system is usually filled with static and noise. Which is why five amino isn't just about looking all lean and shredded. It's about actually turning back that metabolic clock. So, it actually works. But here, I told you I was going to give you the nuclear option. I I don't gatekeep. I can't. It's a funny word, too, right? Gatekeeping. So, here's how I would stack it if I was so sick and tired of appetite suppressants. And don't take Listen, stop it with a semiglutide appetite. Just stop stop taking that crap. It is pure [\h__\h] It is it is starvation in a syringe neatly wrapped up in some exceptional marketing. That's all it is. Physiologically it does not work the way you think it does. Yes, you will lose weight. Absolutely. You will lose all the weight. And if you go I some knucklehead. Oh god, this lady, she's a nurse practitioner. If she just needs to be flicked in the head. I would love to contact every one of her patients and go don't ever listen to this lady. She doesn't understand physiology. That's why it has to be monitored very heavily. This is what she said. Zeptide and semiglutide, they should be monitored very heavily. That's why you need a professional to monitor. Business plug, right? Come see me. That's why you have to up your protein and monitor the dosage and absolutely do exercise all the time. None of that is going to fix the problem because you could do that without semiglutide or tzepide. I've had people message me, I've been on semiglutide for 8 months and I'm losing weight. It's working great. You know what else works great in 8 months? A [\h__\h] diet. You don't need semiglutide. You just paid somebody to stick yourself in the belly. Come on. Really? Like if you really want to burn fat then either listen to this nuclear option or just take reatide because it actually works. It keeps your muscle. Semaglutide and transpatite. I'm not going to get into the physiology again because everybody there's in every Insta bro comes out who sells it who can't get their hands on red tide but they got a stockpile a mile high of sema and tursa is going to argue with this and go no it's great. It's the best. It preserves muscle. Not a frigin chance. Not a chance. Dexa scan proves 100% that 70% of what you lose on sema and tur is tissue, not fat. And it shows 30% fat loss. Thousands of these studies. You look at anybody and they'll tell you they plateau and it stopped working. And the second they stopped, I have messages from you guys. I stopped her and everything came back and now it's impossible for me to do anything. Exactly. Because it jacks up your metabolism and it fs up your hypothalamus. It screws up your whole system. But the rebound effect is so violent and so bad that unless you handle the reason why you are storing in the first place, all you're doing is shutting down your appetite and starving. Well, that's easy. You know what else helps you lose weight? Heroin, cancer. Why isn't anybody recommending those? Because they cause bad things. Welcome to semaglutide enters. Stop it. And before somebody says, "What about bioglutide?" Garbage. It's oral. As soon as you hear oral on a peptide, you can literally ball it up and throw it in the round file. That's the trash. So, let me explain. If you combine five amino with the right partners, you don't just lose fat, you you just it like hemorrhages off of you. So I will say it redatruide that's component number one. Yes, reatrite is and mod are hands down the most effective longevity peptides on the planet. Period. Again, I'll say it over and over again. I will go toe-to-toe with anybody that challenges me on that. I don't care who it is and I'll set your skull on fire because I'm right. You know, I my wife and I, we always talk about this and I joke and I always go, I I'm always right. And she's like, "Yeah, sure you are." But because my wife is my best friend, we joke around like this. But then I give her my reason and she goes, "Oh, actually that's true." Because I don't say things that I don't know. If I don't know, I don't act like I know. If I I don't read headlines and become an expert. I don't parrot stuff. Like all of you Insta bros, if you're listening to this, you IFBB guys, you bearded, hatwearing, Huntington Beach idiots, you guys that sit there and think you're an expert but really know nothing, go live with me anytime. Literally drop it into my lab and in 30 seconds I'll go live if I'm not in the middle of doing something and I will incinerate your weird [\h__\h] bro science logic because it ticks me off cuz you guys are hurting people. So I've said it before, it bothers me a lot cuz I come out here going do this cuz it'll help you. You guys come out here and go do this because I want you to think how smart I am and then I want you to buy my product. I think it makes sense. So Reddit truth tide. Let me just rant right now. Right. So Reddit truth tide again triple agonist which means it's pulling three levers. It's turning them on. That's what that means. GLP-1 GIP glucagon. This is going to be super basic cuz I've done this so many times. Appetite suppressed, blood sugar is regulated and fat oxidation skyhigh through the roof. Which means and I I always hate saying this but I'm not going to gateep. You can sit on the couch and lose weight. It's not like TRT where people go, I could sit on the couch and get jacked. Show me, bro. I want to see it. Let me know. I already said I offered 100 grand. I won't do that with Red Trudeide because yes, you will lose weight and you will lose fat. That because it's forcing your body to just crank out and it's lipolysis. It's using fat the way it's designed. Here's the translation on what red a true tide does. You stop overeating. Even if you have bored eating, you will almost get angry at food. Your body doesn't crash from from food and your liver signals to burn stored fat instead of to hoard it. It's doing the right things metabolically that you are designed to do that you have been screwing up with this litany of terrible decisions up until right now. So what? Instead of like I didn't make any bad decisions. Yes, you did. That's why you're overweight. So what? So what? Here's how you fix it. Like you want an understanding doctor right here. Me that goes listen. I'm not going to be nice about it. I'm also not going to be mean about it. I'm just going to tell you the truth. I'll be gritty and I'll go, "Listen, come here. This is how much it's going to cost to fix your damn problem. This is what's involved. If you're not willing to pay it and do it, I'm not for you." That's how it should be because I actually give a [\h__\h] about people. I don't care about going, "Well, wait, maybe we should have an intervention. You don't need an intervention. You need me to come in and stand on you and go, you need to do some work." So, that's why I'm saying this. It doesn't matter if you made bad decisions to become obese. I don't care who you blame. Stop blaming. I don't care what happened. Nobody cares. This is like a fresh start. I'm giving you tools to fix it every day. I come out here to give you tools to fix your life. Money, finances, relationship, fitness, fat loss, peptides, arms, all of it because I care. You're welcome. So, the second part of this, I don't push my stuff. I give you a link to get it and then you decide if I I think it's foolish to not because you have a guy that actually gives a crap. But again, I'm not holding a gun to your head to do it. So, the next one is Carterine. Carterine is actually pretty cool. Now, Carterine's oral, by the way. Carterine, uh, GW-501516. This I I said it yesterday actually. It's in the stack yesterday. It's a a PP delta agonist. So, think of this trying to think of the easiest shortest sentence to give you this. It's a it's a nuclear receptor in muscle tissue. So, think of it as a as a molecular switch that says use fat, not glycogen. That's easy, right? Just use fat. No, glycogen is easier. It's way more efficient. Use fat. That's all it does. And it gets in the way. And that's all it does. Carterine makes your muscles literally strip fatty acids out of storage to use as fuel. So your endurance goes up. Yes, really. You have to take a significant amount, but your endurance goes up, fat oxidation goes up, and glycogen sparing means that you can train harder for significantly longer. All horrible things, right? No. So listen, you you've got you've got retatride and you've got five amino, right? So put them all together and you'll see what I'm talking about. This is why this is important. Now you see how this marriage works really well even though there's three people. Don't get weird. So five amino uh five amino 1 mq just so you get what I'm saying. It's the unlock gets the bouncer out of the way, the guard out of the way. It basically unlocks the prison, right? So now you can use the stuff now. It's free. The inmates are the little prison or the inmates are the little fat cells. Redatride prevents new prisoners, new fat cells from coming in and new storage and it forces fat oxidation pathways. And then carterine makes your muscles burn fat like it's rocket fuel. So, there's just a sniper just taking them all out and every time they explode and release energy that you can use. That's literally how this works. This is a full-on nuclear option. This is not a diet. This is not biohacking because that word pisses me off. This is pure physiology. It is how human biology is designed to work without forcing your body to do something based on pharmarmacology. They're not the same. This is pulling levers that your body already has. A drug forces your body to do something it doesn't want to do no matter what it demands versus going, "Hey, you already know how to do this. Let's make sure you do this better." They're not the same, you guys. Not even close. Which is why when you're asking about side effects and problems, it's not really possible outside of making some incredibly stupid decisions, which you just won't do. I already know that. Because all of this stuff, if you take these three little compounds, they all point in the same direction. Burn everything that doesn't belong there. Just burn it all to the ground. And and I mean, here's where I laugh about this stuff sometimes because while this is dismantling fat at the molecular level, what most people are doing, just so you know, and I see this online, if this is you, please stop. Please stop because it makes me tired. Makes me hurt. You're drinking apple cider vinegar like it was blessed by the pope. It's just this holy water. Oh, it's just greatest thing ever. It dissolves. It's the ultimate snake oil. You're wrapping your waist in some weird I saw this the other day. Some weird This made me thinner. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. and believing some Instagram influencer who said this is my favorite. I heard somebody say this metabolism resets after a cheat meal. Are you high? I I want who if that if you're listening to I want to know the physiology behind that. I mean go right down to the molecular level cuz that's just about the stupidest [\h__\h] I've ever heard. That is the equivalent of putting duct tape on a submarine that's leaking all over the place and it's going down and you're calling it master engineering. You guys got to stop listening to these idiots. Your biology is screaming. I've given you the answers. This is what it does. Here, I've given you the answers. Fat isn't stubborn. You just haven't flipped the right switches. So, I'm just going to keep storing everything. That's what your body is saying to you. But most people ignore that because it's easier to blame, you know, dad's genetics, your great-grandfather, your hair color, your neighborhood, the food you're forced to eat because you can't afford real groceries or the hormones than it is to just go, I am misinformed. Well, you're not misinformed anymore, are you? Not fat loss isn't about willpower. It's not. It'll work. Yes. But if you don't have, like I've said before, a god tier willpower, this is what's going to help. Still have to do the work, you guys. But it's not about willpower, sweating harder, eating cleaner, skipping breakfast. It is about biology, period. If you screw that part up, it doesn't matter how hard you work, you're going to have very limited outcome. When you remove N&MT with five amino, you unlock fat. It is so much easier. And if somebody goes, "Well, that's a shortcut, bro. Go suffer. I don't care. Doesn't hurt me." Then go. You're not better. You're an idiot. When you preserve NAD+, you fuel every cell in your body. All of them. When you stack retatrite and carterine, you force the system into this fat oxidating machine. That's all it does is oxidize fat. Well, that's that's how you're healthy. Just so you know, there's no like this is it's not snake oil, which is what I see everywhere on social social media is a weird it's a weird world for me because like I said, at 52, there was no such thing when I was 20. There wasn't even a cell phone. Well, actually, that's not true. It was a cell phone, but it was in your car and it had a colored keypad and it was mounted and it was very it was like a buck a minute. But this entire little nuclear option, this is physiology. It's just doing what your physiology says. That's it's it's what the body says. It's what human biology just confirms by results. So, the choice is incredibly simple. You can keep buying waist trainers and rubs and lymphatic drainage and thermogenics and creams and pills and lotions and potions and listening to influence influencers that have no idea what they're talking about just because they think they they can say the word peptide that they have any business giving you advice. You can buy your detox tees and your little miracle gummies and all the stuff that I always use unicorns cuz I think it's funny just the unicorn sprinkled garbage that you guys buy. Or you can actually leverage compounds that do what they're designed to do. Playing the molecular rules of the game with the body you have that is the same as everybody else's. Your physiology is the same as mine. And I'm not talk Don't get into epigenetics cuz you're not going to like what I talk about. So don't cuz you're going to feel dumb. So don't. But what I'm saying is your physiology operates the same way as mine. Just slightly higher lower levels. That's it. One of those things that I was talking about is pure marketing. The other one is absolute science. And the second you respect the way your physiology works, you stop fighting your own damn biology and you let it do what it was designed to do, which is burn fuel, perform better, and stay young. None of that is just fat loss. I I don't know if that you're putting this together. That's freedom to actually have a healthy body and go do all like nobody. Listen, have all the things you want in your life, have your dream life, and then get a ripping case of food poisoning and let me know how how effective you feel. You won't. But imagine if you felt like a bag of hammered crap all day because you're not making the right decisions, but you're drinking your detox tea and you have diarrhea every day, but you have lots of money. You have a beautiful husband or beautiful wife. Doesn't matter. You feel like crap. This is how you make sure your system feels like when you were 17 years old and you thought you were indestructible, except now you really are. So, you have to decide. I gave you the information. You can do what you want with it. Do I think like So, I'll say it again. Five amino tide. There you go. You're welcome. I got to go. Never miss.