All right. You know, I I always come out here and I say this. I wasn't going to do this one. This podcast is act predicated completely on the post I did. Well, it started yesterday and then it got pulled because apparently you can't tell the truth because when you tell the truth on social media, people get angry and uh it goes against all the sensors and nonsense that want to keep you subdued and weak and broke and fat and addicted and all this stuff. And I come out here and I tell you the truth. So, like it, hate it, that's entirely up to you. By the way, thank you guys for all the love you gave me yesterday for the podcast about parenting your kids. And uh I just think it's important. But this is real quick because it's Friday, it's date night. I want to go hang out with that sexy wife that I married. Before I get started, this isn't medical advice. This isn't meant to treat, cure, advise, diagnose, prescribe. It's just purely hypothetical, entertainment, and educational. Now that we got that out of the way, I think the biggest problem is when it comes to peptides or ser or sarmms or secrets or or any of the research chemicals that are out there. The issue is that these dude, I'm going to wreck every instab out there because if you're one of those guys, you guys need to knock it off because you're going to hurt people. More is not better. Can you do damage? Absolutely. If you're an idiot, I mean, here literally a public service announcement. That's what this should be. If you're buying an optimization blend from a guy whose medical education consists of an IFBB Pro card or YouTube videos or a shaker cup and a whole lot of shredded selfies, you're not biohacking. You're not biohacking you guys. I'm coming out here because I really want you guys to have the information. Make your own decisions. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics? Great. You want to buy from somewhere else? Great. I would rather you have the information and make an informed decision than you don't have the information and buy the fanciest label and the most jacked dude or girl's opinion when they know precisely nothing. I mean, you you've seen these guys. These are the like I said, they're the shredded selfie pick laying in bed or playing with their kids so they get a little angle and probably a syringe sitting on a coffee table somewhere. And their posts always look like a comic book ad. I saw one I called it yesterday. The holy trinity of human performance, you know, muscle growth and fat loss and anti-aging DM for the stack or whatever the hell it was. I I can't. You guys keep sending me this stuff and tell me to dismantle it, so I will. But then you look at the ingredient list and it's this biochemical junk drawer and it's compounds. This is why your body, your physiology is designed to work synergistically. That's why when I explain the pmenopause, the menopause, I'm going to do one on Hashimoto's because you guys ask me all the time. So, I'm going to help you out and I'm going to do one for specifically men over 40, which is actually this one to be honest. It'll work really well if you're hypothetically I use this with my elite one-on-one clients, my cure clients, the 100 day program where CEOs and celebs and athletes, you guys call me and thank you for trusting me with your health. But they call me because they go, I'm going to get the results. Not because they go, look at this guy's big brain. They go, look at this guy's results. This guy crawled out of a cancer hole missing a lung four years ago and rebuilt himself into this. And I haven't slowed down one bit. And I'm 52. There's no trust me, bro, behind what I say. I mean, I actually have a doctoral education. I have degrees. I've actually seen well over a million patients. I take care of people cuz I genuinely like what I do. And I had exited healthcare because I couldn't stand the bureaucracy behind it. But you know what? It's a sinking ship. And the pharmaceutical industry is a subscription-based model of healthcare not designed on keeping you sick for as long as possible so they keep you paying. And I'm just not okay with that. I'm just not comfortable with that. And I can't walk away from it because it's part of my life. And I have two kids that are going to go past when I'm here. I'm going to expire and they're going to keep on going. And I want them to have something to base a healthy life on. not go well you know according to the model out in the world I need to be on 10 to 15 drugs and depression or sadness is labeled as depression and excitement is anxiety and being happy is hypo or hypermania like I you can't do that that's not life that's not life that is a lie that you guys are buying into an ideology that is screwing up your health so I keep coming out here going here is the answer so this is the executive stack and I actually have this however if you don't want to listen that's fine then you probably want to bounce cuz I'm a gritty. But this is if you had to use one executive stack to change your life and put it on a trajectory to reach a ripe old age as healthy as possible with the ability of being 65, 70 years old and still being athletic and strong and covered in muscle and you still get lead in your pencil. like all that stuff still works, then you might want to just hear me out because if you look at these stacks that these bro science instagur knuckleheads are posting the it's like I said, it's a biochemical junk, you know, drawer. It's a massive mistake because they're compounds with opposite half- lives and I'll explain what this all means. Their receptor antagonists mixed with agonists, totally opposite, excuse me, their side effects that are hiding in plain sight like prolactin and cortisol are going to destroy you. And they are there's no such thing as a side effect. I guess they're only effects, but they're from abuse of using these compounds properly to play with your physiology instead of the way they're doing it, which is putting your physiology in defense mode, where when you give it something, your physiology is fighting you. It's human biology 101. Your biology is constantly trying to do the same thing. Homeostasis balance you out no matter what. Exogenous source secrets, serpides, it is always trying to balance you out. So when you introduce things that cause your body to go completely chaotic, that doesn't make you stronger or leaner or better. It screws up your system and it confuses the system enough sometimes where the damage is permanent. So you want to listen to what I'm saying. And here's the issue. All these things with these crazy effects, these bro stacks, they're always some magical phrase on the label that sounds a whole lot like trust me bro. Physiology doesn't run on trust me bro, you guys. It runs on rules. It's hardwired evolutionary rules and we break them. You don't optimize, you implode. It's a self-sabotaging system. Listen, let me So the the big one is growth hormone because a lot of people are asking me questions about growth hormone. I'll give you all I got on it. So let me clear this fog before I roast all this nonsense that I keep reading. growth hormone is secreted in pulses all the time. It's not this steady drip feed. It's pulsatile. And this pulsatility that it has is the single most important thing that you can understand if you ever plan to influence it. Because if you don't get this, you cycle it the wrong way and you screw up your entire rhythm. There there only three primary triggers that control these pulses, too. Deep sleep, stage three and four, if you had to know what they are. Slow wave sleep. This is growth hormones prime time. Your here's why. your pituitary gland. It detects low sympathetic nervous system activity, low cortisol and high melatonin. It's why you guys take your melatonin. This is the perfect window for growth hormone release. It It doesn't get any better than this. No deep sleep. Think about it this way. No deep sleep, no growth hormone. That's why sleeping like crap erases your gains before you even go to the gym or come home and try and repair the damage you did. And then the next one is stress regulation. Growth hormone and cortisol are like a seessaw. They work opposite of one another. Chronically high cortisol flattens growth hormone pulses completely. They don't exist. Low dopamine or chronic stress, growth hormone pulses weaken or just disintegrate. This is why things like life stress makes you fatter and weaker. That's a valid thing and it's killing your growth signal because it's telling your pituitary not to do its job. And then the last one is nutrient signaling. There's two things, fed versus fasted, which changes the timing and the amplitude. It is not the addition of a new peptide to go now we're talking massive timing and massing amplitude. I saw this one post by this dude. He's a great bodybuilder but he's an idiot when it comes to peptides and I would never listen to this guy ever. He's playing off pseudo bro science knowledge and there's a bunch of them out there. So keep sending them to me and I will keep setting their heads on fire because fed versus fast fasted changes the timing and I'll explain how. fasting, higher amplitude growth hormone pulse. Feeding, smaller, more frequent pulses. So, either a big strong punch or a small little flurry of jabs. High insulin blunts growth hormone release. Let that land for a second because this is yet another reason why constant snacking is metabolic suicide. And this is what a lot of people are doing. They're going, I can't get my system to work properly. And I had a a CEO who just started with me who asked me that question. He goes, I've tried all these things. I said, "Give me a layout for the last 72 hours of what you're putting in your bar hole, everything you're eating and drinking." And he did. And I went, "There's your first problem. You're a disaster." And I'm not talking about these people that are taught to graze all day or anything like that. This was constant ridiculous high carb processed food comes out of a package. I have no time snacking, which is demolishing your system because the insulin is skyrocketing. insulin sensitivity is tanked. Liver doesn't do its job. Instead of shuttling glucose to the muscles, it goes to fat storage. Remember, insulin is a fat storage hormone. So, it just became this this nasty process where you could have given this guy anything and it wouldn't have worked because his system was working against him because of what I just said, homeostasis. It's trying to balance him out, but it doesn't even know where balance is anymore. So, now once growth hormone is released, it hits the liver. It converts to IGF-1, which is the real anabolic driver that activates something called satellite cells. These increase protein synthesis. It mobilizes fat. So, it triggers hormone sensitive lipase to release all that stored fat. That's why this is important. Collagen synthesis heals tendons, ligaments, joints, skin, hair, immune modulation. So, it speeds repair after illnesses or training stress or injury or anything like that. It's why growth hormone is one of the holy grails that you can use for injury repair. Before you guys jump on the GH train, listen to me before we go further. The Wolverine protocol significantly better because of all the other factors that it involves and that's a whole other podcast. Growth horm neuro regeneration. It fixes your brain. It encourages new neuron growth and the connectivity between those neurons. So, not only are you building new cells, you're also fixing the connection between all those cells so you communicate better. It fixes the wiring. The bottom line is growth hormone and IGF-1. It's not just cosmetic, you guys. This is functional human biology to get you to do the things that you keep wishing you can do instead of walking around like a zombie going, I need another Red Bull. The difference between a 40-year-old who moves like an athlete and a 40-year-old who moves like a busted old lawn chair is almost invariably growth hormone regulation because that spills over into all of the other things that are going on if there is a kidney function or a liver function or a neuroimmunity problem or there's so many things even skin issues. So, let let me I just need to touch on this because I got a lot of messages from you guys about this stack going, "Boy, this looks really good. It looks like it's just a grand slam." No, let me explain. This is the kind of chemical chaos that people are injecting every day. This was I have to talk about it because it was driving me crazy. Tamarellin, Pamarellin, MGF, what? I can't even say that with a with a straight face. And GHRP that I'm going to go into that because I had a lot of people throw me questions going, "Bro, why don't you like that?" Well, I'll tell you, this isn't a stack. Just so you know, those four things, they're not a snack. That's not a stack. That's a a community of absolute morons that got together to do stupid things together. Here's why. Tamar just look at remember what I said halflife receptors agonist antagonist so just remember what I said at the beginning tamarellin that is a long acting gh analog iamarellin is a short acting ghp analog they're not even in the same game and that so you have two things tapping the pituitary both of them are telling it to do the same thing in different ways and that's like ringing the same doorbell or ringing two different doorbells for the same door and wondering why the guy answers the door with a bat full of nails all you're going to do is piss off your system and it's going to resist you. And then you have MGF. This is muscle specific growth factor only effective locally. Mechano is what they say before somebody goes that's not really what it's called. Listen, I know my physiology, but it only works locally. And here's the best part. You have a 15minute window to use MGF. Usually, it's PEG MGF. It's usually pegated. Um MGF works local right after you train. So unless you are Wyatt Herp with a syringe, you're not going to make it. Most people don't. Like you got to have it in your bag ready to go. Not premixed cuz it'll decay like biological decay. But that's it. You going to do that every time you work out for your biceps. You get a little peak. I don't know how much professional bodybuilders make. I really don't. I hope it's lots cuz I know the discipline is insane and the sacrifice is brutal. I don't think it's the greatest athletic endeavor in the world, but I know the discipline stupid. Stupid. You guys endure just brutal discomfort just to get on a stage and have people go, you have no skin. So mad props to what you do. I just don't think athleticism is really like I'll go toe-to-toe with any bodybuilder on their pre-show and I'll just go into my garage and you're not going to be able to keep up with me on your on your best day and my worst, but I also won't look like you do on stage. So, that's fair. But, and then GHRP, this one I can't even say with a straight face. This is a side effect one arm batten it like a slot machine. This isn't You don't ever don't ever use that stuff. It's just garbage. They all spike GH, but at different speeds, different durations, and with a bunch of different baggage. You stack them together without timing them properly, the key to chase yourself around with a bunch of needles and vials. You're spamming the receptor so much that the pituitary puts your number on the I'm giving you the finger and blocking you forever list. You have no idea the damage that you're causing, which is why I think a lot of problems occur with. So, just to give you an idea of some of the clients that I work with, we're talking athletes, celebrities, but the big one is this. these elite performing CEOs that run on modafanil and caffeine and 16-hour work days building these empire companies and they don't have an option to slow down. They don't have an option to hit the off switch and they aren't wired for that. They'll go until they drop. So my job is to support that, not to talk them out of it. Because if I try and talk them out of it, they're just going to go and listen to somebody that's going to screw them up. Which is about 50% of you guys that come to see me and go, "Please help me." So, if that is you and you need my help, just understand I'll help you get to where you want to go and I'll keep you running like a nitromemethane roadster as healthy as possible, but I'm also going to fix all the problems along the way cuz otherwise you're not going to be able to enjoy all the crap that you just built. Now, listen, let me I need to touch on this MGF for a second because it drives me nuts. Acting it subcutaneously in your stomach because this is what people have said. It's not systemic. It's like mailing yourself a band-aid. That's how dumb this is. And hopefully it gets over the cut. You can't you can't use this stuff. And I see people selling this all the time. It is also not injury mitigation. You're not using MGF in place of BPC57 in the Wolverine protocol. It doesn't work like that. It is not for that. GHRP, this is like a wrecking ball for your physiology. It's like the dumb clown in the circus that keeps falling off the ball. Just so you understand physiology real quick, stimulates growth hormone release via something called a ghrein receptor. A grein receptor agonism. So it taps the ghrein receptors hunger. But but massive prolactin release and massive cortisol spike. If you don't know, let me explain what that means. When prolactin goes up, dopamine tanks. Your libido vanishes. Impotence. That's the word you probably don't like. Flaccid is not a word a dude wants to hear when his lady is going, "Come get some." So, I'll back up again. Prolactin up, cortisol up, dopamine down, libido vanishes. When cortisol goes up, there's more. There's so much more to this one. Belly fat increases, inflammation spikes, and anxiety is what's running your entire life. And your hunger goes through the roof. That's midnight binge. You're going to eat a whole pizza. Just never mind the water retention. That soft, bloated, crappy look in your catabolism tanks. Your muscle breakdown is astronomical because it's being overused. GHRP in your stack is like adding sugar to your gas tank. You're going to notice something happened, but it's not going to be very good. I just need to address this stuff because I get these questions all the time and I'm trying to give you answers without going that is stupid. I want you to understand why. Same reason why I think serallen is ridiculous. It's trashy. It's old. It's got a garbage half-life. It's got it just is such a poor quality peptide when there are so like tamarellin is infinitely better. I pamearellin infinitely better. CJC infinitely better. Here's why all this stuff keeps happening with these bros science stacks. Because I got asked yesterday in one of the questions on my Q&A and they're like, "Why? Why do people keep selling this stuff then?" Because of the root problem. People think that more is better. In reality, when it comes to endocrinology, more is usually significantly worse. GH receptors just let me explain. It's like most receptors follow a saturation curve, right? Too frequent stimulation triggers feedback inhibition. It's this built-in pump the brake system. You push harder, the brakes push back even harder. It's it's like the hormonal equivalent of overwatering a plant and then wondering why it's brown and dead the next day. Let me let me explain. I'm 20 minutes in. I talking too much. Let me give you this information. Here's what works. There's no mystery. No trust me bro. No, hey, trust me because I'm all jacked and tan. None of that matters in physiology. None of it. It just shows that you know how to get jacked and tan. But it doesn't mean you know what you're doing when it comes to physiology. It knows you know how to take trend. It knows that you know how to train. And I don't care if you do. I'm just saying listen there are so many ways to get jacked and look it and not actually be it. So the first thing if in in the I'll give you the exact thing I give these guys. You don't even need to pay me 100 grand. Just do this. I Pamearellin. This is such an amazing growth hormone secret. It's a selective grein receptor agonist. It has no ah it's so good. No effect on prolactin or cortisol whatsoever. It triggers growth hormone pulses without any appetite spikes. It's got a tiny little halflife, which is perfect for pre-sleep, which means you take it and you have a good night's sleep, which is when you do what? If you remember what I said at the beginning, that's when you heal. That's when you get all those gains that you tried to get at the gym. Here, here's why it works. Because it matches your natural circadian GH burst. So, instead of trying to replace it or overpower it, it amplifies. It goes back to that amplitude thing that I was talking about, which GHRP does not do. Read a true tide. Man, I talk about this a lot, huh? You guys tired of this yet? This thing is so amazing. It's probably well it's going to be in every single longevity protocol I ever build until the end of time until something else comes out that's better. Bioglutide is not better by the way just so you know. Not even close. The whole addition of another IGF-1 I guess compensate for sarcopenia is their logic. How it's an oral. It can't work. Again that's another podcast but you already understand the mechanisms of action with Reddit true type. I'll go over it quick. triple aagonist GLP-1, GIP, and glucagon. So GLP-1 is what slows gastric emptying. It suppresses your appetite and it's very effective at it. GIP improves that post-meal insulin response. And then glucagon, this is gangster because it promotes fat oxidation and thermogenesis, which means it you will burn fat while you sit on your couch because it's telling your body to only burn fat. I've gotten into the physiology behind this insane levels of detail. So I'm not going to do it right now because you have better things to do. I'm just trying to give you the stack that works. But here's why. Because this you need red a true eye because it tackles the metabolic syndrome at the root, not trying to cover it up and hope that something beautiful is going to grow afterwards. It improves insulin sensitivity, lowers inflammation, and it actually burns visceral fat. So the stuff that's around your organs that's making you sick. MK-677. Now, I'm going to put a caveat in here. MK-677, it's awesome and it works so well. It's oral. I would pair it with rea all the time, even if you're thinking about doing something else to offset the um appetite spike that it gives you or take it at night. But this is a nonpepeptidebased grelin receptor agonist. So now we're looking at the first one, Pamarellin and MK-677. They complement each other a lot. It gives you a it's like a 24-hour customer support. It's like OnStar. Hit the button and it just support anytime. It's always there. That's what this stuff does. It gives you sustained GH and IGF elevation. So it's nice, but it's nice and smooth. It's not this drinking from a fire hose thing like GHRP gives you increased that deep sleep. That REM deep sleep that causes you to heal. Last time I took NK677, I've never had a better night's sleep in my life outside of I have hemorrhell ever. It's incredible. Uh enhances recovery between those GH pulses. So, it still maintains that that wave without but it maintains the recovery between those pulses so you don't lose everything. You don't have to start all over at the beginning yet. This is why it works. It keeps the growth recovery signal constant without hammering the receptor to death, which again is going against the more is better model. Oststerine, by the way, this is male and female safe ostring. Take it on either side because it doesn't work on any reproductive tissue. It's a this SRM selector androgen receptor modulator. Increases lean mass. It doesn't convert to DHT or estrogen. So, you don't get itchy nipples or you don't get you're not a dude growing breasts and you're not a woman getting an Adam's apple and having to shave your beard and arguing with your neighbor about what beer is better. There's almost no suppression. I'm always hesitant to say that cuz some of you guys freak out and go, "Oh, that's not true." add research doses. If you're taking it like a muppet, then of course you're going to have problems. But that's like anything else. Drink 30 bottles of Coca-Cola and I think you're going to have a problem, too. But here's why it works with this. It adds structural muscle mass. It raises this raises your basil metabolic rate and improves all the glucose disposal agent that's required to make this entire protocol work. And then carterine, this is all about your mitochondria. It's a PP delta agonist. I talked about this before. It doesn't really matter what it's called to be honest, but it activates something called PGC alpha, which drives mitochondrial biogenesis. So instead of just cranking up mitochondrial function, it actually creates more mitochondria. So you don't just have a furnace that runs better, you have a bunch of them that run better. Mitochondria, you have a synergistic relationship with the mitochondria and your cells. That is what gives you the energy to function in life. mitochondrial dysfunction. Your entire system is a train wreck. No, you cannot just take this. If you're like, maybe I'll just take that. Understand? Let me back up because I had some questions on pmenopause about that. Which one if I only only had to take one? None. Because your your physiology is designed to work in concert, not in segments. And so when you start segmenting your physiology, you start getting no results and you cause problems. Instead, you don't mitigate the issues you cause them. This increases fatty acid oxidation capacity. So you can burn more fat more frequently at a higher capacity. The answer is you get leaner. It more mitochondria, more energy, more fat burn, more endurance. That's the easiest way to explain it. And people nickname it endurance in a bottle. TB5 cardiac repair. I could stop right there and just say this repairs a damaged heart. That's thyus and beta 4 analog is what it is. It promotes angioenesis, which is the new blood vessels forming, which allows you to bring the blood to the area that needs healing. This is going to heal all the injuries you didn't even know you had or the sore spots that you can't figure out because it's going to tell your body to do the repairs that you haven't been doing because the signal is all staticky and fuzzy. Reduces fibrosis and speeds up connective tissue repair. Tendons, ligaments, muscles, all this stuff. This is probably one of the most amazing staple peptides I think should be at any any protocol whatsoever. It improves the body's capacity to handle training stress. whether it's sitting at a desk and arguing about, you know, a $50 million deal or training in the gym, it's going to help both. And it heals all that micro damage before it becomes an injury. So all the injuries you don't know you have, they're still there. This just mitigates all of that. But here's why it all works together really well. Because I think the problem is when when people read something, they go, "Well, if one scoop of protein is great, I remember taking this stuff. It was called Enlarge Squared, like the letter N. I all I know is it gave me an incredibly upset stomach and it made me crap like a goose. It was so bad and it had I don't remember how many calories in it. I'm going to guess 2,000 for one serving and it was like drinking wet cement. This is back in the late8s and more is not better. You just had all it did was make me feel like crap. So you have to think this is along the same lines except now you're messing with signaling and growth hormone and how your system works and physiology. It's it's so much more than just drinking a shake where you can crap it out if you don't feel so well. But the reason this all works together so well that these compounds all work together is because this isn't a throw it all in the blender kind of protocol where more is better. This is playing chess with your physiology. I pamear just I'll I'll spin them together. I pamearellin amplifies the natural GH burst during deep sleep. Retatride is going to clear all that metabolic noise and blockage that blunts all the hormonal effects even fixing the gut problems that you have. MK-677 is going to extend that growth signal between the pulses so you're constantly doing what needs to be done. Osterine is it adds muscle mass and it gives you better glucose handling and a higher BMR right basil metabolic rate so you burn more. Cardarine expands cellular energy activity so the mitochondria are doing their job better and more efficiently. And then TB-500 is going to keep the entire infrastructure healthy so recovery is always ahead of the breakdown. And and I hope that makes sense without going into too deep physiology because the result of all this is you get continuous adaptation without tripping your body's defense mechanisms to kick all this stuff out. And I think that's where a lot of the issues come because people go, I'm going to dump a bunch of product ABC in a bucket and take it all at once and it's going to work synergistically. But your body doesn't like that and it doesn't work well. You can try it. Don't take my word for it. What do I know? I'm just a doctor. I'm an idiot. But you have to understand that I'm coming out here because I want you to have a great solid powerful physiology and psychology because when you feel like crap, you think like crap. And now your whole life is a train wreck. But here here's why these blend bros bro science instiguru people can't stand when I come out here and do this because it kills their whole business model. Because if you know what you need, you don't buy this monthly mystery grab bag that they're always selling. We put together this package. It's great. You buy specific compounds for specific purposes with timing based on your human biology and they can't sell that to everybody. But that's also why I do this because when somebody calls me and they go, I need your help. I go, absolutely. I actually give you help. I don't give you advice and say, go buy this stack. We get on a call and we fix. That's what the cure program is. That I don't hold your hand. We don't have check-ins all the time and I don't have to send you a Google doc every day and none of that. The whole point is to make sure that you don't need me when I'm done. If I'm training you to need me when you're done, then I didn't do my job, which is again the poison of current healthcare. It's the poison of current coaching. Let me make sure that you coach with me till the end of time. Why? I mean, I have a mastermind and a mentorship. It's the same thing. I would love if you stayed because for years, but if you have to because you still don't understand how to make a million dollars in a year or more, how to fix your physiology, how to fix your psychology, how to change everything in your life, and I haven't taught you how to do that in the first year. I'm never going to because I suck at my job. Well, that's not the truth. So, I tell people, "Give me a year of your life. Give me a year of your life. Join the mentorship and when you come out the other side, you will be unrecognizable and not the rahrh Tony Robbins or Andy Elliot stuff." I mean, like really, you will have a life that you're in control of. That's my job. That's like going to school on repeat. You're in college and you keep taking your master's degree for the next 30 years. This ain't Van Wilder. I want you guys to have all the tools so you guys can go do it. But nobody's teaching you how to use the tools, so I come out here and do it. So that's why this kills their business model. Same with healthcare. It destroys it because otherwise you're buying something based on what they tell you you need, but with no no look inside of your physiology or what you're really what's really going on. So they can't sell the model to everybody because it requires understanding. And understanding kills all the hype sales again, which is why I do this. By the way, I I got messages from you guys on Instagram going, "How do I get in touch with you to have you as my consultant, my doc, all that?" You just need to send me a message on DM Instagram. I'll get back to you. Or you can send me an email. Send it to my assistant. It's I'll give you the email right now. Support spartan armylc.com. Send it there. Amber will get you all connected with me. But this is for serious players, too. Don't say, "Hey man, can I just ask you a quick question or try and sell me your editing services from India?" Like, I don't don't I'll ignore you. In fact, I'll block and delete you. This is for people that really want to change their life and they're tired of the current healthare system or all the bro science nonsense that they keep subscribing to or the next mastermind or the next mentorship or the next coaching program that hands them Google docs. It's for people that go, "Hey, listen. This is the cure program. I want to fix everything in my life because I want to come out the other side of freaking drug. I want to come out the other side of freaking juggernaut." Or I want you to coach me to have a better life because I don't even know where to begin. But that's what this is for. This isn't for people that run on a treadmill and go, "My life isn't getting any better." and they forget that they're in the gym and they're not moving anywhere. It's a metaphor. You're on that hamster wheel, you just can't get off. Listen, this isn't about this this whole program, this whole protocol right now that I just explained, it's very doable. And if someone goes, "Well, how much does it cost?" I really don't know. Even if Listen, if this changed your life and upgraded your health from a 1 to a 10 out of 10 and it was a,000 bucks a month, you should write the check every single month till God says you're done on this planet. And you know what people will say? Yeah, but what if we don't have $1,000 a month? Find it. Because the idea that you're you're going to say, "Well, I'm going to go take this thing instead because at least it's something." But if it's something that doesn't work, you're actually pouring gas on a fire. You guys, you guys need to get that. This isn't about looking less crappy. This is about lowering your biological age. You call me at 60. The whole goal is to come out at 40, right? lowering your biological age, reversing metabolic dysfunction, ending high performance or extending high performance decades at least. And it's it's keeping your joints and your brain and your cardiovascular system young so you actually function. You know what that demands of you? Respecting physiology, not just doing stuff because some influencer with abs tells you to do it. Listen here, here's the choice cuz I want to go inside and hang out with Brandy. You have two options. Option one, I feel like the rock. There's two options. Option one, option two, the rundown if you know. Option one is keep buying everything in the kitchen sink bro science blends that you see. Keep buying oral peptides convinced that you're the one person who has a completely different physiology than every other freaking human on the planet. Feel good for a week, get bloated, lose your libido, and sit there and can't figure out your wife is buying you sealis by the, you know, pale and you're wondering why your blood work looks like a giant midwork midlife crisis all on its own. Or option two, you actually respect human biology. You match your interventions to your circadian rhythm. You pick compounds with intent that actually work and you measure the outcomes that actually matter and you come out the other side with the results so you don't have to stay doing this stuff for the rest of your life. Your your body isn't a smoothie bar where you just sprinkle some collagen in and maybe a shot of wheat grass. That's nasty. Like you're an F1 car. That's how you're designed. God built you right. If you don't know what every switch does, stop flipping all of them at once thinking because some dude said to do it, that's going to be the best thing. I've never told you to do that. I never will. I mean, really, that's all that's the the simple truth right there. Welcome to the grown-up table. Anyway, I got to go. I hope that helps. Never miss