So, first of all, I want to say thank you to everybody sending me all these broc science posts by these Instafit, Insta Guru, Insta Coach, Insta Expert people out there on social media. Listen, all these there's a couple of dudes out there that bodybuilders with affiliate codes and trust me, bro, as most of their science and telling me that they're an expert with evidence that says, "Well, it worked for me." Show me the blood work. It didn't work for you. You just don't want your audience to see that it doesn't work at all. What you're selling is bunk. And so, thank you very much for all of you guys sending me these bro science videos and so-called experts. And I don't care how many millions of followers they have. I'm going to burn the eyes out of their skull because four years ago, I almost died because of people giving me medication, lying to me. I just got no stomach for it. Like I said, I've been a doctor for well over two decades, and I'm just not going to do it. I'm not going to sit down and take it. So, you guys go ahead and keep sending me that stuff. I love all of you guys for doing that. Thank you very much. And don't worry, I will sweep up the garbage and throw it out because I'm not going to do it. Who is right? And like I saw this post and one of you guys sent it to me and it's he's an he's a well-known dude. He's also an idiot. I am not in the habit of putting names out there so I'm not going to cuz I think that just discredits yourself and it gives them publicity anyway. No, not going to do it. But this guy was talking about a pill and called it the limitless pill. The real life limitless pill. No, I'll tell you all. Listen, I'm trying not to laugh because it was so dumb. Cuz he literally tried the red pill, blue pill thing on the on the video. I don't even know where to go with that cuz you look like a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] So, you're not you're not Morpheus. You're not Neo. You know, the Wowski sisters. Yes, they're sisters now, not brothers. That's a whole other podcast. They're not writing your scripts. you are showing off your incredible ignorance and lack of knowledge and your lack of care for the people that listen to you because it's and I'll explain it. Listen, if you're It was two compounds in this pill and it was a red pill. It was uh tessenine and dhexa and that was taking the place of in this po at this point in this case it was aderall. Get out of here. They don't even operate the same. Never mind the fact that tesen that's not even what it's used for. If you're swallowing, listen, if you're swallowing tesency and a dhexa thinking it's going to make you a genus, that's about as good as taping a calculator to your forehead and then calling yourself a CPA. It's not just ineffective, it's embarrassing. I mean, listen, I've bought snake oil from people before. So have a lot of you guys. And I think that's the problem with the internet is it is the wild west. And even with people that go, I have all these degrees and certifications. Listen, I don't even care about any of that. I don't care if you have no no degrees, no letters after your name. I don't give a crap. I really don't because all that tells me is that you paid for a piece of paper. What I care about is that the information you are giving out is actually helping somebody because I've been on the other end of that disgusting machine where people were shoving information down my throat, telling me it's going to save me, and it just about killed me. The only reason I'm still here is because I learned even more. And the only reason I learned even more was because my wife went down the rabbit hole because she went, "I don't think these doctors are helping you, baby." She was right. But 5 years ago, probably I just I mean, I went against a lot of the stuff because that's just in my nature. When I say that it's not true, I don't think I should agree with it. And there's not my truth, your truth. There was only that truth. And when people go like the oral peptide thing, when you guys are all you guys going, "They worked for me. I've done both. They work. Show me the blood work." You can't because unless your physiology is completely different than every other human being on the planet, it didn't work and you just don't want to admit it. So, you double down because if you admit it, that means anybody that knows you knows you're full of [\h__\h] So, the problem isn't that you're dumb for all of the people that have fallen for these punky BS scam. Like, do you know the only reason I built my company was because I got tired this the elite was because I got tired of all the people selling garbage from Compound Labs and all the just nonsense. You're not dumb. It's that the internet made you think that what you were doing is biohacking because of some knucklehead that tells you that's what you're doing. I'm going to show you exactly what works and exactly why what you're doing isn't working. And then I'm going to give you the real limitless stack that's actually going to do what you want and be the closest thing to NZT from the movie without there being a bag of clear pills in your oven. Like I'm talking about like physiology, neurology, endocrinology, uh human biology, and a whole lot of no BS, honestly, probably in-your-face clarity and explanation. So, this here's how it starts. You you're going through this is how it started with me and this is what showed up yesterday. I went this I showed my wife and even my wife goes that doesn't even make sense. My wife is so incredibly intelligent. Just to be clear, my wife my wife Brandy is so smart. But I showed this to her and even she goes that doesn't even make sense. That's what I'm saying. Stop buying into this BS. So, you're scrolling through Instagram and some anonymous avatar posts god tier stack or whatever it is they say. You know, all these people are addicted to this. You could take this instead. And you know what it is? Tesenine and Dhexa. They tell you it's the new Aderall. That's what I've seen in more than one post, but this is real targeted right now. But then they go, it's non-stimulant. You get all the focus, all the all the benefits, none of the crash. Sure, sounds good, right? wrong. It's not good because here's what happens. These guys read one study and skip the part where it says rodent model and not evaluated for safety in humans. Here's the truth. If you just look at tesa fencing, first of all, it is a it is a triple monoamine reuptake inhibitor. Most people don't even know what that means, and that's fine. I don't expect anybody to. What it does, though, is it blocks the reabsorption of dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin. All of that couldn't be any worse doing that because here's what you end up feeling these chemicals for longer, right? These neurochemicals. Awesome. Except here's the issue. Your body isn't making enough of those to begin with. So, you're just recycling trash neurotransmitters. You're not enhancing anything. What you're doing is stalling the inevitable and you eventually run out. That's like drinking. It'd be like drinking here this coffee cup. For you guys that are listening, I'm holding a coffee cup. It'd be like drinking from this same coffee cup with the same coffee recycled through my system four times and wondering why I'm never getting the caffeine hit. You know what else Tesla fencing does? Spikes your heart rate erratically as hell. Like it it turns your heart rate into a strobe light. Cranks up your blood pressure, ruins your sleep, and it induces the most massive cortical storms in your system that you can possibly imagine. And what else? Here's the here's the issue. It's being marketed for weight loss, not cognitive enhancement. So now it's an off label. What bogus supplement by somebody that is friends with someone at a compound lab? You're not limitless. Here's what happens when you take this stuff. You're wired, dehydrated, pissed off, and one argument away from a stress induced nose bleed. That's your life. Yeah, you can tell I'm lit. And if you look at Dhexa, this is the second half of this genius stack that they're talking about. Here's what it actually does. So, it just so you know, it promotes something called synaptogenesis. This is building new connections between neurons, right, in your brain. Well, that sounds awesome. And technically it would be except when you realize what it's doing. It's building synapses on this broken system. And that's like that's like adding lanes to a freeway that nobody's ever going to drive on. They're useless. They're useless. And before somebody goes, "Well, all neurons." No, that's not how the brain works. Take some neurology first and then come back and talk to me and argue your bro science. If you're not feeding the Here's the problem. If you're not, it's a broken system. You're building on a broken system. That's like going and working out with really screwed up funky mechanics. I've done this for well over two decades. It's like building strength on dysfunction and wondering why you look and move like quasimoto. You can't do it. You have to fix the base first. Cuz if you're not feeding the brain and protecting it from inflammation and fueling it with ATP, adenazine triphosphate, which is the energy currency of the human body, and regulating neurotransmission, which is what it's designed to do, then diehexa is just random neural growth. That's like planting seeds on my concrete driveway. And here's the issue. Nobody even talks about this that it has zero long-term human studies. None. There's no dose standardization. That's even worse. So, they just make things up. And it has a has a potential to cause this is even hard. Like, it's so frustrating to say maladaptive wiring in your brain. So now you be especially if you are anxious or impulsive or you you have any kind of depressive issues that's going to screw you up. It's not going to make you better. It's going to make you 10 times worse if not more. Let me say that again. If your brain is running on poor wiring, DHEXA just cementss the dysfunction faster. It's like using superlue on a bunch of bad decisions. Like you can't make this stuff up. Here's what people don't get. You're not building a brain when you're taking some pill or a peptide or anything like that. You're building a biological operating system. Think of your brain and your body as an organic computer. If you want real cognition, then you need more than just a weight loss pill and some synaptogenesis in the wrong direction. You need needm synergism harmony. You need definitely some anti-inflammatory defense for your brain. You need hormonal alignment so your your hormones even function. Your endocrine system works right. And you need metabolic power so your mitochondria is what I'm saying actually work the way they're designed. You don't just take a focus pill. That's like trying to I don't know build a skyscraper with duct tape and a positive mental attitude. So listen, the real limitless stack and and the purpose of this podcast is actually twofold. One is for my buddy Tom and cuz he asked. So I'm just going to do a whole podcast on it. And two is to burn the eyes out of all these insta idiots that keep coming out and going buy my stuff and the stuff is garbage. Did you notice here? Yeah, you want to buy from Elite. Perfect. Buy from Elite. I promise you this. You will get nothing but the best because I'm a walking billboard for it. But the other part is I actually give a [\h__\h] about you. So, I would take all the product if it was garbage and I would throw it in the garbage and get new stuff because I care about people because I've been on the other side of this equation. It sucks. And most people aren't like that. I don't know any docs like that except me. So, it's not about a pill. It's about rebuilding the entire ecosystem of of thought. Let me show you what it actually looks like because otherwise this isn't going to make any sense. There's something called AtoMax. So Adomax is this is the guy that sits on the bridge that just the captain of the huge vessel like the aircraft carrier. Adamax is an acetal cmax amidate and it's bonded. You guys are going to love this. It's is bonded. It's anchored to something called adamantane. Real word. Trust me, real word. Look it up. But it boosts something called BDNF, brain derived neurotrphic factor like nothing else that's legal on the market. I mean at all. You can't find anything that does this even close. not CAX, not slank, none of that. And then it modulates dopamine without any burnout, without any synaptic burnout. And here's the best part. Acetylcholine, which is used for memory, it enhances the crap out of this. So already right out of the gate, it's doing things that the other two that tessenine and dhexa can't even touch. But go back to what I said where it was bonded to adamantane. Why? Carries the atomax deep into your CNS, your central nervous system, and it extends the half-life. So that means it stays in your system longer without things like if you look at what they do now is pegalation, right? Which they strap a giant molecule onto the back to make it stay in your system longer. Terrible. A pegalation basically turns it into plastic. So it lives in your liver and your kidneys and eventually kills you. Or it becomes an alphaated 17 molecule which makes it insanely hepotoxic but it resists first pass degradation by the liver. So it's all good, right? No. So that's what I'm saying. It extends the half-life without doing any damage. And I mean, we're talking we're talking deep learning, neural repair, neuroplasticity at levels that tessenine couldn't touch in its dreams because it doesn't work like that. You're not becoming more focused. You're building the brain to make significantly better decisions faster and then retain them forever potentially. Now comes something called cerebral. This is like a repair crew that's all been trained at MIT. They're phenomenal. It's a peptide mix of neurotrophic factors, NGF, uh, BDNF, GDNF, just a bunch of analoges. Crosses the blood brain barrier, if you know what that means. That's a good thing in certain situations and a bad thing in others. This is a good one. And it promotes something called synaptic density, which means it makes more. It tightens everything up. It prevents axon degeneration and promotes axon regeneration. And it promotes something called neurogenesis. So, here's how, let me explain. Imagine if your brain had an elite team of contractors, people or builders or engineers that were all trained at MIT, like I said, and they're rebuilding all the worn out circuits in your brain. Cerebralin is that team. That's how this works. Tesen can't even pronounce neurogenesis, let alone trigger it and make it happen. It doesn't do it. It doesn't work. This is like comparing red tide to semiglutide or tepathide and going, "They're kind of the same." They're not even in the same game. I said it before. That's like comparing a tricycle to a a a raptor. the plane F-22, right? Slank, I mentioned it before. The issue I see a lot is the problem isn't the ability to think. It's it's not just a cognitive issue, it's an emotional regulatory issue. And that's where salank comes in. And even so, if you look at something like DHEXA and Tesla, there's no emotional regulation. And let me explain why that because you're not controlling emotions or numbing your CNS like MAOIs or SSRI, things like the Prozac and the Paxel and all that stuff. You're not doing it like that. What you're doing is it's a it's a heptipeptide angolytic. It's so right off the bat, it's non-sedating, non- addictive, and it modulates serotonin and GABA. So, here's the real world translation of what I just said. It helps you stop spiraling with your emotions and it clears out all of those unproductive, invasive, intrusive thoughts and it helps you stay present instead of wired and anxious. No stimulant can do that because they're not designed to do that. What they do is they elevate the entire system. So that's like hitting the NOS button while you're idling at a light and wondering why you're freaking out. This doesn't do that. This actually mitigates all of that. In fact, most of the issues like tesa fencing and dhexa 100% make it worse. 100% make it worse. Slank is the calm under pressure that it's like you're sitting at the desk and you have these massive executive decisions to make. No matter how chaotic the world is, you just stay tried and true. That's what this does. And is it effective on a massive scale? And then comes in something called MO C. Mod C is remember thinking cognition it still expends energy, right? It takes energy. You don't think better if your mitochondria suck. You just get frustrated a whole lot faster. MC C is um a mitochondrial derived peptide. I've talked about this before. Increases glucose metabolism in neurons. Boosts uh ATP production. Denisin triphosphate, right? Energy currency. activates something called AMPK and improves insulin signaling. All of these things are really important for energy control, production, and utilization. What that means basically is your brain, which should get all the fuel, which is why when your brain isn't getting the oxygen or the fuel, your body goes time to lay down. It causes a sinkable episode. You pass out because it's easier to pump blood horizontal than vertical, right? It's easier to maintain your system that way. So, the translation of all this with MS C is that your brain gets more fuel. It burns the fuel cleaner and it runs a whole lot longer without any issues. No stimulate can do that. Like imagine running. My brain just went to Mr. Fusion from Back to the Future. He's got that thing on the back, right? He puts like beer and all kinds of crap in there. But imagine your brain is running on clean pure long like just the most perfect fuel source instead of processed garbage. That's what M C does for your cognition. and now GHK-Cu. All of these things, I guarantee you nobody's ever told you about this stuff because they didn't put the pieces together. They just went, "This is the one thing people want. Let's give the public what they want and harm them in the process." [\h__\h] that. I'm not going to do it. I'm going to give you all the answers. So, GHKC, the copper, right? This is the anti-inflammatory to trump all anti-inflammatories because inflammation, and most people don't know this either. I just had a conversation with a cure patient about inflammation being the silent cognitive killer. When you most people are walking around in a hyperinflammatory state and wondering why they're trying to figure out what's wrong. The inflammation is what's wrong. You need to reduce the inflammation and then the system starts to work properly because your body will do everything possible to mitigate the inflammatory response above all else. It'll either crank it up or try and mitigate it. Either or. Its focus is on what? The inflammatory response. So you need GHK-Cu. And yes, for the NE last time it is blue. It's supposed to be blue. What it does is it reduces IL6 TNF alpha oxidative stress. How about that? I'll just say reduces oxidative stress. It increases something called I love saying this because it's a fun set of words. Super oxide dismutates. Come on. That just sounds like a something that would shoot out of a gun or a superhero's fist. Catala neurotrophic factors. It crosses the blood brain barrier, repairs tissue. Like GHKC. Copper is such an incredible peptide. This is the easiest way to explain it is an adamantium suit of armor around your neurons. Does that make more sense? Here's what tesens does. Raises inflammation, proven, by the way. GHK-Cu destroys inflammation. So, you don't just think better, you protect the system that makes the thinking better possible. It's It's like the difference between going, "I just bought this really crazy Lamborghini. It cost me a million dollars. It's fantastic. It goes really fast, but I eat cheeseburgers and smoke all the time and pound alcohol, you know, like a like a frat kid. And I'm just doing everything possible to destroy my system." Well, you're not going to be able to drive that car very long because the machine that drives the car is you and you're going out. This makes the whole machine work better. Dhexa, it's useful. So, believe me, I'll put it in here, but you have to know what you're doing with it. You can use it after. See, there's a reason, right? You can't just dump it into the mix and go synaptogenesis. Let's just build all the neurons we can that are going nowhere doing having no function expending energy at your expense in an inflammatory environment and wondering why you feel worse. I can't count the number of ways it'll destroy your system faster than that. But here's when dihexa slides into this mix. After if you fuel with MS C right handle the mitochondria after you repair with the cerebral after you calm the system you regulate the emotional response with sank and you protect throw the armor around the neurons with GHKC with a copper and then enhance the whole thing with Atomax. Now like timing matters these guys with their freaking pills now. Now, DHEXA becomes the construction crew that comes in and builds all of the new highways and infrastructure on ground that is solid. No liquefaction. If you know, you know. So, you're not throwing random wiring into chaos. You're expanding a very well-built system with engineering plans and a whole lot of strategic intent. That's how DHEXA is meant to be used. So throwing it together and putting it in with something else and wrapping it in a little package and going, "This is going to be the next Limitless pill makes me want to slap somebody in the mouth." Here's the one that most of you guys are going to hear and go, "What? Red AR Tide?" I'll tell you, I've been going to down the rabbit hole on Red True Tide more and more. It's not It's not a weight loss peptide. It's not. This is a longevity peptide. If I It's going to be one of the top three I think anyone should take. Excuse me. That's how good it is. Yeah, drop the mic. Right. You guys are like, "Wait, what?" Everybody is still talking even with the weight loss everybody's still talking about well semiglutide worked for me tzepide worked for me yeah you lost weight you lost tissue you screwed up your system and reatride is doing laps around all of that because it's actually fixing the system remember I went into this right gp1 improves insulin sensitivity reduces inflammation GIP enhances learning memory and hippocample function that's stuff I never talked about because not only does it reduce your appetite Right, the GIP. But it affects your brain in a way that, this is why I said I went down the rabbit hole on purpose. It affects your brain in a way that makes you function better. Semaglutide and tzepide have zero influence. Zero when it comes to that. And then you look at glucagon, which is the third one, right? The three levers for reatride boosts energy expenditure, lipid metabolism, so lipolysis, the whole gluconneogenesis thing. But here's what nobody is going to talk about with you because it's not going to make them any money or it's going to take you away from all the stock they have in a really shitty product. Redatride doesn't just burn fat. It clears out the inflammatory brain fog and stabilizes neurotransmission through metabolic system function and stabilization. So it makes your metabolism run perfectly the way you're designed. So when you were 10 years old, your you can even go past puberty. So let's say 16, 17, 18 years old, your metabolism was designed to run very very well. It still is. It's just messed up with a bunch of screwed up signals and a bunch of compounds floating through your bloodstream anchored in your tissues that are causing you problems. So, you can keep taking all the pills and doubting all the people out there that are trying to help you cuz they probably aren't. They just want to put a bunch of money in their pocket. But you could probably swing by here and listen to the doctor that gives a [\h__\h] about you, me, and goes, "Here's the real information. You decide what you do with it." But with Retta, you're going to think more clearly. You're going to stay more focused for a lot longer. A lot longer. And all that executive function, right? Remember what I said? you're at the at the board meeting, you have to make an executive decision with all the chaos around you where I talked about the slank, how that calms you down. This helps with that and it just makes it like laserg guided. You painted the target, right? Here's why the average biohacker stack fails. There's no structure. They're lying. There's no layering if you understand like I just gave you a bunch of layers. There's no systemic thinking and there's no systems in place. It's just a bunch of random neurotransmitter manipulation with zero support. That's somebody that doesn't understand what physiology even is. So, here's what happens. And this is a guarant I I will 100% I will buy your product if this doesn't happen. Buying these dopey limitless pills that these guys are selling. So, here's what happen. You're going to get more anxious. Your focus is going to be chaotic as hell. You're going to get irritable. You're going to have no sleep. Your memor is going to get worse. And about 2 in the afternoon, you're going to be exhausted because you're redlining everything. and you're doing it without any there's no system in place to modulate that, but you think it's working because you're typing fast, thumbming fast, right? You're writing really fast, and you're forgetting to eat. That that's not high performance. That's that's a chemical grenade that's just gone off in your system. That's a neurohysical grenade that's just caused nothing but problems. If you look at the way this stack is designed, so let let me break it down so it's real easy because I think I've been on everybody. It addresses an input issue, the fuel, right? M C. It addresses the output issue, decision speed, right? So adamax it. So this is why like think about it from a limitless standpoint. It addresses the repair problem, right? Cerebralin protection, the armor around the neurons, copper, ghku, emotional regulation. Remember what I said, sank expansion, building it on a solid platform, dead last, remember dhexa and metabolic clarity, retatrite, getting rid of the brain fog. That's not hype. This is a neuroendocrine biological build. The whole idea of taking a pill and suddenly becoming this billionaire genius and dropping your aderall prescription, that's a symptom of the same disease that made you faking lazy in the first place. You're not going to upgrade your brain with shortcuts. That's not how this works. As cool as it sounds on the on television, and this is the closest thing to it. If I could if I had to build like I'll take this. That's how badass this is. I don't ever, by the way, just to be very clear, let me be very transparent. everything that I talk about, unless it's designed for a female or someone with a problem like the clotting or diabetes or anything like that, I I would do. I don't ever put out information on something that I'm not willing to do myself. This is this system is designed to engineer performance like like you're just a machine like just just a fueled up unbreakable juggernaut machine. You you end up because what this allows you to do is more than just changing the system, right? It allows you to change your sleep architecture so you sleep properly, deep sleep, all the repair, all the stuff that needs to happen. You get daily discipline because you're focused on getting things done. Your training routines to clean up better. Your inputs are better because you put better things in your system. And then, and only then, by the way, that's when you can stack with precision because otherwise you're still making a big mess. So the illusion of taking tesen and dhexa thinking that's going to make you smart is going to give you an illusion that that's what it's doing while you are hyper stimulated, chaotic, and at 2:00 you're ready to jump off a building and land on a stack of pillows because you're so [\h__\h] tired. like the the the the stacks out there for Limitless. It's like putting a the biggest turbo like a from a Buick Grand National, if you know, a GNX and strapping that turbo onto a car with a disintegrated blown engine, wondering why you're not going any faster, but the turbo is making a bunch of noise, getting red hot, doesn't work. You're not supposed to feel hyped up. You're supposed to become hyperfunctional. They're not the same. Believe me, if I didn't give a crap, I wouldn't even talk about this because for most people listening to this, they're going to go, "This is boring, dude." Okay, I'm still giving you information that most of you should probably know. If you're thinking about taking a li like if Tessa Fenson and Dhexa is the Limitless pill, then I'm a damn toaster. That's how ridiculous it is. Because that combo isn't science. It's wishful thinking with probably a high price tag. Even as it's 40 bucks, it's 40 bucks too much. You don't build god tier brain like function, usage, capacity with two untested chemicals from Reddit and your favorite influencer. You build it with with mitochondrial support, neurochemical support, synaptic expansion because you need more to do more. Metabolic regulation and precision so the system functions properly and hormones that are doing what they're designed to do when they're designed to do them. You want to be limitless. I I'll get right now here. tell you, uh, build it like a freaking engineer, not like somebody who gets all twitchy and thumbs a payment with Google Pay or Apple Pay. Think like like a war general that has to make strategic decisions and then recover like you're you're in this you're in the future. Do you just you step in a what was that tank from Star Wars? My son always says he's a Star Wars junkie. I mean 52. I've watched Star Wars for a long time. I I'm going to get it wrong. Probably Bacta tank. That water tank that Luke's in, right? right? Bouncing up and down, right? They always go into it. I think it was on Boba Fett, too. Uh, which is a great series, by the way. I was pretty impressed. But you recover like you're in that tank. You just come out. You're just bang recovered. And then you move, but you move. You move like my buddy Scott Atkins. Man, that guy's a killer. If you don't know Scott Atkins, this dude's awesome. Like, this dude's awesome. If you haven't seen Boya or anything like that, Scott Atkins is as legit as it gets. I couldn't have a more dangerous friend. But you move like a killer mentally. Or I mean, hey, you can keep buying pills from dudes who maybe live in an expensive house, maybe live in their mom's basement. Either or. They probably can't spell acetylcholine. It's your choice. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss.