I had somebody say to me, it was in one of these YouTube comments, "What if we just want the information, man, it's like really complicated listening to then don't listen to me. Look it up on Google instead of looking up all the porn and other stupid things you're doing or how to hack your way to a million dollars when you haven't even crossed 30 grand a year. It's not meant to be a jerk, but dude, I break this down as simple as possible without leaving out critical information. And this is me. You don't like me. I'm not for everybody. That's okay. But if you don't like the delivery, you don't need to be here. Here's the deal. So, I get asked a question a lot. Well, bro, can you take peptides forever? I don't think you should, man. I don't think that's healthy. I think that's actually really dangerous. What about cancer? Yeah. Yeah. What about it, kid? Out of here. And don't even get me started on can you take them forever? How many of you guys are taking Claritin forever? You've been taking it for at least 6, 7, 8, 10, 12 years. Benadryil? How about the uh tiny little baby aspirins that your doctor told you to take? Huh? Yeah. Because they'll thin your blood. They're good for you, keep you alive, protect you from a heart attack, trash your gut lining, trash your kidneys, trash your liver, make a permanent addition to their subscription model of health. Absolutely. If I was a crooked, shady son of a [\h__\h] and I was not interested in actually coming out here helping people, that's exactly what I would do. But I'm not. Oh, because it would guarantee me customers for life because you've ruined yourself on my recommendation. I come out here and I disrupt the whole [\h__\h] thing. See, if you haven't figured it out by now, and I've said it so many times. Oh, I still got a little bit of coffee in that cup. Yeah, totally unrelated to what I was saying, by the way. I'm like a squirrel. I just say, "Oh, something shiny over there." But listen, that's what happens when your brain runs all these thoughts at once and you have thousands of books inside your head. But if if you haven't figured it out by now that I'm out here to try and help you guys and give you the information, you're never going to get it. And if you're contesting me or arguing against me or coming up here coming on to into my comments and saying anything other than, you know what, thank you very much. Can I get a little more information? Where do I find out more? Don't because you're a dick. Because I'm not coming out here doing anything other than giving you guys the answers and because I honestly believe it's my moral obligation to do. I'm duty bound to do it. The more I learn, the more I should teach. The more I should teach, the more I should learn, the better I should become at doing it so I can teach you even more. But if you don't like what I'm teaching you, don't listen to the class. The issue is that that your body is the class. And some of y'all got no class because you're shaped like a [\h__\h] circle and you're disrespecting the health that you've been given. I will take any one of your days, the worst day possible, with two lungs, cancer-free. I'll take it all day, baby. So, stop complaining in my comments. Stop acting like a toddler and act like a grownup and either listen or move on. Cuz when you argue, all you do is look like an idiot. Make me just block you, especially on social media. You're out. I got no time for stupidity, so I don't listen. And y'all should do the same. You don't need to listen to people if they're rude and disrespectful. Tell them to pound sand. So, here's the idea. There are a handful. And by the way, none of this is meant to be diagnostic or treatment or advice or cure or prescribe, and it is just hypothetical, educational, and entertaining. Now that we've got that out of the way, there are a handful of peptides, and I've done a similar podcast where I'm like, "These are forever peptides." Yeah, they are. This is a very light list of things that they're almost non-negotiables. And I don't tell you anything that I don't do myself or have not done myself intentionally. Whether it's my psychology, my training, my my marriage, my family, my politics, my with God, my peptides, sarmms, secret dogs, all that stuff cuz I think you're a liar if you tell other people to do it. It's like look at the pharmaceutical industry and ask any of them to take it. They're not going to do it. And you know that which should be a giant red flag. Like understand, we are living in this medical dark age disguised as enlightenment. We're treating symptoms with wrecking balls and sledgehammers and jackhammers while ignoring the body's own native language that is designed to fix you. Which is why why do you think why do you think it is almost impossible to get a credit card processor to give you a green light for peptides? Why do you think it is almost impossible to just sell them straight out of any store, put them on the shelf in any in CVS? because they work. It's not be the lie is such [\h__\h] with there. I'm going, "Well, they're unsafe and we don't know lab conditions and we don't know. They could be filler and they could be loaded with toxins and they get the [\h__\h] out of here." Most of the stuff that's being pedled by the pharmaceutical industries is making you sick. It's what's causing your problems. And then they just chase symptoms. It's aggravating to me because the things that work, they hide. And the things that don't work, they freely give you and in fact encourage. Listen, the native language of a human body, it's not pharmaceuticals. I don't know if you figured that out yet. It's peptides, little molecular signals that your body already knows. It's like your body understands Latin up and down and sideways despite it being a dead language. But it's a dead language because everybody stopped speaking and it not because the language doesn't work. A drug is listen to me and I'll go over these three the three it's actually three peptides and a couple of compounds that I'm gonna take forever because I want to live as long as possible in the best possible way not managing symptoms. I want to be a juggernaut. So I just tell you how to do it. You decide what you want to do. Like I said I don't if you buy at Elite Biogenics, great. If you don't, great. I'll give you a bunch of other places you can go buy them. That's fine. The point is at least do something about your damn health. Do I think you should? Absolutely. You should buy something from my company. I come out here for free every [\h__\h] day to help you guys. However, I haven't changed, have I? Whether most of you guys don't buy my [\h__\h] You don't join my coaching program. You don't join my mastermind. You don't subscribe to my one-on-one. You don't do anything. You just come in and complain. Well, that's great. But I still come out here and I show up every day for you guys. For you guys. This isn't for me. I know this knowledge already. I have this inside me. I run the right the right compounds and the right peptides. I run the right I guess systems to make sure my body is running at peak function 24/7 365. I just share it with you because I think that's my moral duty. I think I am absolutely duty bound to do that. But a drug is this foreign invader you guys. It blocks and inhibits. It bludgeons the crap out of things in your body. It it creates dependency. There is not a single peptide on earth that creates a dependency. None. You stop the drug. The problem returns often worse. You know what you've done? rented a solution. You know what peptides are? They're little I've said this before. It's the easiest way to explain. They're little tiny whispers that come through and it's a signal in the native language that your body already speaks. It is a key for a lock. The lock already exists. The key is just waiting to happen. Your body makes them. Usually, it's just making them at a very low capacity because of all the crap that's been introduced to your system since the day you were born. It doesn't force it. it reminds it and then just resupplies and turns the lock and goes, "Time to get to work." I'll go real specific because honestly, it's Sunday. I got church. I want to go have dinner with my family. I want to hang out with my my wife and kids and I want to enjoy the remainder of my evening. So, BPC-157, if somebody comes into my comments and starts going, "What about cancer? What about it mitigating cancer?" It doesn't. It doesn't. So, you know what? I'm done with the arguments. [\h__\h] off. I am not for you. It bugs me. Yes, I'm a doctor that cusses. It's okay. Get over it. Hypothetically, I take 500 micrograms a day. I'll go up to one. This isn't for injury. This is every day. This is a a 15 amino acid sequence. And it's the primary mechanism. The way it works, it's primary mechanism of function is through the VEGF2 receptor pathway. And let me explain what that does because otherwise it's just people like, oh, it's too fancy. I don't understand. It accelerates angioenesis, which is the formation of new blood vessels. That's a big deal. And if you start going down the dark side and going, "What do I supply more blood to cancer cells?" Pull your head out of your ass. It's designed to heal. Peptides don't cause cancer. They don't do things like it's not how they're designed. So they angioenesis forms a bunch of new blood vessels. Really, it bugs me. You can tell. And it sends nutrientrich, oxygenrich blood flow to damaged tissue. It upregulates collagen, specifically type one and type three, the synthesis of it, not the collagen itself, at the fibroblast level. This is at a cellular level, you guys. This isn't just putting patches on things. It protects the and heals your gut lining by increasing the expression of protective peptides and tightening those intestinal junctions, those proteins that keep the garbage, the sewage in your system, I always refer to out of your vascular system, the LPS out, the lipopolyaccharides. Sounds like a religion, right? lipopolysaccharides out the bacterial fragments keeps them out of your blood supply so your immune system doesn't go bananas and create this crazy cytoine storm and cause all kinds of systemic inflammatory problems which is the basis of most diseases it doesn't mask pain it's conducting a symphony at a it's like a cellular orchestra of repair why wouldn't you take this every day and if you go I don't need repairs every day it doesn't just repair it helps you function better TB-500 thyosin beta 4 is not the same thymusin beta 4 is the real version TB-500 is the fragment has a longer life inside you do they it's the active portion of it so should you get thymus and beta 4 you want to spend a ton of money and try and find it if it's real most of the time it's not so I wouldn't bother 5 milligrams every week you can go every 5 days I go every 5 days but you can go every seven if that's fine for you 43 amino acids which by the way is exactly why it can't pass through an interosite because it's freaking giant I can't with you guys in your orals I see this I don't know what it's called hyper level peptides or something and non-stop bottles and you guys just keep giving them your money. They probably do a million a month. What the [\h__\h] is wrong with you guys? They don't work. And if you go, well, they work for me, bro. Placeos are great. You are getting a reward for the routine, not results. I've said it before. So, TB-500 43 amino acids, 43 amino acid peptide is the ultimate master regulator of cell building proteins, specifically actin. Remember what I talked about actin polymerization. Actin is the scaffolding of every single cell in your body. TB-500 tells cells how to move, how to structure themselves and and conduct themselves and then how to replicate. It modulates key inflammatory cytoines like TGF beta. It reduces scar tissue formation, promotes real regenerative healing. It is not a painkiller. It resolves myocardial fibrosis, which means fibrootic tissue in the heart. It repairs the myioardium. If that doesn't, you don't even know. Some of you guys don't even know if you had slight eskeemic events in your heart and you don't even know. You just have a dead chunk of tissue where the perkingi fibers conducting signals across the the body of the heart. There's a signal interruption and it can't do it. I see people with AIB TB. The fact that it solves heart problems, athletes heart, I've talked about this so many times. Athletes heart solves athletes heart. Your heart is not supposed to get bigger. Just so you know, when it does, it's a bad thing. the sack around the heart doesn't grow. So when the heart gets bigger, you get this friction rub causes a lot of problems. So just listen to me. I'm trying to help you. So please understand that it's not a painkiller. This is the engineer that's just handing out the most gangster Supermanstyle blueprints for the latest, most high tech, most functional construction on the planet in your body. That's and I'm trying to keep this really simple because I could go down the physiology and human biology rabbit hole if you want, but you got better things to do. M C. Man, do I love this one? M C is so good. 5 milligrams every other day. Can you take less? Yeah, but why would you? If you're listening to this on audio and drinking out of my incredibly beat up thermal. This thing is like, look at this. I've shown it before. Just, you know, I'm amazed. One time I did this, it almost poured all over me because I didn't have the cap on right. But I mean, this thing just had the crap beat out of it. I love this thing. I don't plug a lot of things, but yeah, I'm not. It's called a clean I have to look. Clean with a K. Clean canteen. It's all dented and it's actually embossed. I can't really see it. Clean canteen. There you go. That's what you want. Go get one of those. I like it. Whoever you are, you should probably send me about four or five of those. I don't even need a ton. Just give me four or five so I can use them. I'll even talk about your stuff. Won't get I'm not going to advertise for you though. But M C every other day, 5 milligrams. You can go to three and you can take it every third day. Don't get cheap. That's like getting cheap on your insulin if you're a type two diabetic. Just because it's expensive, it's going to wind up killing you. M C is the other direction. It's the one that keeps things from killing you. This is a game changer. 16 amino acids encoded in the micro micro the you can tell I'm hungry. I'm starving. I want to go inside and eat all the cookies that my wife made today. It's encoded in the mitochondrial genome, not the nuclear DNA. It's a big deal. The the primary action of M C is a retrograde signal to the nucleus. So here's what happens under metabolic stress. It transllocates to the nucleus and reshapes metabolic gene expression. It basically tells them to start making more, doing more, being more. It's like turning on all the reactors is the easiest way to explain this. It enhances insulin sensitivity by activating the AMPK pathway. Remember the AMPK pathway is the cellular energy sensor, right? When it senses a change, it says turn on. This makes it turn on. So, it forces your body to become radically efficient at using and creating energy. It optimizes fatty acid oxidation. It boots boosts mitochondrial biogenesis. Again, talk about this all the time. It makes your body make more mitochondria and it makes them give you a fat giant kick-ass ATP. Adenazine triphosphate yield, which is the currency of all function in your body. Adenazine triphosphate energy is the currency of life. You don't get old because like your system doesn't get old and age because of time. It gets old and it gets aged because of a lack of energy. This solves the problem. This is the platform upon which all other things are built. If you go, I'm going to take TV instead of MC C, I'm going to tell you right now, you have it backwards. You should do it the other way around. However, these three things so far that I've told you, they need to work together. If you're only going to take one, stop cherrypicking. Stop being cheap. Give up your HBO. This is pretty much it's quite literally the software patch for your Metabolic operating system, Metabolic OS. It's the upgrade that you've been waiting for. And it is downloaded directly from Warplants. So, in putting this all together, cuz I'm already 17 minutes in. I told my wife I'd be inside in 27 minutes, and I am no liar. Here's the biomechanical or here's the biochemical fuel that most people are going to hear and freak out. Nicotine. I have I don't know if you could see it right there. There's a nicotine patch on me. It's funny. I think it was the same side when I showed it the other day, too. If you're listening to audio, I just pulled up my shirt. I'm so sexy. Anyway, I was so gay. I'm 52. The words gay and [\h__\h] come out of my mouth an awful lot. It's okay. They're just words. Quit being so gay. 7 milligrams a day. You can go to 3.5. That's fine. But 7 milligrams a day. Physiology. Think not think of Listen, in case you guys are hear nicotine, you're freaking out right now. Physiology, not stigma. Nicotine is a choloneric agonist. What that means is it binds to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the brain stem back here. Not only there, also the hippocampus, also the prefrontal cortex. And what this does is it causes the release of acetylcholine, glutamate and dopamine in this really clean, smooth, regulated manner. It upregulates brain derived neurotrophic factor BDNF. talked about this a while ago, which is it's essential for neuroplasticity, which is your brain recognizing the reps and becoming better at doing something. Also, cognitive function. I mean, there's a ton of things it does, but those two, neuroplasticity and cognitive function. It actually even acts as a mild appetite suppressant. It does that through, you really want to know cuz part of me is like, I don't even want to tell you. Hypothalamic MC4 receptors. There you go. Most of you guys are going to either Google it or just disregard what I just said. The addiction of nicotine is a myth and it is demolished by neurology. It is not possible. Nicotine is not addictive. And if you start arguing in my comments, ball up your hand, make a fist, punch yourself right in the eye repeatedly. It can't be addictive. It doesn't work like tobacco contains pyroines which are extremely powerful monomine oxidase inhibitors, MAOIs. MOIs slow the breakdown of dopamine and serotonin which creates this synthetic artificial prolonged flood of neurotransmitters. That's not a good thing. You guys on your anti-depressants and anti-anxiety medications, they are screwing you up. The combo is the problem. The clean nicotenic hit plus cuz remember what I said, nicotine, right? Acetylcholine, glutamate, and dopamine. But that's not the problem. It's the combination. This is like the worst combo you could ever get at the worst fast food restaurant on the planet. So that really clean smooth nicotinic hit plus the MAOI induced neurotransmitter just title it's like a tsunami that's what creates the addictive cracklike profile of cigarettes and pouches and before you guys ask all things nicotine outside of rugby patches all things nicotine contain pyroines I've yet to see it no matter what they say all things nicotine contain pyroines your vape pen all that nonsense where you're like no it's supposed to be organic 600 100 chemicals are in tobacco products. 199 are not supposed to be there. One is nicotine. Pure nicotine absent these pyroines does not cause addiction. Zero. They have shown there's so many studies proven peer-reviewed research if you need to go down that [\h__\h] rabbit hole cuz it's just storebought. But which you can say what if this is storebought maybe. But I've not worn the patch and I've worn the patch and I haven't noticed anything other than I'm a little more focused when I wear it. What it does is it cranks up tea cells, helps with immune system function right off the bat. It solves viral and bacterial issues. It works with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and dementia. It works with cancers against canc. This is if you guys aren't on a nicotine patch. I don't know what to tell you. I don't know what to tell you. You guys haven't been listening to me. But that's fine. You can listen to mainstream media and keep getting sick and chasing around your symptoms. Or you can just do the things from the guy that's out here giving it to you for free telling you, "Hey, this works." and then look at the life I have and go, "Wow, that guy." If you go, "Well, you're missing a lung, bro." That was because of a bunch of other things. Number one, Remesae. Number two, toxic black mold from an [\h__\h] that built our house. So, Lucian Tujac Jr., that guy's a crooked son of a [\h__\h] Crazy ass rich liar. It doesn't matter what it is, but I'm just telling you, you guys need to understand I'm not going to come out here and have you do something that's going to harm you. I don't sell nicotine. It's not like I get something out of this. I also don't sell cigarettes. I don't get something out of that. Like, you guys look at how I'm putting this together. It's to help you. Pure nicotine is a it's a cognitive tool. Man, you can't get me started when I come out here. I just go and go and go. Huh? Be like, "Oh, it's going to be a 10-minute podcast." And then I had somebody go, "Dude, are you on Adderall? You're all over the place. You're super sped up." If you ask my mother, who's still live, by the way, my mom's pretty badass. I think she turns 83 in January. She's gangster. My mom will tell you I've been this way my whole life. So, I guess I've been on Adderall my whole life. I You guys are just weird. Be like, "Oh, you probably have been." No, this is just me. This is what it's like when you are normal and functioning at the highest capacity you possibly can every day. Listen, the litmus test, the litmus test of a true solution is very simple. A solution to your problems, right? The litmus test, if the problem returns when you stop the intervention, you didn't have a solution. You had an addiction. Peptides are a solution. Pharmaceuticals are by far and by and large a managed addiction. Not the addiction where you tweak out. The addiction where the problems come back if you stop. That is an addiction anyway. That is a chemical addiction. Listen. And if you guys whine about the cost, oh, spending three, four, five, a,000, right? 300, 400, 500, $1,000 a month, $1,500 bucks a month on peptides and supplements is so expensive. Get rid of your least Lambo. Stop paying for all the crazy phone packages you have. I don't know what to tell you, man. All the things that you have in your life are predicated on the system that you the meat popsicle that you walk around in actually functioning. Let me ask you a question. What I'll just help you with this. What is the cost of type two diabetes? What is the monthly cost of metformin, jardian, tricity, statin? What's the cost? What's the cost of all the doctor's visits? The insurance premiums you pay every month that keep going up because you're blowing it. What about the co-pays? What about the loss productivity from fatigue and loss of function and the lost ability of you to being able to do anything? The lost ability of you can't get an erection because your circulation is trashed. I could do this all day. The cost of near heart attack. What is the cost of that? What I mean, be honest. What What's the cost of all that stuff? You guys are waiting till a catastrophe happens to live your best life instead of going I'm going to I have the means to live my best life right now. I had to max out every credit card I had just to do that because I want the best life. What does the cost of a knee replacement surgery from years of inflammation and wear and tear that's never been solved? It's never been solved. Right? I mean the ultimate Wolverine protocol that I put together intentionally because it's exactly what I did. I mean with TB and BPC and GHK and KPV sounds like a bunch of consonants and and that's all it is actually. Right. and yeah nicotine and even a like AODD for mixed with hyaluronic acid for cartilage regrowth intraarticular it actually regrows cartilage with AODD and hyaluronic acid right like all of this stuff M C to get so it has the energy for the repair you have to start looking at the longevity of your system not going I'm guaranteed tomorrow and if you go well if I'm not guaranteed tomorrow and go out with a bang then we're not going to be friends and that's okay but what's the cost of the shoulder replacement what's the cost of Alzheimer's care because you just didn't manage it because you didn't take methylene blue and you didn't take nicotine, you didn't take MSI, you didn't do the things that would have cost you next to nothing in comparison of the loss of function and life of someone you love or yourself. Listen, the average American over 45 is on seven prescription, not just stuff they buy over the counter, prescription medications. Seven. Seven. You should be on precisely zero. You have been taught and conditioned and indoctrinated to think that taking prescription meds is the way you age. [\h__\h] that. That is a subscription to sickness. That is financial and biological burden that is going to bankrupt you and leave you this awful hollowedout shell. It doesn't make you healthy. You guys listen to me. That's why I'm telling you forever prep, forever peptides. Why not? You'll take other things forever and go, "How many times have you taken vitamin C, vitamin B, some weird gummy that you got from some influencer that says, "Trust me, bro." like what what are you doing? Investing in peptides is and like I said, I'm not telling you to buy from me, otherwise I'd be plugging the [\h__\h] out of my own company. But it's not it is real supplementation. It's not an expense. It's the ultimate insurance policy for your health and your longevity and your quality of life. It is lifespan and health span married together so you can do all of the [\h__\h] that you really want to do in the way you want to do it. It is a down payment on a life of capability and independence and massive vitality. This and this isn't even a full list. You want the full list, you better sit down and talk to me. This is the barebones version, like the foundational protocol to build a juggernaut. A human being resistant to the decay of time, the insults of injury, the attack of our environment, the poison of modern food and water. Come on, man. That there's no profound side effects to any peptides. None. By the way, there are no such thing as side effects. They're only effects. They gave them a cute little name so you guys don't look at them very long. Side effects. Oh, I don't need to see them. May cause death. You will never see that on a peptide package. You will see that all over every pharmaceutical. There are no profound side effects to any of any of these peptides, especially these ones. None. These are your body's language. It's all it does is speak this language. Nothing else. Text message. Text message just saying go harder, hit the gas, do more, do this better, make more of it. There are thousands of lethal side effects to pharmaceuticals because they are foreign invasion. I'm not telling you that they aren't necessary. They aren't necessary for health. They're necessary for a subscription model. They're necessary to keep you hooked. But they don't make you healthy. Will they save your life? Absolutely. Don't don't sit there and think for a second that I'm so ignorant that I go don't ever take them. No. If you've got pneumonia, LL37, and thymus alpha 1, uh, I think maybe just some good amoxicylin. But I I had a patient that was on cypro going on 20 years because she had part part of her small intestine taken out and every time she went off cypro she got an infection. Where do you think a lot of your immunity comes from you guys? The gut. What do you think's happening when she's bombing herself with I I can't do this. It's just so bad. And yet most people are so indoctrinated. It it really it's it's heartbreaking to me because I've been on the other side of this equation where I was so terrified that I briefly took a step into the pharmaceutical realm twice. once with chemotherapy the chop series which by the way the vinristen was the worst thing I've ever taken in my life it looked like red syrup and it took forever to infuse and remesae until my wife went and I was like I don't even remember her being in the hospital that's how bad it was and I was hooked up to machines keeping me alive and I remember hearing a doctor and a nurse argue at the end of my bed the nurse going don't you dare and the doctor was like we need to put him on a ventilator cuz I was getting alarmingly bad still don't know maybe that nurse was an angel I saw that before with the nurse rubbing my back saying you're going to be okay trust me. I'm crying, thinking I'm not going to make it. Texting my wife saying, "I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I wanted to do this great life with you, Brandy. I love you so much. I'm sorry." And the nurse saying, "No, you're okay. You're going to be fine." Nobody could find that nurse. I went back to the hospital. I tried to find her. I remember exactly what she looked like. I remember everything about her. There's no such nurse at that place. Take it however you want. When I was on the podcast with my buddy Brad Lee, I'm dropping bombs. He goes, "Maybe it was an angel." If you know Brad, you know damn well he wasn't joking around. It's all I got with that. But why why do you want to put yourself in a bad situation there? If something's going to save your life, great. But if it's just because they say you need to do it, if you stop, you still going to be okay? No, you're not. Everything the symptoms come rushing back. You can continue to rent your health from the pharmaceutical industry and pay them this monthly fee to manage your decline. Knock yourself out. Or you can invest in your own biological structure and you can become the architect of your own life and your own vitality and you can speak the body's language fluently again so you actually can enjoy the life that you want. You have all the signals, right? You have all the materials available. You can buy them. You can use them. You can learn how. If you go, "Well, I can't learn how." Well, I'll tell you what. Here, I'll plug something now. I have something new and it's I just thought of this today. Just Oh, actually Wednesday I came up with this. It's called the Black Card membership and that's exactly what it is. It is all exclusive. It is a $25,000 buyin and it is $1,500 a month and it is all the advice you could possibly need and get and guidance you can possibly withstand this onslaught of information where you can ask me any question. We get you all set up in exactly what you want. However, I'm running and this is purely literally off the off my hip in dollars for the first year run one right now. It doesn't autorenew. So, you're not going to get hit with a $25,000 bill the next year, but I promise you this. I will sell out. I'm going to have 100 people. That's it. Once that's that's full, I'll guarantee you I'll fill up all 100 in the next 3 weeks. It'll probably be faster than that because anybody that it's a no-brainer. You're going to spend $5,997 to have access to me, my brain, and everything that I can come up with to help you to help you. And I'm the liability for myself, by the way, because I'm putting myself on the line for all this to make sure you guys get the information. And you can do that, or you can keep searching around and making mistakes and trusting the old bro science people. But that's what it is. If you want that, by the way, you need to send me a DM. I don't have automation for it. I don't have anything. In fact, I will help you out. You can send an email to my executive assistant, Amber Kane, supportpartan armylc.com. There you go. You're welcome. That is the biggest plug I've ever done on here outside of going here's a deal on like a membership to the unbreakable mastermind. But if you really want help with this, no, it's not one-on-one with me. It is you get to get in a weekly call where it is just nothing but that's why I'm only having 100 people. You might think it sounds like a lot. It's not really. You got a little private area where you can ask questions and that's all we do is solve those problems. If you ask me a business question, I'm going to send you a bigger bill because that's not what this is. But understand, you have the ability to join something that's going to help you. And once they're sold out, it's going to be 25 grand. And I guarantee I'll sell those two because I know what I'm doing and I genuinely care. I want to help. I just don't want to be king of the [\h__\h] I don't want the people that go, "What if I don't have that money?" But you can find it to put rims on your Honda. No, I'm not going to be nice and my compassion is zero for things like that because people spend money on stupid things because they think they're easy. I'm out here trying to help you because I genuinely give a [\h__\h] about humanity and I want you guys to be healthy. So, I'm just going to give you the information. So, I guess it comes down to the fact that the only question that exists is do you have the will to listen and actually go all in on what you want? It's that simple. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. Those are the forever peptides and I hope this the ones I think and I hope this gives you a little information. 34 minutes. I got to go inside, see my wife. I love her. I want to go hang out with her. Hope that helped. Ever miss.