I'm going to knock this out now because Sunday is my busiest day. It I'm going to be talking about Hashimoto's. I'll give you the whole playbyplay from start to finish exactly what to do, how to handle it, why you guys have been lied to, why Hashimoto's is not this life sentence, this mysterious problem that you're going to have to manage for the rest of your life. That it's irreversible. That is all just a lie. I will tell you exactly what to do. You don't have to pay me anything. This isn't for money. Um, this is just because I want you guys to have the answers. Yes, I've been a real doctor for the last, I don't know, long time, 20, 30 years. And I I just like I want people to have the answers. And I'm tired of the way the medical system is. I'm tired of the managed decline. I'm tired of big pharma. They can kiss my ass. I'm tired of how everybody is hiding the truth. And anytime you want something, it is always in exchange for profit. now. Yeah, absolutely I do. I have the black card. You want to join it? Great. It's 10 grand a year. No, I don't take payments. No, there's no credit cards. And it is a Q&A with me. Not one-on-one. It is a live Q&A with really me every Monday. I started at a five. I live east of Dallas, so central time. And I answer all your questions. I give you more results. I get Listen, the people in my group will vouch for me. I don't need to say it. I actually solve real health problems. I don't care what they are. You throw it at me, I will give you a solution. I will solve your problem. That's my job. And above all, do no harm. And I take that very seriously in every aspect of my life. You can buy from Elite Biogenics if you want. That's where people buy all the research products. Yes. All the stuff, right? The peptides and everything. Or you don't have to. I don't care. Listen, I come out here to help and I keep showing up every day and I say it all the time. If you want to join the black card and you want to ask me a bunch of questions about it, don't. I just gave you the answer. You get the archive of all the calls. You get all the protocols I've ever done with patients that really work for decades and results. And I've seen over a million patients in my life. I'm 52 and I I want to help people. I want you guys to have the information. Whether you join or you don't is irrelevant. I still show up all the time. But Hashimoto's is is a a problem because people are being told that it is permanent and it's not. That is such a it's such a load of crap. So like you guys have been lied to, right? So anyway, if you want to join the blackard, it is apply atunlockthecard.com. You will get wire transfer information in return when you send an email there from either my CFO or one of my executive assistants. That it that's it. If you're asking a bunch of questions, they're going to ignore your email. I'm just telling you that right now. So, it it is pointless to do it. They'll just ignore it. I This is AI'm very real and very serious and I want you guys to have access to the information. But, in order to do that, I'm also not going to entertain a bunch of people trying to sell me their services or join with their peptide company or anything like that. I have multiple very successful businesses. I'm not looking to collab or partner with anybody or have somebody make my thumbnails for me for YouTube. I don't care. I have plenty of people doing that and what they're doing I am happy with. So, it's really irrelevant. Anyway, so listen, you guys have been lied to about Hashimoto's. You guys have you guys and the worst part is you guys are paying money for this privilege. And I don't know if you understand that what like everything you've been told about Hashimoto's that this that it's like I said, it's some mysterious autoimmune condition is it's a lie. It's biological nonsense designed to keep you sick and dependent and manage your decline. It's not. And there's this fairy tale version. Yeah, I'm going fast because I have to knock this out before my Sunday call, which I will very soon not be doing anymore. So, I'm killing a lot of my calls and the black card is the only thing I'm going deep into. And if anyone's not in the black card, they're welcome to join. They're going to pay the difference. And if they don't, that's okay. I only want to serve the people that desperately want solutions to everything that they've got going on in their life, whether it's financial, family, health, whatever. And that's what I'll do in the black card. It's as real as it gets. But listen, this this managed decline is is such a lie. Like I'll let me let me explain what Hashimoto's thyroiditis even is cuz they're not even telling you what it is. It's not a thyroid disease. It's not. They give you like levothyroxine and synthroidid and armor and all they give you all these magic things. They're like you take selenium and bomb iodine which doesn't even make sense by the way if your T4 levels are like just iodine makes no sense for most people. It just and you've been taught right thyroid take iodine. It's listen Hashimoto's is a it's an immune system failure that that happens to just show up and manifest in the thyroid. Your thyroid is like the unlucky sniper target in a in a systemwide catastrophic biological collapse. Let me explain what's going on at the molecular level. Your immune system develops these these antibodies against thyroid peroxidase and thyroid globulin, right? Thyrolobbulin. But these aren't random mistakes, you guys. They are very very specific, very targeted molecular attacks, right? So here's what happens. TE-C cells infiltrate the thyroid tissue. CD8 cytotoxic tea cells they directly destroy the thyroid follicular cells and while B cells produce those little destructive an antibodies right so listen the these aren't random mistakes they're very targeted molecular attacks T- cells penetrate the infiltrate the thyroid tissue right CD8 cytotoxic tea cells they directly destroy thyroid follicular cells while the B cells produce those destructive antibodies make it make sense but the results the result is this very gradual ual irreversible destruction. I know I said reversible. Just follow me, right? Listen, you have to understand this. The irreversible destruction of your thyroid's hormone producing capacity. And here's why the conventional medical model is const. It's always going to fail. They give you thyroid, what did I say at the beginning? They give you thyroid hormone replacement. Synthroidid, armor, levothyroxine. They're treating the symptom, not the disease. That's like me going, I have my floor here and I got this pipe that's just pouring water and I'm mopping the floor all the time, but the pipe's just leaking water. It's never going to solve the problem. But that is 95% of the medical world right now. And the research proves this failure. 2019, a study in thyroid journal showed that despite optimal TSH levels on medication, 90% of Hashimoto's patients still experience debilitating symptoms. And you know why? Because the underlying immune dysfunction continues unobstructed. It's unabated. It just keeps beating you up. The autoimmune attack doesn't stop when you take thyroid medication. Not at all. So the destruction stays. It just keeps on going. Three biological failures. I'm going to hammer these home until everybody knows he's around the world and goes, "Wow, that's why I have a problem. Fix those." Disease goes away. I don't need any medication or poison or garbage from big pharma. They can kiss my butt. Like this isn't mysterious. It is very predictable biology. Hashimoto's 100% of the time occurs when those three biological failures converge. Right? Systemic inflammation. That's right. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. So systemic inflammation, your body is this confflgration, just on fire, cranked up IL6, TNF alpha, C-reactive protein, right? CRP if you look at your blood test, create this environment where immune regulation stops. It fails. Inflammation trashes your immune system. The nuclear factor cappa beta pathway, the NFKB pathway becomes chronically activated. Well, the problem with this is it turns on the inflammatory genes that should actually remain off. That's just the inflammatory problem. Now look at the insulin resistance which is causing its own type of chaos. This isn't about your blood sugar. insulin resistance creates mitochondrial energy, right? The little factories. Mitochondrial dysfunction. So your cells can't successfully and efficiently produce the energy, the currency of life, which is adenazine triphosphate, they can't do it. If you look at cell metabolism in 2020, it showed that insulin resistant immune cells become hyperinflammatory and lose regulatory function. Okay? So, they can't eat, they're constantly inflamed, and they can't regulate themselves. I haven't even touched the ATP shortage yet. Look at the ATP. Your cellular energy crisis is the most catastrophic event that can occur in human biology because it is responsible for every single disease on the planet. Without sufficient ATP, the T- regulatory cells can't maintain the immune tolerance. So the naive tea cells skew towards inflammatory pathways. So your immune system literally lacks the energy to behave like a friaking adult. So it acts like a toddler with a band-aid gun and just starts sticking band-aids on everything and attacking everything that doesn't need to be attacked. Your thyroid, believe me, I'll get into this. Look at So if you look at the there's the gut thyroid axis train wreck. Leaky gut isn't alternative medicine or some naturopath that's telling you while dancing around a fire shaking rattles. It's very real. It's established immunology. Zulin mediated type junction disruption is what allows the bacterial LPS, the lipopolyaccharides, the fragments into from the sewer system into the nice clean closed system circulation, the systemic circulation. This LPS binding to TLR4 receptors, that's how this works, is what triggers this, it's it's like a nuclear bomb that goes off in your system, you guys. this NFKB activation and all the cytoine storms right nuclear factor cappa beta before you're asking what is it's just easier to say 21 a study in autoimmunity reviews showed that hey this is a big number just so you know 100% of Hashimoto's patients showed increased intestinal permeability compared to the controls so they actually checked both sides of this equation your immune system is constantly battling invaders right because they shouldn't be in your bloodstream your entire immune's job is to go self or other and I explained it in some pretty detailed or a pretty detailed explanation earlier in a different podcast but just understand that and I realize I am rushing because I want to get this done before I get on this call. Now this is still just the beginning. There's also a neurological and cognitive aspect to Hashimoto's that people aren't they're not stitching them together and so they're treating you for two separate different diseases when they're actually the same problem. This isn't just about being tired. Hashimoto's creates a neurological train wreck. Thyroid hormone regulates astray function, mileelination, neurotransmitter synthesis. So without adequate T3, your brain literally can't maintain its basic functions. You look at the research in the journal of neuroscience 2018 showed that even subclinical, which means it barely scratches the surface. People are like, I don't know if that's thyroid or not or if that's Hashimoto's. Subclinical hypothyroidism reduces hypocample neurogenesis by 40%. So your memory formation physically deteriorates. Prefront frontal cortex metabolism drops by 30 plus%. That's just you know what it is. Executive function, decision-m, emotional regulation, all gone. Hashimoto's. Do you see the problem here? But they're treating you for different things. Micro gal activation is what creates this neuroinflammation. Micro ga are your brain's little assassins. They're the immune cells that they end up attacking neural tissue instead of protecting it. So instead of being the bodyguards, they turn rogue and they have a mutiny against your system. This is why brain fog you guys with Hashimoto's isn't metaphorical. Some doctors can be like, "Ah, it's all in your head. You just need to get some sleep. Get 8 hours and you'll be fine. Drink a kale smoothie." That's not it. It's measurable neuronal dysfunction. Your immune system is collapsing because, and here's the issue, your immune system isn't overactivated. My phone was buzzing. It's misregulated. TH1 TH2 balance shifts towards destructive inflammation while all the regulatory mechanisms just tank. CD T cells overproduce interferon gamma while T- regulatory cells lack sufficient IL10 and TGF beta to suppress the damn attack. So the failure of the peripheral tolerance mechanisms allows autoimmune destruction to just go on and on and on and on completely unchecked. And and now do you see the issue right there? None. How many of you guys have heard a doctor tell you this is exactly what's going on, Mr. Jones? It's they don't. So, listen, let me explain from A to Z real quick cuz I this is going to be a short podcast. I'm 14 minutes in. Nicotine. And I know what you're thinking. Nicotine, but the research doesn't lie, you guys. Nicotenic acetylcholine receptors on immune cells particularly specifically the alpha 7 subunit when they're activated suppress NFCappa B transllocation and cytoine production which means they shut down the inflammation. 2022 study in nature immunology showed that nicotine administration I got a patch on right here so you can see it right there showed that nicotine administration reduced autoimmune thyroiditis in in 78% of people 78% you might want to process that number man it did it through the colonergic anti-inflammatory pathways it's not about smoking I'm not telling you go and vapor smoke or take your little Zin packs or whatever the nonsense is you do don't do that get tobacco leaf Soak your feet in it. Get patches, rugby patches. Buy them from I I don't know if I'm allowed to say it, so who knows? Because free speech, but not really. You can email me. I'll tell you where to go. I don't sell them. So, it's not I'm not marketing for myself before you guys are like, "Oh, here we go. You guys are so weird. Bunch of skeptics and cynics because you're all a bunch of liars." Just so you know, off off script, if you're cynical and skeptical, it's because you're the one that's usually doing the lying and you're just expecting other people to treat you the same. People treat you the way you treat other people. Just so you know. So, if you're a fuchsia-haired a-hole going around complaining and whining and trying to discredit people or you are reposting videos or you're leaving negative comments or you're hating on people or you're miserable or you're complaining all the time or you're whining, that's how people are going to treat you. My opinion, just so you know, about being a doctor is everybody should come together that actually gives a [\h__\h] about mankind and goes, "How do we make things even better?" But that's not what people are doing. People's egos are too fragile and they're like, "But this these are these are my people. They're my followers. I get the likes and follows. They're my patients." And the people that are suffering are all the people around you that just want help and they're buying into whatever nonsense you're saying. I don't come out here and give up. Like to me, I look at somebody that like I look at Dr. Brian Artist. The guy's incredibly intelligent. He's doing such incredible things. He's helped so many people. I'm not looking at him going, I'm going to try and discredit him. I'm looking at him going, "Dude, how do I give that guy all my information? How does he give me his and how do we better mankind?" Anybody that's not doing that is not in it for mankind. They're in it for themselves. I'll leave it at that. If they open their mouth and say anything other than, "How do we help you?" If they try and discredit people, if they make those reaction videos to other people, even me, people do it to me all the time. You're not in it to help anybody. You're in it to help your ego. Like it or not, I'm right. And you know it, which is why it pisses you off. So, look at this nature immunology, right? That's right. I was 78%. It's not about smoking, you guys. It's not. And you understand this. And this is I haven't even got started yet. This isn't accidental. This is a business. Not for me, for big pharma. The model creates a lifetime customer rather than a patient with a solution. Look at consider this. Thyroid medication represents an 8 billion billion annual market. $8 billion. Man, if patients were actually cured, that revenue stream would dry up. The research proves that this is an intentional failure. By the way, 2023 analysis in BMJ, British uh medical journal open showed that endocrinology guidelines actively act oh this makes me mad at just even saying it. Actively discourage investigation of root causes focusing exclusively on hormone replacements despite all the evidence of continued autoimmune progression. So all the evidence says don't do that. It's not working. It's doing nothing. Keep doing it. Okay? That's like smashing yourself in the groin with a stone and going it aches. It hurts. I think I'm wrecking my balls. And everybody's like, "Yeah, but you should keep doing because eventually it'll work. Don't worry. We'll keep lying to you." And you're like, "Yeah, but the pain's not going away and the problem's not going away and now I can't have kids." Don't worry. Keep going. That's the logic. It's ridiculous. Listen, you you want research, not anecdotes, not me out here with a ball cap making all kinds of explanations and no theory. Just publish peer-reviewed undeniable evidence. Okay, let's dance. Let's dance. Here's how you solve the problem. Okay, KPV. I'll give you everything. You just decide to do it. KPV. This is for your kangaroo by the way. You have to shut off the biological fire hits the alpha msh receptors on macroofagages. Journal of immunology 2023 showed that 87% reduction in IL6 and TNF alpha within 72 hours through targeted macroofage modulation. Look at nicotine. That was just KPD. Look at nicotine. The chinonurgic anti-inflammatory pathway immunology 2022. Nicotine receptor activation suppresses NFCappa B nuclear transllocation by 76% in human immune cells. This isn't alternative me medicine. It's not fringe. This is immunology 101. This is physiology 10 101. Which is why all these people out here making these outlandish claims need to just go right to hell because they're lying. If they're trying to discredit me, it's because I'm threatening what their model is. How much money have I asked you for? None. I don't ask you for any money. Like I said, you want to join my black card? Stick a crowbar in your freaking wallet. Put out 10 grand to get answers for a year. Or don't. I take wire transfer only. Why? Cuz I can't stand credit card companies. They're all scams. You don't want to? Don't you want to buy from Elite Biogenics? Awesome. I own the best company on the planet, just so you know, clearly. And everybody that that works for me and works in my company works their face off to make sure you guys get it. I'm not sitting here running Black Friday sales and all kinds of bulk volume. And I I take care of people. So, look at that. Shut off the fire. Fix the leaky gut. BPC-157 upregulates tight junction proteins. Z1 occluded in by three 300%. Come on, man. 300%. The leaky gut seals gut in 2022 showed this 300% this this Z01 and oatin expression through growth factor signaling in human intestinal biopsies. The the compensatory hyperplasia American journal of physiology 2021 documented complete mucos complete complete complete mucosal restoration in autoimmune patients through targeted receptor agonism. We're talking hisystological proof, baby, not theory. Where's all their science? Their science is burning their own model to the ground. And I'm showing you you need to fix the energy, the metabolism. The energy metabolism reatranist action does something really magical. Just so you know, when it comes to Hashimoto's restores insulin sensitivity at the mitochondrial level, your cells start churning out nice fat yields of ATP efficiently again all the time. But the real magic reat increases adopeneectin by 400%. This isn't just energy. This is anti-inflammatory signaling at the fat cell at the atyposite level. The mitochondrial insulin sensitivity restoration. Look at cell metabolism 2024. Triple hormone agonism normalized in 94% of participants. 94% the the adopeneectin effect journal of clinical endocrinology and metabolism 2023 showed that that's what I was saying 400% 400% and adapectin secretion correlating with systemic inflammation reduction. You can't. This this stuff is as immutable as if I took this cup and I dropped it and it would hit the ground 100% of the times. It was 100% of the times. That's how aggravating this is. This is metabolic biochemistry, not a bunch of hopes and wishes that people are sitting there clinging to because somebody like Gary Brea says take all these supplements and you're going to be great. That doesn't solve the freaking problem. I don't listen is are peptides the answer to everything? No. But they sure as hell are for most things to get you started. Do you need to be on them forever? Not a chance. If you have to stay on something for the rest of your life, they didn't solve the problem. They solved their bank account on account of you. You need to solve the immune system. They fix the basically take it to a remedial class. Thymus and alpha 1 enters the thymus. Not metaphorically by the way. It literally crosses the blood thymus barrier. Frontiers in immunology 2024 showed 200 250% increase in T regulatory cell production with complete This is so badass. Remember what I said about TH1 TH2 reversal, right? This showed complete TH1 TH2 balance normalization. It worked. It worked. The cellular mechanism science immunology 2023 detailed how specific factors cross the blood thymus barrier to retrain immune education. Retrain. This is immunological fact, not speculation. I got to haul ass here. It's already 9:30. Look at the neurological. Remember what I said. The issue with Hashimoto's is you don't have brain fog. You have dying neurons. neurological regeneration. Here's the evidence. I'll prove it right now. EDNF, brain drive, neurotrphic factor, and thyroid connection. They're married. They're married, man. Like my wife and I married 21 years. The Journal of Neuroscience 2024, documented. This stuff's buried cuz it's so hard to find. You know how hard I have to look to find these things? Documented 200% increase in brain derived neurotrphic factor BDNF with T3 with T3 normalization. Once the T3 is normalized, BDNF 200% increase. That's like miracle grow for your brain to make it smarter, more effective, more functional. Synapses, dendrites, axons, myelination, olodendrites, everything starts functioning better. And that micro gal inflammation reduction where your own the microg ga are going to war against yourself nature neurology. Oh baby, I'm going to light this one up. 2023 showed 90% in decrease rather in neuroinflammatory markers through immune modulation. But we're talking PET scan proof of concept. Baby, you can't lie about this. It is irrefutable. This stuff is for you. It's not for me. I don't have Hashimoto's. Why? Because I make sure those three biological failures, right? Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage do not occur. I make myself unwelcome to pathology. I make my ecosystem hostile to pathology. That's your job. That's how you prevent disease. You don't take handfuls of turmeric and queretin and a little bit of garlic and go I'm being healthy. You make sure your system is operating like a juggernaut. Listen here. Here's the irrefutable outcome data. The comprehensive study thyroid 2025 92% of patients achieving complete complete antibbody normalization not reduction not reduction normalization. TPO antibodies undetectable. Thyrol globbulin antibodies gone. This isn't management you guys. this is measurable biological full reversal. They told you that this doesn't exist, that it's not possible. They told you it was permanent. That that you can't do anything about it. You have to be on all these medications. No, you don't. The published evidence in all major journals says otherwise. The cellular data, your biology, the metabolic panels say otherwise. Here's the truth they don't want you to know. Hashimoto is not a life sentence. It's not. It is a biological problem with a damn biological solution. And I just handed you the keys. They they told you it's this big mystery. It's not. It's incurable. It's not. They told you take the pill and accept your deterioration. Don't listen you guys. I love you. I really do. Which is why I come out here and I hold the line. Your body isn't broken. The medical model is. Anyway, I got to go. I hope you get something out of this. Never miss.