I've been a doc for well over two decades. Like I said, I'm 52 years old. I've been doing this a really long time. But I really started getting into real health. Let me explain something because I'm going to I'm going to burn down every single longevity clinic wellness spa hyped up NAD plus infusion IV BS business in the United States on this this version of this podcast today cuz they aggravate me so much because you guys if you're one of those wellness spas, those longevity clinics, I'm going to burn out your I'm going to burn out your eyes because you know what? I'm going to give it all away and I'm going to tell everybody how to do it where they can do it without giving you a hundred grand a year for all the BS that you guys don't even understand. I'll go toe-to-toe with any one of you guys. anyone go live with me time and place because I'm so sick and tired of you guys thinking that you are such an expert just because you know more than some rich man or woman that comes into your wellness spa or your longevity clinic and just because you know some big words and you know slightly more than them that makes you dangerous not educated because all you do is take their money because they're worth $40 million. You know what? I have people that are worth billions as my clients, as my patients, as my customers. And you know what? They pay the same price as someone who's worth a h 100red grand. I don't listen. Yeah. Oh, I damn right you're going to pay me for for my help. But I I I really know what I'm talking about. I'm not giving you a bunch of voodoo BS tests and checking your blood every seven minutes and putting you in a 24-hour drip and a red light sauna and some stupid red light cap that you put on your head and going, "You have to pay me because I'm the expert and only I know." I want you to know everything. I want you to not have to rely on me when we're done because then I did my job. You can hang with me all you want, but if I make you addicted to me and require me for the rest of your life, how am I any different than a drug? And that means I didn't solve the problem. Agreed? So, I'm I'm just going to solve the problems. So, I hope you are a longevity clinic or a wellness clinic owner or wellness spa owner that listens to this. I just I'm going to suck out your eyes. It bugs me so much. Oh, and by the way, before somebody has an aneurysm, this is entertainment, purely hypothetical, all speculative. It's all for research and education, and it's not meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, or advise or anything else like that. If you know, you know. In the country of free speech, and if you need any help, you send me a message on Instagram. I'll break my fingers to help you. I have clients and patients. I got this one guy, Jerry. Man, this guy is fast becoming one of my favorite patients. This guy's a stud. He's an old dude. Gritty, savage. This guy is unkillable, man. I swear he is. He signed up for my program. Let me explain this. He signed up for my program. Didn't hesitate. Bought the lifetime right there on the spot. And all I get are questions. I give him answers. And he goes, "You know what? I I know you I know you care. And I know what you're telling me is going to help. And everything I give him, it is because I care. Because I do want to help. Ask yourself the same question about the people you talk to or the places where you go. Do they really give a [\h__\h] about you? Because let me let me let me get right into this because I could do this all day. It bugs me because I'm seeing the number of liars and charlatans and and people coming out going, "I just care and I have this wonderful business model that's going to help you. Please give me all your money. Makes me just want to throw elbows and knees, man. I've been solving problems with people's health for well over two decades. Yep. I've made a lot of money doing it. I've also done it for free, more than anybody else I've ever encountered because I give a [\h__\h] So, let let me say this. your longevity clinics, if that's you. If your anti-aging plan requires you to mortgage your house and to sit in some salt cave, wear blue light blocking glasses, and post a selfie for your aura on Instagram. You don't have a longevity protocol. You got a cult membership. Look, listen. You want to age slower, you want to live longer, you want to feel better, you want to look younger. I get all that. That is not spiritual. That's not spiritual. That's cellular. Aging is not a vibe. You can't write this stuff. Aging is not a vibe. It's a series of biological failures happening at a at scale across your entire body. Your mitochondria get get lazy. Your DNA stops copying cleanly, right? Tie, and I'll get into this. Your collagen dries up like an old rubber tire sitting in some farmer's field. Your brain misfires. Your hormones tank. Your gut ends up leaking. and your cells forget how to clean damn house. And what do most clinics do? These wellness longevity spas. They sell you $50,000 IV drips. They toss you in some freezer. They throw words around like what did I hear the other day? Bioenergetic. Come on, man. Bio. And they hand you a peptide that you could have bought for probably a hundred bucks if you knew what you were doing. So, you know what we're going to do right now? I'm going to obliterate that model. I want every one of you guys to share this with everybody and just burn their businesses to the ground because they're liars. I'm going to give you all the real info. What you do with it is up to you. But, I mean, this is stuff that really works and it I'm going to explain it like a human freaking being. And this is going to be Listen, I'm going to give you so much value. You better just hit record and just this should count as resistance training because the value is going to be so dense. Let me explain what the enemy really is because I think you guys don't even understand aging is it's we could talk about Methusela and the Bible and all that stuff 900 years etc and Abraham and Noah and stuff but that's not what I'm talking about. I mean just define the current enemy right now to a human that it's aging. It's damage accumulation. That's the easiest way to explain it and it's not in some metaphorical sense. I mean literal. This is literal observable cellular chaos. Like I said, your mitochondri here's what they do. They slow down. So when mitochondria slows down, you get less energy. When tieumirs shrink, which is the DNA replication, remember every time your cell divides a small piece of that, the end cap of the DNA, it's called the tieamir. Think of it like an aglet on the end of a shoelace. That's there's less, right? This is where a pitilon comes in. And I'll get into that in a second, but telomeir shrink, cellular aging, inflammation goes up, more oxidative stress, collagen breaks, so you get wrinkles and joint pain and arthritic conditions. Uh, stem cells go dormant, so you run out of the opportunity to repair. Stem cells are amazing because they can go anywhere and do anything. DNA replication errors happen all the time. So now you're getting all these weird cellular dysfunction issues, this communication issue, and your hormones go through the floor. So now everything just sucks more. That's it. There's your problem. You're welcome. Now, here's the trick. If you fix these at the at not even at the cellular, at the molecular level, you don't just slow aging. You reverse biological markers of aging. Listen, there's that one dude that's trying to live to be 200 years old. The guy's going to probably get hit by a bus. But he's I don't know how many supplements and he's like taking the blood of his kid. I don't know what that guy's name is. And he's a gajillionaire. I mean, I hope he lives forever. Hope what he does works. I hope he becomes the best research subject ever. But if your entire life is built around longevity, but you don't live the life, is it really living? Anyway, I just that's just a thought I had. But here's the catch. Most of these longevity clinics, these wellness spas don't ever fix that. They don't actually fix the problem. They do what the fitness industry does. Oh yeah, I'm coming for you guys next. Don't worry. All you fitness gurus, you Insta gurus, I'm I'm going to burn out your eyes. They slap a They slap aesthetics, right? They slap an aesthetic on a dysfunction and then they label it as elite. Really, if you look at just using that name, if you want to know what elite is, making sure that I offer white glove service and exceptional help and an exceptional product at an incredibly available price point. You look at Elite Biogenics, for example. Yep, it's elite. Bet your ass we deliver. I don't care where else you go. Nobody will ever come close to how well we do this ever. See, you let me. So, just there. Elite biogenics. You guys keep wondering who owns it. Hello. I don't know how else to expl How much more obvious do I have to be? Bald guy beard looks like me. Listen, here's what happens when you go into one of these wellness spas or these longevity clinics that are run by these charlatans. You walk in and here's what they sell you. They sell you an NAD drip. I've seen this cuz I've made phone calls. I've gone all over the place and done this. They sell you this NAD drip that lasts about 6 hours. They sell you a $5,000 mitochondrial panel with zero implementation. And they give you a sauna membership. I've seen this. A sauna membership that you're never going to use. They give you a meditation with binaural beats. Don't even get me started on that. And then a $5,000 consult to tell you that you're slightly inflamed, but you're rich so they can command all. Listen, I'm okay with charging a lot of money. I really am. If this costs a hundred grand to do just this, somebody needs a flying elbow. But if they actually do something that changes the quality of your life and repairs cellular damage and reverses biological markers, yeah, that's worth 100 grand. But they're not doing that. Oh, they'll tell you they are because here's what happens. After you've gone through all this, your cells are still screaming for real biological leverage. And all you got was a cold. You got an ice bath and a placebo. So, how about how about I just chop up all the [\h__\h] and I'll just tell you what works because I I have things to do and I this stuff gets me heated. So, here's how you win. You have to build a protocol that addresses a couple of things. And I think if you even know this going in, you can challenge people. So, you need to address what did I say? Mitochondrial issues, right? So, you need to have some stack or protocol or a system and you're not getting it at some supplement store. Most supplements, and when I say most, I've rarely seen a supplement company do anything worth it. Even if they say they do, oh, we're the best. Just because they charge more doesn't mean they're the best. So, you need to address mitochondrial dysfunction. You need to address hormonal decline, cognitive decay big time, and neuroinflam neuroinflam neuroinflammation. You need to address the fibrosis and the systemic inflammation. You need to address any kind of hormone issues, not just the decline, just hormone dysfunction, right? DNA damage, telomeir attrition. You need to address loss of regenerative capacity, all those things. I don't know how many are on that list. Seven, eight, something like that. But those are the things that I'd be looking at as a doc if you came to talk to me. I'm going through all these. And you don't need a blood test every freaking week. I told you I have a cure program. Yeah, it is. Uh, it's relative, I In this case, it's called cure and it is $100,000 and you get me for 100 days and I solve every [\h__\h] health problem you've got. Nope, it's not payments. Nope, it's not negotiable. And yep, it is catered, it is geared towards people that have the financial backing to do it and who are going to listen to every damn thing I say. But I can promise you, all you have to do is follow me around for about two weeks and you'll see I am I do exactly what I say and I'm a walking talking billboard. go back four years and see what I've had to overcome and how well I have done it at 52. So, if you're not willing to invest that kind of money in your health, I'm not for you. But I'm still giving you the information. You just don't have somebody that's going to hold you accountable and that you can ask questions. But if you think you're going to get a blood test every week or two or every three days and that's what you need and you need all these genetic markers, you need to chase Brea around and have him follow all this [\h__\h] get out of here. No, you don't. You don't. I'm not going to throw darts at buzzwords just to to get people to believe what I say. I'm going to pull and push on those biological levers that actually do what they're supposed to do that work. They're ones that matter. You want your Listen here, I I'll spell it out. You want your skin to look younger, fix collagen. You want your joints to stop hurting, reverse fibrosis. You want your brain to fire and and connect like it used to, you need to work on something called synaptogenesis, right? You need to stimulate synaptogenesis. You want your metabolism back? Rewire mitochondria and insulin signaling. Those two things alone will change your life. You want to live longer, extend tieumirs and repair the damn DNA. This isn't complicated once you understand the system. Once you understand basic biochemistry and physiology, this is not complicated. You just need the right information given to you in a way that you understand and then you need the right inputs. So, I'm going to walk through the whole thing from cover to cover and then I'm going to go eat lunch. So, and then I have some meetings I have to take care of. I'm very transparent about my life. I already worked out today and I crushed the [\h__\h] out of it. I called it assassin training to one of my buddies cuz that's what I'm doing. So, this is the stack that's going to obliterate the overpriced clinics and wellness and longevity gurus out there and I'm going to actually fix all your problems. I'm going to do it for free hypothetically if you know. You know this is the way I put this together is for real physical or um not just physical physiological outcomes cuz we're going to the cellular level. This isn't for your chakra or your Instagram or your everybody cuddle at your biohacking retreat and everybody get on the stage and jump up and down and let me yell at the audience and lie about all the things that I do that I don't do. These are actual measurable biological changes. So I said at the beginning, right? A pitilon. This is think of a pitilon. This is amazing. A pitilon hypothetically is [\h__\h] free speech. Think of this as a genetic reset button. What it does is it increases something called telomeray activity. So telomease this is it doesn't even matter what it is. This stabilizes DNA replication. It improves something called pineal gland function and it regulates melatonin. If you know that, right, we've seen it before. What it does is it extends lifespan in anything it touches. All the just do the research and you'll see it. You don't need to trust me if you don't want to. You should, but you could just look up research in all kinds of models. Like we're talking multiple models across multiple animals, let's just say, to avoid any issues. So epitoolon, just think of it this way. Epitoolon increases timmerase activity. But here's why it matters. Tieers are those think of it as a a ticking time bomb in your cells. This just delays the alarm. It's the only time a snooze button is something you want. Hypothetically, if I was going to run an experiment, I would probably run the experiment with my mice at 10 milligrams every day for 10 to 20 days, every 3 to 6 months. If you're going to ask how, subq, if you don't know what that is, look it up. There's this site you guys might want to look at. I wrote it down, but I Let's see if I can remember it. It's a great information site. Uh, let me know when you guys are ready. You ready? Okay. So, I'm going to spell it for It's G O. You guys keeping up? Yeah. O G L E. Yeah. Quit being so lazy. Look stuff up. And if you go, I don't know if it's accurate. Look it up and you'll know if it's accurate cuz if you look it up and then just bounce a message off of me, I'll give you a thumbs up or thumbs down. Trust me. The epitoilon is the foundation. If you're not doing this, you're not in the longevity game. So if you go to any longevity clinic, wellness spa, longevity guru, doctor, if this isn't in anything they're talking about, you're not in the longevity. You're in the I hope I make it. I'm going to give you a lot of money and believe all the BS that you're trying to shovel down my throat lottery. You need that. Am I getting through? Like, does this make sense? Sometimes I I come out here and I do these podcasts and it just makes just wants me to like I just want to start throwing punches because some people just don't pay attention. Just to be very clear, I have no reason to steer you astray. So there's a bunch of these. So you better get writing or run this on repeat. The second one is something called GHK-Cu. That is it's copper in look at this as the ultimate regenerator of your body. What it does is it repairs DNA. It activate, remember what I said about stem cells. This activates stem cells, increases collagen and elastins. So, it doesn't just help your skin. It connective tissue, joints, uh, it improves wound healing a massive scale. Yes, it's blue because you guys all ask me, is it supposed to be blue? Yes, it's blue. Reverses oxidative damage. Oxidative stress is based on free radicals flying around your system. You want to get rid of those as fast as possible. And it rebuilds skin, liver, lungs, nerves is a big one. But here's why this is a a big deal. This isn't a skin cream. This is I would call this biological regen in a syringe. Again, if I was running the same research study and my mice needed to have this in their study, I'd probably be looking to 200 200 to 300 micrograms every day subq. You want to know something? I saw this the other day and almost fell over. clinics are going to charge you 900 I saw all the way up to $4,700 for a copper facial. You could inject 300 micrograms of this and your face would thank you for a year and it's even close to what do I know? Third one is TB-500. I've talked about this so many times. It's in my Wolverine stock. This, if you had to, and I'm trying to give these things names so you guys understand this. This would be the anti- fibrosis. It just destroys fibrosis. It's like a like an engineer in your system. It regulates something called actin. So, in regulating actin, it als it breaks down scar tissue. So, you even with range of motion in my Wolverine stack, you don't get a shoulder that does this. You get a shoulder that does this. So, it breaks down scar tissue, protects the heart, uh, reverses athletes heart. It's got so many cardioprotective properties, it's I can't even keep up with them. They just keep coming up with more more new ones. It protects the heart and the brain from inflammation. Right off the bat, this should be a stable part of your entire I almost dropped an apple. Your entire damn life. It improves. If you remember my conversation on vascular health and heart disease, this one improves blood vessel flexibility, the um endothelial cells, right? But aging equals, think of it this way, aging equals scar tissue. You are, it's inevitable. You are laying down scar tissue all the time, every day. Even you guys go, I've never been injured. I've never done anything. When cells stop working, when tissue gets micro tears, anything that happens when you work out, you are developing scar tissue. The end. Stop arguing. TB-500 is flexibility in a vial and it's this remember this stuff is think of remember when you guys go, well, do I have to keep taking it forever? No, this is re it's telling your body to do things better. It is not something you have to rely on. Why do you think that this is such a hated subject? Because you can't patent it. You can't force people to take it forever because they're sick without it. And it actually mitigates 99.99999% of the problems in the on the planet that are man-made. Oh, this is going to get me in a whole boatload of trouble. I just don't care. My job here above all, do no harm. That's why I'm out here with you want to make money, you call me. I will teach you how to make $1 million in a year, and I will stay on your throat until you get there. You want to be healthy, you need to talk to me. Whatever health problem you have, I promise I'll put a blanket statement out there. I don't care what's going on with your health. I'll solve it. That's how good I am. You can't get your psychology around it. We start there. Because if you don't get your head right, it doesn't matter what I tell you to do. If you're not willing to do it, it doesn't matter if I give you the answer. You have to be willing to apply the answer. So, buckle up. If you're going to hire me, you're going to be uncomfortable. If you want comfort, I'm not for you. So, think about it. TB-500. Let me come back to that. It's like flexibility and function even in a vial. If I was going to apply this same compound peptide to my mouse experiment, hypothetically, I would do 5 milligrams a week for four weeks and then 2 and a half milligrams a week forever. So that's you can choose. Now listen, you don't have to. Why wouldn't you? This isn't something like metformin or like a humalogue pump where you have to take it because you have insulin resistance that is being caused by you because your muscles can't take in insulin. So your body goes, "Let's shuttle it into fat." And then their answer is more insulin, which makes it worse. Type 2 diabetes is insulin resistance. If you haven't figured that out yet, nobody's explained it to you. Then your doctor sucks. You should fire them. And as you leave, kick them right in the groin. This bugs me. Medical doctors are supposed to help people. Most of them are in it for a ton of money. You know how you make a ton of money? I'll let I'll give you the secret. I We're talking hundreds and hundreds of millions and billions of dollars. Care. Genuinely care. If you haven't figured out in almost 200 episodes that I give a [\h__\h] about you guys, you're never going to figure it out. You're too busy being entertained and rubbing one out to the weirdest AI porn you can find. I promise you this with TB-500, no clinic is giving you this at an effective dose at all. But here's why. It's because they're scared of results that they can't control. You get better, they leave. You know what's weird? When people hire me, whether it's to be there to help grow their business and, you know, grow their brand or solve a lot of health issues, they end up staying forever because they go, "You you have just non-stop information. you help me. Why do you think I do my Monday call? Like my Monday Q&A is for people that can't quite come up with the investment to have me oneon-one. Well, it's like having me one-on-one. If you ask me a question in the middle of the week, I'm going to ghost you. Just so you know, cuz otherwise then you're oneon-one. Not answering a damn. I love you, but no. You can ask me in that one and a half to two hour window if I don't get to the answer by the time I'm done the call. You know what? 99% of the time I do. But if you ask me right at the end when I'm closing up shop, you're going to have to wait a week. But at the same time, if it's something serious, I end up helping you anyway because I give a [\h__\h] You're not going to find a coach like me. I'll just tell you that right now. BPC-157. What are we at? Four. This is the fourth thing. This is all together, right, for the same experiment. This is like glue that just heals everything. It's like a universal compound. It repair, listen, repairs gut lining, nerves, joints, endothelial like cells, right? The endothelium. It reduces systemic inflammation, supports dopamine, serotonin signaling, all the stuff that gets demolished by staring at your cell phone and Tik Tok. But here's why it makes a difference. Cuz every system that breaks as you age, BPC-157 tries to put it back together and it does it successfully. If I'm running this experiment with the same damn mice, I'm four compounds in, I would be doing a,000 microgram. So just one gram. Just say it like that. One gram. Cuz you guys are going to say micrograms. What did you mean milligrams? No. I would do one milligram. One milligram every day. Subq. No. Oral is not. Cuz I know somebody's going to be like, "Well, oral it's effective, too. Can I take some of these orally?" No. No. Subq. And if you challenge it, show me the blood work. I'll stop there till I see your blood work match somebody that takes it subq. You got nothing. Yes. I'm going to be that harsh and abrasive. Stop with your orals because you're afraid of needles or because you just don't want to do it. Grow up, reach in your pants, grab a set of balls, and realize that. And there's some of you women the same way. Understand you've pushed out children. This it's the last thing you got to worry about. Get your [\h__\h] right. Stop believing in all the pseudo nonsense out there trying to take your money or reduce your health under the guise of we're just trying to help you. Think of this. So, one milligram every day for how long? I honestly I'll break this down at the end. I think it's probably easier, but this is it's like, you guys know what duct tape is? Duct tape is this is like duct tape for regenerative medicine, regenerative health. And I mean I mean this in a good way. This is the best thing. You can make anything out of duct tape, by the way, if you haven't figured that out. Duct tape is the ultimate compound. There you go. BPC57. So, what are we at? Five. Five. CJC1 1295 plus something called a pomellin. Use these in conjunction. And there's a whole litany of reasons why. I'm not going to get into it because otherwise I'm I've already been on here for about 20 minutes. I like I said, I'm hungry and I have a call coming up. This is um this is a growth trigger. So remember I said and I've talked about this before. It stimulates natural growth hormone release, increases IGF-1, but the other things it does improves sleep recovery, lean mass, skin elasticity, right? It's right up there with the copper GHK-Cu. Honestly, overall repair. This is just like a global systemic repair machine. But growth hormone isn't a Listen, here's why it's so awesome. Growth hormone isn't about aesthetics. And I think a lot of you guys have it wrong. It's about being able to rebuild faster than you're decaying, right? So if you like you look at the uh the Golden Gate Bridge, they're always painting it, right? They never stop painting it. Why? Because they're mitigating the damage caused by the salt spray from the bay and all the things that are causing decay on all that metal, that steel. So they just paint it all the time. That's what this does. It's just it's keeping the dec. It's repairing faster than the decay is occurring. You're always decaying. This gets in the way of that. So if if I was running this in the same experiment, the CJC, so let me be specific. CJC-1295 with DAC 2 milligrams once a week. The ipamearellin 100 to 200 micrograms twice a day. You can go once, but twice is better for the mice. Most of these wellness longevity clinics underdose this where they get bunky compounds. Just so you know, this stuff, you are very aware that it's going into your system. If you are like, I'm not sure if it really worked, you got sold a bunch of lies. Most clinics underdose this or even more so, they give it to you without any education. So, you have no idea, which is even worse because they're giving you something. I don't know what this is because they don't know. They are headline readers off the internet. They don't have a store of knowledge in their head like me. But this this combo, you know, this dynamic duo, this is a game changer. If you know how to use it and you know how to cycle it, this is a game changer. It it'll this stuff will change your life. So, we're on what? Six MK-677. I've talked about this a lot. Uh oral, just to be clear. I actually thought about that for a second. Yeah, it's oral, but this is like a like a recovery, like massive like mega recovery. So again, so look at the look at the CJC and the the epheimer, right? The growth hormone IGF-1. So this boosts growth hormone and IGF-1 as well. So now you got two things doing the same thing and they're both doing them right. Remember, these are telling your body, all these things are telling your body to do what it already knows how to do, but with a 20 to 50 R, like ROX or ROI, rather, sorry, 20 to 50 times ROI. Sign me up. This is like it makes all the work that you're doing count more. So, if all of you guys are going to go, somebody on here, well, that's kind of cheating, isn't it? Go watch the podcast I dropped yesterday about how people are crying about authenticity, but none of them are authentic and all of them are veiling. Don't be that guy. So again, MK-677, let me get back to it. So growth hormone, IGF-1, again, same thing. Sleep, recovery, lean mass, oral, so no injection. No, you cannot just take this. You need all if you're going to do this, do it all. That is like going just the tip. If you know, you know. Don't be an idiot. But here's why it it makes a big difference. If you want long-term support and you want to do this without a needle, this is your best bet. But you need to do all the other stuff for your experiment for your mice. Now, if I was running this with my mice, 10 to 25 milligrams a day, and if you're trying to figure out what gender or what sex takes what, I would think the first number would be more inclined to the one with indoor plumbing and the second number would be more appropriate rather for outdoor plumbing. If you know, you know. If you're not, I'm not explaining it twice. Every longevity clinic that I've ever seen that ignores this because it's here's why. And and I've made lots of phone calls and I've looked at lots and I've had lots of people call me going, you know, I'm going here and it's not really doing anything. I'm like, stop [\h__\h] going there. They ignore it because it's not prescribable. That's what they say. They ignore it because it's not prescribable. But you know what that's you know what that means? That's admitting that they care more about money and regulation than they do about results and longevity and health. Let that land just for a sec. Okay. Okay, so now we're going to get into something called SARMMS. This is the one that ultimately replaces TRT. Uh it's called RAD14. And I think some of you guys have probably heard of it. And if you haven't, then it doesn't matter. And can women and men both use this? Or males and females? I mean rather male and female mice. Sure, why not? This replaces TRT. And when used right, and if you're like, well, what about if you're going to throw research at me, well, what about this study? What about that study? Don't message me. Don't. Because for every research study that goes, "What? What? What about the danger of cancer or any cancer is man-made, first of all, and second of all, and we can go down that road if you really want to, but you're talking to a guy that's been through it four times." I'll challenge you all cuz I got better when I stopped listening to the people that said they were trying to help me with the chemical cocktails that they were giving me. I became an expert in health by necessity. And now I just give you the answers along with hacking your psychology and fixing your mindset and telling you how to be rich. I don't know why all you guys aren't just listening to me. I'm like, "Hey, listen. I'll fix your body. I'll fix your psychology. I'll fix your marriage. I'll make your sex life better. I'll grow your business to epic proportions. I'll fix your brand." And you know what? I do it because I give a [\h__\h] Is it going to cost money? Yeah. Maybe it's cuz you guys want stuff for free all the time. I don't know. Maybe that's it. I'm drinking coffee if you're listening to this trying to figure out what that weird sound is. It's my Bedro Coolian mug that I have here that I got from him. Good dude, man. You've heard me say it before. I got nothing but respect for that dude. So, let me get back onto this. RAD-140. Okay. So, it boosts muscle libido big time. Like big time. Buckle up. You're going to chase people around in your house, your wife, your husband. Fixes your mood without that weird shutdown that happens right when you take TRT. If you know, you know. If you don't, I shouldn't have to explain this. You when you go endogenous or when you go um exogenous, right, endogenous shuts down. This also fixes bone density, by the way, in a massive way. So, if you're having a bone density issue, which comes from not loading your bones, the whole pisoelectric effect, Wolf's law, this is all important when it comes to building strong bones, you need to move and put weight on your bot. Anyone that says otherwise, give them my number and then tell me when we're going to go live so I can prove them wrong. So, where was I? Boost muscle, bone density, libido through the roof in a good way, not some weird way. Like all you guys, you guys that are products of the 80s just went like a Spanish fly. First of all, there's no such thing. And second of all, the closest thing hypothetically to that is PT-141, but if you take too much, you look like a tomato. first of all and second of all makes you nauseated but I promise you it works on a neurological level not a systemic level not a enzyatic level here I'll spell it out for you PT-141 this is some free information makes you horny men and women hypothetically does it work holy [\h__\h] yes and you become an unstoppable force together in the bedroom where you're like yeah I want to try all that go get the trapeze and the baby oil. Like that's literally where your brain goes and you guys just can't get enough of each other and it's hypothetically it's awesome. So I heard so RAD-140 muscle boosts muscle boosts libido boosts increases bone density and there's no shutdown. That's the biggest part about this, right? Because TRT is permanent and I'm not saying anything for anyone on it. I don't I don't care. I think a lot of people should be and they're not because there the stigma attached to it. But yet you go on HRT as a woman because they went you're having menopause symptoms. Let's go ahead and gut you like a fish and pull out your uterus, give you a hyerectomy and take out all the hormone to even if you go, well, yeah, but they kept my ovaries. Listen, you don't think that the uterus itself, that's like saying the heart is not doesn't secrete anything. It's not an endocrine gland. I've had conversations with medical doctors that go, "Yeah, the heart's not a gland." Renan angotensin aldoststerone. Just look that up. The heart's a secretary organ. It is a gland. It affects kidney function. Kidney function affects cardiac function. Dude, I could do this all day. I Anyway, TRT is permanent. RAD-140 gives you this reversible anabolic advantage. If I was running this with the same mice, 10 to 15 milligrams a day, 8 to 12 weeks on two to four weeks off, hypothetically, you're not going to stay youthful with low muscle mass and osteoporosis, just so you know. And you can run around and listen to the Insta Gurus going, "You have to update your protein. Muscle is the o ultimate organ. You need to eat more protein." That's not enough, man. Just shoving protein in your bark hole does not make you instantly healthy. No, it doesn't cause renal damage. Save it. But it doesn't make you healthy. When people like, "Americans are eating less protein. You need to up your protein. What you should do is let me go ahead and run around the nation telling everybody that you need to eat more protein." There is so much more than that. Yes, it's true, but there's that that's about 5%. Just to be clear, but you can't stay youthful with muscle mass decreasing and osteoporosis. It is ab physiologically impossible. This RAD-140 solves that uh without a needle. So it's like MK77 or uh MK-677 rather. Five amino I don't know what we're on now. Seven 8 I think. Five amino 1 MQ. I've talked about this before in a whole lot of things. This five amino 1 1MQ and something called MC both. First of all, yes, they are available at Elite Biogenics. They just they're come they're here in if you order them now, you get it. If you don't, uh you're going to as soon as the orders come in, every time I do this happens, we run out like this. So, my my uh recommendation, listen, it's not about the money. If I wanted the money, I'd be like, "Hey, five Amina 1 MQ. Yeah, that's $100,000. I'm just giving you advice to help you. This is uh like an amplifier like in ways that you can't even if you remember the whole NNMT NAD, right, thing that I talked about with the enzyme that inhibits NAD plus, but that's what it is. This is an NAD amplifier plus a real fat burner. So, let me explain it. Inc., it increases NAD+ because it inhibits the NNMT. If you remember what I talked about in a previous podcast, it reduces um senicent cell activity which is massively important, right? And then it burns fat at the But here's why it you guys think fat burners and you're like, "Okay, let me see the fat." This does it at the mitochondria level. Not even in the same game. This goes back to me going like when I was complain when I was comparing rea to tzepide and semiglutide. That's like rea is like an F-35 and Sema and Tursza are like tricycles and a bicycle. Not even in the same game. So all you guys going well if I'm on this can I use that for your experiment? You are this is a completely different compound this is talking about rea glucagon changes the game. So if you think they're relatively close to the same no but here's why the five amino matters. You don't need to flood your system with NAD with these bozo clinics. You need to stop because it doesn't matter if you have, think about it. NMT is is floating around in your system. I bomb you with more NAD. Everybody's like, "Yeah, it's amazing." Yeah, but if I have NMT in my system, that's that inhibits NAD+. That's what gets in the way. And your body is constantly seeking out something called homeostasis, balance. So, if I flood your system with something exogenous, what's it going to do? it's going to go, I guess I got to make more to balance the equation out. You do not have a choice. That's in your DNA. Well, here's the problem I have with that. That's like flooding your system with insulin and going, why is my type 2 diabetes not going away? Because they don't want it to go away. Because type 2 diabetes goes away when you solve the insulin sensitivity equation, noting more. Remember what I said? You want to solve type 2 diabetes and it's like you're you went deaf because somebody was screaming at you for 10 years. And they went, the answer is bigger speakers. You're deaf, man. It won't matter. and the cause they're trying to give you more. That doesn't make any sense. That's what this is. So, you don't need to flood your system with these NAD drips, these IVs. Don't you need to stop the enzyme that gets in the way and destroys it. You You follow where I've gone with this? Cuz this is how it has to be. If I was putting this into my mouse experiment, hypothetically, I'd be looking 50 to 100 milligrams per day. It is oral. There you go. You're welcome. This is, think about it like fasting at the cellular level without starving and crying and freaking out and just obsessing about carbs. Carbs aren't bad, by the way, for all you people. Carbs are horrible. No, they're not. No, they're not. Bags of Jelly Bellies are are horrible. Motti, remember I talked about that before. So, Mi is I'm really thirsty, man. When I get lit, I'm drinking water. So, you don't have a choice. You got to wait. Bear with me or you miss the cool parts at the end. Like a camel. I got to fill my hump. All right. M C is like a It's like a five-star general in the just dropping commands. It's the CEO of the company, right? Mitochondrial CEO. It regulates This is so cool. I love this. This stuff's crazy. Hypothetically, regulates metabolic. Remember what I said? Here's the word homeostasis. So, it regulates metabolic homeostasis. But it does this by improving mitochondrial function and increasing your ability to tolerate stress, stress resilience. But here's why this is such a big deal. Energy is the currency of youth, period. Right? We look at kids, even teenagers, and you go, "What do you do? You ever run out of gas, man?" Like if you're a a grandparent and your grandkids are over and they're climbing your house like it's a jungle gym and you're like when when do your kids slow down? Never. Because they have normal mitochondrial function and their balance their homeostasis is at a different level than yours but because they haven't aged yet. And if you think listen people don't people don't stop moving and start getting diseases and becoming dysfunctional because they get older. They get older because they start getting metabolic decay and they stop moving and they stop doing the things that are designed to help them. They're not the same. You've been taught wrong. So if energy is the currency of youth, this is going to boost the bank account. the mitochondrial bank account in ways that I I honestly don't know if you guys care so I don't need to get into it but it's it's in a massive way like ATP is also that's the energy right adenazine triphosphate you break the triple bond down to ADP ADP to AMP each time you break the bond it releases a little less energy ATP is the one that's like gangster right that's like the nitromemethane fuel source when you break the bond that's when the energy is released by the way which is why when people take creatine like oh creatine is this magic thing yeah do you even know why because it's creatine has what phosphate. It sticks a phosphate back onto the ATP or onto the ADP. So, it becomes ATP. I I can't with some of the people that try and give explanations. What it does is So, if energy, like I said, this is a it's the currency of youth, right? Energy. That's just the easy way to remember it. That's why I say it. This is going to put hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars energy dollars into your mitochondrial bank account. That's all you need to know. And hypothetically, if this is going to the same mouse experiment, I'd be looking at 10 to 15 milligrams two to three times a week subq. That would be injection. By the way, this is like I don't know. When I was a kid, there was something called Jolt Cola, right? All the taste and twice the caffeine. And they banned it. What's hilarious when they banned it to me is they banned it because they said it has too much caffeine. You imagine the people at Bandit looking at monsters and I don't know if you remember this one. It was I think it was called Red Line and it even tells you on the packet on the little teeny bottle. Don't drink too much of this cuz you're going to go batshit nuclear. Yeah. Imagine now comparing Jolt Cola to now. It's wild times, man. 52 years old. I've seen a lot of changes. But this is like giving this this MOSI is like giving your mitochondria your cells in general cuz mitochondria are the furnaces inside the cells right there's a a symbiotic relationship mitochondria in the cell and it's like giving them a hyper caffeine jolt that it needs like we're talking clean and sustainable and it operates intracellular in truck not intercellular it gets effective right all of this stuff but you got to put this all together as the right thing. That's like going, "Hey, listen. I have a carburetor. Why can't I drive anywhere?" Well, you need the rest of the car, dumbass. That's what this is. And most of you guys don't even know what a carburetor is anymore. Number 10, Dhexa. So, DHexa is good for the cabbage, good for your brain in Let me back up. Let me touch on cholesterol really quick, just so you know. Cholesterol, it's not the devil. In fact, cholesterol is the backbone for just about everything going in your body. and your brain is the fattiest organ in your body. Put the two together and understand that low cholesterol is going to trash your brain. The only thing that the Framingham study has ever proved and their effort to prove that high cholesterol causes heart attacks and strokes is that they managed to prove that normal cholesterol which is over prevents you from getting Alzheimer's, dementia, all that and among a whole bunch of other things. You you guys need to do your research, folks. So dhaxa this so there's something a syninnapse is neurologically it's the neurons the space between the neurons right the the communication right so it increases syninnapse formation so it increases more of these right improves memory sign me up and even cognition right these are all big things because as we I I actually have a friend of mine and one of his biggest concerns is as I age I don't want to be a spaz I don't want to just be a babbling blathering idiot at the end of my life. I when that happens, just take me out of the game. I understand that. I don't agree because I when I go nuts, nobody's going to know because I've been this way my whole life. But if you look at DHEXA, this is going to interrupt all of those those fears in ways that are deeply necessary because of all the toxic nonsense going into our system. So, increases synapse formation, improves cognition, memory, and here's boy, I got to be careful with what I'm about to say, but I've seen some pretty crazy research of neurodeenerative reversal with this. So, neurodeeneration, reversing neurodeeneration. I'm going to leave it that that because that's already poking the bear a little bit, which is stupid. I should be able to tell you guys this stuff. But here's here's why it matters. We can go through all this stuff, but here's why it matters. You can live to like 120, great. But if you can't remember your name or where your own bathroom is, what's the point, right? That's what I was getting at. So, just keep it at that. So, if I was going to put this in my experiment with my mice, 5 to 10 milligrams, you know what? They have nasal versions of it. I would just do it oral. It's just easier. I'm not shoving anything in my nose. I just don't really want to do it because I think it's weird. But five to 10 milligrams orally three to five times a week. Think about it as if you remember old school those CDs you'd get the AOL CDs from Target that once you put them on your computer was like herpes. It's like glitter. You never get rid of it. Yeah. That was that's what it changes your connection to the internet from that crappy dialup that made a bunch of noise to fiber like and you're right next to the hub like just instant. That's how you have to look at this. It changes function to become more efficient with more information if that makes sense. Right? Let me put this all together. That's it. That's all 10. So, if you really want to stop now, great. But you're going to miss the best part, which is all of this. Most longevity clinics are glorified wellness spas with a bunch of people in lab coats giving themselves titles. Yeah, I hate that. If you're listening to this and you're one of those people and you think you're so great, I'm gonna burn your whole life because I can't stand people that take advantage of others thinking that it's okay. Or even worse, they're so delusional that they really do believe they're helping people and all that. And I'd look at their what they're selling. I'm like, "Dude, you're a liar." They make their money on diagnostics and recurring drip fees, not on outcomes. I told my kids today, I said, "You want to make a ton of money? get paid for value and then deliver like bombs of value, people will line up to pay you. It's the truth. Just it goes back to what I said at the beginning. Care because here's what these clinics sell. NAD plus IVs that last 24 hours hyperbaric chambers with no protocol. This is even better. Hyperbaric ch I've seen it and then they invent some protocol and I go, why is it like that? Can you explain the physiology behind that? And as soon as it starts to come out with a bunch of information, I go, "I'm good. You're lying." Hormone tests. They do hormone tests all the time. Just look at You guys are going to hear this and go, "Shit, he's right." Generic supplements that you could buy at CVS and then custom plans that somehow always look the same. That's what they're selling you. What this does, what I'm talking about today, DNA repair, cognitive regeneration. And I said this at the beginning, joint and organ recovery, mitochondrial upregulation, right? That's enough right there. And I didn't even touch on methylene blue yet. You don't need it for this, but I'm just saying there's a whole I could do a whole podcast on that. Lean muscle preservation, biological age reversal, and fat reduction, all hypothetically, of course. But you're not managing your decline. You're reversing the decay and the problem. And most of this, if I had to put a price on it, less than a G a month, even if it was two grand a month, who cares, you guys? You go out and buy a $2,000 cell phone. I had an ad come across my phone for the new iPhone and it says, "Get $1,000 off." I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] how much is this phone?" $1,000 off and they're still making money. But you could run all of this stuff for less than than 1G 1,200, 1,500 at the most per month. And don't quote me on that. I mean, I'd have to look at everything. I don't know, but I'm pretty sure it's less than the but it's not 50 grand a year or $50,000 for a visit to get lab work. You don't need, by the way, you don't need to know all these genetic markers. You don't Where did we go before those genetic markers? Just process that. And and you don't, by the by the way, with all this stuff, you don't have to take this every day forever. You don't here if I had to break it down for my mouse experiment hypothetically how I would run an experiment with my mice. I here I'll do I'll go I'm going to fly through this cuz I said I want to go eat and it's been a while. I've been on here for almost an hour I think. A pitilon 10 to 20 days uh every 3 to 6 months. Uh GHK GHKU the copper TB-500 and BPC-157 8 to 12 weeks on then just pulse. Right. The next one, the CJC-1295 and the IP Pamearellin or the MK77, the MK-677 daily or you can just alternate back and forth between the two. The RAD-140 8 to 12 weeks. Then here's the one thing and I'm very transparent about this. PCT postcycle therapy and I can get into that in another episode. I don't have time for it right now. But it's not life or death, right? Like I said, there's no suppression. So you don't it's not like exogenous TRT which there's instant suppression like your balls just go I don't want to do anything now right so u RAD-140 8 to 12 weeks then short break 2 to four weeks I talked about that already five amino 1MQ and MC C forever you can run it long term that's what I'm talking about like none of this stuff take a baby aspirin every day and let me know how your your gut lining and your kidneys and your liver are functioning My dad died of endstage liver disease because he was taking Tylenol. F you and all your NSADes. Dhexa, I think it was the last time I talked about, right? Dhexa. Uh, just pulse, right? Just pulse. It's not that complicated. And if you were going to track any metrics in your experiment because people are going to ask, I would look at CRP, homoyine, body comp for sure, right? sleep quality, libido, mental clarity, IGF-1, DHEA. That's about it. You don't have to like, you don't need these big long fancy lab tests. You got to stop listening to these people that tell you you got to do that. You don't. You don't. This proves it. I get You walk through this, you're going to send me a message in 100 days going, "Holy shit." Yeah, I know. This isn't the usual BS social media shotgun biology. This is This is like a molecular leverage system. It's like warfare against you. aging and it's effective and you can win. So, I I'll make it I'll make it simple. You can keep paying someone to put you in a chilly little tub while your cells shrivel, decay, and rot. Or you can use something that actually fixes the damn problem. You don't need hype. You sure as hell don't need some guru. Oh god, you can tell this aggravates me cuz I'm so tired of the gurus out here going, "I got this great thing. Let me tell you about the peptide of the week. Let me have this other thing I'm going to tell you about. By the way, I'm going to sell you this and sell you that. Listen, you know, every time I make a post on social media about something that works, I make it cuz it works. Do I think you should go to the research place to get them that I happen to be involved with, Elite Biogenics? Of course. But not for the reason you think because I know what you're from there. I know what you're getting. I have no idea what you're getting from other places, but I've just seen I get questions all the time about the horror stories. Nope. I just won't do that. If I wouldn't trust my wife and kids with it, I'm not going to have anybody else do it either. You don't need a $40,000 red light bed. Yeah, I've seen them. You need something that actually works and it needs to be built on biology, not fancy branding and some dude or some girl on a stage. Because here's the truth. Aging is optional. It's not death before you misinterpret what I'm saying. But aging the way it is painted right now is optional. But you know what else is right now after this podcast? Ignorance. It's optional. It was before, but now you don't have an excuse. So, how about this? I'll make it real easy. How about you just let me know when you're ready to skip the clinic and the wellness and the longevity gurus and all that stuff and you actually just want to build a protocol that actually delivers. How about that? because you just have to send me a message and then we have a conversation. I'll just leave it at that. And this isn't a sales pitch. I'm going do you want to help or not? That's why I said there's a cure program. Anyway, hope you guys got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.