Hey, guess what? Good morning, Trev Smash Works. Got a little AC/DC in the background. Uh, CrossFit Brenwood, we're going to be going over some low back pain. I got my buddy Pony right here. You see him right there? All right. So, I got him in the position already. We're going to be talking about how to fix a low back tweak. You got a quadrus lumboreum, big giant strappy muscle on either side of the spine. Attaches to the top of the iliac crest. You hear that big old dog barking and everything. This dog is as big as a horse. You got to see this thing. It's like 300 lb. You can probably ride it. I got to show you. See if you can see that thing over there. Holy big dog. Okay, so anyway, quadrus lamorum holds down the 12th rib on inspiration. So now we put ourselves under metabolic load and we start doing metcon and crazy lifts. And what ends up happening is that muscle gets glued down to the longimus. All the tissue in there and to the spine itself and to the top of the pelvis doesn't move very well, but it's a big fat strappy muscle. Super strong. So when it spazzes out, it causes a ton of pain. That's what we got Tony on right now. But then we have to take the pelvis and balance the pelvis out because think about it. If the pelvis is sitting like this, go to my pelvis picture all the time. And that muscle is sitting on the top and the pelvis is sitting twisted or toward towards one side because the purformis isn't working right because the hamstrings aren't working right because the hamstrings are glued down to that uh those adductors because the quads aren't working right. That rectus forous down the front, they're super tight, glued down to the bone. We need to peel that stuff all off those structures so we get a nice slide to all those tissues and the pelvis can do all its three planes of motion to the pelvis, right? XYZ. So it can do this, do this, and do this. So it's got all this motion to it. If it doesn't have all that motion, you can't recover all that motion. I look like I'm sitting all cockeyed. So you can't recover all that motion. Um, nothing's going to work right. What's going to pay the price is going to be your low back. You're going to put a lot of shear in those lumbar discs. So this is a great way to do two things all at one time. Balance out the pelvis, hit that puriforis, peel it off that greater troanter and off of the uh the pelvis itself, off of the anominant bone, the uh the illium back here. and also put a lot of stretch in the adductor and then take that QL that quadrus lumboreum and target it with that lacrosse ball. So all we're going to do and he's already in the position. So I'm going to put you right here so you can see Tony. We got a strap around the knees. Okay, we got it's a pretty heavy pretty heavy strap. I want you to you put that on wrap it around. So I'm going to show you how to do with this cuz I'm going to get in the same position as well. You get to see Dr. Trev make the pain face Smashwork style. And um we're going to put that on. It pulls the femur into the back of the acetabulum where it's the most stable. Remember, you have that socket and the head of the femur sits in there. And when you punch this into the back of the acetabulum, you get a nice roll, slide, glide. When it sits out on the outside of the acetabulum on that cartilage ring, it just starts to beat it up and grind it into nothing. And then you wind up with hip problems as a result of a back. All right. So, we had a little video technicality. We had a phone call come through. So, what I was saying is we're going to clear all that up. Next time, I'm just going to put it in airplane mode. So, we clear all that out and the hip moves properly, the low back moves properly, the pelvis moves properly. As you can see, this strap is shoving the femur in to the back of the acetabulum on both sides. Now, I have him on an ADM mat right here, but we flip the admat upside down. And what we wound up doing is we take a lacrosse ball. We go upside down because super hard. So, it's going to jab into that. Sounds so awful, doesn't it? It's just going to jam into that quadrus lumboreum and cause it to turn off. It's going to get rid of that spasm. It's going to peel it apart. Get that fascia moving the way it's supposed. It's going to peel it right off the bone. Right off the bottom of the rib, right off the top of the uh top of the pump. So, I'm going to show you what we're going to do. I'm going to jump in the stretch right beside my boy Tony and you'll see what I'm talking about. The reason we cross the leg. So, the other thing is, just so you know, we cross the leg like this, but the lacrosse ball is going to go on the opposite side of the cross leg. The cross leg is hitting the purapiformis. The straight leg, which is up against the wall at 90°, that's the side you're going to put the lacrosse ball on. You're going to tuck it underneath there. Probably going to swear a little, make the pain face. That's okay. It's all part of it. How long do we stay in that? I'll give you a hint. 2 minutes. 2 minutes. We stay in that stretch for 2 minutes. So, this is a variation of what we're doing to unlock that low back cuz I know a lot of us get these low back tweaks, especially guys like Tony. All right. So, I'm going to move the camera. I know me and Steen Spielberg, we've already figured out the camera skills. We're going to take this. I'm going to put it right here. Move the peanut. You get to see Dr. T get in this position. All right. So, we're going to wrap this all the way around. Going to throw the band around the knees. So, now we've got this band around the knees. I'll bring the ADM mat over here. I'm going to duck lock up to the wall. See if we can see me. You can. You're going to go like this. Ah, hell. Let's just be real cool. Let's bring it all the way down here. How's that sound? There we go. Look at that. All right. So, now we're going to take this. We're going to see it's upside down. We're going to take the wedge side and we're going to tuck it all the way up underneath. So, you're going to come up pretty high so you can see where that is. We're going to take the opposite leg. We're going to cross it like this. We've already known this one, but now the opposite leg is here. Take this, toss it underneath on that hot spot. And oh my god. Holy right there. And then just breathe, baby. Just breathe. How long do we hold it? 2 minutes. You know I'm watching you. I can see that. Now we can modify this. You ready for this? This is where we get really funky. I'm going to roll off. I'm going to reach up. Oh, look what we got. 45. We're going to come right back up like this. We're doing the same thing. Lacrosse balls on that hot spot. We're going to take that 45. We're going to roll it all the way up on here. We're going to get in this position. Oh, and we're just Holy moly, dude. This is horrible. And this is what we're going to do. We're just going to hang out here. Grind away. You can see lacrosse ball poking a hole in my back. Probably digging out that quadrus lumboreum. You're going to hang out here for two minutes. You're going to unlock that low back. When you're done, take the weight, dump it off of you, call it a day. Hey guys, listen. That's how you undo some low back pain. I'm Trev. That's Tony Smash Works. I'll see you guys tomorrow. Have a great day.