I think the misconceptions, let me change that. I think the lies being sold to the masses, and I mean all of you guys, you don't need to be a doctor to know this stuff. Stop putting docs on a pedestal. I've been, especially now, especially now. I've been a doctor for a long time, decades. You know what I've seen? The alarming decline of the quality of health care professional credentialed by a board that doesn't care what you know. But they care that you push the narrative that they want by a group of doctors who really can spit off a bunch of big words but don't really understand basic physiology, human biology. They don't and that use chat GPT to diagnose. Are you [\h__\h] kidding me? The research is buried that proves that what you're taking should not be taken ever in any amount. that you're loaded with poisons and toxins and noxious chemicals on the recommendation by the very people that treat those same diseases caused by those chemicals and noxious like those poisons and toxins and noxious chemicals that are pumped into you by them. You know, I get I got asked a lot about blood pressure and about cholesterol cuz they're two money makers for big pharma. Blood pressure is [\h__\h] So, I'll just save you a whole podcast on that. If you have hypertension 2017, this is this one's about cholesterol, but let me explain. If you have, if you've been diagnosed with hypertension and put on anti-hypertensives and some idiot doctor told you that you need to reduce your salt, feel free to punch them right in the face. They don't know what they're talking about. Ask them to explain the renan angotensin pathway and then see what they say and say you want to know it right down to the cellular level. You want to know all of it, exactly how it works. Tell them that the heart is a secretary gland and watch them argue. But it is cuz I'm right. Listen, 2017 they changed blood pressure from 140 over 90 to 120 over 80. Not because hypertension is so rampant causing all these issues and the lies they tell you about kidney problems. Just like taking too much protein causes testosterone problems and kidney problems. Get the hell out of here. No, it doesn't. No, it doesn't. I'm tired of the lies. I'm tired. I'm going to disrupt the entire thing. I said it before. I hope so. And by the way, I'm of sound mind. So if I go missing, it ain't of my own valition. How disgusting is it that I have to say that just in case somebody comes and offs me because I'm what? Screwing up their lies and their narrative by coming out and telling you the truth and giving you guys all the tools on how to take care of your damn self. Yeah, it's a weird world we live in with all the freedom that we don't have that we're told we have. The fact that I have to do what's next. You ready? This is not meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, advise, and is only hypothetical, educational, and purely entertainment. If you know, you know, like the fact that I have to say that, but I could post the most murderous, heinous, horrific acts that I can I can start AI don't know, an account. If I'm a woman, we're a dude. Just nobody's going to watch it. And just get railed one after the other, just stack guys a mile high and make 10 $15 million a year. And if you [\h__\h] cowards go, "Well, it's because of the men. It's their fault. If there wasn't a market for it, we wouldn't do it." You didn't have to do it. So, it's both of you. Save your self-righteous [\h__\h] justifying you getting impaled on every dick you can find just for money. Have some self-respect and some morals. You're a [\h__\h] That's all you are, man. I don't care what you say. You've been run through. Nobody wants you. Nobody's ever going to want you. You know what they're going to do? They're going to want you briefly for a good time cuz you're willing to do anything. And then after that, they're gone. Nobody's going to want to spend their life with you. Pisses me off. I have the most incredible wife in the world. And full sexual transparency, there's nothing we won't do together. nothing. Do you know why? Because we trust the hell out of each other and it's been two decades and I have the most insane wild sex life with the most beautiful woman. Maybe think about that. Anyway, let me get on to cholesterol before I go off on something else cuz it bothers me. I mean, let's just listen, let's just talk. For the last 50 years at least, you guys have been the victim of the most profitable Listen, the most profitable, destructive, and honestly most brilliantly marketed public health scam in human history. It's so good you should take notes on being a marketer. Just use it for good. It's a scam that's made cartel of companies hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars by convincing you that the very essence, the very the very power of your life is trying to kill you and you guys bought it. Hook, line, statin. Yeah, cholesterol. You need you deserve all your money back for all the statins you've bought. All of it. Every penny. and you need compensation for the damage it's caused and the life it's shortened and the future drugs that you've had to take. But listen, you spent this is why I'm thinking you should get it all back. All your money, all your time. I mean, not the not just on the pills, but on the the brain function and the years they stole from you by selling you a solution to a problem that doesn't [\h__\h] exist. It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. This isn't talk. This isn't just me coming out here blasting you with pseudocience. I've forgotten more than most people will ever learn. and I come out here and I give it to you for free because I genuinely give a [\h__\h] Oh, you're a doctor but you curse. Then I'm not for you. And if you can't stand it, then bounce. And if you can, well, buckle up, Nancy, because we're going to get real gritty today. This is like I feel like just doing a forensic audit of your entire health, but I just don't have the time because I'd be on here for 9 hours. So, listen. Follow the money, follow the data, and expose the lie. It's all you have to do. That's what I'll do. In fact, I'll just do it all for you because otherwise you're going to be like, "I don't know. What am I going on Google?" And next thing you know, you're looking up pink barracuda in the Cayman Islands. Like just weird [\h__\h] you guys find. I hope you're so pissed off by the end of this that you can't even see straight. You're just shaking. You're so angry. Like listen, here's the villain that that they're selling you on. Cholesterol. It's been demonized. There is nothing wrong with cholesterol. Nothing. Listen here. Let me explain what cholesterol is, right? Is it cuz your guys was it a poison? Is it toxin? some clog clog forming sludge that flows through your arteries and your capillaries, veins. No, that's not even what it is. And that's what you're taught. Tell me I'm wrong. That's what you're taught. Some horrific thing that goes through you that shouldn't be there and you have to do everything you can to extricate that from your body. Listen, from a physiological standpoint, it is the single most important building block of you. Yeah. Now, what think of Listen, here's how you have to think of your body because until you've had a real health scare and not the [\h__\h] that some of you guys send me, no, I I don't give you any credit. What was a really bad cold? I was in bed for a week. I could have died. You weren't even close. You weren't even close. Think of your body as the most the most important, the most the most valuable real estate that exists on the entire planet. Prime location, trillions of individual little properties. They're called your cells. And the security wall, just so you know, like the foundation, the fence for every single one of those properties that you own. Yeah. The cellular membrane. And you know what the structural component is of that cellular membrane, the rebar, the concrete, the wall, all that stuff. It's cholesterol. So without it, your property value is going to tank. Grant Cardone's going to be pissed off cuz he's going to lose all his money cuz that's what it would be. Imagine if Grant Cardone lost all his cholesterol and the cholesterol were the walls of every building, the foundation of every building he owns. His empire would crumble. The value just collapses into this puddle of goo. you if you don't have cholesterol, your cell walls don't work and you die instantly. I don't know how else to to explain it. I trim my mustache. It's prickling me cuz I didn't get the ones close to my nose. Oh, this is more fun. It gets better. Look at look at endocrinology. Your hormone system, right? If you're a dude, right? Your swagger, your libido, or your ability to handle stress, to be honest. It's all run by hormones. Cortisol, testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, it's all they're all hormones. What do you think the raw material is that you're writing that check to that cash that your body uses? The currency your body uses. If you say ATP, well, that's sort of accurate, but not in this case. Remember what I said? ATP is the currency of the body. But cholesterol, cholesterol is the currency used to print these hormones. You're literally telling when you subscribe to their narrative. This is the part that bugs me. It's not even you because you're buying into it. They're telling you to lower the foundation of your entire hormonal empire. It's like trying to run a Fortune 500 company by burning the cash in the vault. is setting fire to it. It's not a strategy. That would be economic suicide. Nobody's going to do it. But they tell you to do it with the most valuable real estate in the entire world. You, how about you go upstairs to sea sweetiteology, your brain, this is a three lb universe. That is the most cholesterol-dense organ in your body. 2% of your body weight, 25% of your cholesterol. Giant bells should be going off. You should be raging already. And I'm not even I just warmed up, baby. I'm just getting started. Here's why. Because every single thought, every memory, every connection between all your neurons, the synapses are packed with cholesterol. It's the insulation on the wiring of your very consciousness. Low cholesterol. 100%. 100%. If you go, it's the study. Get off my [\h__\h] podcast. I got no time for people that are looking for ways to justify taking worse things that are terrible for them that make them feel terrible that give them further disease. So, if that's you, get off my podcast. I don't even want you, man. If I you were here, I'd probably put you on the mat and put you to sleep, give you a wet willie. low cholesterol linked to depression, anxiety, brain fog, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis. They're telling you to starve your brain of its primary building material and calling it preventative medicine. There is no such thing, by the way. That's not medicine. That is a hostile takeover of your entire neurological system, your cognitive function. Listen, one of my one of my friends, he's an attorney, really good friend of mine, Heath, and he's actually our attorney for our companies, for everything. Yeah. So, for what? By the way, there's one [\h__\h] that said, "Ah, whatever. I would like to speak to your legal team, Heath Gro, for three and a half years, [\h__\h] You really want to talk to him? You're not going to like it cuz you're going to get a bill after it, too. There's this idiot that put a a review up. They don't have a team. You bet your ass we do. I just don't have time to live with imbecile or live with conversations with imbecile. Here's why. This is a total tangent. Because they beat you to death with experience. I have no time for that. I'm just going to keep on moving forward and mowing [\h__\h] like that down that don't have the time to take accountability into into consideration for themselves and their own idiotic conduct. So anyway, Heath Gro, we're talking his biggest fear losing mental capacity. He's an incredibly brilliant man and he's a pitbull of an attorney. I have two actually another one to this guy Dan. But here's why I'm telling you this. If you start losing cognitive function, you start losing the ability to live because now you need to be taken care of and instead you it's been normalized. Oh, you get older, you start to lose your mind. says who? My grandparents were sharp as tax and they were in their in their never mind. Like you you guys listen, you should be fighting tooth and nail to defend everything you've got, all the real estate you've got. Look at human biology in general. Vitamin D, which is honestly the master hormone. You know what it's made out of? Cholesterol, your bile acids, which you need to digest fat and absorb critical vitamins, K, A, D, and E. All fats soluble. Can't absorb them. You have to take I did this in a an explanation about what to do without a gallbladder. And uh you need MCT oil in order just to byp just to take it to the liver. There's so many things you need to do when you start screwing with human biology and [\h__\h] it up. Vitamin D made from cholesterol. It is the ultimate utility player. And it sure as hell is not a villain. Like if anything, it's the MVP of the entire NFL in your body. The whole biological organization. That's it. So let's get this straight. Just follow me on this. The narrative. The narrative. Just so you get where I'm going with this. The narrative is that the molecule responsible for cellular structure, for your insane sex drive, which you should have, for your stress resilience, for your brain function, your cognitive function, and your digestion, is also secretly trying to assassinate you via a heart attack or a stroke. Does that make any logical sense whatsoever? Of course, it doesn't. You know why? It is a contradiction that's so massive that you could drive a truck through it. That's how bad it is. But you believed it because someone in a white damn coat said that. Yes, it is. with some serious [\h__\h] concerned look on their face because you're going to pay their bill. [\h__\h] them. Start taking control of your health. You know where this lie came from? It it comes from originally. They did this study. I love this. One of my favorite studies, the Framingham Heart Study. This is one of the best studies ever. This is the original source. This is the Bible of the cholesterol myth. And just like any good myth, nobody actually reads the original text. I did many times. They started this study in 1948. Bunch of people. Well, that's what they did. They followed them around for decades. The headline they sold you was high cholesterol causes heart disease. It's clean, simple, scary as hell, huh? Also, complete and utter fabrication of data. Complete pure [\h__\h] 100% not even slightly. 100% fabrication of all the data. Here's what it actually the published data. Look it up. The published data from the Framingham study director says, this isn't my opinion. This is their conclusion after 30 years of research. So, let me get this straight. For men and women with a total cholesterol between 205 and 264, which is what they would call now high, there's no significant difference in heart disease death rates. None. Zero. Nada. This is the mic drop. Just so you know, that they hid in the appendix. No, they really did. You ready? This one's going to blow your mind. For people over 50, having low cholesterol was a significant predictor of dying early. I am 52. I want all cholesterol. Let me repeat that because I think some of you guys just went, "What?" If you're over 50 and your cholesterol was low, you were more likely to die. And the study authors wrote this, too. There is a direct association between falling cholesterol levels over the first 14 years and mortality over the following 18. So, as your cholesterol goes down, your risk of death goes up. If you need me to translate it, you guys still going to just keep taking statins like Skittles, huh? Okay. You keep listening to that idiot with an 11-year degree that knows less than a third grader. They quantified it, by the way. For every 1 milligram per year drop in your cholesterol, your overall risk of death increased by 10 11% something like that. I think it was 11% and your risk of cardiac death 14 or 15% increase. Are you guys Are you guys Please tell me you're processing this and how it is. You should be furious if you're on a statin. And if you bring this podcast to your doctor, which you should, and they can test it, you need to know right there. They're lying or they're ignorant. Let me translate this from science human bio nerd to just street smart speaks. Framingham study, the very foundation of the multi-t trillion dollar war on cholesterol, which is what it's been called, proved that the strategy of lowering cholesterol increases your risk of death. Never mind the toxic factors in taking a statin. They took the single greatest predictor of longevity, a robust healthy cholesterol level, a high one, and rebranded it as a disease. It is the greatest bait and switch in medical history. A cholesterol level of 190, which your doctor will high-five you for, is according to their own gold standard research, a marker of a body that is breaking down. Oh, I'll explain exactly what's really going on. A level of 250, 280, even 300, for a massive majority of the population, 99% at least, that's not a sign of disease. It is a sign of a body that is well resourced, hormonally primed, and ready to repair itself. And they convinced you to fear the number that signifies health. That's not just a lie. You know what it is? It's diabolical. It's diabolical genius. It bothers me. Above all, do no harm. And if you're a doc and you're pushing statins, [\h__\h] you. You can go right to hell. You're a [\h__\h] and you're a sellout. And if you understand even a shred of human physiology, human biology, you should feel it because your patients deserve better. Stop worrying about your [\h__\h] paycheck and start worrying about the people that trust you with their damn health because you know damn well what causes the problems. It ain't cholesterol because here listen just go right down here. If it's not cholesterol clogging the pipes it's valid question what is the real villain is very it's always the same systemic inflammation and oxidative damage period. Nothing else those two at 100% of the time. Think of it like this. Your arteries are this pristine smooth pipeline. Inflammation from sugar and processed carbs and industrial seed oils, which are literal biological toxins and all the stress that you have from being terrified of everything about to kill you, is like taking sandpaper and scraping the inside of that pipe and then covering it in velcro. Causes these little scratches and lesions and damage. Which is why I talk about GHKCO, copper, maintains vascular tone of the uh of the vascular system. Your body's not stupid, you guys. It's the ultimate repair company. It knows how to do things better and faster than you do than any doctor can ever figure out, including me. And I'm a damn good doctor. It says, "Oh, we've got damage." Okay, send the repair crew. You don't need a medication to do that. Let your body do it. The problem is all the [\h__\h] you keep throwing in the way. And what is the primary Just so you know, what is what do you think the primary material is in the repair patch that it sends out through the vascular system? Cholesterol. It sends LDLs, lowdensity lipoproteins, the so-called bad cholesterol to the site. LDL isn't the villain. It's a [\h__\h] ambulance. It's the Uber driver that's delivering cholesterol and fats and all the antioxidants to fix the damage from the stuff you keep putting in your pile hole among other things and the bad habits and the other drugs that you're taking. The problem isn't the ambulance. The problem is the arsonist that keeps setting fires, the constant inflammation. The cholesterol patch is just the bandage. Listen, if the arsonist keeps coming in and setting fires, the bandages get bigger and then that's when they become unstable. That's the plaque. And and you know what's frustrating is you should know all this stuff because somebody should teach you, which is why I'm coming out here to teach you. Because nobody's going to teach you this stuff. They're going to give you a bunch of crazy science and rudimentary lies and just go, "Trust me, bro." Or the doctors going to go, "Who's the who's the one with the medical degree? Me or you?" Exactly. Maybe you should trust me. But I don't. You know why? Because for the last 30 years, I've watched all you [\h__\h] twits blow it. And then in the last five, you ruined the public's trust in you, which thank you very much. It puts my head on the same chopping block as you because I have the word doctor in my name except I come out here to help. You sit in your practice and write prescriptions. Maggot cut people open because their gallbladder has sludge that you could fix. SylMarin, dandelion root, TUDCA, ox bile, bile salts. You could fix all that stuff, but nah. That's totally on a tangent, but I just I got a friend of mine. They just want to hack his gallbladder out. Get out of here, man. Blaming cholesterol for heart disease is like blaming a firefighter for water damage that put out your fire. It's insane, but it's a absolutely brilliant business model because you can sell fire hoses that poison the firefighters. Here in come statins. That's the solution. Statins are one of the few medications that you have to take a break from because they cause too much toxicity. They screw up your liver. Sign me up. Where do I go? Sign me up. I need to do that. Are you out of your mind? Are you high? Statins work by nuking your liver's ability to produce cholesterol. They inhibit a specific enzyme called HMG COA reductase. This is the equivalent of dealing with a traffic problem in one city by shutting down every car factory on the planet. That's not targeted. That doesn't even make sense. It's the scorched earth policy on your biology. The pharmaceutical industry needed a villain that could sell a solution. That's how statins were born. They serve no purpose. These drugs, these HMG COA reductase inhibitors, they work on on your liver by crippling its ability to produce cholesterol. And we're told that they're lifesaving from a biological standpoint. They are systemic poison. Look at what they do to your system. They decimate it. Statins don't just lower LDL. They decimate the synthesis of something called nabalate. This is a precursor molecule on the cholesterol production pathway. This single action, oh my god, has the most catastrophic downstream effects. Let me explain what happens. CoQ10, co-enzyme Q10 depletion. That's one of the most massive things that it does. CoQ10 is vital for mitochondrial energy production. Remember what I said? mitochondria do. That is the little nuclear power plant that cranks out ATP, which is why we talked about methylene blue, why we talked about MOT C, all this stuff. And yet they're like, "Those are bad. You shouldn't dildos. You shouldn't trust those. Trust statins." Oh, makes me so angry. Here's the problem. The CoQ10 is especially essential in high energy demand tissues like cardiac tissue. Never mind the voltage gated calcium channels that are opening and closing all the time. Statins, they they destroy CoQ10 levels and they lead to chronic fatigue, muscle pain, myopathy. So, if you have myopathy, might want to look at that. I bet you have statins in your system. Bet you've been taking them. Most people that I know that take statins have massive myopathy. Incredible muscle pain. And here's the best part about a statin. No CoQ10, heart failure. Isn't that the very thing that was supposed to prevent cardiac issues? The heart you're trying to protect is being starved of energy. The thing that's beating right now while you're listening to this podcast and they're like, "Well, you better take these statins so you're going to starve the fuel so it runs lean until it burns out." Yeah, sign me up. The depletion of selenoproteins. This cripples your body's antioxidant defense system and just nukes proper thyroid function. Neurodedevelopmental damage. Starves the brain of cholesterol. Just so you know, when you starve the brain of cholesterol, Jesus, you can see it just irritates me. Statins are linked to memory loss, brain fog, increased neurodeenerative diseases like ALS, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, dementia, multiple sclerosis. It disrupts the hell out of your endocrine system. How are you guys even taking this anymore? Stop listening to these idiots. Remember the sex hormones I just talked about? testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, all that stuff. Statins crush testosterone levels in men, which gives you low libido, ED, loss of all the vitality that you so preciously need. They disrupt the entire hormonal system, and you guys write the check for the prescription. Throw down the credit card. Listen, we are poisoning millions of people to fix a problem that doesn't exist, creating a cascade of real diseases in the process. You're trading robust, unbreakable health for a favorable but utterly meaningless number on a lap. Oh, I'm sure this post this podcast will get throttled cuz I'm telling the truth. They're not side effects, you guys. These are direct predictable consequences of demolishing a fundamental biological pathway in your body. I don't know if you really understand how hard it is for me to maintain composure without losing my mind on these podcasts because I'm so disgusted with the current state of healthcare. Like even just going through it in my head, CoQ10, that is the spark plug for energy production and everything you do. This heart failure, but I I can't even get my head around this stuff. They starve your brain, crush your hormone production, all a direct result of cholesterol deprivation. They sold you a pill that systematically dismantles your energy, your hormones, and your brain's function to fix a number that was never broken. And they made it a daily subscription service. That is not a pharmaceutical product. That is a protection racket. That is a mafia coming by and smashing your storefront and going, "Hey, don't worry. Pay us for protection." And they're the very ones that trash the store. So, listen here. I'll help you because I I could do this all day and I'm just getting aggravated. If the old playbook is to nuke your system, then the new playbook needs to do the opposite. It's to become the architect of your own biology. Basically, you need to use your common sense, some basic knowledge and tools that your body actually works with, not against peptides. Again, if you go, "Here we go, plugging your company." Don't buy from my company. I don't give a [\h__\h] Then don't I have one person complain about not getting a vial in a package even though you probably stole it, you [\h__\h] thief. Or you mixed it up and then you went, "Oops, it's the wrong one, but you mixed it already." And then you realized your buddy told you to get something else. Like, come on, you guys grow up. We don't make mistakes ever. and I never miss and I own all my [\h__\h] But if you're going to buy from our company, I promise you this, everything we've got is tested and tested again because I give a if I wouldn't put it in my body, I sure as hell I'm not putting it in. So this is where peptides come in. These short chains I've talked about of amino acids, they act. They're like little text messages, right? Between all of your cells, between your nervous system, they turn things on, turn things off. They're not these sledgehammers that crush your biology like a statin. These are little laser scalpels. And instead of destroying that vital pathway that you need, they send these targeted signals to enhance the repair and reduce the inflammatory problem that you've got and actually capitalize on how you're supposed to function. Here, I'll give you I'll give you the ultimate investment portfolio for for just for vascular health. Never mind the rest. You guys ready? Cuz you're going to want to write this down. If you want dosages, join my black card program. Yeah, really. I'll say it again. I have a program. Black card. I'm even going to put the link because everybody's asking me about it. I have 100 spots of which now I have just south of 40 left and I made the announcement three months or three days ago. Three I think today is day four. Black card you get to come in sit in on my Q&A every Monday plus a bunch of other stuff where there's protocols and stuff in the background that you can just look up on your own because they're all part of that stuff cuz I've spent a lot of time putting this together. No, you don't get a refund if you buy it. You're never ever going to see that money again. I am so transparent about that. Why? Because you have access to everything instantly. And number number two is it's 5,997 bucks for one year. It's not auto renewing. Once those hundred are gone, it's $25,000 to buy in and $1,500 a month and I'm probably going to raise it. And by saying probably, that's me being nice going, it's probably going to be more like 50 grand to buy in. Cuz I only want people that are so committed to their health, they'd literally sell a kidney if that wouldn't damage their health because it matters to me. because I've been on the other side of this equation where I was begging and pleading for more time because I didn't. So that's it. My black card program, you get access. You can come in on Monday and you can ask me any question. It's at 5:00 if you before you ask them the time. Plus a couple of other things, but you get access to ask all the peptide questions, all the dosing, all the questions you need, all the stuff that you can't find answers to because every bro science influencer idiot out there with an IFBB pro card or because it says PhD after their name. You think they they have oh, they're the gospel of truth or whatever other [\h__\h] they have because they have a warrior store. What other nonsense that they come up with, you need to stop listening to these idiots. Don't you don't have to join the blackard program. I'm just not going to go over dosages in here anymore because I don't have the time for it and I get peppered with how to reconstitute and all these questions. Just join the program. 5,997 bucks. The link is going to be somewhere underneath this video. If not, you can reach out to Amber Kane. She is my executive assistant and she'll get you all set up once the remaining I think there's 37 left are gone. You will get a message back that says $25,000 buyin 1,500 a month. Just so you know. If you want to know more about it, I just told you everything about it. BPC-157. Let's get right into this because this is one wasn't a marketing pitch. I'm just telling you how to get real answers from someone that knows what the hell they're talking about me and that actually cares and I put together protocols that work always because I always put myself in your situation and I go, "What would I want? How can I solve the problem?" So BPC57, this is like the ultimate contractor, I guess, is easiest way if you understand building a house because it's the repair peptide. It's going to reduce the systemic inflammation. And it's going to accelerate the healing of specifically endothelial linings of your lining of your arteries. Where do you think the scratches and the velcro are exactly there? Where do you think the plaque is be is getting laid down there? It's not a cholesterol plaque problem. Now I mean I hope you guys are putting this together. The very damage that starts this entire process which is the inflammatory response to little scratches on the inside of the vascular lining. It doesn't block the repair crew the cholesterol. It lets it go in. It fixes the pipe so you don't need as many repairs. So the pipe itself actually starts to get smooth because it regenerates. This is the ultimate infrastructure investment. And if you just go, I just want to get that instead, then go ahead, start guessing. I got nothing for you. Thyin alpha 1, this is this peptide is a master regulator of your immune system. So it doesn't suppress your immune system. It doesn't crank up your immune system. It makes it smarter. It tells the overzealous inflammatory part of your immune system, just, hey bro, pull back just a little bit. Just a bit. This is what allows you to calm the arterial damage because that inflammation is causing the problems. Right? This is why I'm telling you about thyus and alpha. Allows you to fight the real threats because it turns off the stuff that's in the way. I'm not saying your immune system is in the way. Normally, in this case, it is because it's reacting to something that is being caused by the stupidity that you're doing. This is the difference between a mindless mob and a couple of Navy Seals. You put my buddy like Ray Cash Care or or David Gogggins. It's like those guys are the Navy Seals, the lethal pinpoint. go in, do the do the whatever they got to do, and then come back out. My buddy AF, he's a special force at Green Beret, Ranger, sniper. This guy's a deadly son of a [\h__\h] But he does one thing very well. Goes in. It's not like this mindless woke mob going to some protest rally and just making a bunch of noise, right? And hopefully somebody hears it like this. This is very precise. This is surgical. This is how you have to be with your health because once it's fixed, here's the difference between pharmaceuticals and a peptide. You take the peptide away, the solution's still there. You think your arteries are just going to get filled with Velcro and get all screwed up again? The second you stop, no, they're repaired. You stop, according to them. You stop a statin, what does your cholesterol do? Goes right back up. So, think about that. Just pause for a second. Even think about that. If the cholesterol starts to go back up and you're fighting to keep it down, don't you think according to homeostasis and the laws of human biology that your body is going, I need to get to a certain point. You keep getting in the [\h__\h] way. You ever think of that? You ever think why it's constantly trying to get back to the set point? You need to start thinking a little bit outside the box. Epitoolon. Epitoolon. And this is telomeir supporting antioxidant effects. This takes the oxidative stress that this reduces the oxidative stress that oxidizes LDL and turns that ambulance that's going remember what I said LDL is the ambulance right to put out the fire started by the arsonist which is the inflammation and the things that are causing it. It's it's what turns the ambulance into a problem. This reduces the oxidative stress that oxidizes the LDL. So it stops that ambulance from being a problem if that makes sense. It's like putting a like a Teflon coating. I realize Teflon's [\h__\h] for you. I'm just using it as an example. It's like putting a Teflon coating on your entire vascular system. So, you have a much more smooth flowing vascular system. KPB. KPV and BPC. It's like I'm just ABC and XYZ, right? No, don't those before you guys are like, "What? What are those?" KPV, yes. BPC, yes. The rest is just made up letters that I strung together from the alphabet. So, this massive inflammatory process is always start in the gut. Always. 100% of the time outside of a an injury, they're always beginning in the gut. So, this tiny little powerful peptide KPB calms the gut inflammation at the source and it puts out the fire before it reaches your arteries. Now, you want to go down the rabbit hole a little bit when we looked at leaky gut. Remember what I was saying, the tight junctions. The problem is was when they aren't tight junctions, they're allowing LPS, the lipopolysaccharides from the bacteria, the fragments getting it, it allows that to go from what I always call the sewer system into your va clean closed loop vascular system where now your immune system goes bananas thymus and alpha 1. You see how now this this is the problem with these instab bros and their peptide protocols. They don't even understand physiology. So they start slapping it together because they copy me. They go, "Oh yeah, just I'm going to copy it. I'm just going to rewrite it a little bit because I know that's what this does. But knowing what it does and knowing knowing what it does synergistically are two totally different things. And then understanding the systems that it affects and why those systems matter makes all the difference in the world. This is why people call me and go I need you to be my consultant for a year. Here isund because that's what it went up to by the way. It used to be I think if you understand the value of the real estate you are parading around in this world. It's not about the money. It's about keeping those trillions of little properties that you have operating. And listen, man, I'm just trying to help. So, KPB gets in the way along with BPC before all that inflammation even gets to the arteries and the veins and the capillaries and the venules and the arterials and all the little tips of your fingers that are only one RBC in diameter, one red blood cell in diameter, like all this stuff that you need help. You think inflammation of the tip of your finger isn't just as destructive as inflammation in the ascending aorta, right? Or the aortic arch. I mean, you guys need to understand this stuff. HKCU copper. This is probably one of the coolest peptides. Never mind the fact that that copper is what restores vascular tone of the entire vascular system. When it's gone, those vessels relax because they can't maintain the muscular tone because they all have muscle. So, if they can't maintain the the tone, the valves leak, the pressure changes. There's so many things that go wrong. But this peptide also modulates gene expression. So it shifts your body's software from an inflammatory state to a repair and a regeneration state. And it tells your genes to act like you're 22 23 years old again. That's how you have to look at your system. Thy beta or TB-500 would be the final one in this TB-500 right out of the gate. Cardiovascular repair you can stop. Never mind actin polymerization which allows it gives the ability to allow fibroblasts to crawl into all the injuries that you have that you don't even know. All those little micro traumas that are causing all the problems some of them caused by seed oils and statins and poor life decisions. This is the new paradigm. It's not about suppression. It's about capitalizing on what your body's capable of doing and then making it do it. Cuz you have a bunch of noise that's in the way. So if you go, "Well, I'm going to force it to do something. Isn't that kind of like a drug?" Not even close. I'm just telling you to do something that tells your body to do what it already knows how to do in the language it knows how to do it versus going here's a drug I'm going to make your body do something even though homeostasis says I don't want to do it tries to give you the finger and the drug goes too bad I'm stronger than you are you can't die taking a peptide you sure as hell can die taking a drug this is about giving your body the precise signals that it needs to heal itself and be resilient and anti-fragile high cholesterol level in this protocol is not a danger it's part of that's living that's health it's a sign of a body that stocked with the raw materials for repair and greatness and strength. It is your biological war chest that gives you all the stuff you need. Listen, they they told you to listen to me, please, because I'm going to button this up. I've been at this for 45 minutes. They told you to fear a number, specific number, right? They told you to wage war on your own body, right? And you bought it. They told you that vitality was a disease that needed to be meditated. They told you a dise they they told you that vitality was a disease that needed to be medicated. Get [\h__\h] The data has been here all along. Framingham proved the opposite of what they said. Right. Framingham proved the opposite of what they said it did. Biology proves the opposite of what they sold you. Cholesterol isn't your killer, man. Cholesterol, if anything, is your is your creator of your physiology, not your creator before you mis misunderstand or take a snippet and screw it all up, which you guys will do anyway. But it's it's your physiological human biological creator and protector and fountain of youth. The goal isn't to lower it into a diseased state, you guys. The goal is to allow it to do its thing and flourish while eliminating the true cause of disease, systemic inflammation. And and of course, the problem is then they go, "Can I taste just take a Tylenol?" That causes a whole host of new problems. Just solve the inflammation problem. Remember, a Tylenol doesn't fix the inflammatory problem or or why it's doing it. It just makes you forget about it and shuts it down for a little while. But it's still right. COX 2 inhibitors, man. Electron transport chain uncoupling like there's so many bad things that happen with NSAIDs. Stop buying a lie. Please just stop buying a lie. Stop funding the the protection racket of the mafia coming by shoving pills into your bar hole. Fire your doctor if he is pedalling this Neolithic garbage. Look at your cholesterol. Embrace the [\h__\h] out of it. Just I want it right here. Put it all here. You've been sold a lie. Proven by the very study they went, let's prove that it's bad for you. in this study went actually listen guys this is really [\h__\h] good for you we can't tell anybody about it's like these guys that go out and dig for water they're digging a well then water starts to come up oh [\h__\h] cover it up we need a couple more days of work that's how this is what are you fueling this for stop give them money and time and energy and any stop even looking their direction and if you are that afraid of your doctor fire your doctor and get a new one I have a friend of mine Tanya you know what I will never forget when I called it out I said your doctor's going to call you and pressure you said the next day she'd get nothing but phone calls and messages is pressuring her to go do [\h__\h] chemo. Are you insane? I love that she didn't do it. Love it. She is a gangster woman, man. She's savage as [\h__\h] So, let me explain something. You're going to listen to the people that don't have your best interest in mind. They have their bank account in mind. They have their safety. They have their license. They have their credentiing. Who cares? None of that makes you healthy. Do you understand why I'm saying that? Shove animal fats into your mouth. Throw out seed oils. And do I understand a lot of the peer-reviewed research? Have I actually looked at it? Yeah. Do I care? No, because most of it is store-bought. And if you go, "Well, you could buy this research, too, then." Yep, you could. How many people are dying from high cholesterol? None. I'll help you. I'll just answer for you. It's rhetorical question. How many people are dying and getting more diseases from statins? All of them. 100% of them. Nourish your body. Animal fats. Get rid of seed oils and processed refined carbohydrates. And consider looking at an entire peptide sequence to fix the dam. You can't do this while you're on statins, by the way, but capitalize on what your body is capable of doing. I am a walking example of what works. I say it in almost every freaking podcast. Believe me, I used to come out here and go, you know, I try not to drop fbombs too much, but I am who I am. But at the same time, I actually give a crap about you guys. Your health is not a number on a lab report. It is the energy in the the reactor that is running your system and every tiny little subsequent reactor called cells and mitochondria. It's the cognitive ability in your mind. It's the drive inside your soul. It's the vitality that is coursing through your veins and arteries in your heart. Beating strong, powerful. It is the cholesterol that goes to your mind and lets it repair everything. It's time to take all that stuff [\h__\h] back. For the love of God, go be the powerhouse you were supposed to be. I got to go. Never miss.