Let me preventatively say this. This is not intended to diagnose, cure, treat, prescribe, analyze, advise. It's not to be taken as any kind of medical advice. It's uh entertainment, hypothetical, experimental, and all that lot. Why? Because in a free speech country, we can't give the answers that are going to work because you might get cancelled. You might get in trouble. Make it make sense. Most of you guys live in fear of a system that you trust to take care of you yet has never taken care of you. Like the cure you need is the cure from the system. Just so we're we're clear. Follow me. If your body breaks, what do you think actually heals it? I've been, in case you're wondering, I've been a doctor for well over two decades. I have had well over a million patients and I take calls and messages from people thousands of times a day. I have the cure program that I talked about on the other podcast. 100 days, 100,000, whatever problem you Let's get to work. This isn't for people that don't take their health seriously. So, if you're going to complain about it and whine about the price, it doesn't matter. I'm not for you. That's okay. But if you know my story, I've gone through hell in the last four years and turned myself into a juggernaut. And now all I do is look for ways to make other people the same. That's a threat to certain, but I'm also transparent as hell. and I'll tell you how to do it. I'm going to hold your I'll tell you how to do it. You go do it. When you're done, let's make sure it's done. Go kick ass and take that's how you're designed. Why would you want anything other? You're you're so conditioned to think that you need to have somebody handhold you all the way through your life about your own health. Make it make sense because here's what most people have been taught. Follow me. Here's what most people have been taught. you something breaks, you get sick, something goes wrong, and you go to the doctor, they hand you a pill, and maybe they cut something open, and you're magically better. But let me explain something. No drug, no surgery, no doctor, including myself, has ever healed or cured anybody of anything. All healing, all repair, regeneration, resolution, the reass assembly of your body is an internal biological response driven by your body's innate intelligence and how it works and it knows what to do. How many times have you guys cut yourself and gone, okay, thrombin, prothroin, vitamin K, I need to make sure I know like the cytoines are causing the problem, prostaglandins, arachidonic acid. You don't know any of that stuff, but your body does. And some of you knuckleheads argue against that. It listen and here's the problem. When that when that intelligence is ignored or suppressed or even blocked, you don't heal. It forces adaptation and then you decay and rot deteriorate. Now listen, if a mechanic, follow me. This I'll make it really easy to understand. If a mechanic told you to fix your engine by drilling a hole in the fuel tank, you'd laugh. But if a doctor hands you a medication that depletes, I don't know, ATP, adenazine triphosphate, the energy currency of the human body, right? That's what an ATP is. Triple bond, break it, turns into ADP. I explained this the other day. ATP, uh, let's say it disrupts methylation, right? And scramles all of your neurotransmitters. So, your brain is just mush. You say thank you and then go get a refill next month and panic when your prescription runs out. Why? Why? Because you've been we as a as a collective has been have been trained to outsource our biology to the people who profit the most from keeping it broken. I can't make this up. Wake up. How about you just start with the obvious? Listen, I'll pick this apart. Start with the obvious. When something breaks, right? A tendon, a joint, a cut, nerve pathway, your body knows what to do regardless of what you want to say. And I'm not preaching about innate intelligence and all this stuff. I'm not going all chiropractic or weird stuff, these guys with their nonsense. Listen, I got nothing against them, but I'm not going to sit there and dance around about it's the be all end all. But your body knows what to do. You've never had to think about it. Here's why. When this happens, when you suffer some kind of damage, whether it's disease, viral, material, injury, mechanical, doesn't matter. Inflammation instantly mobilized. Platelets release something called cytoines. I just said it. Stem cells migrate to the site like this, right? Growth factors, things like IGF-1, VEGF, they upregulate, local repair. They don't go anywhere else. They know where to go. You take an Advil, does it know to go to your thumb? No, it doesn't. It just happens to affect your So, think about that. So, IGF-1, VEGF, upregulate local repair. Where are the damages? Fibroblasts lay down new collagen. macroofagages clear out all the debris and signal tissue remodeling the way your body's designed to do. But listen, follow me. If the raw material isn't there, if the biomechanical requirements aren't met, then the entire system collapses. So watch, here's what simple things. I'm not talking about fancy things. Simple things. Vitamin C, no vitamin C. Collagen cross-linking fails. You're not eating an orange to prevent scurvy. You're taking vitamin C into your diet so you can heal yourself. No B vitamins, man. There are so many reactions in the human body predicated on a B vitamin. No B vitamins. You can't methylate. It has nothing to do with some weird marker that someone named Brea says you got to test yourself for this. I just want to smash that guy in the head. I can't stand charlatans and liars like that. It drives me nuts. Just as bad as the people profiting off of your illness. Uh, low magnesium, the most depleted thing in a human being worldwide. What kind do I take, Dr. Bachmire? Pick one. Take it for 10 to 12 days. If you don't have a change in symptoms, uh, energy, sleep, restless legs, things like that. If that doesn't change, switch to a new type. The only one I would say you want to be careful with is chelated magnesium because it's doing something else. Yes, I think it's fantastic, but do it for its purpose. But no, low magnesium. Here's the problem. ATP can't activate. What did I just say about ATP? Adenazine triphosphate is the energy currency of life. Gut dispiosis. Oh, that's a common one, huh? No absorption of any of the micronutrients that you take in. Chronic inflammation, which is rampant right now, the repair, the repair process that you have in your body gets completely hijacked by something called a cytoine storm. Now, here's the issue. Instead of recovery, you get scar tissue. Scar tissue is it's the devil to your body. You don't want it. But if you do, you want to make sure it's laid down properly and not half-hazardly like a plate of spaghetti, which involves a whole lot of other things. I'll get into that in a minute. But instead of restoration, you get chronic pain because of that. Instead of healing, you get dysfunction layered with more dysfunction and more scar tissue and more dysfunction. So here's the issue. Instead of asking why the body didn't heal, modern medicine goes, which drug can silence the symptoms the fastest and you guys buy it. Strike one. They call it healthcare. It doesn't restore health. It doesn't. It just manages the destruction of your body and slows it down so they can make money off of you and keep you as a good little soldier. And listen, you can go down the medical philosophy path. Doctors are taught from day one that the body is dumb. That it needs to be told what to do and that symptoms are the problem, not the signal of something going on. Pain is a signal. Just like sadness is a signal. Happiness is a signal. They're all signals. Except the problem is the doctors don't treat the symptoms. And that's coming from me. I am a doctor. They treat the labels. And it's getting worse. Tell me it's not. It is not better detection. All of you guys going, "Well, yeah, we can detect it better." No. 1895, the Merc manual of disease had maybe 100 pages, 3,500 pages. You mean in the lastund and change years, we've magically discovered 3,400 more pages of disease? Get out of here, man. The treatment for AIDS mimics AIDS. Let that land. I'll wait. But you go ahead and keep subscribing. So here's the problem. Even when surgery is performed, the actual closure of wounds, like when you stitch it closed, the regeneration of all the tissue, here's the thing. The actual repair, the reestablishment of lymphatics, capillaries, venules, none of that is caused by the scalpel. I had surgery. I have I I have so much gratitude for the doctor that did the work that allowed my body to save itself. The doctor didn't cure me. And some of you guys go, "That's disrespectful. If he wasn't there, you'd be dead." Correct. But the person that put me back together was me. That's your body. And it does it again doing what it was coded to do by the operating system running in your in your entire being. if it's given the damn chance, but it's not. Strike two. The system doesn't believe the body can cure itself. How many times have you had to go, "Okay, listen. I need to make specific antibodies. I need to crank them up because we are exposed to an antigen." How many times have you had to sit down and think about that? Let me know. I'll wait. Zero. Except the body is the only thing it's ever done is heal itself. That's what your body's done. That CNS and PNS, peripheral and central nervous system, tells your body what to do based on the instructions coming from the fatty computer in your dome. Now, let's let's bring in some pharmaceuticals. This is a fun one. I love this stuff. A drug doesn't heal, it manipulates. I've said this before. It blocks receptors, inhibits enzymes, alters signaling pathways in a massive way. What it does is it forces cells into unnatural activity that your biology didn't even ask for. Okay. The byproduct of that is that every drug comes with a metabolic cost. And oh, what? Because the body doesn't recognize synthetic compounds as part of its blueprint. So now your liver ramps up something called cytochrome P450 enzymes because it needs to detoxify. Your kidneys strain to filter everything out. Micronutrients, specifically things like B6, zinc, magnesium, folate, glutathione. So you got to go get a glutathione drip instead of just making sure. You see where I'm going with this, right? You don't need more things. You need your body to do more of what it's designed to do. All of this stuff gets consumed faster than you can replace them. So all of these nutrients are being chewed up because of what you are being given pharmacologically. And then when that drug starts causing side effects, but there's no such thing as an a side effect. There are only effects. I've explained that before. I'll make it real quick. Side effects are a fancy name given to something that occurs that you don't like. I used aspirin as an example. You give somebody, use Advil, ibuprofen. Give somebody an ibuprofen and tell them, "All right, gastrointestinal bleeding, liver damage, kidney damage, endothelial damage, possible side effect, reduces fever, mitigates pain. Nobody's going to buy your pill. Flip that around. Everybody buys your pill." And they go, "Well, they have to say it." No, they say it because it's happened in research trials. I'm drinking coffee for all of you guys wondering what that weird sound was. So now when the drug starts to cause these adverse effects, they give you another drug to treat the effects that you don't like from the first drug, which causes a whole entirely new issue, which earns you a third prescription. That's not medicine. That's compounding dysfunction. How does that work? If the dose, watch, follow me on this. If you have to keep taking the drug and the problem, if you stop taking the drug, the problem is still there, did you ever solve the problem? No, you didn't. And now if the dosage keeps increasing, if the drug list keeps growing, then the root issue is still there. Yes. No. But now your biology is buried under biological chemical warfare. Strike three. I'm out. Because at this point here, listen. Because here's why. If you really unpack this, just extrapolate this out. Now, you're not a patient. You're a subscriber. You have a monthly subscription. Except it's to stupidity and ignorance because nobody wants you to know the truth. I'm out here. Oh, I'm spitting facts all day because I actually care. What benefit do I get of this? Somebody went, "Well, you're pushing your podcast." So what? Oh, no. Information that's going to help you survive. Yeah. Don't listen to people that want you to to be healthier, stronger, and faster and better. Be rich and powerful and strong. Don't listen to anybody that wants you like that like me right here. Listen, you want to really This is Let's talk about the business model. How about that? Because I'll give you real numbers. And these are so reduced because while everybody is screaming about safety, I have this guy, maybe you should tell people that peptides aren't FDA approved. Yeah, that's a good thing, dumbass. For all of the people screaming about safety and FDA approval, here's what they're not saying. So, let's say hypothetically, purely educational peptides, something like, let's go BPC-157, uh, GHK-Cu, TB-500. I could list them all. It doesn't matter. Deaths, zero, none, zero. Adverse events for the most part, localized irritation. And that is used to that's because of dose sensitivity. They probably just mixed it wrong. Too high. Too much. Too many milligrams per milliliter. Just dilute it. Cancer risk. This is my favorite. None shown in any human study. And in fact, if you look at something like copper, just on a tangent, GHK-Cu, it actually downregulates cancer promoting genes. So let me get this straight. It downregulates the genes that are promoting cancer. Sounds dangerous to me. These compounds don't hijack your body. They mimic natural biological signals. So, I'll just stick with GHK-Cu, like copper, because it's easy. I'm just talking about it right now. So, GHK-Cu, just for example, binds to copper ions and then influences over 4,000 genes involved in tissue remodeling your tissue. But not just that, also inflammation mitigate mitigation and suppression and angioenesis, creation of new vessels. It doesn't treat a disease. It tells the all of your cells to return to the baseline that they're designed to function at. So, let's have some fun here. I love this stuff. Let's compare. Let's compare NSAIDes. Let's look at NSAIDes because I like this stuff. Oh boy, you got me lit now. NSAIDES, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. 16,000 plus deaths per year from GI bleeds and heart attacks alone. Never mind. And if you understood the number that hospitals and doctors have to report, it's incredibly small. So you don't even know. That's just what they're telling you. NSAIDs inhibit something called COX one and COX 2 enzymes, right? They keep them from working, which now reduces something called the prosttoland. Yeah, that's great. But it also impairs something called mucosal integrity in your gut. So if you have an issue with your gut, the amount of chaos that you cause in your body is indescribable. Never mind the problem with kidney profusion and platelet function. Happens with nsaides. So great, you get less pain, but at the cost of I'll bring it simple. Intestinal bleeding, kidney stress, and microvascular damage. Where do I sign up? So many of you guys are playing checkers with your own life, not chess. Look at chemo. Chemotherapy cancer. I've been through this. It is classified as a carcinogenic. It is literally classified as carcinogenic. Chemotherapy. Should I wait while this sinks in? Chemo drugs target rapidly dividing cells. However, great, they don't distinguish between a tumor and your intestinal lining, bone marrow, or hair follicles. It doesn't matter. They don't distinguish. No matter what they say, they do not. Now, let me I'll explain this in a second because you guys need to understand even what cancer is. But the result of chemotherapeutic drugs is imunosuppression, something called mucusitis, a cardiotoxicity. What? your heart, neuropathies, and here's my favorite one, chemotherrapeutic induced cancers. Yeah, secondary cancer because of the chemotherapy. Oh, that's normal. But don't worry, we have a pill for that. Killing the patient to kill the tumor is not therapy. You know what that is? It's triage with the finance department. That's what it is. Listen, cancer is your body turns over a billion cells a day. 1 billion. 1% of all those cells are mutated cells which is by definition a cancer cell. So if 1% of all those cells are cancer cells and your immune system only recognizes two things. I'll reduce it to something very immunology is very complicated but not really self other. There you go. You've just had your crash course in immunology. It will so it recognizes this cell as being problematic. So it destroys the cell throws it away takes all the parts it can save and rebuilds new cells and makes new things out of it. Welcome to your human human body. So your body does that with the one bill the 1% of the 1 billion that your body's turning over every day. Now introduce chemotherapy. Now your body because of the damage that you are causing because of some obscene chemical being dripped into your system or the radiation or the radio frequency ablasion or all the things that they do is now turning over 7 to 8 billion cells a day. And that is being conservative probably more like 10 billion cells a day because of the damage because your body is constantly seeking to maintain homeostasis. Now keeping that rate of mutation at 1% which it will not be it will be higher but 1% 1% of all those cells are mutated cells is 1% of 10 billion a bigger number than 1% of 1 billion. For all of you actuarians out there the answer is yes. So now you're creating more cancer cells while the body is under duress. What do you think's going to happen? I don't care if you tell me that your grandma took chemotherapy and it saved her life. No, it didn't. If your grandma took chemotherapy and it saved her life, she did not have cancer and she was lucky. Never like you have cancer all of the time and your body gets rid of it all of the time. And to poke a hole in a tumor to see what's going on inside is exactly why there's a problem. Your body encapsulates things to keep it from spreading. I don't know how many times somebody needs to prove to you that your body knows what it's doing. What's wild to me is that we drive around in cars that we know nothing about and yet we expect the car to work. We w we pilot this meat suit around all the time and we expect things to work and when we don't, we go running to the people that do not have our best interest in mind. Would you go to a mechanic that kept ripping you off and causing more damage to your car? The answer is absolutely not. Why would you do it for your health? Why? Yeah. It frustrates me because I look at I take my life very seriously and I'm grateful to be alive and I almost died. I mean, if you know my story, I really almost died and I un unfortunately videoed the entire thing, including them pulling 2 feet of garden hose out of my chest. All of it's on video. Even after they they they removed a lung and told me I was going to be in the hospital for 14 days. 7 days later I was at home pulling a sled around my driveway. That's all they could do with six giant 4-in incisions in me where they took everything out. They used a robot. Doctor had a joystick. I'm kidding. When I went for my follow-up visit, the guy, the surgeon that that checked me, it was my primary surgeon's assistant, who is also a surgeon, a thoracic surgeon, said, "I've never seen anybody heal this fast in my life. Never seen this. I've done this nine years. I'll never forget his look of shock when he looked at my X-ray." He goes, "Never seen this." Goes, "This is crazy." And I asked him in his office. I go, "Can I take a picture of that?" And he goes, "Yeah." I took a picture. He goes, "Whatever you're doing, that's awesome." What I was doing was not listening to the people that wanted me to stay sick. Interesting. But I know this. Had I not listened to my wife, I would not have this podcast and she would be a widow. My kids would. So, you can take this however you want. Take this as some angry bald guy with a beard coming out here yelling at everybody. But I'm not. I'm out here going, I want you to have the most incredible powerful life ever. I want to solve your problems every second of the day because I want to take every bit of knowledge that God has imparted into me through my experiences and my catastrophes and help people so they never have to go through it. I swore I was never going to get back into healthcare simply because most patients don't listen. I love you guys all, but most of you guys are ignorant. You want the easy way and somebody hands you a bill here. It's going to cost 10 grand to fix this. Oh, I'm going to go find a place that takes my co-ay even though they suck. Okay, I'm not arguing with people. That's why my cure program is $100,000. I'll You're going to walk away a juggernaut. Can I guarantee it? No. Cuz I can't guarantee what you're going to do. But I'll tell you this. Look at my results. You think I'm going to take a chance with you? Not a chance. I'll bleed to make sure you're okay. But that's also why it's $100,000. cuz I don't want people that aren't committed. I want people that go, I want the best machine possible themselves and then we just do it. I prove myself to myself every day by coming out here and going, I know what I'm talking whether it's peptides or health or psychology or money. I mean, I've built a massive brand. I've created tens upon tens of millions of dollars. I've helped thousands and hundreds over a million patients. So, over a million people and I've never stopped because I actually care. Even Brandy, my wife, she'll be like, you know, you have to learn to disconnect. And I can't because I want people to be healthy and powerful soly. And it infuriates me so much when people choose cheap, easy, convenient at the expense of themselves and their one precious life. So believe me, if that's you, don't send me a message saying, "Can you help me?" because I'll give you a hug and send you on your way. I can't help people that don't look at Listen, go down this because this is a common one. I I had this patient one time. He had I told you he came in and he spilled coffee all over. His name was Dan. I love this guy. I haven't talked him in forever now, but he was an awesome I Wells Fargo executive, great dude. And um he came in one day and he goes, "Dr. T, I don't know what's going on with me." He's like, "Look at He had he always was sharp dressed, right? Coffee spilled down. He had his one button was undone. He goes, "I don't know what's going on." He's like, "I'm super clumsy. I can't figure out I can't do anything. I can't even like I'm like goofy and just inconsistent and I feel like I'm not myself." And so I started triage right away. Hey, what what's going on? Did you miss this? Did you miss this? What's happening? Did you sleep? Did you take anything? Eat anything? Did you bang your head? Any injuries? Going through all the things. Did you drink? Whatever. I said, "Did you do you have any you on any medication?" And he goes, "Yeah, I'm on Paxel, but my prescription right now." I think it was 2 days. 2 days, 3 days ago. Very short. Two to two to three days. Normally, I don't even say things like this. I said, "You need to go fill that prescription." Why? Because it's screwing with your neurochemistry. He got back on it and he went, "Holy smokes." He goes, "I need to get off this stuff." He goes, "I was instant." He goes, "That scared the hell out of me." This is the same guy, Dan. He came in, I poked, he came in, he had he was nauseated, didn't feel well, a little bit febra, a little bit of a fever. And I'm checking him out. He goes, "I don't know. Something's wrong." And I checked him out and I said, "You need to go to the hospital right now. Tell him you have appendicitis. It needs to come." He did. The doctors made fun of him and who diagnosed him. Everybody knew who I was. I was a loud dock that kept going, "You need to listen and go figure." I had doctors calling my clinic threatening to sue me. It's California. Go figure, right? Because I was stealing their patients. Turned out, guess what? He had hot appendix. And they went, "Oh my god, the doc was right. Good old Dr. T." Their arrogance almost cost him. Could you imagine if it would have ruptured? he would had paritis. That is a whole different world. Just so we're clear. So, think about it. Go down the like SSRIs. How about we do SSRIs and statins? Those are common because I've seen people I have a a a uh client right now whose doc said, "We need to put you on statins because we have to reduce your cholesterol." Get out of town. So, here, let's go through this cuz I otherwise I'm going to be out here all day just bitching. SSRIs, what they do is they blunt serotonin reuptake. That's what made me trigger this was Dan, right? But serotonin is made 90% in the gut. Did you guys even know that? So now you have gut dispiosis, emotional flatlining, and by the way, massive sexual dysfunction. No resolution of the problem. They go to statins. And I'm just comparing all the stuff. I'm just thinking of drugs and things that a lot of that are common. These are the most common drugs that I see that I have seen in over 20 years of being a doctor. Statins blood block something called HMG COA reductase. But not just in the liver. That's where all this occurs. So not just in the liver, but in every single cell that relies on cholesterol. By the way, your brain is the fattest organ in but you want to reduce cholesterol. Nope. I talked about the Framingham study. I don't need to talk about it again. But so it reduces CO, right? HMG COA reductase in every cell that relies on cholesterol, but relies on cholesterol to make hormones, repair membranes, and transport nutrients. So now you've reduced LDL. Great. But at the cost of your memory, your cognitive function, metabolic energy, and your testosterone. I'm afraid to say this word because it's such a trigger for people. Vaccines. Let's go specifically the MNA vaccine. MNA is messenger RNA, ribboucleic acid, by the way. DNA deoxxyribboucleic acid, RNA acid. Right? So, MNA platforms, what they do is because I think people don't understand how they work. They instruct your cells to make spike proteins. Except a lot of the studies now show that the spike protein hangs out in tissues for months if not years. And the number of studies now that are showing something called immune dysregulation, myocarditis, inflamed heart is an easy way to explain it. Paricardial inflammation and massive autoimmune activation. So massive autoimmune problems. So your body doesn't even know how to function its own or how to regulate its own immune system which means you start creating autoimmune disorders which are manufactured. You are not born with an autoimmune disorder. You are given an autoimmune disorder. And yet we're still calling things like peptides experimental. Get out of here, man. I can't do this with a straight face or even without getting irritated. You wanna You want to know what I think the real disease is? It's not cancer. It's not heart disease. It's not diabetes. It's the delusion that your biology is broken by default and needs to be chemically managed for light. Listen, I can go full clinical on this. Your body has built-in repair circuits. They're regulated by peptides. Not just peptides, enzymes, hormone cascades, and these things called electrical gradients. Without getting fancy, you block these, you get a body that falls apart. When you support them, you get a body that repairs itself. I can even give you examples. Take something like hypothetically, this is stupid that I even have to say that. Take something like BPC57, right? Body protective compound 157 made in your own gut. It upregulates, I said this before, right? VEGF, specifically NOS, right? And something called FGF. All of which drive angioenesis and endothelial repair. If you remember what I talked about endothelial repair, it's the lining of the entire cardiovascular system. That means faster healing of tendons, gut lining, blood vessels without suppressing your immune system or taxing the hell out of your organs. You want to keep going? How about this? MC, one of the coolest things ever. By the way, Elite Biogenics has it. Even if it doesn't say it, order it hypothetically. It activates, and I talked about this the other day, something called AMPK. And subsequently, it also suppresses fat storage signals by impro This is the best. So, it suppresses the fat storage signals, but it does it by it doesn't do it the way you think it does it. It does it by by improving mitochondrial function. Remember what mitochondria are, right? The symbiotic relationship with your cells and the mitochondria. It's like a little furnace inside the cells. It this is I can't drives me crazy. It restores metabolic flexibility without crashing your thyroid like all the stimulants you guys take. By the way, if you go you're drinking coffee that's a stimulant. The number of things that coffee has that are beneficial are astronomical. And if there's any [\h__\h] out there that goes, "Coffee is inauthentic energy. It delays fatigue." Whoever that is, go up to them, punch them right in the face. Use your elbow. Tiny little bones in your hand. You don't want to. It's the most ridiculous thing I've ever seen. And it's one of the most ignorant statements. And I've seen people say it. Oh, my life is so much better since I got off coffee. No, it's not. Your psychology is better because you think it's better. Listen, all all this stuff like the peptides, MOT C, BPC, GHQC, all the stuff I've been talking about, they're not band-aids. These are little blueprints that you inject into your body and they pull your body body back to baseline. Except the problem is, you know what baseline doesn't do? It doesn't sell pills. And the system was built to fail you, right? Like I said, I almost died because of Rammes, among other things, but not because I was reckless. I'm not reckless at all. I mean, I'm crazy. I race dirt bikes and snowmobiles and BMXs forever. And you know, I mean, I'm 52 and I do some pretty wild stuff. But it's this is because I trusted the wrong people. They pushed it ruthlessly. I mean, relentlessly. I heard them arguing. They would I came out of surgery going down the hallway still under anesthesia and they were pushing not just the remesae but the vaccination. Are you insane? I wasn't even coherent. despite all the data, despite my gut instincts, and despite the danger, and I listened. Yeah, I fully admit I listened, which is what happens to you guys. And in those moments, something broke. Not in my biology. But in my belief that the system was to help, it's not. It's not what it's built to do is retain control of you. Because listen, a population that believes they're sick by default, a population that believes symptoms are are problems, not signals. The the population that waits for prescription instead of asking why they got sick in the first place. Man, if I'm building a business model, that's my starving crowd. But when you hand somebody peptides and you fix their hormonal access and you restore tissue regen and immune function and you upgrade and reprogram their operating system to work the way it's designed, now they don't need doctors. They don't need drugs. Now they're free. You know what that does? It makes you dangerous. Makes you Oh, that's why I'm sure I'll get hate probably from some of you guys going, "Well, I don't know. Let me rate this." I love when you guys come in and you rate the YouTube video anything less than 100%. The hell is wrong with you? Just don't listen to it. Grow up. I've never gone and given somebody less than five stars. I just don't listen to it. If you guys do that, you guys are just cowards. Well, what if I really don't like it? So, don't listen to it. If your mama didn't say your mama said what? Don't have anything nice to say. Shut up. Listen, if I said I could make somebody physically as unbreakable as God allows possible, not even just physically, mentally, emotionally, psychologically for 100 grand, which is what I told you, right? This isn't a a pitch. I'm just telling you that's what the program is. It's like going, "This is how much my car costs." It is what it is. 100 grand, 100 days. Most people scoff. Okay, whatever, bro. Too expensive. And yet those same people, listen to me. these those same people that scoff at this stuff. At least six grand a year on insurance that they never use. 40 grand minimum over a lifetime on co-pays, lab fees, procedures, exams, nonsense they don't need, and a 100 plus grand, probably more like a half a million dollars in lost productivity, time, lost quality of life. Put a dollar value on all that stuff. I did. It's significantly more than 100 grand. And all for what? All for what? to eventually lose the battle that could have been avoided with a little preparation. So listen, you can wait for the heart attack or you can build cardiac resilience right now. You can wait for the surgery to show up because something you did something dumb or your body started to fall apart or you can just regenerate the tissue now. You can wait for the depression because you don't know how to handle being sad or you can just fix and regulate the dopamine pathways before the insane collapse that is headed your way. Bub, the investment isn't money. It's time. It's attention. It's accountability. It's responsibility. Whose body is this? That's like saying the credit card companies are responsible for your spending habits. You don't need more pills. You don't. You know what you need? You need your physiology to operate properly. You need freedom so you can do the things that are going to do it and keep it operating properly. You need power for yourself. The real cure is not in a vial, whether it is a peptide or from a doctor, from a pharmaceutical company that doesn't want you healthy. It's in the decision to stop obeying a system that profits from your decline. I'm probably going to catch static for this, but fire your doctor. Fire your doctor. Fire your excuses. Fire the identity that believes that broken is normal. Listen, and if someone tells you that you are reckless for injecting instructions called peptides, just laugh at them. Smile. Because unlike them, you're not gambling with your life. You're taking it back. You are conditioned to think otherwise. And if that makes you uncomfortable, good. Because a cure does not start with pills and injections and a scalpel that are going to hurt you. It starts with a decision. And the decision of this is this. I will never ever again trust a system that profits from keeping me sick. I will become unbreakable, a juggernaut. And I'm going to help others do the same. Because if if enough of us do that, and if enough of you guys do that, first of all, do you want to feel lousy or great? You want to feel great. Do you want to be broke or rich? Rich. Do you want to have a lousy, lonely life or do you want to have an amazing marriage? I could do this all day. You guys need to make better decisions. The system doesn't need a revolution if you start doing the things that keep it from operating based on your negative habits and your addiction to it because there's no revolution needed. It'll just collapse from irrelevance. That's how you have to look at things. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss