 you know, it's, man, it is 10 to 4 Christmas Eve 2025. Two things, right? Look at this. Which one is better? You know what's wild? Which one is worse for you? You guys need to look at what I'm doing. I'm going to be talking about SLUPP332, by the way. I'm going to blow your minds today. But look at this. Most people would say this one's really bad for you. Worse, this one's actually good for you. This is what's bad for you. But that's an entirely different podcast. It'd be a fun one though. So listen, people, pay attention. I'm going to knock this out because I really want to go inside. I want to spend time with my wife and kids. I really do. I love my family so much. And they're my best friends. And by the way, to everybody that's ever gone into my comments and said something amazing, I love you. Thank you very much to everyone that's ever gone into other people's comments and defended me. I love you. Thank you very much. I really do mean that. It matters to me because I'm not out here to get anything from anybody. I don't want anything from you guys. I don't, like I said, I don't care if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics. Go ahead. I'll give you the best product on the planet. I guarantee it. Geno Shack, nobody tests like they do. And I don't use local COA guys that make BS COAs that are full of lies. There's no endotoxins or anything. LPS. Nothing's in my, I think it's in my company's products. Nothing other than perfect product. And you want to join the black card, then join. If you don't, that's okay. I still come out here because I do care. And I find it interesting when anyone, my wife told me about this doctor that was trying to attack me in somebody's comments, writing paragraphs, which is just an AI disaster. This guy's, he owns a hormone clinic. And of course, that's exactly right. My wife, she laughs at these people because she goes down the rabbit hole and goes, these guys are idiots. They have no idea how intelligent you are. My wife's been with me for 21 years. She knows how smart. And I do it because I care. I'm smart because I want to give you everything I've got. I want you to have all the information I've got, not because I want to come out here and go, look at how smart I am. I don't give a crap how smart I am. I don't. I just don't care. I care about how smart you are. I care about all the information you have so you can take it and use it and apply it to your life so you don't make dumb mistakes listening to people that really aren't intelligent. They use big, fancy words to make you feel like you're the idiot in the room, but you're not. So I want you guys to understand how intelligent you are. Stop letting people tell you're not. And stop letting doctors bully you. You can feel free to give them the finger and tell them the pound sand all day long. White coat and a God complex. I say this all the time. I've been a doctor twofold for decades. Both sides of the equation, the medical side and the chiro side. And you know, it's funny, this guy went in there and he says, this guy lost his license and he's got strikes, multiple strikes against him. Let's go down that rabbit hole for a sec because I did. I lost my my my DC license and it's because of this big fat cow named Christine who works for the California Board of Chiropractic Examiners. You should look at me. You should look me up. Look me up and look at my license. It was revoked, had nothing to do with patient interaction. Nothing. She was gunning for me for a decade because I told her to go f herself because I wasn't going to let them tell me how to make sure a patient was healthy and strong and ready for the world at 100%. I wasn't willing to go. You say they need two visits and they'll be fine. And then I just turn them loose because some insurance company says, absolutely, I wasn't willing to let an insurance whore who has no training whatsoever dictate how much that patient needs, how many visits, what kind of care they need, what lifestyle change they need, all the stuff. I was not willing to do it. I went toe to toe with them for over a decade and she finally found something and I just basically told him to go f off. I don't give a crap that fat cow. I earn more in a day than that woman earns in a year and I help more people than she has ever helped because I actually give a crap about humanity and that kind. Whereas she goes, I can't do anything because I suck at my job. I'm going to chase down all the doctors that are trying to help people. It's the truth and everybody knows that. Look at the AMA, the CCA. It's all the same. It's a for-profit organization designed to keep thumbs on your head so any doctor knows this. So you can't do the things that are actually required that are necessary for you to do to solve the problem of the patient, which is why I created the black card. And the black card, by the way, this is an image on the black card. I'm telling you, it's $9,997 until the end of this year and then it goes up to $25,000. There's no way to lock in a spot. Somebody asked me, can I lock in a spot if I pay a little bit now? No, because it's not fair to everybody that's paid $9,997. It's for a year. You get me. You get my live Q&A call I do every Monday. You get the archive. You get the VIP community where you can actually ask questions and it's me answering. I'm not giving you canned answers. I will solve your frigging problems because I genuinely care. Oh, geez, you guys don't get it. I care so much about your health. It drives me nuts. At 52 years old, I have this goal for mankind. It's just to help everybody I can. So when somebody comes into the comments and starts going, you should look at, he lost his license. You bet your ass I did. I lost it because it was for somebody. It was for a laser fat loss clinic that they, it was mine, totally separate business, different EIN and everything, different company. But they cross pollinated this to go, it doesn't matter because according to watch CCA, AMA guidelines, this is how they go. They go, whatever you do, you are still governed by our rules. It allows them complete control over your life just so you understand. So if you go out, don't, but if you go out to some bar and you get just bomb ass wasted, well, they can go, we're going to pull your license because you're representing the community. Now, I don't agree with any of that. You're going to do what you're going to do on your private time. Do I think you can act like an ass? No, I think that's disrespectful and just downright irresponsible and ignorant. However, if you're not showing up to your job, bomb ass wasted and you're actually a great doctor, I'm not saying do it, but I'm saying they're totally separate. And I'm sure somebody's going to get my comments and chirp about it. I don't really care. This is my house, my show. So you can either listen or you can remember, it's your choice to listen to me. I don't have to listen to you. I can delete you. You don't have to listen to me. You don't like this is my house. So this guy went on and on trying to discredit me, but you can't discredit me because I keep coming out or giving you stuff for free and giving you the real answers. I'm not asking you for anything. I'm literally just going, here you go. Here you go. Here you go. I'm not going, I'll give you the, but wait, there's more and I'll give you the rest of the answer if you buy my stuff. No, I don't care. You want to buy great. Like you want to join the black card? You have got to understand it is 9,997 and that's what you get. And you send a request, apply at unlockthecard.com and my team will send you a wire transfer information. It's the only way I take it. I will not do credit card at all. If you send me a credit card, I will refund it. I'm not going to take your money from a credit card. It is wire transfer only period and I will take care of you for an entire year. But if you don't, that's okay. I still come out here because I care. So I've learned this. When you try and discredit other people, you only discredit yourself. So you want to get it, you should go down that rabbit hole. Look at it. It was for a record keeping issue that they didn't like because they didn't follow their guidelines. My records are still spotless. They're impeccable. But they didn't like that. I didn't do it according to their word, their methods. And so they finally went, you have to go and show up to this little meeting in a boardroom with two California chiropractic board examiners, Christine, that big blimp and one of her friends. I just never showed up because I just didn't care. I could have. I just didn't care. So if you look at the strike, I'm a damn good doctor. I know. So the best part of this entire equation is if that's what people look at for credibility, you might want to look at follow the science. I love seeing medical doctors at which I'm both, right? But the issue is that if you go and you try, there are personal trainers out there that make doctors look like imbeciles. So it's not the title. It's the knowledge that determines what you're getting. Please get that whether it's me or anybody else. I don't care about your title. I care about your intention and the knowledge that you have. That's all I care about. So if you're going to take knowledge and you're going to dump it on the public in an effort to help them, awesome. If you're going to take knowledge and dump it on the public in an effort to bulk them for money or you're doing it because you want to stay in the good graces of big pharma or an insurance company, you can go right to hell. You can go right to hell because that means you're doing it and you're sacrificing human beings for it. And you know what? Pardon my language, but fuck you because you are a terrible human being. I'm out here because I actually give a crap. And if you don't get that, you'll never get it. So if you go and I get people that I get like about 10 to 20 thumbs down on my video on YouTube. What the hell's the matter with you guys? What are you, five? Shut up. Don't even bother giving me a thumbs down. Just go somewhere else. I come out here for free. The best thing that you should do is say thank you. I don't care if you don't like it. You're a toddler. You know how many times I've given somebody a thumbs down on any video? Zero or left a negative comment on anybody's video? Find it. You'll never find one ever in 12 years of being on social media and YouTube. Never. Not once because I just, I don't care. I'm like, I want to lift people up and not pull them down, but you guys are so miserable that you run around going, I don't like what he said. He swore he said something that went against my narrative. It made me hurt my feelings. My herty words are going to bug you then. Listen, look at life. So slew PP332 because I could do this all day. Let's get one thing straight, you guys. You guys have been sold this lie that's wrapped up in a Pilates mat and sprinkled with a bunch of kale. That's the world you're living in right now. The entire wellness industry is this multi-billion dollar monument to treating symptoms. You're putting Band-Aids on a corpse and you're calling it health. Your body isn't failing you because you're lazy. It's not. It's failing you because it's running an outdated energy-starved operating system that is fundamentally incompatible with current modern life. Not at all. This isn't here to motivate. I'm not here to drive. Motivation is for people who don't understand. Leverage. I need to explain leverage. Leverage is slew PP332. It's not a supplement. It's not a drug. It is a transcriptional master key. If you can follow basic practical biochemistry without arguing and getting in the comments, I'll make sure you can understand this. Believe me, I'll try to make sure you understand this. You'll see that it represents a categorical shift from reactive medicine to proactive biological command. We need to stop taking notes on other people's lives and start understanding principles of health. Terminology matters. It really does. This is the CEO of your cellular energy empire, is slew PP332. It's a very powerful selective agonist for something called the estrogen-related receptor alpha. Estrogen is a historical relic because it shares a similar structure to the estrogen receptor, but it doesn't bind estrogen. It's true function. It's real function. It was discovered and elucidated in early 2000s, I think. Far more profound than what people tell you. ERR alpha is a nuclear receptor. It's a protein that binds directly to your DNA and acts as this master regulator of transcription. Think of your genome as this vast library of a bunch of unread blueprints. Most of them are locked away. At ERR alpha is the chief librarian with absolute power, like the ultimate clearance level, right? Whatever that would be. In a metabolically healthy, highly active individual, think elite athlete. Think somebody like me. I'm not saying to brag. I'm saying I'm always active. I train all the time. I'm going to be 53 in a couple of months. This librarian is constantly pulling blueprints for energy projects. The average sedentary person was a lot of people. It's unbelievable. The librarian is asleep, out, lights are off. E32 doesn't just wake the librarian up. It literally cranks open his mouth and dumps like a quintuple espresso in a bunch of a fedron and a team of assistants and a mandate to photocopy every single blueprint related to energy production, distribution and efficiency. That's what it does. In 2004, proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, it cemented ERR alpha's role as the master regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis, which is the creation of more, more efficient power plants. That was the starting crystal for this entire thing. Remember, think about this. For it is going on 2026 in a matter of days and this is where it's getting its highlight reel now. This is what I'm telling you. All the things that you're hearing about now have been around for a really long time. I've known about this stuff forever. And I keep trying to give you the information, but it's really new. No, it's not new. It was buried. Let's get into mechanistics. And I believe me, I did as hot as hell in here right now. It's 80 degrees here in Texas. By the way, people always ask me about this hat. Okay. So the reason I wear this hat, I need you to look at that. Okay. It's got a Spartan American flag on it. It's from my son. And I wear it. Don't even know why it's choking me up. I love my son, man. I know what the reason. I love my son. I love my daughter. I love my family. If you don't get why I'm out here, you're having stupid. So you guys get time, more time. But I love my son. So I wear the hat. Reminds me of my son. He picked it out. He goes, Dad, this is, he was a little kid. Just a little hitty-bitty kid. He's nine years old. Dad, this is your hat. And he came up to me with this hat. Little tiny voice hadn't changed yet. He handed me this hat. He blasted me. Where'd you get that hat? My son. I don't even remember the store. I think we were in Monterey Bay to go to the aquarium because it was like a two and a half hour drive from our house when I lived in California. Three hours maybe, Tom. Lots of memories, right? So anyway, let's look at the mechanism of all this. This is where physics comes into play. The molecule, so anyway, that's the reason for my hat. The molecule, I'm just thinking about my boy now. I want to just stop and go see him. He's in the house. The molecule enters the nucleus of the cell and it binds to the ERR alpha protein. This binding, excuse me, induces a conformational change. So it shifts the shape of the protein. Now this new shape, so think about it, pulls apart, comes back to the other different chip. The new shape has a high affinity for another protein called PGC1 alpha, peroxazone proliferator-activated receptor gamma-cofactor 1 alpha. It doesn't matter what it is, PGC1 alpha is not a DNA binding protein itself. It's a transcriptional cofactor and a brutal, violent amplifier. Okay, follow me now. SLUPP332 alpha, PGC1 alpha complex, right? Now it's one giant complex. Now hunts for specific DNA sequences called ERREs, ERR response elements. Just so you understand what I'm talking about. In the promoter regions of target genes, when it finds one, it recruits the entire transcriptional machinery, RNA polymerase transcription factors, and initiates this torrent of gene expression. Which genes? You ready for this? The entire genetic toolkit for mitochondrial energy production. That's what makes this badass. So there, you just got your entire genetics class and all of this in about six minutes. So look at the ETC, electron transport chain. Genes for complex 1, NADH dehydrogenase, right? Complex 2, succinyl dehydrogenase, and complex 3, cytochrome BC1 complex and cytochrome, and complex 4, which is cytochrome C oxidase, all of these. Anyone understanding biochemistry is like, yeah, we had this stuff drilled into our head. Yes, welcome to my world. And complex 5, which is ATP synthase, the final step, right? It's the one, the basically the turbine that creates all of the ATP, right? You want this thing spooling up like the turbocharger on my 911 turbo or on my 2500 diesel, both of them just screaming away. So these are, this is the toolkit. That's why I'm telling you this. Watch it. Fatty acid oxidation. Genes like CPT1, carnitine, palmitrile, transphase, the one to be specific, because there's more. The rate limiting enzyme that shuttles, this is what's cool, shuttles fatty acids into the mitochondria for burning, right? The TCA, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, which is the TCA cycle, enzymes like citrate synthase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, all these enzymatic reactions. This is the toolkit. This is what it's turning on massively. This is if you don't have to understand biochemistry, and I know I probably lost some of you guys, I'm not trying to. I want you guys to understand how massive this is and why this is so badass. Okay. 2018 study in the Journal of Biological Chemistry showed incontrovertible evidence, but this is so crazy. And yet you're never going to hear doctors talk about this stuff except this one, right? Treatment with SLU, Pp332, increased maximal mitochondrial respiratory capacity in skeletal muscle cells. This is so crazy. This is crazy. By over 80% in 24 hours. This isn't a subtle little tweak. We got 3%. This is 80%. Fundamental rewiring of the cell's power infrastructure at a genetic level. It changes who you are. You go from where you are to Captain America in 24 hours. Yes, it's that badass. Watch. Watch. What is the most, the pharmacological exercise mimicry. That's what this is. What is the most, just act yourself. What is the most potent natural stimulus for the PGC1 alpha, ER alpha axis, right? The whole thing, the voluntary muscle contraction, right? Just doing, working out. Exercise. The mechanical strain, the calcium ion fluxes, the rapid depletion of ATP leading to this rise of AMP, right? Activating AMPK. If you remember, so MOTC, all the stuff that activates the AMPK pathway, right? The burst of reactive oxygen species, the ROSs. All of these signals converge on PC or PGC1 alpha. This is the primary molecule or the primary molecular reason that exercise is medicine. Does this make sense? Like you guys got to get this because this is exactly why movement is going to make you healthy. And yet they want you sedentary because it's taking all of these. Think about all these reactions. You don't need slew to do it. You just go exercise. And this entire cascade runs its course in your system. You right now, you could do this right now. You can get them go for a one mile walk, 16 minute mile. And you're just your whole body goes, let's just turn this on right now. That's how badass this is. This is a part that should listen, that should make you question every hour that you've spent, unfortunately, on a treadmill feeling friggin miserable. 2021 study, pharmacological research took sedentary mice. We're talking true couch potato mice. They just sit there, right? Watching Netflix. And administered a single, one single subcutaneous injection. By the way, yes, it has to be injected. I'll go over that in a second. Subcutaneous injection of slew PP332. They did no exercise. None. It's not like they put them on little weight rooms and they put them in a prison yard to work out. None. The result, 70% increase in maximal running endurance to exhaustion. 70%. So when the researchers can conducted RNA sequencing on the quadriceps muscle, right, quad, like the transcriptional profile was indecisisocraby, indistinguishable from that of mice subjected to prolonged endurance training protocols. You get that it changed the structure without doing the work. genes encoding from mitochondrial proteins like cytochrome C cox four components of the ATP synthase machine, right? At the end, were upregulated dramatically slew PP332 had successfully mimicked the molecular signature of elite athletic training without the mechanical input. I'm not saying go out and take it, just sit on your ass. That's not how this works. But it's pretty friggin close. It had effectively. Tricked the genome into believing it had just completed a marathon and a CrossFit competition all at once. This isn't a shortcut, by the way, it's a fundamental understanding of the primary signaling pathway and its direct activation of your biology. Right. Just please get that. So look at this disaster because I need to explain this. If you understand me and you've listened to me for any amount of time, you understand the I can't help but funnel this thing in my hand. It's just if you know what it is, because I think it's just so rad. I don't I'm not pushing it doesn't even have a name brand on it. It's just this stuff you guys should be living on this. It just happened to be sitting there. If you guys are wondering what it is, I'm not going to tell you. If you're listening to the audio version, it's probably pinch my audio. But look at the three biological failures of disease, right? Inflammation, insulin, ATP, that always the same thing. All chronic, I want to say non communicable, but I don't believe that at all. All diseases, manifestations of core physiological failure that can broken down to three interconnected pathologies. Slu Pp 332 is a targeted strike. It's on all of them. And it does it at a very basic level that turns you into a juggernaut. Again, it makes pathology unwelcome in your system. Look at the energy crisis. I'll go backwards. ATP shortage. This is the primary and most direct effect. Cell with insufficient ATP is a failing cell, right? It can't maintain its membrane potentials. It can't perform enzymatic reactions correctly or efficiently. It can't repair DNA damage whatsoever. So the energy deficit is the bedrock of aging and DGEN. By forcibly inducing mitochondrial biogenesis, Lu Pp 332 solves the energy problem. insulin, yes. 2015 study in cell metabolism showed transgenic mice with boosted ERR alpha activity exhibited enhanced energy expenditure and were resistant to age-related metabolic decline at 100%. The conclusion, just so you know what it is, I'll spell it out, cellular energy abundance is the ultimate prophylax. What else does this? Exercise. All I hear right now is Jim Carrey going, I have exercised the demons from that lady from Poulter, guys. You can't put me in front of a microphone and not expect me to do weird things. All right, look at the metabolic log, Jim. The insulin resistance that's going on in a lot of people. So for decades, we thought insulin resistance was a defect of the insulin receptor. Yeah, we were wrong. Dead wrong. It's a primary. It's a consequence of mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle. Not the same. Not even close. What this is now you get where I'm going with this. Lu Pp 332. So in mitochondria are inefficient at burning fatty acids. They can't churn out the energy and do the conversion. They can't do anything. So what happens? Lipid intermediates, because I want to get so excited about this. I'm trying to rain myself in because this is so bad. Lipid intermediates like DAG, it's ceramides, all of that stuff, it accumulates in the cytosol. These molecules activate inflammatory signal pathways. Now, these kinases phosphorylate the insulin receptor substrate on serine residues. This is all a bunch of fancy words, but just follow me. This blocks the interaction with the insulin receptor. It shuts down the insulin signal. That's the big takeaway from this. This was proven, by the way, 2007 Journal of Clinical Investigation by forcing mitochondrial fat oxidation. It acts as a metabolic vacuum cleaner clearing out these lipid intermediates and removing the inhibitory signal on insulin action. It doesn't push insulin harder, which is the logic for the medical world right now. Hey, you can't hear insulin. Turn up the volume on insulin. You're still deaf, man. What this does is it removes the roadblock so you actually can hear it again. It gets the junk out of the driveway, takes all the beaters off the driveway so your fancy car can get in the garage. That's a wildest stuff is. I'm just warming up, baby. Look at the one that's always the one I talk about first time. Just makes it up because it's fun. Systemic inflammation. This functional senescent mitochondria are potent, unbelievably potent pro inflammatory organelles. They just like biochemical terrorists, right? Biological terrorists, whatever you want to call it. These are the, I use both. These are the major source of ROS's, reactive oxygen species. And when they're damaged, they leak mitochondrial DNA into the cytosol. Cytosolic mitochondrial DNA is a very brutal damp, a damage associated molecular pattern that binds and activates the NLRP3 inflammatory zone. The NLRP3 inflammatory zone, then watch here's how it works. This is the problem. It catalyzes the activation of Caspace 1, which processes Pro-Iol and Beta and all the other stuff into their active, very powerful inflammatory forms. You see the problem that's brewing here? This is what fuels the chronic low grade inflammation underlying every single friggin disease on the planet. They don't want you to know that. That's why being pro inflammatory in your system is so deadly. It will destroy you because it is the platform, the bedrock, the bedrock of every disease known to man. Stack on the other two, the insulin resistance and the ATP problem or EFT. Solve these three, you're invulnerable. I'm talking, this is the underlying, to everything, thorough sclerosis, to neurodegeneration, to cardiac dysfunction. It doesn't matter. By replacing old, leaky mitochondria with new high fidelity ones, SLU, PP332 eliminates the source of the inflammatory signal, but it does it at the origin, at the source. 2012. In查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查查 tension causing damage, leading to repair, leading to growth. This is incomplete though. The anabolic single signal is intrinsically linked to energy status. The mTOR, mammalian target of raphomiasin pathway is, I know I've never told you guys that, but you guys are like, oh, what's that? So I finally just say it. It's the central regulator of cell growth and protein synthesis. So mTOR is exquisitely sensitive to cellular energy, amino acid availability, and growth factors. So a high ATP to AMP ratio is a primary driver of mTOR C1 specifically. SLU PP332 watch by dramatically increasing mitochondrial ATP production creates a cellular environment that is inherently primed for anabolism. The cell is energy rich, signaling growth conditions are optimal, bro. Light it up. Further, the type of muscle fiber matters. Watch 2019 study in the journal Skeletal Muscle showed that ERR alpha activation promotes fast to slow fiber type shift. There's another thing that does this. You already know I've been talking about this before. This means it's right, we've talked about this, right? But this means an increase in type 1 and type 2-A oxidative fibers, which are far richer in mitochondria, more metabolically efficient, more resistant to fatigue. And the fibers that are most associated with metabolic health, health in general, if you want my opinion, but metabolic health. So you're not just building muscle mass. You're, it's like a Lego and you're architecting metabolically superior, much more durable tissue in your entire body. So you see where I'm going with this? This is, but this, so you can marry this SLU PP332 to exercise. Now imagine, SLU PP332 already gives you the benefits, right? It's in a vial. Exercise gives you the benefits, which one takes longer? Why not just marry them together? You ever think of that? That's a hint, by the way, I'm just telling you. Now let's look at the building the host instead of poisoning the virus because this is the one that most people don't know about. SLU PP332, it's a violet against viruses, man. Yeah, and this is where everybody's, wait, what? I thought it was just exercise. Buckle up, baby. Watch, traditional antiviral approach is this toxic race. Can we poison the virus before we poison the patient? It's always like that. You think, by the way, antibiotics don't hurt viruses. And if a virus is inside the cell, you need what? Different kind of immunity than what they're trying to give you. This is why vaccines are such a struggle and it's such a lie. But that's another conversation. Listen, Jonas Salk said it. When he came out with a polio vaccine, he went, I fear I've created a monster and he did. You guys need to, to just, I'm just asking you to have an open mind and listen to me. That's it. That's it. Just listen to me and take the information and go, wow, this guy actually makes sense. And then challenge the narrative and see if it actually is making you healthier, if it's making you sick. Because my narrative turns you into a juggernaut, baby. Their narrative turns you into a product. The current narrative, the antiviral approach is, it's a flawed strategy. Watch it. You have to switch it because otherwise you're, it's a race to do, we kill the thing before we kill the patient. And it's always like that. It's been like that for a lot of years because it makes a lot of money. But the new paradigm, exemplified by the way by SLUPP332 is host directed therapy. You don't attack the virus. You make the host, a just coming from a cellular level, make the host cells, hostile fortress that the virus is just, it cannot survive. It can't survive. Look at C19. The C19 pathogenicity is heavily dependent on some manipulation of host mitochondria. The viral protein localizes to the mitochondrial outer membrane where it binds to the MAPS, mitochondrial, antiviral signaling protein complex. This binding inhibits the activation. This is where it gets really wild. It inhibits the active of the transcription factors IRF3 and NFKAPOB, which then blocks the production of type 1 and type 3 interferons, which are the body's primate. This is where it gets wild. The primary antiviral defense system, the virus strategically disables the alarm and cranks up your inflammation, which disables your ability to generate the energy to fight the virus. Do you see how this is a problem? So if you look, Cleveland Clinic 2023 proved, ERR alpha agonist, specifically SLUPP332 showed antiviral activity against the SARS go through the C19 and the proposed mechanism is one of overwhelming force by hyper, watch, it does it by hyper inducing my, this is psychotic, it's crazy, by hyper inducing mitochondrial biogenesis, which we know is the creation of more power plants, the host cell can outpace that. Remember what I said, it's a race, but we're going to change the dynamics of the race. We're going to make the race in our favor. So the host cell now can outpace the virus's ability to suppress mitochondrial function. So you can't sabotage 10 power plants when the body is building hundreds of new ones at the same time. You just can't win the race. Additionally, watch, it just gets even better. Metabolic regulators like all of them, we don't even need to get ERR alpha, but if we stay there, ERR alpha, influence the turnover and expression of the ACE2 receptor, which is a viral entry point, you don't need to understand virology to understand this. It's a door. So by modulating ACE2, you reduce the number of available doors for the virus. If there's less doors and you're building more power plants and the virus is trying to shut them down, it's shutting down 10 and you're building hundreds or thousands, what's going to happen to the virus? It's going to get demolished by your immune system because it's always running surveillance. It's running out of options to target the body. The best defense against any pathology is to make yourself immune to the pathology, not fight the pathology, but that's not what they've been teaching you. They go, wait till you get sick and then we attack the sickness. How about you just make yourself put yourself in a position where you don't get sick? Why do you think they're trying to make you sick all the time? Because it makes you a victim and it makes you a you're going to be part of a managed decline. You have to stay because you need their product just to stay alive. But if you make yourself resilient enough, their toxic attack can't do anything to you because your system's too resilient for it. That's like this is a sophisticated systems level approach to infectious disease that moves far beyond the crude BS magic bullet model that they're that they propose all the time. Now, I said I would talk about the oral versus injectable and all this stuff. So this is basic pharmaceutical chemistry and stop getting in my comments and arguing telling me about your buddy that got jacked taking it orally. No, he didn't, but he's taken something else. Slip PP 332 is a it's just basic biochemistry, man. It's lipophilic. It's fat loving, right? Just loves fat. It's this organic molecule with a log p value. It's a measure of hydro phobicity. I guess it really doesn't matter. I just felt like saying it's a fun word. It is in  intrinsically insoluble in aqueous solutions, bacteriostatic water. When you do this, water-based solution like saline or backwater or anything like that, it doesn't matter if there's alcohol, in it, or acetic acid, this is a fool's errand, it's something to work, it's going to precipitate into microscopic crystals that are biologically unavailable and cause problems inside you. Don't stick that in your body, it's not worth it. DMSO, dimethylsulfoloxide, man, this stuff is badass. If you go, yeah, but it makes me stink. Okay, grow up. It doesn't matter. This is a Polaray product solvent. Its molecular structure allows it to act. This is so cool as this amphiphilic shuttle, so it dissolves the lipophilic slu-PP332, right, because of the nature of the solvent. And then it creates this stable homogenous solution. By the way, DMSO itself is a very powerful penetration enhancer. Get your mind out of the gutter. Reverseably disrupts the structure of lipid bilayers. Okay, so what this does, just so you know, if you're like, I don't know what that means. It facilitates the transport of its cargo across cell membranes. Wait, watch, the Actable Administration using a DMSO based vehicle, whatever it is, you're going to be, and I went over the strategy, so I'm not going to go over it again. You're going to have to watch my last one. I literally gave you the playbook on how to do this. I will put it in my Instagram on it as part of, I'll give you the whole playbook on how to actually reconstitute this stuff properly. I'll just put it in the, what I'm dropping in Instagram today because I'm talking about Slope Pp332. But it delivers the intact molecule directly to systemic circulation and all of its intracellular targets. But this works for everything. This isn't a preference. You guys, it's not, this is a non-negotiable requirement based on the compounds, physiochemical properties. People can argue this all you want. It doesn't matter. I didn't invent the biochemistry God did. You guys are arguing about it going, I'm right. I looked it up on chatGPT. When chatGPT is frigging wrong. It's, that's just how simple it is. Biochemistry is biochemistry. Oral is a waste. If you take this orally, it's a waste. So if you use water or you take it orally, it is a nightmare. Oral is a nightmare for Slope Pp332. It's a gauntlet of destruction. Watch. Just go follow the hierarchy. The system of the events it has to go through, the stomach, highly acidic pH at 1.5, chemical degradation of the molecule, just like this. Never mind the enzymes that are going to rip it to shreds. Get to the small intestines, pancreatic enzymes, lipases, proteases, the detergent bile salts that just emulsify and attack the crap out of this thing. Look at the intestinal epithelium, the P-glycoprotein, the efflux pumps. They pump the molecule back into the gut lumen before it can be absorbed. Never mind the fact that it's too big so it can't pass through enterocytes anyway. First pass metabolism. This is the bouncer with the biochemistry degree. It's the coutagrote because whatever fraction is absorbed is going to go right to the liver through the hepatic portal vein. The liver's mission, its only mission is to detoxify xenobiotics, which are foreign compounds. Enzymes destroy. They metabolize and deactivate Slope Pp332. It can't work. This first pass effect destroys 95% of the ingested dose. I don't care if you cover it, you bury it, you put some weird coating on it, you change its structure, you peggulate it. It doesn't matter. It gets rocked. So it gives you a bioavailability of less than 5%. So even taking a hyper dose, first of all, you're going to wind up getting sick doing it. Taking Slope Pp332 orally is pharmacologically irrational. It doesn't make sense. I'm here to help you. I got nothing to gain. Like I said, I don't care if you buy from a lead or not. I'm just telling you, I got nothing to gain here. You guys have to understand this. This isn't about me. I come out here because I want you to have the friggin' information. Watch. You want to go right down from neurons to cardiomyocytes. Let's... I'll tell you how badass this really is, Slope really is. When you correct a fundamental flaw at the core of cellular metabolism, the benefits just cascade through every single organ and system in your entire biology. Look at neural protection. Neurons have an exceptionally high demand for energy and are post-mythotic, right? So which means they can't easily be replaced. I guess the easiest way to explain that. Their health is entirely dependent on the fitness of your mitochondria. 2018, human molecular genetics showed that in cellular models of Alzheimer's disease and dementia, pharmacological activation of E-R-R-alpha, you need to hear what I'm saying. Ecological, which means external source activating this exact thing that Slope Pp332 is activating. Does that make it better? And if you go, we should do it all like that. I can't because my brain doesn't work like that. Rescued mitochondrial dysfunction. It solved the problem and it improved axonal transport. It protected against synaptic toxicity induced by amyloid beta oligomers. It fuels the brains innate resilience that you're designed to have. Remember, peptides aren't drugs, you guys. Peptides are signals telling your body to do something that already knows how to do. If somebody goes peptides or cheating, you feel free to punch them right in the face because that's not what it is as they take handfuls of Advil for their headache. Look at type 2 diabetes. Beyond resolving peripheral insulin resistance in muscle, which is the first step. And by the way, E-R-R-alpha does that too. It also hammers the liver. So 2010 nature showed E-R-R-alpha acts as a key transcriptional repressor of gluconeogenic genes. So when you, this is what it means. When you activate E-R-R-alpha with a compound, let's just say, Slope Pp332, you're not just improving glucose uptake in muscle, you're simultaneously telling your liver to stop over producing the frigging glucose. So you're solving the problem from two sides of the equation, hyperglycemia that addresses both the sink, which is the muscle, and the source, which is the liver. This is why I'm telling you this entire setup, the way I'm explaining this, moves so far beyond the flawed approach of simply forcing more insulin secretion, which ultimately leads to beta cell exhaustion, or just cranking up insulin externally, exogenous. Both of those aren't going to work. Look at longevity. The hallmarks of aging are not this random list. They're interconnected. Mytocondrial dysfunction sits at the very center of the entire frigging thing, directly driving genomic instability, telomere attrition, and the loss of proteostasis. Okay, all of this stuff, big fancy words, yes, it means the center of you getting older is your mitochondria. Is that easy? Taking handfuls of CoQ10 isn't going to solve the problem, by the way. 2013 cell, they placed mytocondrial dysfunction as the primary pillar of aging. So watch, by forcibly maintaining mitochondrial health and mitochondrial biogenesis, building new power plants, SLUPP 332 directly intervenes in a core aging process that they've proven is the problem. This isn't about adding years to your life. It's about adding life to your years. I've said this so many times. You don't want to be dragging your ass around like an old tire dog on handfuls of medication because they tell you to have to when it's a lie. Extending health span by maintaining the functional capacity of every cell in your body is the goal. Studies in humans consistently show that interventions enhancing mitochondrial function, such as those activating the PGC1 alpha pathway. This, right? You get where I'm going with this? Is this connecting? Are you are we connecting the dots? I'm trying to bring it home here. Like I'm trying to land the plane because I got shit to do. It's Christmas Eve. Are among the most reliable for extending lifespan. If you start going, what about a pittle on this? I'm not talking about that right? Tell them this is better. You want to know? This is better. My buddy Mark, Mark Bell, he's a good guy. Man, I really send him texts all the time. I feel like a dick because I don't answer him enough. But I'm busy. If you're listening, Mark, I'm freaking busy. So I run 16 hour days. So the point is he was like, dude, why is this guy yelling at me? It was me yelling at him in the car, right? On my podcast. Not in real life. I would never yell at Mark. He's a great guy unless it was for him to do better. But I love Mark to death. But what's funny is he sent me a message about yelling and it just made me laugh. I don't know why I made me think because I'm really intense about what I do. Like I only have one switch. This is it. When people meet me or they come in the black card, they go, holy shit, you really are like this. I don't know how to be any other way. It's Maverick. When he goes, hey, man, I don't like that look. Mab and he goes, it's the only one I got. This printed personality. Love me or hate me. It's the only one I got. I come out here because I care. I don't really know what else to tell you, man. I care to the point of it brings me to tears. I love mankind that much. And when I say mankind, yeah, it's everyone. But I struggle with the ones who argue against me who go, yeah, but I want to do it this way and expect the results to be that way though. I just got nothing. Or you argue because you look for easier. I really struggle with that. I've been on both sides of this equation. It sucks on the other side when you're falling apart and you're dying and you're looking your wife in the eye and she goes, I'm never going to see you again. When you look at your kids and you see them from a third floor window through glass and they're waving at you and holding up signs and going, God, and I'm in ICU and I barely remember it. The only thing that reminded me of it was a fucking video that I had. I didn't even remember being there and I was dying. I look at things differently and I think maybe you guys just don't understand that, but I am on a mission from God. I really am. That is all I got. I'm on a mission from God to save as much of mankind as I can from the ravages of things that are actively hunting you to wreck your life. Look at obesity, man. I could do this all. You could literally throw anything at me and I could throw a slew PP332 right back at you and say, this is the magic. The conventional calories in, calories out. Yeah, I get it and it's valid, but it's a gross oversimplification that ignores the hormonal and metabolic context. It really does. I've said calories in, calories out to be simple, but there's so much more, even like ghrelin and leptin and so much to it, right? But obesity is a disorder of energy partitioning. Slough PP332 fundamentally alters this context. So by severely upgrading or up regulating basal metabolic rate, right, through mitochondrial uncoupling and just relentless fat oxidation, the body's default state shifts from energy storage to energy expenditure. 2016 molecular metabolism showed that mice with genetically enhanced ERR alpha activity, you ready for this one? That's going to blow your mind. Were resistant to diet induced obesity. They couldn't even on a high fat diet, high calorie diet, high carb diet, they couldn't get fat. Due to increased energy expenditure and the preferential fat utilization, it was just telling the body, use this, it's better for you. You're not fighting hunger. You're changing the metabolic setting from store to burn. The weight loss becomes a secondary consequence of primary metabolic correction. You got this, look at the CV system, the cardiovascular system. The heart is, it's right up, it's neurons in the heart, right? It's one of the most energy demanding organs in the body because it's beating right now. As you're listening to this, it's beating right now, keeping me alive with cardiomyocytes comprising about 40% of their 40% mitochondria by volume. Cardiac function is exquisitely tied to metabolic flexibility. The ability to switch between fuel sources like fatty acids, glucose, ketones, this is very important for survival, by the way. So ERR alpha is a master regulator of cardiac metabolic genes. So 2012, this is really cool, circulation research, it showed approved ERR alpha is essential critical life saving for maintaining contractile function and energy metabolism in an adult heart, lacking cardiac ERR alpha. Anybody, and they did this in multiple research studies, developed progressive heart failure 100% of the time. Now watch, conversely, activating ERR alpha with SLUPP 332 enhances cardiac efficiency, improves oxygen utilization and provides resilience against ischemic injury, things like myocardial infar by ensuring the heart muscle has a very robust, very flexible energy supply so it doesn't fade. This isn't about cholesterol or all the other stuff that you're being told, it's about building a bigger, stronger, more efficient pump. And I'm not talking about an enlarged heart. I could go into the toxicity profile and all this stuff, there's nothing out there. There's nothing that says this is bad for you. There's people that don't want you to take it because it disrupts their model, their business model. Listen, I'll be very clear, the 20th century model of medicine is bankrupt. It's a reactive, siloed, symptom chasing, disastrous, effed up failure. I can't say cardiologist prescribes a statin for your cholesterol. Kiss my ass. An endocrinologist gives you metformin for your blood sugar. Are you out of your mind? This is, that is a perfect example of how most MDs have the IQ of a duffel bag because they don't understand the fundamentals of how human biology works. I do, I got nothing to gain. I don't write scripts. I don't buy, don't buy, join the black card, don't. It doesn't matter to me. I'm just here to give you the answers. How about a psychiatrist that gives you an SSRI for your depression? I'm not disregarding that. I'm saying that's not the freaking answer. They're all treating downstream symptoms of the same upstream cause. Metabolic failure, baby. Boom. The principle that health is a positive state of metabolic competence, not merely the absence of disease. Watch, it demonstrates this by targeting the fundamental regulator of cellular energy, the very source of vitality. You can make a wide spectrum of pathologies very simply obsolete. That's how badass, that's how savage this stuff is, man. And everybody looks at this going, I know somebody that got Jack taking sleep pp332, you're missing the point. This isn't about avoiding hard work, by the way. It's about making your work count, make it worth more. It's about applying leverage to the most important system you own, which is your metabolism. Good diet, quality, like good sleep hygiene, intelligent exercise habits. Those are the inputs at all times. Sluit pp332 is a leverage that amplifies the ROI and every single one of those inputs by an order of magnitude. This research is not speculative, you guys. This is real life research published, top tier journals. It's just buried because they don't want you to find it. The mechanism is not, I bust my ass every day just so you know, to give you this information. The mechanism is not a mystery. It's mapped down to the atomic level. The implications are not incremental. They're revolutionary. That's why I'm here. This is an entirely new era, you guys. The era of metabolic medicine. How about that? Just call it that. What is this? Dr. Trevor Bachmeyer's era of metabolic medicine. It's an era where we stop managing chronic disease and start commanding peak human performance because every human should have it because it's all in your DNA. You got to wake up that damn librarian, kick open their mouth and start dumping espressos in and just give them everything you can and then go, you have only one man baked all the blueprints to make energy. That's it. It's all you can do. That is all you're going to go through. All the blueprints are just going to make energy in every single system I've got. You got the tool. Like, I've given you so many answers. God, you have the tools. All you have to do is go through this stuff. The only question that remains is who has the courage and the end to like to actually freaking do them. Anyway, listen, I'm going to go inside and hang out with my wife and my kids. I love you all. I really do. I hope you have a merry Christmas. I'll see you tomorrow. I got to go. Never miss.