All right, you guys want to fix some injuries for real? I've talked about the Wolverine protocol a ton of times. This is so far beyond that. It's faster, it's more effective, and it's more long-term. And the Wolverine protocol is up until now the gold standard that my Wolverine protocol has fixed more people than I can count. But there's a better way of doing it that's even faster. I honestly think this is probably the most ultimate injury healing protocol you can ever come up with outside of becoming the bionic man. If you know, you know. Lee majors. Anyway, I got a message from this CEO and he said, "Listen," he said, "I'm 47 years old." He goes, "I can't do anything you do." He goes, "I work out all the time, but everything hurts. I'm always injured and the more I push, the worse I get." And he's on TRT and he's got all these things going on. He goes, "I just I can't get my system to work. I'm chronically injured and in pain." He goes, "I hurt so much that I have to take an Advil before I go to bed." And I said, "That's going to kill you. That's going to kill you. NSAIDs are going to kill you. You guys listen to me. I'm not I'm not discounting Advil, except I just don't think you should take it unless it is a matter of life or death or you just can't possibly go on. And I mean upgrade your pain threshold just a little bit. But if you can't get by and the Advil or the Tylenol, whatever it is, is your only recourse, you understand that it mitigates pain, but it doesn't address the problem. So you still keep this is and he said this, he goes, you know, I can keep taking his all day. He's like, I take Percoetses, I take Advil, I and none of this works. I put Bofreeze on, he said, all the time and none of it's helping because it keeps coming back. And I said, that's because you're not addressing the system. You're not addressing the problem. So, we had a conversation and he actually started with me as a cure patient. Um, and I think as I talked to him, I thought there are a lot of people that can benefit with what I talked to him about. And here's the interesting part. A lot of you guys will take this information and either apply it yourself, think you can yourself, which is great. I hope I give you enough information where you can actually do this yourself. But when it starts to get a little hazy is when you aren't quite sure what you need to do alongside of this. And this would be a seven-hour podcast if I went, "Here's a full rehab protocol for all kinds of things in your body, including SARMMS, ser peptides, secrets, things like that." So, I'm not going to do that because you guys have better things to do with your day than listen to me all day. But I give you the tools. But if you really don't understand how to do something, your first line of defense is ask somebody who knows, this doc right here, because I genuinely give a crap. I want you guys to have all this stuff. But you have to be willing to just buck up and go, I don't know. and then listen when I tell you to do it. Which is part of the problem. You guys piecing together protocols because some Insta bro said do this and I'm saying do that and you're going well I'm doing a bit of both or you can only afford part of a stack or part of a protocol and so you're only doing part of it. Your physiology doesn't work like that and then you complain about not getting the results. But you have to understand you're not designed that way. And I think that's part of that problem is that we've been so inundated with pharmaceuticals advertisements, you know, indoctrination, all the things that most people don't understand. I won't say we because I do. Most people don't understand that it takes more than just one pill or one injection or something along that those lines to fix the problem. You have to take the system and change the dynamics of the entire system. Your human biology needs to follow suit so you have a viable recourse that gives you the results you want. You can't do that with one peptide. That's where I see a lot of people doing that is making mistakes because they listen to InstaBro and the fancy abs. Except that's not going to help you. And I I see this stuff and I'll talk about it in this in this podcast, but this is by far the most effective healing protocol I have ever used with clients and myself. I wasn't gatekeeping or anything. I just didn't really think about it because there's more involved and most people are just too lazy. like, "Yeah, I know. I want to do that, but you know, I only have like 400 bucks and that's like 600." I I'm guessing I really have no idea how much it costs. But they get cheap on their own health and they get expensive on rims for their car. Make it make sense. Even doctors, they don't want to help you for the most part. And it bothers me because above all, do no freaking harm. Take care of your patients, but be a good human being, too. If you're not a good human being, like if you walk around and you're just a [\h__\h] you deserve all the bad things that happen to you. you deserve to stay where you are. If you're giving advice to people, understand that if you are in the same situation, if you're going to expect more than what you're giving somebody else, you're not giving the right advice. Yeah, let that land. Like, you ever notice how doctors talk about injuries like they're giving freaking weather updates? That's what they do, you know? Well, it looks like it's going to take 6 to 12 months to heal and uh sorry, Mr. Smith, there's nothing you can do about it. So, great. Great. So, I'm supposed to sit here broken, waiting for my body to crawl back to normal while my life, my precious one life where time is limited. That's like telling a business owner, you know, just wait a year and maybe your destroyed bankrupt company, we'll just magically fix itself. You don't have to do anything. Make that make sense. I mean, cuz here's the problem. And and it's not what people want to hear and it's what most people don't want to believe because some Insta guru out there or some guy with a PhD in human biology. Listen, I don't care how many degrees you have. If you don't understand the dynamics and how it applies to real world and real life, you can read all the books you want. I can read all the books I want on jiu-jitsu. I promise you, I'm going to go see Tom Delas or Yago Duza or any of those guys and have them teach me versus reading a book and going, I have a PhD in jiu-jitsu. You know why? Because all those books are worthless if they have do nothing for me on the mat. And I'm sure somebody's gonna get in the comments and argue about that, but I'm still right. You're gonna get smoked. If all you've got behind you are all the books on how to do jiu-jitsu, you're gonna get put to sleep. Because here's the problem. Your body sucks at healing. Yeah, you didn't expect me to say that. It's not because it doesn't want to. It's because the design is slow. It's incredibly outdated. And it's kind of halfass. Like tendons and ligaments, barely any blood supply. muscle tears, they rely on something called a stem cell that wake up slower than my son, my teenage son on a Monday. And cartilage, because those are the aspects of most injuries, right? Cartilage, that's like waiting for grass to grow through cement. It's not going to work. And the advice that you usually get is always the same. Rest, ice, take some Advil. That's not healing. That's babysitting your pain while your tissue actually goes in the wrong direction. It degenerates. That's there's a better way. It's you have to actually hijack your own biology to fix itself. It's not hyperdriving it or overreving it or causing any problems or whatever other nonsense somebody's going to say. You just have to be natural and authentic. Those people drive me nuts because those natural and authentic people are the least natural and the least authentic because they're going to wait 12 months to heal an injury and call you a cheater for doing it in 2 weeks. But I get my life back so I can go do all the things with my family and kids. Again, make it make sense. The answer isn't hope. It's not optimism. It's chemistry. It's it's pure chemistry. Specifically, BPC-157, TB-500, GHK-Cu, copper, right? PEG MGF. Yeah, I never talked about that one before. And if you really want to run it like an F1 pit crew, CJC-1295 DAC with a Pamarella. You put all that together. That's that's the nuclear option. And I already know there's somebody that's going to listen to this. Go, I'm going to do that for my Achilles rupture because you wouldn't help me. If that's you, you're a clown. should have just hired me. Hope your heel cord blows out. I don't like people that whine and complain and chase me around Instagram asking for my help going, "I'll pay you." And then when it comes to getting the bill, they go, "I can't do that." Well, then don't ask me for help. I mean, here here's the reality. Nobody wants to admit. Injuries are not a health problem. They're a time problem. Let that sink in for a second. Because every day that you're injured, you lose muscle, you lose strength and momentum, and your joints stiffen up and short and the tissue shortens up. Your brain rewires around the pain. So you alter your movement, your mechanics and neur neurology changes. So you don't just lose physical ability, you lose confidence in how you move. Now add the biology of delays. Tendons take uh 200 days for collagen turnover. That's being a conservative estimate, too. Ligaments are even slower. Muscle fibers, they completely rely on satellite cells that barely get the message. So they don't do their job very effectively. And connective tissue gets next to no blood supply. It's almost it's almost avascular. It's like a disc, which is connective tissue. Inhibition is all that feeds your disc, right? It's terrible. Which means that nutrients arrive slower than than probably most of the shipping that you guys are getting from Amazon when it lost your package. Like, all of this stuff is very real. So, what happens is you're stuck with a torn tendon or a blown out muscle or some shredded ligament while your body crawls and and just es towards repair. And it's not your fault. It's the way you were built. No, I'm not discrediting God. God is a gangster. He built you so well. The problem is the biology that you have has been absorbing all the noise for the last 10, 15, 20 years. But just because something is natural doesn't mean that it's incredibly effective or optimal. That cancer is natural. You guys know that, right? Cancer is a natural part of human biology. Dying early is natural if it just happens. Doesn't mean you should sit around and wait for it. Here's the rope. Go ahead and hang yourself with it. It's not how it works. So, listen. Let me let me go over everything real quick so you get this because I'm already 13 minutes in and as always I'd rather go inside and hang out with my family. So the first weapon in this entire little arsenal is BPC57. This isn't pain management by the way. This is repair management. See that's the issue. Most people manage injuries. They manage conditions. They manage disease. So you end up keeping it like luggage for the next 40 years. But you don't want it. You want to fix it and resolve it so you can go do the things. That's where this starts. BPC57. BPC takes broken tissue and makes it a priority. Increases blood flow by building new capillaries right at the injury site. So your cut here, more stuff grows, which means more oxygen, more nutrients, and they actually arrive where they're needed. And it it doesn't stop there. There's more to it. It primes growth hormone receptors. So the tissue actually responds to growth hormone when it shows up to growth signals. Without BP, without BPC, growth hormone kind of floats around like a motivational speaker. Lots of talking but no real change. Lots of rah rah, but nothing really comes out of it. Right? With BPC, it's like that speaker just became an army recruiter and it started handing out contracts. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. You're going here. You're going. It's just just dishing out assignments. Things actually happen. And the end result is torn tendons don't just hurt less. They heal completely. Faster, stronger, better, more effective. That's how it works. And then you bring in TB-500. That's like a carpet bomb. It just goes through your whole body. Because if BPC is sight specific, whatever you want to say, and yes, it is. TB-500 is is like the air strike for the entire base. It doesn't just target one injury. It spreads repair instructions systemwide. It I here, let me explain how. Otherwise, you're going to go, "Okay, how does it do that?" And I get these messages from you guys all the time. Keep them coming. I'm trying to answer them as best as I can. Cells need to physically move into the wound to fix it. fibroblasts, endothelial cells, they literally crawl across the tissue to start the repair process. The problem is without TB-500, they move like I5 LA if you understand California. I remember asking somebody, we were in Carl'sbad at this Lresta, my wife and I, and I asked this dude, we had I was my first time down there, and I said, "Hey, man, when is the uh when is I5 not busy to go back up to Disneyland?" And he goes, "Bro, it's I5 in California. It's always busy. That's what this is. It's always busy. This changes that because otherwise the repair the the fibroblasts and the endothelial cells, they crawl across the injury just slow and clumsy and it's like they're always late. You know, that's why things take really long. Even if you go, "Oh, it's going to be super fast." It's not. This the way this stack works is it's almost too good. That's how effective this is. Why this isn't mainstream is mind-blowing to me because if you go, "Well, what about the side effects, bro?" It is a peptide. You cannot have a side effect from a peptide. They're signals you have. You want to know a side effect? Taking 30 Advil at once. The side effect you uncouple the electron transport chain and you die. There's a side effect. Can't do that with peptides. You just can't. It doesn't work that way. So understand if if you're going to go into the what about cancer? What about side effects? I read this, I read that. That doesn't work. Pharmaceutical industry is the problem. So TB-500 it regulates the protein that controls all of that migration of the fibroblasts and the endothelial cells. It's like it's like opening the It's like blocking the freeway on one side and opening it up to where it needs to go. Suddenly, all the repair crews, all the the emergency vehicles just show up. They swarm the hell out of the injury. So, they build new tissue and reduce scar formation to almost zero. And they remodel that damaged area into something that you can actually use so you don't have shoulder range of motion like this. If you're listening to this on audio, it's I just tried to raise my arm and I went up to about my shoulder. I didn't do it. It It's not about speed. This is about quality. Healing without TB-500 means scar tissue and a ton of stiffness and guaranteed reduc reduced mobility. And healing with it means you get actual functional tissue that bends and stretches and performs and does all the stuff it's designed to do. And then you bring in GHK-Cu. So now we're already at the standard Wolverine stack, which is all great stuff. And everybody thinks of GHK-Cu. It's the copper, right? It's got the copper ion attached to it. So people know this as the skin peptide. I see this a lot. You guys sending me the skin peptide. That's like saying that fire is just for candles. It's so much more than that. GHK-Cu works at the genetic level. That's why this is important. It flips switches in your DNA that turn on repair programs, right? So, you have an operating system. This goes in and goes, "Turn this on, turn this on, turn this on." It stimulates collagen, which is the scaffolding that holds your entire body together. And it's not the cheap scar tissue version that you would get at the dollar store. It's like high quality elastic and durable and very effective collagen. It recruits stem cells into that damaged area so that the rebuilding process isn't just faster, it's actually better. And it red never mind the fact that it reduces oxidative stress which means that your tissue isn't under constant chemical bombardment while it's trying to heal oxidative stress though of free radicals running around. Right? So instead of ending up with this stiff brittle little patch job that you just look at wrong and it breaks you actually get a full remodel. The tissue goes it actually comes back better. The tissue comes back stronger and smoother and better and more functional. It's like renovating a house with with steel beams instead of just going, "Let's throw a coat of paint on the drywall and call it a remodel." Got to watch out for those guys, man. Not kidding. Now, we bring in some of the new stuffs. PEG MGF. When when you and let me explain this because there's MGF and there PEG MGF, which changes the half-life radically. When you rip muscle, which you do more than you think, your body releases something called mechano growth factor. Its job is to wake up satellite cells, which I told you are the cells that that work with muscle repair. That's what does it. These are the these these are dormant cells that sit inside your muscle fibers and when they activate they fuse into damaged fibers and they build new ones. So far so good because that's actual regeneration. Except the problem is this is when you run into the ugly area. Natural MGF disappears in minutes at the best. It's like yelling for help and then hanging up before anybody hears you. That's not going to help. And I see people do I see these bros selling this stuff and going, "It's going to help you a lot." Yeah, but you don't even know how it works and why you're doing it and you're using the wrong variation. PEG MGF fixes that issue, that minute issue. It extends the signal. It keeps it alive and it makes sure that those satellite cells actually get the message and do their job. And when they do, they don't just patch the muscle, they grow it back. And when they do, it's more dense, stronger, more functional, which is the whole point of a repair. If you took a repair and every time you blow out your tire and you've got beautiful like Pirelli P 0 or something on the back of your car and you put that donut that it comes with that you inflate with a can of compressed air in the back. If you keep doing that, you're going to have garbage handling in a car that just can't be driven properly forever. This is why I'm saying you have to put a better tire on. It needs to be a replacement of what you originally had. So, this is how you come back from a muscle tear as an athlete instead of just a statistic. The number of athletes I've had call me about this and go, "Are you sure?" Because it's that second one. Because they've been inundated. It's like they caught it like a disease. Well, I don't know. Maybe I should do this one thing. Maybe I should do cold plunges and ice therapy and cryotherapy and and some maybe uh deep massage and some ruling and maybe some stem cell or all that. Great, but you still need the rest of the system. That's like going, I'm going to upgrade your software, but I'm only going to upgrade part of it. Oh, and by the way, I'm doing it on a computer that has a floppy disc drive. Like, that's where you are. You don't don't think like that. So you here comes the last part of this. It's it's like an amplifier. It is CJC1 1295 with DAC because it has a longer halflife. I pamarellin is this it's this long acting growth hormone stimulator. It's not GH, it's a stimulator. One injection in your pituitary just keeps releasing GH for a week straight. I I realize I talked about how that causes receptor desensitization and your pituitary gets pissed off. You're only doing this for an injury. You're not doing this for fat or muscle or anything like that. You're doing this to fix a problem and then you stop. I Pamearellin triggers GH release very cleanly. So you don't have these weird nasty side effect. No cortisol or prolactin spikes like the GHRP that I was talking about yesterday. Don't ever take that stuff. By the way, if somebody anybody, I don't care who it is tells you to take GHRP, give them a finger. Just give them the finger. That's insane. That stuff is so bad. The side effects are so nightmarishly awful. There's so many better ways to do it. And so that's the thing, right? and you take something and you go, "Yeah, but there's it's like people taking Serellin." That's junk. It is just junk when Tamarellin is infinitely better. I mean, not even close. They're not even in the same race. That's like a pedal bike in an F1 car. So, if you look at CJC and a Pamearellin together, they create this massive hyper powerful clean GH pulse. And and what that does is it drives up IGF, which drives tissue repair and collagen turnover and recovery all while you sleep. Yeah, that last part's pretty important because I could sleep on that couch over there and I'm still healing. It's like retatride where I'm sleeping and I'm still burning fat specifically because of the glucon agonist or glucagon gluccogen. Let me try that again. Because of the glucagon agonist. So that's important. So it's not it's not just any sleep by the way because of this. It's that that deep slow wave delta sleep where your brain clears out all the noise, all the waste and your body actually rebuilds. This is the system that is that you're born with that gets completely muddied because of all the things that we do. This is like putting your entire physiology into like elite level construction mode is the easiest way I can explain it. That's a terrible explanation, but that's what it is. And every night instead of wasting half of the repair window tossing and turning, it's it's like in instead of it's like putting your entire physiology on into elite construction mode every single night instead of wasting half of that entire repair window tossing and turning and pain and struggling and trying to get to sleep. You can take DIP and all this other stuff too to help you sleep, but you don't need to. This is going to help you right out of the gate. If I've seen anything with CJC and Epipamerin, it's the sleep. The most common the most common in the most common feedback I guess would be that I get from people is that their sleep 3 days in they go I've never slept so well in my life. Think about that because cortisol and prolactin like stress nutrition right all of those things affect growth hormone release and so if you have an issue with all of that you're not going to release it which means you're not going to heal which means you're going to sleep like crap because you don't get into that deep sleep. This is why I I keep trying to explain to you guys that the synergistic qualities of peptides and secrets and sarms and serums is extremely important because if you're only cherrypicking what you want because of the price or because you don't like needles or because you just don't like the color of the label or some science bro that pretends he knows what he's talking about that doesn't is trying to tell you to do something. The issue becomes your body goes I don't like what you're doing. So, I'm trying to give you the answers where it actually works. Because I promise you, the CEO that's doing this right now, his life is forever changed for the better in a way that I can't even explain how good it's going to be because 3 months from now, he's going to be a brand new man. If you could take that meat suit wrapped around a bone popsicle that you pile it around this world right now and upgrade it and you're 50 55 and you can upgrade it to being 21, 22 and functional, fit, athletic, everything's working so well that the last time you felt sore and injured sore from a workout I mean sore and injured where you just can't even get out of bed you can't remember because it's been so long. What would that be worth? Because most people say, "I'd pay anything for it." And then somebody goes, "Here's the bill." And they go, "Well, I wouldn't pay that much." Well, then it's not worth it. But if that's what you want and you need help to get there, the person you should probably call is me because I I I want you to get there and then so you never need me again. Not so you're like, "Well, now I have to rely on this guy." I don't want you to rely on me. I don't need a bunch of little, you know, Dr. Trevor addicts. I need people that go, "Here, I got this. This guy helped me. Now go crush life. You don't need me anymore. Send me a message once in a while that says, "Dude, I'm still smoking it. Let me get to the stack because here here's why it works. Just so you understand, individually all of these peptides are extremely powerful, but together they're it's like lethal to injury downtime. So BPC57 targets the injury directly. It brings blood flow and growth signals, right? TB-500 is what clears it smooths out the road so there's nothing in the way. So all those cells can migrate to where like remember fibroblasts and endothelial cells can migrate to where they need to go. GHK-Cu lays down all that high quality collagen and pulls in all the stem cells so the repairs can happen and there's actually something there to do it. PEG MGF regenerates muscle with satellite cells. Remember what I said? They fuse together and form new muscle. And then CJC and a pomearellin flood the system. It's systemic with GH and IGF-1 fueling everything from the top down. Yeah, tell me that's not badass. It's not just one pathway. It's multiple. blood supply, collagen synthesis, stem cell activation, muscle regeneration, a hormonal function and optimization all at once. All at once. That's why it works because the body doesn't doesn't fail at one thing when you're injured. It fails at all of them. And this stack addresses all of them. And I have to tell this guy, I wasn't going to get into this, but compare this to all the advice that I saw these guys coming out as this one dude. There's a bunch of dudes, but it's always the dudes. You women are so much smarter for the most part. For the most part. Don't get too cocky. But this the advice that most people are still getting it's it's rest and ice and NSAIDes. Rest too much of that atrophy. Ice restricts blood flow. Literally the opposite of what you need. You need blood flow man. And nsaides they block something called prostto glandids. Well that's the very signal your body needs to start the repair. I'll say it again. Make it make sense. That's like your house is burning down and the fire department says, "Okay, we're going to put it out by turning off the water supply and firing all the construction workers." No wonder people stay broken cuz they're getting bad information from idiots that get it from reading headlines or go on Reddit and think that they're experts. And and listen, while How are the clowns selling these optimization programs on Instagram? I can't. There's they're everywhere. Tell me tell me you guys aren't seeing this as well. I'm not selling it. Before you go, what are you selling with your mentorship or your cure program? Cure the first of all, somebody asked me, "What's the difference between the cure program and the mentorship?" Seriously, I've talked about this so much. Yes, it makes me want to punch somebody in the throat because that is the dumbest thing. My mentorship, you join 144. This isn't a pitch. I'm just telling you what it is. So, if somebody's listening, 144 live calls a year. Saturday is get your psychology and your mindset fixed so you stop screwing up, making dumb decisions, and all those bad habits that you keep validating. Sunday is pure business, wealth, business, growing, scaling, making money, building your online business, your brick-and-mortar business, all of it. I don't care what it is. I've either built it or helped somebody build it. And then Monday is Q&A. It's like having me one-on-one. No, I'm not going to sit there and spend an hour on your injury if that's what you think. And it's a way to gain a system. Never going to happen. I will give you a short answer that actually helps you, but I'm not going to sit there and when there's 50 or 60 other people on the call that are waiting for an answer as well. We all get together and hang out and talk and sometimes throw on a tin foil hat talking about crazy things. I it's like having me on a short one-on-one call every Monday and I stay on the call sometimes for two hours helping people. That's what my mentorship is. Plus all the stuff that's in the back end, the videos, the sales training, the business building, the brand building, all the there's like 3,000 uh 3 years rather of calls, all recorded, all in there, nicely organized and perfectly labeled. They're just not captioned. Don't ask me to cuz I'm not going to do it. That is it. And it's so inexpensive to join. It shouldn't be. It should be insanely expensive. We you spend five grand on something else or you spend it on this and you have access for life. Take your pick. My cure program 100 days. I fix your problems. Whatever injury, whatever health, whatever problem you have, whatever disease process, whatever long-standing immune dysfunction, I don't care what it is. Whether you're tired or can't get it up or any nothing works, it doesn't matter. This is a pure patient and client or doctor and client relationship. It's 100 days. It's $100,000. So, if you want to know the difference, that's a massive difference right off the bat. But it's that's cheap as dirt. I would write a a check in a heartbeat. I would borrow it if I had to to get my health back before I lost this loan. You couldn't even the instrument has yet to be invented to register how fast I would hand over that money to get my system back to the way it was before in before August of 2021. That's how important this is. Most people are too cheap till catastrophe happens and then they go, "Now I'm going to build my best life." So, there's the difference. And then there's one-on-one coaching with me and that's a completely different thing which is fixing your business and your life and you get access to me. But that's that's the not an optimization program. Like I see these programs and I can't I just can't like you know the type, you know, they got the little ring light and the six-pack that looks like it's about a week away from disappearing for the most part and they're old like me and they got a caption somewhere on the screen that says, "I healed myself. If I got my libido back, I fixed my injuries and I got shredded with my special magic protocol. Now you can, too. Yeah, these guys are human billboards for bro science. I don't care what degrees they have. They're selling bunk. And I'm going to tell you, I did it myself. Great. If I did it, you can do it, too. Yeah, you know what? I'm a walking billboard for everything I've done, but I don't have some weird program. I'm just going, listen, you can copy what I did, and I fixed a ton of people, but I want you to be healthy, not buy my program, not the same. message me for a one-on-one call. I don't think I've ever done that. Like, if you go, I did it myself. Great. I brushed my teeth this morning, too. That doesn't make me a dentist. None of these guys are experts. I mean, here's the big trick. They confuse placebo and youth with knowledge. I mean, even if it's some 25-year-old dude, if you're 25 and you eat a halfdeent diet and you sleep at least 6 hours without kids tapping on your door waking you up, congratulations. You're going to heal faster than a 40 or 50-year-old dad with a torn rotator cuff. That's not a program. It's called being young. They sell you these magic stacks and they always go plus glutamine, bro. Or worse, some random blend of peptides with names that they can't even pronounce or they just got into the peptide game because they saw somebody else posting peptides like me. I've seen a bunch of you guys doing it if you're listening to this podcast right now, which is hilarious to me. I know you've seen a lot about peptides right now. So, I thought I will give you my magic stack that I use with all my clients. No, you don't. And the second you put something that looks like BPC into a powder form, you've lost all credibility. You've failed human biology, gastro like gastroenterthology, you know nothing about it. Never mind human physiology or endocrinology. You don't. You just don't. Let me translate this. And this is why it frustrates me because half those blends are garbage. Oral peptides can't work. They cannot survive the boot camp that's called your digestion. Your stomach acid. Chews them up before they do anything ever. Ever. Ever. Ever. I've gone over this so many times. It's not possible. If you can show me the blood work and the labs that say they do, show me. You can't. You can't. What you have if you They worked for me, bro. No, they didn't. And the other half of these things are slapped together in a way that ignores human biology and completely. Timing, receptor saturation, a circadian rhythm problem. They're all thrown out the window. That is not optimization. It's what I said yesterday. That is a biochemical junk drawer. Meanwhile, real repair works because it's rooted in physiology, which is why you want to listen to people that know what they're talking about, like me. Tendons heal when angioenesis delivers nutrients. EPC. Repair cells move when actin polymerization clears the way. That's TB-500. Collagen strengthens when it's cross-lin and protected from oxidative stress. Otherwise, it doesn't work. GHK-Cu. Muscle regeneration happens when satellite cells wake up and fuse together. PEG MGF. And systemic repair ramps up when GH and IGF-1 are pulsing in circadian rhythms the way they're designed. That is CJC with a pome. That is biology, not some dude with a scruffy face or a beard and some affiliate link and a shaker cup and a cool background. These coaches aren't teaching physiology, you guys. You have to listen. They're teaching a religion. This is the religion. Believe in me. Buy my stack. Follow my commandments. And if it doesn't work, well, you didn't believe hard enough. You can't fix things on optimization. I'm not discounting positive thinking. But there's more to it than that. Just so you know. You want results? Stop following placebo nonsense and start actually just following human biology and science. Your body doesn't care about their hashtags or how great they are or what titles they've won or if they have an IFBB pro card or it doesn't. Nobody cares. Your B biology answers to one thing. Molecules and mechanisms of action, receptors, functionality, not flashy marketing. You have to look at this and go, what am I trying to get out of this? What do I want? And if you go, do I want a nice fun label and some jack dude telling me it's going to be all right? Well, then I can't help you. But if you go, I want this to work so I can actually have the life that that guy right there, me, for example, has. Listen, I listen to people that are doing it better than I am because I go, they're doing it better than me. They're doing something I'm not doing. I don't know. I just I g this is the ultimate injury stack in ways that it would take me 5 hours to go into the deep physiology about this. And I'm not going to say trust me, bro, because it's the dumbest phrase on earth. But you have to look at the results of what I do and understand the explanation of what I gave you. It actually works. It's based on your physiology and cranking it up to a level that puts you in a position where you recover in a matter of weeks, if not days, then months, if ever. Anyway, I hope you guys get something out of this. Thanks for listening. I got to go. Never miss.