You know what's great is I was out here getting ready to drop this podcast this morning and my door to my studio opens up. My wife brings me this cup of coffee. I mean, she just, you guys think it's no big deal. She just brought me a coffee, but I got the greatest wife in the world. I adore my wife so much. 20 years and every day I fall in love with her even things like that. I could have come in to get it. She just brought me brought me a cup of coffee. Like you guys think it's simple, but there's nothing I wouldn't do for that woman and my family in general and even people that want help like you guys. I come out here come out here to help you. So you you decide to listen to me. By the way, everything I do is also on Rumble and slowly going on to Telegram. Rumble is being built a lot faster. And uh every day I drop a podcast on here, I also drop the same podcast on Rumble. And Rumble obviously is a lot safer and a lot it's just a better platform for uh for actually having free speech because I mean I got my first YouTube warning yesterday and I thought that was interesting because it told me that I could take a an essentially a re-education class to have the warning removed. I want you to think about that. If you have ever read 1984, that's the end of the conversation right there. I'll just leave leave you with that. So anyway, today, real quick, because I got to knock this out before my inner circle business call that I do every Sunday at 10:00, which is no, it's not free. You guys always send me where's the link? The link is in my membership. That's where it is. And again, I don't care if you join the black card or you join anything that I do, you know, great. If you want to buy from Elite, great. I don't care. It's up to you. You guys decide. I just want you to have the information. But I I need you guys to think about this. I'm going to talk about AODD9604 because it has a wicked wicked dark little secret that nobody really knows and I brought to light. People are freaking out about it. So, let me talk about something first cuz it it has another use and you guys will see my medical disclaimer somewhere on the screen at some point. But you guys are carrying something right now, all of you for the most part. And it's not it's not on your phone. It isn't your phone. It's not some weird virus on your skin. And it's not your hopes and your dreams and your goals. It is your visceral fat. It is the stuff inside that crumbling cartilage in your knees. You're carrying that. Your hips that are destroyed, your shoulders are that are destroyed. It's this slow grinding decay that you've been told is just part of getting older. I'm really struggling to believe that because the older I get, the stronger and healthier I am becoming because I made it a priority. And you guys can do what you want, but a lot of you guys have been sold a lie. A lie that says your body is a car and it's on some one-way trip to the scrapyard just to be wrecked. Just rust and rubble. It's a lie that says the only solution to a worn out part is a $50,000 surgery. About 30 to 50 grand is a joint replacement to saw it out and then hammer in a piece of metal. What a multi-billion dollar load of crap. Oh, I'm going to burn it to the ground with pure science. I'll just tell you exactly how this works. Then again, you make your decisions, baby. But let me let me explain the key that unlocks this entire beautiful lie, this unbelievable this story that's being told. It's AOD-9604. So, first of all, what is it? Cuz I I get a lot of questions actually in your questions. And by the way, all my answers to questions 100% are going on Rumble for so many reasons. You guys already know them. So, the big one is I can't I'm not allowed to have free speech, right? man, you know, you're making waves and disrupting when people are trying to get you not to be there. It's not a steroid, AODD964, it's not a drug. It's it's yet another master key. It's a synthesized fragment of the human growth hormone molecule. It's specifically actually it's the last 15 molecules on the chain. But here's the genius part about this entire thing. They removed the part that tells your body to grow and they kept the part that listen this is why it's cool. And they kept the part, remember, last 15 amino acids in the chain. They they took away the part that says grow for your whole body. And they kept the part that tells your body to repair and remodel. So they decoupled growth from metabolism. That's like getting the horsepower of a jet engine without being right beside it and getting all the deafening noise. I mean, it's pretty rad what they did. So let me explain how it works. Physiology 101. Your fat cells, the adiposites, they have receptors. Think of them as locks, right? GH is a key that fits the lock. And when it turns, it triggers something called lipolysis. It's the breakdown of fat into free fatty acids for use for energy in the human body. But the full growth hormone key also fits locks on your pancreas, your bones, your muscles. So now it leads to insulin resistance and uncontrolled growth and all the things you don't want that come coupled with growth hormone. Not ideal to be honest. Not ideal. And I went over HGH yesterday and god it's weird. Some of you guys got in my comments and got all pissed off. Why? I'm giving you the damn information. Grow up. AODD9604 is this precision lock pick. It's designed to fit pretty much exclusively in the beta 3 adonuric receptor of it's the lock on the fat cells. That's what it is. And particularly those really problematic and rather sinister visceral cells that are buried deep inside your abdomen. It activates HSL hormone sensitive lipes which is the enzyme that busts open the fat stores but it does it without messing with your insulin sensitivity. So this is what's cool about it. No blood sugar spikes, no wild growth signals, just targeted metabolic. It's like a blowtorrch to the fat that you don't want. And that's it. That's all it does. And if you look at something like tamarellin, right? Fantastic. Even FDA approved. Not for this, but off label is magic. And when the FDA gives it a green light, but it's very effective on visceral fat. This is even better. Yeah, didn't expect me to say that, did you? But let me explain why visceral fat is so catastrophic. It's not this inert piece of lard. It's this malicious hyperactive endocrine engine that's an it's an organ and it pumps out this constant stream of inflammatory cytoines and the same ones I always talk about IL6 TNF alpha and that creates this state of chronic systemic inflammation which is a very big problem. It's part of the three biological failures that I talk about. So it directly contributes to insulin resistance, hypertension and skyrockets your risk of heart disease and cancer into the stratosphere. It's not a passive, you know, it doesn't sit there. It's not a passenger in your body. It's like a little I call it the same thing, a little biochemical terrorist. It's like cell senence, just the same thing. It's just pumping out garbage. Hijacks your body from the inside. So AOD-9604 is the special for. It's like Rambo comes in to do the ultimate takedown. And if you don't like Rambo, I don't care. I like Sylvester Stallone. The question I get from a lot of things, I'm going to try and address these as we go through this is, do things like this need to be cycled. It doesn't have any receptor downregulation like a lot of the compounds, even growth hormone, right? You have to be smart with that. And if you start getting in my comments about growth hormone, stop. I already know all the facts. The the AODD9604 works through a different pathway. It's more like a daily tap on the door than a wrecking ball that comes in and demolishes everything. But pragmatically, cycling any intervention is smart. Just keep that in mind outside of the forever peptides that I talked about, but it keeps your body responsive. So, hypothetically, in any kind of a kangaroo experiment, you're looking probably 8 to 12 weeks, four to six weeks off, right? Principles of of hormesis. Now, here here's the little dark secret that I was going to talk about that they don't want you to know. They really don't. This is the AOD-9604 ultimate secret that these guys are hiding. And I swear it is. This stuff is such it's buried under so much rubble so you never see it. But it threatens a 20 billion billion with a B20 billion dollar a year industry. AODD9604 you guys doesn't just burn fat, it rebuilds cartilage. Yeah, that's a whole polar swing towards the other side of the equation. You think the fat burning is really cool and you guys are like, "Yeah, I really want to lose this weight. I have to chop up my abs or whatever it is you're doing, repair my health." If that's what you're really doing, most people should be. That's like a side hustle. The main event of AODD9604 is condrogenesis. And you'll never hear a Insta bro science I'm an expert with waving their degrees around telling you this stuff. You're never going to hear it because it doesn't make them money cuz it doesn't tap the trigger that has people go, I want to take this for fat loss. It actually repairs tissue the way it's designed. So if you look at there's a study, it's in um growth hormone and IGF research. It shows without a shadow of a doubt, it shows AODD9604 significantly upregulates the proliferation of condondraittes. Condraytes are the only cells in your body that can produce cartilage. So it stimulates the synthesis of collagen type 2 and agrican, the two fundamental building blocks of healthy, pillowy, cushiony, very smooth moving, gliding across surfaces cartilage. It tells you're dormant, beaten down, crap kicked. I've been through the ringer and the gauntlet and almost got thrown in the wood chipper condondraightes to wake up and get back to work. And here's why this is a secret. I'll give you three words. Follow the money. Listen, the global joint replacement market is $22.5 billion a year. And it is a friaking racket. And if you start going, well, I had my shoulder replaced. It needed to be replaced. What if you would have solved the problem beforehand? You ever think of that? By 2027, it is projected to be well over 31 billion. Billion with a B. Most people will never see north of a million dollars. Most people will never see north of $100,000 in their bank account. And stop thinking I'm insulting you. I'm just getting you to understand the the magnitude of this number. 31 billion in just over a year and a half. A single knee replacement surgery costs the system between 30 and 50,000. I said earlier, so the profit margins, by the way, on titanium and polyethylene are astronomical. Astronomical. Makes a clothing store look like it's not making any money. The entire It's like you buy a a Louisis Button. Yes, I know it's called Louis Vuitton. You buy a Louisis Vutton purse and you think that purse really costs 10 grand. Are you high? You think a pair of red bottom shoes really costs $45,000? No, they don't. The profit margins are nuts. That's about where you're at for joint replacement. But they they scare the hell out of you. The entire model is based on replacement, not repair. Listen, I got nothing against one of my great friends of mine. This guy Jeff, he had bilateral shoulder replacement, but we staved it off. I talked about this guy. We He's the VP for Costco and I've known him for 20 years. And we staved off shoulder replacement for over a decade. Well over probably 15 years. Okay. And when he finally had to have them done, he was actually grateful. He says, "Thanks. You gave me an extra 10-15 years." And that's before AOD's 9604 was even around. I didn't know anything about it. It might have been around. I just didn't know anything about it. How about I rephrase that? You have to look at and he used to do bench press competitions. So shoulders were just wrecked. And great man, really good man. And the point I'm making is he would have rather kept his shoulders and had them both done. But he ended up in a place. So, if you get to a place where they have to be, and there is no other way around it, I would get a dozen different opinions before I go to quote unquote the best surgeon because I'd want to know for sure. Before you cut me open and take out a part, I'm missing a part. Some of you guys saw me go through it. You watched me in the hospital. You watched everything happen. You watched the tubes in my chest and how scrawny and weak I was. You do not want to go through anything like that. And when they tell you a shoulder replacement or a knee replacement or hip replacement or surgery or anything like that is necessary and it's short, but the recovery is long. But I will tell you this, another good friend of mine, this guy Jesse Berdick, love this guy, this is the most gentle, grizzly bear of a human being you'll ever meet. And uh and he's an intelligent man. This guy's freakishly strong, but he ended up having to get a hip replacement because one of his hips was just torched. Well, he got to a point where I mean, the guy lifts buildings essentially for a for fun. He's so freakishly strong and and surprisingly flexible, which is wild. Like the guy's like a gymnast. But the point is with with Jesse is that he got to the point where it was inevitable. There was nothing you could do. But they didn't put a big zipper in him. It was actually really really small and he was back on his feet right away. I have a video from a guy that sent me a a a video saying, "Look at this. Because of you, I'm back on my feet and I'm doing this." It was right after the surgery and then he just got to work putting it back together. But that's when it's necessary. A lot of times, please understand, I'm not discounting getting the surgery. I'm making sure that if you're going to get it, you get it because you need it, not because an orthopedic surgeon needs another car. So, because the, like I said, the entire model is based on replacement. It's not based on repair. It's a normalized assembly line model of human breakdown. They don't want a cure. They want a customer for life. Yeah, I'm checking my watch because I got this call coming up. AOD-9604 and peptides like it disrupt this model at a very foundational level. that makes this irreversible thing reversible. Think about what I just said. So, how about this? We look at how joints break down in the first place. Wol's law, bone and cartilage remodel based on the stresses placed upon them. But it's not just mechanical load. It's something called the pisoelectric effect. So, when you compress cartilage and even put loads on bones, it generates a tiny electrical charge. This charge is a signal and it tells the condraittes, hey, we're under stress down right here. Reinforce this area. But here's the problem with poor mechanics, bad posture and improper movement and poor coaching and poor PTs and chyros and biomechanic experts and all the things and all the trainers that come and don't fix the problem and weaknesses that come with all that the signals get very corrupt. So now the stress becomes destructive not constructive. So the pisoelectric effect screams abort instead of reinforce. And so now the condondraittes get overwhelmed they apoptos they die like explode and die. in the matrix, the entire cellular matrix degrades. It's this downward spiral into bone on bone arthritis. Here's the beautiful irrefutable logic of physiology though. If a system can remodel negatively, 100% it can remodel positively. You can change the signal, therefore you can change the environment. This is where the protocol becomes a beautiful symphony. UD9604 and I apologize that I use it's just the easiest explanation. 604 AOD-9604 is like the the the guide the conductor. It wakes up the condraittes but then you need building materials in any kangaroo experiment things like BPC-157, TB-500, GHK-Cu, KPV, high molecular weight hyuronic acid, right? So if you look at it, if you go so GHK-Cu, the copper is the potent signal for collagen and elastin synthesis. It literally turns on the genes responsible for producing the scaffolding required. You look at BPC57. It's the body protection compound. It accelerates angioenesis which is the blood flow to the area but also away from the area. So it pulls away the toxins and the bad metabolites and it shoves all the nutrients and oxygen there that are required for healing. And it cranks up tendon to bone healing. It brings the construction crew. a TB-500 which is going to upregulate actin the protein that gives cells their structure their mobility and it helps migrate cells to the damaged site and organizes the entire rebuilding process. The high molecular weight hyaluronic acid is the the lubricant that smooth slippery lubricant and shock absorber because liquids can't be compressed right it's not just for injections anymore because that's going to dissipate. Oral forms have actually been shown on a massive scale to reduce joint pain and improve function by nourishing the synovial fluid which is that lubricant in between the in the joint space. And KPV is I I say it every time. It's the most potent anti-inflammatory I've ever seen. And it calms that cytoine storm in the joint taking the foot off the break off of healing because inflammation long term like chronic systemic inflammation actually is the it's the opposition to healing. But this isn't biohacking. This is just basic biology. So let me let me dismantle the opposition before somebody gets in here and starts talking about it. Joint replacement industry will tell you that the solution is safe and effective. And the research says 100% otherwise. In the British Medical Journal BMJ, it found that nearly 1 in 10 patients who undergo knee replacement surgery experience serious complications within the first 90 frigin days. Blood clots, infections, heart attacks, strokes. No, I'm not kidding. I had a lady come in. I I can't say her name cuz I don't want to violate HIPPA, but I'll never forget it. I was friends with they were my patients. Her and her husband were were my patients for a decade at least. She came in and lost it and she had her back turned to me and it was so hysterical. It sounded like she was laughing hysterically. She turned around, she was crying and she said, "Glenn's dead." And oh, I said the name. Oops. Anyway, you don't know who he is. And I went, "What?" She said the last thing he heard she heard him say was, "How do you want your bacon?" They were at a hotel. This is horrible. They were at a hotel. Listen, he had just had a knee replacement about two months prior to this, so this is very real for me. And I knew them forever. She goes, he said, "How do you want your bacon? I'll go downstairs and get breakfast ready." They were out for a They were an older couple, maybe 60, 65. And she goes, "Crispy, of course." That's the last phrase she said to him because she went and got in the elevator 5 minutes afterwards, came down, and as the elevator opened, the concierge ran up to the elevator and said, "You need to be prepared for what you're about to see." And there was Glenn laying on the ground. And they said it looked like somebody literally just flicked him and turned him off. And I 100% attribute it to that knee replacement. Just a massive stroke. Just shut him down right there on the spot. And do I know for sure? No, because I'm not going to be rude and ask. But I'm not kidding. You guys need to take your health seriously. The metal ions from cobalt chromium implants leech into the bloodstream and it causes systemic heavy metal toxicity, immune reactions, neurological issues. 2019 study linked joint arthroplasty to increased long-term cardiovascular risk of cardiovascular events on a massive scale, 70%. So you're that's a huge freaking number. So you're trading localized joint pain for systemic life-threatening risk. I'd be exhausting every option before I let somebody do that to me. And are they even necessary? Research from arthritis care and research. It's a right arthritis care and research shows that a staggering 35% of knee replacements performed in the US are inappropriate. Patients who did not meet the clinical guidelines for the surgery showed no better outcome, none, than those who manage their pain with good quality physical therapy and conservative care. That is over $300,000 unnecessary surgeries every year. That is a $15 billion medical friaking mistake. Shame on you doctors and orthopedic surgeons for doing that. That's coming from a doctor going, "You disgust me." They offer you a gamble with a 10% chance of catastrophic complication for a procedure that you have a one in three chance of not even needing. You want to go know what the risk profile of AOD-9604 is? Here, let let me be unequivocal. None. There's no research, not a single published study demonstrating any serious adverse or harmful effects from AOD-9604 in humans at any therapeutic dose. Its safety profile is so exceptionally clean. No hepotoxicity, no nephrotoxicity, no impact on fasting glucose or insulin. It is by any objective measure one of the safest bioactive compounds ever studied on Earth. They'll scare you with the word peptide. I'll give you the facts. The facts are irrefutable. Listen, we are at a precipice of a revolution. I need you to understand this. I'm not out here for my own benefit. We're not in a lab across the country, but in your own damn body. This is where the revolution is going to occur. The power is not just to manage the decline, but to actually reverse what's going on in your frigin body. to tell your fat to pound sand and leave, to tell your cartilage to rebuild, to look the degenerative industrial complex in the eye and say, "Not me. Not today, not ever." This isn't about living forever, you guys. It's about living better. I mean, with agency and power, with the knowledge that your body is not a freaking tomb. It is a temple. You're supposed to treat it like that. I'm telling you right now, it's time for a damn renovation. Anyway, I got to go. Hope that helped. Ever.