This is the episode where I'm going to fix the broken male, the struggling male, the depressed male, the anxious male, the broke male, the male who is losing his wife, kids don't respect him, can't make money, can't I'm going to fix it all. I'm going to do it all in this episode. And I am that good at it. Buckle up because that's probably going to hurt some feelings. I also don't care. Some of y'all need your feelings hurt a little bit cuz you guys think being present for your children makes you a a strong man. Yeah. There's a reason why you're angry. Just so we're clear. There's a reason why you scroll past another soft man pretending to be a king or a leader and your stomach gets tied in knots because you felt it. That's why. Like you feel it inside. You know it like in your bones. you know it. And it's that there's a lot of pseudo males out there pretending to be strong men when if you look inside their life, they're not. And there's a lot of men out there telling all kinds of other men how to fix themselves when they themselves haven't fixed their own life. They have a train wreck of a marriage or their divorce and their wife left. They had to bail on their dreams and now they're saying, "Listen, I really didn't want that dream. I want a different dream instead. What I hear when somebody says that is, I got my feelings hurt. I don't like it, so I'm going to settle for less and convince everybody else that that's the real victory. That losing is the new winning. Men are under siege. Just so we're clear. Not from war or famine or any of that stuff, but softness, lies, comfort disguised as virtue. The real pandemic is it's not outside. It's not. You guys listen, hear me out. It is millions of directionless men flooding social media with empty ambition, selling these coaching packages on manhood while living lives that no real man would ever want. And I see it a lot. I see a couple of guys that come across my a lot I don't even follow anymore because I just couldn't take it. I was on the podcast of one of these guys, his brother. I was on his podcast and I'm like, "Both of you guys are a train wreck. You guys are both simpy dudes and you're going around saying that's the way to be and that's everything inside me." I even told Brandon, I said, I should tell the world, just stay the [\h__\h] away from these people. But the problem is the world clings to people like that and says, "Well, you don't understand. They're just more in touch with their feelings." You know what my wife said to me today when we were working? We finished working. She looked at me and she said, "You know, sometimes it just hits me just deeply in love with you. I how much I love you." And she teared up and then she really started to cry. and she says, "I love you so much and I am so proud of you." And we sat there on a stack of weights. She sat beside me and she was tearing up and crying and she says, "And I said, "Are you okay? We're both sweaty. I stink. You know, I just worked out. I'm covered in chalk. I'm gross." You know them slimy feeling after you work out when you just brush by somebody and it feels like an eel. I'm teared up and she said, "I don't know why I'm so emotional. I just love you so much." And she says, "Babe, I am so proud of you and you work so hard to take care of our family and I love you so much for that." She said, "I just I don't know. I sometimes it really hits me how much just how much you mean to me." and she kissed my shirt and hugged into me and I kissed her and I told her I said, "You're my person." I said, "You know, I there's a box and it said Brandy." I checked that box when I was born. I been in love with you my entire life. I just didn't know it until I met you. And she's my entire world. I adore my wife. And I thank God for everything that he gives us and the guidance and the adversity and the struggles that he's given us to become. You know, I hear this term power couple thrown around a lot by people that just aren't power couples. We're an alpha man and woman. Okay, so you're two men that are married. Great. Or I see the other side. I'm a man that's in touch with my feelings. That's why your wife left. because you're soft and she wants a leader, not a soft man where she has to be the leader. What's wild is Brandy is as powerful as they get. If you don't know my wife, she's so strong. Not just physically, I mean mentally. She is so strong and so power. I've watched her do things crying, upset, angry, sad. She'll still finish. She has more grit than any man I've ever met, especially the ones that tell you how gritty they are. But here's what's interesting. A lot of men out there talking about how they're going to teach you how to be strong, how to be successful, how to make a million dollars a year. Like, I mean, coach business. That's what I'm very good at. Online business. I will grow your own online business. And I'm not some online business guru, the OG guru or whatever the [\h__\h] is that people talk that are stuck in their dated ways. I'm always learning so I can teach people better in my group. And the backbone is always g. But I teach people how to be successful. And I'm very good because I made sure I built the thing before I taught people how to do that. And all these men out there, if you're one of them, I hope this triggers the hell out of you. You're a dick selling your little coaching program. You're I'm going to teach you how to be a fit pro and your life is a mess. Talking about your vulnerability. You recruit people to your cause and you're part of the problem because you're fueling that soft, weak, simpy mindset. And people get really mad at that. But I've never heard anybody powerful and successful getting mad at that. And these are the directionless. Like I think about it, you guys have seen me. I'm genuinely as tough as they get. You guys have watched. But at the same time, if you understand the story I just told about Brandy, I still am deeply connected to my wife. I don't need to announce how present I am with my kids and my family. What are you, [\h__\h] That just bugs me. I'm more present than ever. Dude, you're going to raise sons and daughters to be an extension of you and they're going to be just as soft and simpy as you and they're going to [\h__\h] up the next generation. So you guys with your empty ambition and your little coaching groups and packages living a life that no man is ever going to want while you tell everybody how you're going to tell them how to be successful, how to be manly, how to save their relationship. You but they haven't built anything. These are the men that haven't built anything or conquered anything. They haven't suffered for real or sacrificed or ever really served other than themselves and their their quest for an at a boy right on social media. Let me tell you about my trauma so you can give me a you're so strong, you're so brave. See, these are the guys like they sure the hell know how to open Canva and slap coach guru on their profile. Except here's the problem. You don't build strong men by marketing masculinity. You build strong men by living it, bleeding for it, suffering for it. You become the example that you needed when you were younger. You know what's interesting is so I have these my hands are all covered in calluses and and listen, I know powerful men who have smooth hands and I know powerful men that have calloused hands. And I could go into a whole conversation about that, but the calluses on your hand don't mean you're strong. They also don't mean you're weak. But my son Pierce, he always says, "When do I get sandpaper hands like dad? I want those hands. Those are awesome." And he because he doesn't associate the sandpaper hands with just calluses. He associates it with the work and the grind and the grit and the leadership that he sees in his father. You have to become the example that you wish you had for your kids. And a lot of you guys are living insecurities that your kids are seeing and feeding off of. And you're making a train wreck. You don't fix men like. And this isn't for the comfortable. If you're going to listen to this, I promise you this is not going to be a comfortable episode. You guys are probably going to get mad and get in the comments and trip out, which tells me just how soft you are. Because anyone that is a real man, the number of times they've gone into anybody else's feed and into the comment section and did anything other than say badass, no. No strong man, no manly masculine man goes in and complains and drops hate and comes up with this long diet trap of [\h__\h] and spends four hours crafting the perfect comeback. Which is why I always laugh if you guys do that cuz that already tells me everything I need to know about you. You're a [\h__\h] and you're so ignorant you don't even see it. You need to have conviction of your own life and you're too busy looking at everybody else's. The decay of masculinity didn't begin with weakness. It began with pretending. It happened when men stopped living their values and started selling them instead. And so now we have a generation of males who believe they are qualified to lead others simply because they can talk louder than their volume knob can go past the level of their self-doubt. Real leadership, earned leadership doesn't come from likes or follows or any of that. It comes from battle and discipline and scars and pain and struggling and suffering and doing the thing before you teach people how to do the thing. You don't build a nation of strong men by getting on camera and telling people who are ahead of you, more physically capable than you, have a better marriage than you, and are more dangerous in every way than you. That they're stupid because they don't subscribe to balance in their life. That's not leadership. That's envy in disguise. That is some nasty projection and cowardice dressed in moral superiority. And the problem underneath that is modern masculinity has become obsessed with relatability, not responsibility. So then it worships comfort over the courage to do what needs to be done. The courage to do the thing, whatever the thing is. See, a man is going to step away from greatness to embrace balance, not because balance is wise, but because the sacrifice scares the hell out of him. Because every time a man settles, he's the example for all the other men around him. And by settling, he is silently giving permission to every other man to settle as well. That's the recruiting that's happening right now. these guys that are I'm so present. This is my safe space for my feelings. Dude, I can't. That's how entire cultures die. Let me tell you exactly. Listen, I I need to drink some water about to off. Oh, I was thirstier thought. You ever get so thirsty that when you finally drink water, it makes your eyes water. Get all red real quick for a second. Let me tell you what you don't do if you're trying to build a nation of genuinely strong men. You don't build a nation of strong men by telling other men how you've actually realized the initial goal you had of building the financial empire was silly. And instead, now you go to the park so you can tell people you're present for your kids. That's not how you build a nation of strong men. Listen, I I've got nothing against being present for your kids. But don't pretend that you traded ambition for wisdom. You didn't evolve. You quit. You gave up when [\h__\h] got hard. You slapped the word presence on your mediocrity like it's virtue. You know what your kids really want? I'll tell you. Because whether they say it or not, whether you like it or not, and if this pisses you off, I just push the hot button on you that you know is true. They Your kids want a father that they can respect. They want a protector, provider, a leader, a pillar. That's what they want. And another thing, listen, I got so many of these things going through my head right now. You don't build a nation of strong men by taking verses out of the Bible selectively in an effort to support yourself and your ideology so you can recruit more people to your fan club of other weak males who aren't willing to put in the reps. That is spiritual fraud. Honestly, that's theological clickbait. That's what it is. You guys dump theology out there pretend, you know, just enough to be dangerous. That's what it means. And it's clickbait. Like when you guys talk about keeping the Sabbath holy and taking Sunday off, nowhere once does it say take Sunday off in the Bible in the New Testament. And second of all, the Sabbath was Saturday, not Sunday. Taking things out of context in the Bible just to suit your own needs is ignorance, insulting, and blasphemous. It takes the entire Bible to make a Christian man or woman. In this case, we're talking about men. So, it takes the whole Bible to make a Christian, not just the kindness part that you weaponize to avoid accountability and get everybody to cheer you on in your little fan club of men that want to be women. Strength without submission to God is arrogance. You know what? Faith without discipline is [\h__\h] useless. And if that offends you, good. Because offense is often the first step to repentance and a lot of you guys aren't there yet. And listen, while we're on the subject of soft ideologies, you don't build a nation of strong men by defending gender fluidity, allowing men to have a uterus, a womb surgically implanted inside them, and then telling little Teddy that if he wants to be a woman instead, it's okay. It's his decision. Let me stop you right there. You're not parenting. You're screwing up the next generation, and you're surrendering. A child doesn't need affirmation of confusion. Your sons and daughters need clarity and truth and virtue and consistency and genuine leadership. They need a father who's more concerned with legacy than likes and the public's opinion. You want to raise strong men, then stop outsourcing your backbone to the public. That's what's required. Yeah, that's what it is. Because this this is so simple. You don't build a nation of strong men by censoring every single thing and putting it in a box that makes people feel bad when it's the truth. Let that sink in for a second because that's what a lot of you guys are doing. A lot of you guys come out here, you censor the truth cuz you don't like it. Cuz it hurts your pretty little feelings. The world is allergic to discomfort now. The real truth, the hard truth, the truth that is the truth. It's like the world has this hyper sensitive allergic response to accountability, responsibility, and discipline in the right direction. And every time a man speaks the truth, they don't debate. They just cancel him. They call him hateful and toxic and shaming and problematic. You think that makes you virtuous? When you do that, makes you vulnerable. Because when the truth is criminalized, you know what happens to strength? You make it sterile, impotent. You destroy it. Because once truth has become outlawed, God, you guys need to read 1984. Once the truth has become outlawed, weakness by default becomes law. You don't build a nation of strong men by telling people that average and mediocre are completely acceptable outcomes. And well, some people just like to be average. Nobody wants to be average. People choose to be average cuz they are [\h__\h] lazy. And it's tolerated because if it wasn't tolerated, they wouldn't have a choice. Average is an option because it's allowed to be an option. Average. Hell no. This culture. It's out here trying to convince men that losing is the new winning, that trying is good enough, that trying deserves acknowledgement, and that effort is the same as being exceptional, and greatness is a mindset. Trying is that's just a cover charge, man. You're not even in the club yet. You have to understand winning is what you're built for. You're built to carry the cross. So here's here's what it really means. Get in shape. Fix your flabby body. Nobody wants a dad bod. Fix your finances. Put more zeros after that one in your bank account. Stop hiding behind mental health as a reason not to execute. Raise your kids like generals, leaders, emotional experiments on your behalf. You don't raise a nation of strong men by differentiating a girl dad from a boy dad, by the way, and then indoctrinating each child into thinking they should be treated differently. Your kids need a dad. You don't go, "I'm a girl dad. It's totally different. Wait till you have a daughter." I have a daughter and I have a son. Now, what do you got? How you like me now? Because my son and my daughter both get the same love from me and Brandy. They're treated the same. And you know what? They are both powerful human beings and turning into little leaders. But according to you guys, girl dads and boy dads need to be different. Then you're all going to work for my kids. A strong father doesn't coddle his daughter and crush his son or vice versa. A strong father is the leader that they look at and base every single man on for the rest of their life. A strong man raises his children with high standards. He raises them both to have high standards, both to carry the weight, both to be goaloriented, both to be followers of God because strength doesn't discriminate by gender. When did that happen? You know what does though? Weakness. Weakness. That discriminates by gender. Look around. When Tommy becomes Tammy and then goes to the Olympics. You know, it's funny. Let's keep going. This is fun for me. You don't raise a nation of strong men by trying to be friends with your children and then refusing to demand high standards, removing consequences for actions, and protecting their feelings above all else. That's not love. That's fear. Yours, not theirs. That's not their fear. It's yours. You're a coward. You're afraid of not being liked by your kids. You're afraid of any conflict with your children. You're afraid of confrontation. And you know what happens because of that? The fear is going to cost your child every damn thing they want in their life because you taught them that. Because you're trying to be liked. The world is not going to protect their feelings. It's going to expose every weakness that you allowed. Every hole and gap in their life and personality and their character because you said that's how they should be. You [\h__\h] them up. And now the next generation that is soft is your fault. So do your job now. Fix the parents. The kids will follow. So do your damn job now or bury them later. because that's where we're at. Think modern man's favorite pastime now is scrolling Tik Tok, Instagram, and getting into arguments on X like it's a job. Here's a comedy about that. You don't raise a nation of strong men by endlessly scrolling social media, Instagram, Tik Tok, whatever, YouTube, leaving your funky, miserable comments in other people's feeds because your feelings got hurt by the truth that they pointed out in your life that you've been sheltered from by your conduct and where you aim your focus. Yeah, I said it. You're out here triggered over a 30- secondond reel and you think you're the alpha. Here's a novel idea. How about this? Shut up. Shut log off. Don't just turn off your phone. Log off. Go lift some heavy things and put them back down. Go build something and then look at it when you're done. Go fix something. Go make peace with the fact that someone else's results are not your [\h__\h] enemy. They're a mirror. And listen, while I have your attention, you don't raise a nation of strong men by celebrating obesity or depression or anxiety or weakness and demanding acceptance and approval for the consequences of your history of poor decisions, which is what you're doing right now. You should accept me for my bad decisions. No, I don't. A little empathy, bro. No, I have none. You did it. Look, everybody struggles. Everybody gets knocked down. Everybody gets beat up. Everybody gets their ass handed to them. But we've built a culture that canonizes dysfunction. You're not noble for living in a hole. You're noble when you climb your ass out. You know what? You celebrate? Victory. You don't wave a flag for being a victim. There's no celebration. That's not a win. So, listen. You want to raise strong men? Cuz I got [\h__\h] to do. I don't want to stand here all day cuz I could do this all day. Stop doing everything this society says is progress. And if anybody in your circle is this, I'm present for my kids. I have balance. My wife and I share the same duties and we split the check. And you know what? She wears the penis at night. Like whatever weird [\h__\h] you do, listen, stop doing it all. You don't raise strong men by marketing masculinity. you males out here talking about your courses and your coaching and your groups and all the things that you want people to pay for and buy from you and you want people to listen to you, but you don't raise strong men marketing all the things you haven't done and then getting angry when somebody calls you out on it. When you get mad at me because I go, "Yeah, you're obese. You're diabetic by choice." Because type two diabetes is a choice. I don't care what you try and tell me. I'm a doctor. [\h__\h] you. I'm just not too soft to tell you the truth. But you don't raise strong men by marketing all the results that you haven't earned. Your magic business that makes so much money, but you live in a rental house, you can't afford anything. You drive a piece of [\h__\h] car. Instead of you going, I just those aren't my priorities right now. Cool. Then show up better than you are. Your simp flabby body going, my wife loves me. your embarrassing divorce that was caused by you. Your business that's crumbling because you aren't teaching things that are relevant. Your group that has no respect for you, so you recruit lower level people into your group just so you feel wanted and needed to fuel your insecurities. Scratch that little itch. You don't raise strong men by marketing masculinity you haven't earned, results you haven't earned, money you haven't earned, a life you haven't earned. You don't raise strong men by weaponizing faith just to justify your weakness, going, "God says take Sundays all." He never said that. You don't raise strong men by tolerating insanity and calling it inclusion. Oh, that makes me mad. You don't raise strong men by neutering the truth and then wrapping it up in this little perfect package and demanding softness. You don't raise strong men by trying to avoid failure and labeling that as strength and calling it peace. You guys are screwing up everything because you're not willing to do anything. You raise strong men by holding the standard, by living with accountability, demanding results and high expectations, understanding consequence, raising the bar every day, using the winds of yesterday as the standard for today, and ensuring that when you die, the ceiling that you have created becomes the foundation for your next generation. and they can go higher and further than you ever [\h__\h] could because you've taught them how. You reject excuses and you teach the next generation that comfort is a liar and truth is war. That's what you do. That's how you raise strong men. So, here's the lipus test. Are you going to be the exception or just another one of these embarrassing like outdoor plumbing excuses? Because the world has enough broken men selling band-aids and useless [\h__\h] It needs more builders, warriors, real fathers, real men, unapologetic men of God. And it starts with you right now. Not tomorrow, not later, not this afternoon. Right now, you have to look at it and go, "Am I going to be that man where everybody goes that guy, man?" You're going to get hated. But you're never going to get hated by people that are doing better than you living a life that you would trade yours for. You're never going to get hate from somebody like that. You're going to get hate from the fat, frumpy, useless, embarrassing guy that should have been eaten on the [\h__\h] savannah by the lion because he couldn't run fast enough to get away. So you either need to level up and become a better version of yourself or shut up because there are no other options anymore. You are responsible for the next generation and your insecurity is driving. You want to raise strong men, stop worrying about balance and presence and peace and all the other stuff. And I don't mean world peace. I mean inner peace and healing your trauma and selling your victimhood and your trauma on social media just for likes and follows and acknowledgement so people go wow a boy bro good job and actually be a man. Shut up and do the work and teach your kids that's what men are and watch them flourish because the only problem with our children right now are the men. Fix that and everything else goes away. All the problems they all manage. I gotta go. Never miss.