Monday putting out fires all day. You know what? I I was talking to one of my best friends. It's also my business partner. And we just we put out fires a lot, right? Like that's kind of what I wouldn't have it any other way. And and neither neither would he. And the reason for that is because that tells you that you're growing. And I think a lot of you guys are looking for a way to go, how do I mitigate everything so I have nothing going on in my life? But the flip side of that is you have nothing going on in your life. And if you get what I'm saying, great. If you don't, that means you're not making money. You're not getting any more fit. You're not having a great relationship. You're you're not growing mentally, psychologically, you're not you're falling apart. You're stagnant. And like it or not, you do not want to be that way. My dad used to always say the same thing. He was a preacher. He'd say, "You want no problems? Go find a cemetery. That's where they all are." And so, you want fires. The bigger the fires, the better the solution. The better the solution, the more you get paid, the more you learn. So, I got a question the other day and and I'll I'll hit it in a second, but the one magic peptide. Somebody asked me that. They're like, "If you could just take one and you didn't take anything else, but you could just take one." Honestly, it was a tough call because there are a few that are, I think, standard. They should be standard in everybody's life for the most part all the time. And I think the reason people I mean, listen, let me explain something. You guys have been told to take a tiny little pink child's aspirin, 81 migram aspirin every day for your health. Let that land and how ignorant it is to actually think that. And you can argue I'm still right. It is the dumbest thing you can ever do. You're taught to take statins because your cholesterol is too high. Also ridiculous. You're taught to take blood pressure medication and to cut out salt. I had a doctor tell me that one time. Are you nuts? This it was the dumbest thing. I didn't know what to say other than I'm done. They just happened to be checking my blood pressure for some other things I was there for. And it was, oh yeah, you know, if you don't uh if you don't get that blood pressure under control, we're going to have to uh we're going to have to put you on a blood pressure medication. It's not really going to be optional. You're going to have to not going to be optional. You and your white coat and your god syndrome, your god complex can f off. Not a chance. And then she said you should probably cut out some of the salt. Cut out some of the salt. What are you in the 40s? That doesn't even make any sense. In fact, most people, if you follow Stan Eerting, he even talks about it. You need more salt. You guys aren't having You don't have even close to enough salt. That is such a ridiculous myth of health. Most of you guys don't even have close to enough salt. The problem is all the other crap you're eating and your lack of movement. But there's there's a lot of things you can take and a lot of things you can do. And I I think with the toxic environment, the things we're breathing and drinking and God knows what else is going into our bodies and how we're being cooked by whatever our Wi-Fi neighbors are have on. And who knows what else. You don't know. But I do know this. There's a lot of bad things going into our bodies that we aren't aware of. Most people should have some kind of a peptide routine all the time. SARMMS, SERMs, all kinds of stuff because it's secreted because your body is reduced its capacity not by choice to mitigate problems which is exactly the the desired effect not for me from other people that know that health is a great subscription-based model. By the way, none of this is meant to advise, treat, cure, prescribe, solve, nothing. And this is just hypothetical educational and all for entertainment. If you know, you know. But I'm out here giving you answers to fix friaking problems. So, let let me go over some brutal honesty because I have a my unbreakable mastermind Q&A is today and it's something about 25 minutes. So, I got I got to haul ass. Everybody wants that magic pill, right? That little shortcut, that secret hack, that cheat code. Like human beings love shortcuts because discipline and consistency and the work sound boring as hell and they don't like it. And that's why diets sell faster than going to the gym. Here's my magic diet. Just do this. You don't even have to work out. And that's why people spend more on supplements they do on than than they do on the right food. I had somebody argue, "Oh yeah, but dude, we can't afford to eat like that, so I have to eat this. It's better than nothing." No, it's not. You'd be better off starving. And and now peptides enter the conversation, right? Oh man. Like the number of posts I'm seeing by these imbecillic idiotic instab bros. Every biohacker with a discount code is out here talking like peptides are little Harry Potter spells that you inject. This one's for fat loss. This one's for sleep. And this one's for getting shredded without any discipline. And this is for your Tinder date or whatever the hell else it is you guys are doing. But that's not how biology works. Listen, that's that's also not how physiology works. Peptides are not potions. They're little instruction packets. that like it's a signal. And unless you understand the system and the wiring and the networks and the cellular economy and everything going on inside this meat suit that we walk around in all day, you're basically a caveman smashing buttons on a supercomput and wondering why it it's not working. Which is why these Insta bros, you see any Insta bro comes out and hands you a list that goes these peptides, here's what all these peptides do for you. you need to not like never ever listen to that person again ever because that is a glaring sign that says I know nothing about physiology. So let let me let me just ruin the suspense because like I said somebody asked me if I had to pick just one what would be the nuclear option essentially the king. Yeah, Matzi all day long, baby. Matzi. And if you don't know why, I promise that in about 20 minutes, you're going to know all about why. And you're going to understand why this tiny little I think it's 16 amino acids long. This little sequence that's written into your mitochondrial genome, by the way, that's what makes it badass, is probably the single greatest biological discovery in human performance, recovery, health, longevity, immune control, all of it. But it's not because it's magic. It's because it fixes the root problem, which is the currency of life itself. ATP, your energy production, mitochondria. Because listen, every single thing in your body is powered by one molecule. Just one. Process that. Just let that land for a second. One molecule pro controls everything in your body, which means everything that you do after that still relies on that. Adenazine triphosphate, ATP. So you you want to think clearly, ATP. You want to repair a torn tendon or a beat up muscle, ATP. You want to balance hormones, recover from stress, build a muscle, sleep deeply, get an erection, have sex, ride your your bike, it doesn't matter. ATP is is the currency of life. Without it, you are bankrupt. Nothing works. Now, here's the bad news. As you age, your mitochondria, those little power plants inside your cells, they get sloppy. And so, they leak electrons. They leak electrons like a like a Range Rover on the back lot. Because, by the way, if you get all mad about Range Rovers, yeah, if there ain't no oil under them, there ain't no oil in them. Junk. So get pissed off because that's not what this is about. But somebody's going to just spin on that. Anyway, when the electrons leak, ATP production crashes. Well, that means less ATP and less ATP means less energy for repair, for recovery, for resilience, for function. Which is why people say that aging is getting tired. It's not. Aging is literally running out of ATP. This is where MC comes in. This is why I said it's if I I had to look at the root cause because to answer this question, I have to go, well, what's really controlling everything? Which is again why the inst bros have no frigin business telling you guys what to take. So unlike most peptides that come from the from outside of the body, right? MC C is coded right into your mitochondrial genome. That's what I was saying. It's not foreign. It's native software. It's already installed. So when you take MOS C, you're not adding some alien instruction or some synthetic version of a code. You're reactivating something your body was always designed to use perfectly. M C is basically telling your mitochondria, hey, listen, wake the hell up. Stop leaking, start producing because you're screwing this all up. When that happens, everything downstream changes. That's why this is important. Let me explain how it works. And I'll keep this as basic as possible. MOS C activates something called EMPK. EMPK is not it's a kynise. It's not this random enzyme. It's it's like a universal energy sensor in every cell of your body. If ATP is low, AMPK gets flipped on. And when it does, it's like a financial adviser saying, "You need to stop hoarding all your money and start moving it around to make it do some work." Like it tells your body, "Stop hoarding and storing. Start using." Right? So when EMPK turns on, your cells stop being these little lazy accountants and they start actually using what they have. So fat oxidation ramps up, glucose gets cleared from the bloodstream. So insulin sensitivity changes, right? It skyrockets, which is all these are all things that make you younger. You function. This is like a 10-year-old. This is why they function so well. And A-50-year-old, not close. Not even close. But here's here's the wild part. insulin sensitivity isn't just a diabetes problem. It's the domino that trips everything down the line. Because when you're insulin resistant, you're not just bad at at clearing glucose, right? You're inflamed. Your testosterone drops. Your thyroid misfires left, right, and center. Your cortisol spikes, and your aging process hits fasttrack. It slams the skinny pedal. So, you go faster towards the end. That's why the average 45year-old or 55year-old today looks and feels like they're 70 because their insulin signaling is destroyed. It's broken. So you can take all the metformin and the hummalog pump and all the stuff you want to do. And red truth tide is very effective for that. By the way, um fix uh insulin sensitivity massively, but you still need to go underneath and fix the rest of the problem. So Mi flips that switch back on. So now your muscle and liver cells become responsive again. and glucose gets cleared and blood sugar stabilizes, cortisol drops, and hormones balance out the way they're supposed to. And it's not a cosmetic effect. It's a cellular effect. It's like metabolic warfare for you. Look at your This even affects your brain. In fact, quite a quite a cuz your your neurons are little like they're like little ATP junkies. Neurons consume 20% of your body's energy at at rest. At rest, your brain is hungry and it's addicted. just to keep you thinking, just to keep you normal at thinking, remembering, and staying somewhat emotionally stable for some of you guys. But when mitochondria tank, your neurons tank. That's why mitochondrial decline shows up as brain fog and memory lapses and the roller coaster mood instability that you're blaming on something else. Still have to fix the underlying problem. Your brain starts to run on fumes. So Matsi changes that. It boosts mitochondrial efficiency. ATP production in neurons spikes. Right? So now synapses fire cleaner. Oxidative stress all but disappears and neurotransmitter cycling stabilizes. So your system works better up here in your cabbage, your brain, which means so here's what happens. You remember, you focus and your mood swing, your mood swings, they vanish. They you don't look like a drunk on a unicycle. Like everything works properly. You're just nice and steady. You have emotional immaturity again. It's not neurot or neurotropic. I almost said neurotropic, but that's not it. It's not that neotropic drink this soft drink and you know the bubbles feel good and now I feel smarter kind of nonsense. This is actually fixing the hardware so the software runs more smoothly. I got nothing against neutropics. Some of them are very effective. But that's still not fixing the problem. You know, look at your sleep. Everybody wants to sleep. Everybody needs sleep. Even though people go, I sleep on 1 hour. Great. I don't care. But very few people actually get the sleep they need. But but here's why. That restorative sleep is not as much hormonal as it is mitochondrial because your hypothalamus and your brain stem regulate circadian rhythms. So when mitochondria are dysfunctional, your sleep gets really fragmented. It just gets staggered. You get it's not just getting up all night to pee. If you're over 40, you know what I'm talking about. But it gets really se like segmented and fragmented because neurotransmitter cycling breaks. And when that happens, you wake up feeling like you lost a fight with Tyson. Like you just feel beat up. You're tired from being tired, right? You wake up needing a nap from your nap. M lowers, I said it before, the oxidative load in these areas, right? The hypothalamus and the brain stem. So now it stabilizes the glucose management in your brain and it normalizes neurotransmitters, specifically GABA and serotonin, which means that your sleep cycles deepen and you actually get that restorative sleep, the kind where your body heals itself instead of just laying there slightly on like twilight sleep for 8 hours thinking that you're you're staring at your ceiling fan all night. One of the two. And never mind tissue repair. And I know we talk about BPC and TB-500 and the PEG, you know, MGF and CJC and a Pamearellin and GHK-Cu, the really great new Wolverine stack that works very effectively. You still need to fix the energy source to fix the tissue, right? Like I can give you all the things to fix the tissue, but if the gas isn't in the tank to do the work, it won't matter. Do you get why I'm saying this is all this all makes a difference? It's like you have to understand how the mechanics of the body work and how the physiology works and the way endocrinology and biochemistry all come together because otherwise you're just throwing things at the system which again goes back to these they piss me off so bad the instab bros that come out these peptide magic I know everything because I can read a headline let me tell you this list of all the ones that work and we're going to take this blue pill and this red pill. You don't know anything though and you wind up screwing people up and they believe the nonsense and yet it's not solving the problem. So if you look at tissue repair, the same principle applies with with ATP, right? Fibrolasts, osteoblasts, immune cells, all ATP intensive. So if there's no energy, none of those little work crews do any work. M C gives them the energy. It feeds them. Suddenly all the injuries you had recover faster and inflammation calms the hell down and your immune response actually works. So you're not getting sick every weekend and blaming it on your kid. You're not just healing you guys. you're actually running repair protocols the way that your bi biology is designed. So if you if you zoom out a little bit and you want to look at something like longevity, if I had to choose longevity, I know I said red or true tide. I thought, believe me before you guys go, you said red or true tide. Red or true tide's fantastic for longevity. If I had to choose between these two, it's a very, very difficult decision. So I would just take both. That's how important it is. But then again, people go, I don't want to do that every all the time. I don't want to take both. It's too expensive. Can't I just eat broccoli? You can, but even that is a conversation in and of itself because broccoli isn't what you're supposed to be eating and it is not what you think it is and it is not natural. That's going to stir all the vegans and their stupid ideologies, isn't it? Eat meat. You're designed to eat meat. F off with your vegan nonsense. That's garbage. And no, gorillas aren't vegan. They eat the bacteria that are in their stomach. That's what they're assimilating for protein. That's what's digesting. I'm not even getting into this. I I could explain it all, but I'm not going to cuz some idiot is going to go, "Oh, I saw it on Reddit." But if you look at longevity, just zoom out for a second. Aging is not getting wrinkly and tired and slowing down. Aging is mitochondrial decline. ATP output drops. You with me? DNA, the damage to your DNA just hits the stratosphere. So now inflammatory signaling accelerates. You get more of it. You get more inflammation. And that's the biology of aging. That's it. It's that simple. You become more susceptible to problems because you have more problems. You have more problems because you have no energy to mitigate the problems. Matsi addresses all of it. Increases mitochondrial biogenesis. This is like you're building fresh new hyperpowered mitochondria and they do all kinds of work. You get more furnaces pumping out more energy. So you lower the inflammatory signaling prevents that runaway DNA damage that comes when energy is scarce. So you can go back to a pitilon. If you take a pitilon, remember the telomeirs, it turns on telomeir rays, fixes the telomeirs, which are those little a little endcaps on the DNA that every time there's a cell division, it gets frayed and it gets a little shorter. Well, you can take the epitoilon, but if you don't have the energy to actually do the work that the epitoilon is trying to do, it doesn't matter if you take epitoolon. Do you see now why this is so important? Just like TB-500, if you can't get actin to polymerization to occur, it doesn't matter, right? Fibroblasts and endothelial cells won't crawl into the wound because they don't have the energy to do it. That's why this is such this is what brought me to the decision about Matsi. By the way, it's not about cosmetics. This is not about looking younger in your selfie and having no filter. This is about running a cellular hard reset to the processes that that make you weaker to actually stop advancing. Like it gets them to to stop. It's not anti-aging. It's it's like prunction is the easiest way to explain it. And it's now I'm not saying all the other peptides don't matter. They do. They're very very like there's so many. I think so many people should just have a stock of them because they help so much to sit there and think that you have a medicine cabinet if you still have that. if they still have those around. You have a drawer, whatever it is, your kitchen, you have a ton of bottles of pills, but why do you have those? How many of you guys have tons of peptides and serves and ser and and secret sitting in your you don't, but yet those are the things that actually make you healthy. They don't just cover up the problem and make a bunch of noise. Like if you look at BPC57, it's phenomenal for tissue repair, better than anything on the planet by far. TB-500, it's what I was just saying. It's it most incredible thing for systemic healing. I took 2.5 milligrams this morning. Feel like a million dollars. CJC and a pamarellin combos for growth hormone pulses probably hands down the greatest for recovery paired with all the things I talked about yesterday but or two days ago but all of those things are single-use solutions they fix a thing and that thing is still reliant on energy ATP the one currency that your body uses one there is no other way to look at it it's I'm not talking about ketones or glucose or anything like that I am saying the energy which is before all of that matzi is systemic it doesn't just touch the symptoms, it upgrades the entire operating system, right? It doesn't just handle symptoms. So like if you look at fat loss, rudin and energy metabolism, healing, ATP, cognition, brain function, mitochondrial efficiency, ATP, hormones, insulin sensitivity and cortisol balance, ATP, sleep, neurotransmitter stability and activity powered by ATP. Aging, mitochondrial decline. You see what I mean? This is all rellyant on the one single thing that you need to have working perfectly in your body. Modc addresses them all, but not by hacking the system, but by restoring the system. I'd love to give you the punch line, and I have I mean 7 minutes to get on this unbreakable call, so I have to beat feet. Most people want to change how they look. It's a trillion dollar industry, I think, if not I mean billion at least, but it's probably scraping. It's so much money on looks. Just so you know, all of you are going to look like a trash bag filled with water at some point in your life. You're going to look like a melted candle. I don't care what you think you look like right now. Welcome to being alive and being human. But most people want to change how they look. Miy changes how your cells work. So instead of worrying about how you look, you're kicking ass and taking names at 70 years old because you've been doing this since you were 40. That's the difference between cosmetics and biology. You know, temporary goofy little instab hacks and root level upgrades that fix the entire system. This is why people call me. This is why people go, "Listen, I need your help. How do I work with you? How do you become my consultant for my entire freaking life? This is why. Because I look at the whole system and I go, "How do I fix it all?" I do this with business. I do this with fitness. I do this with psychology, for marriage, for health. I do it because I actually give a [\h__\h] cuz I take apart the whole thing and I go, "How do I put it back together properly?" Like, you can chase 10 different peptides like a junkie with this new flavor every single week. Great. Or you can fix the one thing that they all depend on. Energy metabolism. That's it. Moth. See, it's not magic. Listen, there's no magic peptide. And if somebody says this is the magic peptide that does all the great things, you know, feel free to just throw tap them right there. Just pow just once. It's not magic. Moni is not ma. In fact, it's not magic. It's better. It's better than magic. This magic is not real. It's it's math. It's just pure mathematics. It's physiology. It's biochemistry. It's written into your mitochondrial DNA waiting for you to use it. It's literally going here, here, just plug in, plug into this receptor. I'll do all the cool things. You just got to tell me how to do it. You just got to give me the instructions and turn me on. That's what it's doing. So, if you're still here listening to this wondering, "Oh, this guy's really intense and he's all hyped up. I'm always like this, first of all." No, it's not for Miy just I've been like this for since I came out of the hospital because God went, I'm giving it all to you and I'm connecting you 24/7 365. That's why. But if you're still wondering if this is like the thing to take or hype or whatever, I'll say it very clearly. There's no hype. There's no hype about any peptide or secret or sarm or ser or whatever some knucklehead is posting because he's like this is if I was going to do it this is the one and none of that exists. This is basic physiology to make you function like you can't even remember how well it was when you were young. Like I mean just full throttle all gas. No breaks. You heal, you think, you function, you sleep, you get up like just like you've never been before. There's no hype. There's ATP. When you control ATP, just let me be very clear about this. When you control the ATP in in your the mitochondria, the little furnace, little engines in your system, you control life itself, primarily yours. Anyway, I got to go. Hope that helps. Never miss