What is up, Smash Gang? It's Trav Smash Works. Look at that. We got a real life superhero, Katie Hogan. We're going to be going over some uh shoulder mobility because as strong as Katie is, she's got some uh funky shoulder mobility issues. Not bad, though. Guess what? Today is 161 is Okay, I'm not going to make it up because I have no idea. Onem one mile swim for time. All the CrossFit community just panicked when I said that. Um, we don't have a pool is what everybody said. So, we're going to be going over shoulder mobility because we were talking about handstand walks, hands push-ups, thrusters, uh, anything that involves putting the arm overhead. So, if you can see, you're missing a half my arm. We're going to test Katie. I'm going to show you because what happens is the lat, the terry's, the pec, the uh, the whole joint capsule, the uh, the deltoids, everything really gets in the way. And you look at Katie, lots of muscle. So when she's going overhead, two things have to happen. One, the tissue has to free up. And two, the tissue has to get out of the way. So if the shoulders can open up and she can get into this overhead position, and I realize I keep saying it, it cut off my arms when I do this on the video, but that's okay. You guys will get the picture. Um, she can't get into that position. She's going to wind up fighting herself. So I'm going to show you a really killer mobility. The other one is it's going to open up that thoracic spine, which this person needs, right? All right. So I'm going to have Katie, this is so cool. I love this part. She's gonna kneel. She's gonna put her arms all the way overhead as far as she can. Good. So, elbows locked out. This is just our quick test. You can see what we're doing right here. This is about as far as she's going to get. Super tight in here, right? Yep. Yeah. You see? See what she's doing? It's like she's bouncing against an invisible wall. Now, check this out. All right. So, I'm going to have Katie Fulcrrim over this. I know camera skills are terrible cuz I keep blocking the way. It's all right. You guys will get over it. It's awesome. It's open day. This is the coolest day ever. It's like Christmas for CrossFitters. Good. And she's going to wind up. Wind all the way up. There you go. Now, if you notice, I just let that go. And I think it just about dislocated her arm. No. But she's got butt on the ground, thoracic spine fulcrrimmed over a uh it's about a 6 in um foam roller. And then she's got her head through. That's the important part. So, she's pushing her head through. You feel that a lot, don't you? Yeah. Even though we got the Katie Hogan smile. So, I'm going to bring this over here so we can actually see what's going on. I'm going to make her stay in this. But if you look, fulcrum right over here. Head all the way through. Anchored to the rig. She's probably got about 20 30 lbs of tension on there. Katie would give me the thumbs up, but she can't cuz she's locked. There it is. Anyway, that's so badass. We're going to have her hang out there. Normally, I'd have you sit there and do this for about 2 minutes. You see, you don't have to swear. It's all right. Good. Actually, one thing I know about Katie Hogan is she don't curse. even in the hardest workouts. Me on the other hand, I do. And she's hanging out here. I'm just going to keep on talking because I'm going to make her stay in this position a little longer because I want to see the shoulder when we're done. 5 4 3 2 1. All right, we'll pull her out of this. And actually, the load on this band wasn't that bad. Pretty gnarly, though, right? Oh, yeah. Just adding the foam roller is huge, right? Because it's going to open up the chest now like just enough to not be um like feeling like I'm fighting and being stretched. It's more of like it's holding me in the position with the foam roller. Yeah. Nice. So, see, check that out. This is how it's done. Now, we throw the arms all the way up overhead. Got to throw the hood on. We got Absolutely. Better. Gnarly better. Like, you tell me. How's that feel? It feels good. Yeah. Like, you're way better. Look at where her head is. So, you guys are going to have to rewind the video to look. I should have like a frame by frame. I'll try and figure out how how to do it on Instagram. Wouldn't that be gnarly? Yeah. Well, Instagram, there's got to be a way. But anyway, arms are way back. If you look, no joke, nice straight line, so she's stacking her shoulders. The other thing is she's bringing her shoulders a lot closer together. Seems like they're closer this way. Yeah, I was just going to say that's what I just said. They're a lot closer together. So, instead of being in this position, I'll get out of the way. I was wide. So, now they're stacked. So, Oh, easy. The handstand push-up. They're stacked. Yeah. Much better. Handstand walking. Much better. Yeah. So, cool. Now, we want to make sure the shoulder is sitting in the back portion of the joint. So, shoulder is the most stable in posterior portion. Yeah. Back. Just so you know. Yeah. So Katie's going to lay on her back. She's going to take this is like a like a 400 lb kettle bell wrecking ball with a handle. Good. You're going to grab it. Hold it. Wind it up real tight. Then she's going to take this, grab on the elbow. So just so you guys know, he's got some sick rotational mobility because she's got this thing almost rotated around completely. When I do it, it's hanging off the side. Then she's going to let the shoulder slide all the way down. See how you wanted to fight it at first? Well, I wanted to make sure we I did it on camera. And then she's going to stay like this right there. And she's just going to let it shove that uh humorous all the way into the back of the acetabulum. All the way to the back of the socket. Touching the ground. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then you're just going to hang out there for 3 minutes. I'm not going to make you guys watch. Three hours. Yeah. Or 3 hours. You just, you know, we do this. We do this until 5:00 till uh Rory announces or Castro announces what uh what the uh 161 is going to be. And it might even be a kettle bell hold. We never know. It's pretty bad. That would be awful. You imagine max time kettle bell hold with like a 88 for girls. Um anyway, she's going to stay like this 3 minutes. I'm not going to make you do that, but this is going to pull everything back, but you're going to see this. I'm going to take this off. Is this hand just stabilizing? Yeah, that's keeping No, that that that hand just sits there so you can you don't wobble around cuz trust me, it would be a lot harder if you didn't. Yeah, exactly. But look at this. Sit up. Kneel facing that way. So, we did left arm. Hold your arm straight out. Yeah. She's like, "Look at this. It's so different." See how you can skew results? It's just so terrible. But we'll be honest. We're a bunch of honest people here. What are we trying to show? So, I'm going to have you put your arms all the way overhead. Oh, okay. And then bring them all the way down in front of you. So, now wind them up real tight. This way? Yep. There. That's right there. So now if you look, you see my shoes. I'm going to touch the hand. Look at this one versus that one. See how this one's sucked in a little bit more than that one. That's gnarly, right? Like even you can see that, right? And it's got more rotation in it. It's more stable. So remember the joint fibers rotation here. Yeah. A lot. The joint fibers wind up becomes much more stable. Stable shoulder equals what? No injury. Right. So now we've recovered thoracic mobility, shoulder mobility, stabilized the shoulder. Stayed clean. We kept the hair clean because it's Oh, yeah. That's right. Katie Hogan's rest day. Keep your hair clean on. That's what That's what I do. That's why I have all this long mane. My one day not to shampoo. Hey, listen. Trevor Katie Hogan. Seriously, I'll see you guys tomorrow. 161. Woo.