test. December 13th, huh? 12 more days till Christmas. 12 more days and 2025 has gone fast. So, I think about a lot of things towards the end of the year. And just to be very clear, so I get this out of the way before you're like, I don't know if I want to listen to this. I'm talking about Thai Alpha 1 today. And a lot of people, they think they know. They're, oh, it's immune system. Oh, man. And it does so much more than that. It's pretty much a immune modulator that'll cure cancer if it's in you. There's so many things that we are being steered away from using fear, right? Like even all this nonsense about I saw somebody that I used to follow and I used to respect that I just don't anymore. And he's a diet dude and I'm like, "Dude, you're a sellout. you're just shilling for big pharma and you just embarrassed me and embarrassed yourself by going, "Oh, I'm so glad that they're finally regulating peptides." Dude, are you that ignorant? Like, if you think that's a good thing and you go, I bought peptides and they were fake. Stop buying from Stop buying the cheapest. Stop buying from the noisiest market. What? Here, I'll give you a great example. Elite Biogenics, 100% accurate. And I know, oh, everybody says that. Yeah, but I use Janoshik. They test like using these local guys to test things. Use a company that puts their reputation on the line. They'll take care of it. If it's proven that it's not what it says it is, use the people that are willing to put the rubber to the road. You guys, there's a lot of phony certifications out there. A lot of believe me, I own a massive company. This is You have to understand like there's a reason. And I don't care if somebody you want to go buy somewhere else. Like I even have people in my group that are like, "No, I didn't buy them from you. I didn't buy the bacteriaatic water from you. Why am I having an itchy reaction? Why am I having problems with my peptides? Why am I hell if I know? I don't know where you got it. And even then, I got nothing for you. That's like saying, "Hey, listen. I bought this I bought this liquid in this cup. They told me it was coffee. Can you tell me why it's upsetting my stomach?" If I don't know what it is, I don't know what the Just cuz it says coffee on the outside of the bottle, the outside of this mug. That's That is ignorance, by the way. Look at that. Blacker than a witch's crotch. Like it always is. But I think you guys buy because you want to find the noisiest marketing or cuz your buddy said it's a great place. But like I said, I don't care. If you buy from Elite, great. If you don't, great. But I know this. Nobody does it better than my company. Nobody. And that's not an arrogant statement. It's because I have the receipts to back it because I won't put it out there if it would hurt my family. So you do what you got to do. And if you're like, "But I said you guys only take zel and you guys only take wires Bitcoin." Talk to your government about how ridiculous they are with payment methods when it comes to things that help people. Never thought of that, huh? Look at things like testosterone, schedule three. Why are you kidding? They've done studies, 40,000 people on testosterone replacement therapy. None of them got sick. None of them had heart disease, lung disease, hypertension, nothing. In fact, what they did was turn these people into juggernauts. And they were all people with all they were from all walks of life. They weren't people that were like they're they didn't selectively choose these excuse me these groups to play the numbers to sound good. These were random people. So you have to understand man you guys are sourcing your information from people that don't give a crap about you. I show up here every single day cuz I give a crap about you and yet you run out look for everything else. So buy from elite. Don't buy from elite. If you're going to sit there and rag on peptide companies, you're killing yourself and bragging about it. Cuz if you think the FDA and big pharma gives a crap about you, you're more ignorant than I thought. They don't care about you. They care about managed decline. And the threat to that managed the client is making strong human beings, whether it's through peptides or health or nutrition or better mindset. All of those are married together, by the way. So buy, don't buy. Join the black card, don't join the black card. I've been explaining the black card a million times. It is what it is. It's my live one. It's my live Q&A every Monday at 5 and all the trimmings that come with it behind the membership protocols, VIP area, stuff like that. It's not one-on-one and it's 9,997 bucks until the end of the year and then it goes up significantly and it's wire transfer only and I don't do payments. You decide to join. I know how exceptional I am at what I do. I know how good I am at what I do and I know that I'm the one that keeps showing up here despite the noise of the world. So, you do you, boo. Such a gay thing, right? This is stupid. But listen, you guys, you go on social media and you listen to talks about feelings and leadership and positive thinking and these random grifters that go out and tell you, even these peptide knuckleheads that come out and these bro science guys with PhDs that tell you all about what you should know and they will go out of their way to attack me, but I don't even know who they are. Like, I don't care. I'm just giving you real information. these guys, this guy's an ass, this and they run these laundry lists of things and then they go, "By the way, you should buy my product." The number of times you've heard me say that is zero. I've never attacked anybody and then said, "But you should buy from me instead." It's weird. How about this? Who's talking about the power of not dying? You ever think of that? Nobody. Like, we're in the middle of this really silent war right now. And for most of you guys, you're losing. Your body is this battlefield. The enemies are always the same. God, I talk about this all the time. inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage, pathogens, misfolding proteins, rogue cells that have forgotten how to die. And for decades, the medical establishment has been handing out little cups of water to fight a forest fire and band-aids for people that are hemorrhaging blood everywhere and going, "Why are we losing? Why is everybody dying?" But don't worry, we're making trillions of dollars, and you guys are contributors. Really? What if I told you there's a master key? Huh? Just one single simple peptide. That's it. 28 amino acids. Your own body produces it. It's a conductor of your immune system's little orchestra that you've got in your body. What if what if I told you this thing is MIA missing an action for most of us? You know what they don't do? They don't teach you this stuff in medical school. I know. You know why? Because you can't monetize a cure. I don't sell drugs. I don't sell peptides when I come out here. I sell the truth. It's uncomfortable paradigm shifting. Mic drop in your frigin face truth. and I give you the answer. So, you have it. I I already have it, man. It's already here. I already have this knowledge. This is for you guys. So, maybe just for a sec. Just bear with me. Just lean in and let's go freaking vertical, right? Let's just go hard into the paint on this one today on the Saturday. What the hell is thyin alpha 1. It's not TB-500, by the way, or thymus beta 4, which is basically the same. Thymosin alpha 1. Forget about the name. In fact, it doesn't really matter. Just think it's a signal. It's a message. It's the text message that your thymus is supposed to send to your immune system spec ops teams that are running through your system. It says, "Hey man, wake up. How about you get smart? Run better surveillance. Get your guns and your weapons and get to work." So listen, your thymus is like boot camp for your white blood cells. Takes these new recruits, T- cells, these raw new recruits, T- cells, right? And it trains them to to distinguish self. I've gone over this so many times. or other friend from foe. That's it. Thamosin Alpha 1 is the drill sergeant. It matures them. It arms them. It trains them. It gets them deadly and dangerous and gives them incredible vision and tactical surveillance. And then it gives them their orders. That's it. But here's the problem. Nobody tells you. Your thymus starts shrinking right after puberty. Turns to fat. So by the time you're 40 or my age, 52, your drill sergeant, a bad boy is retired. Your immune army is leaderless and it's untrained. It's prone to a whole bunch of friendly fire, too. By the way, this is called immunosisence. It's not aging. Stop letting them convince you that this is aging and this is normal. This is a cat like just a catastrophic system failure. And they're teaching you to accept it. This is why it's so important when I when people go, "My kid never got sick. Your kid's screwed for life then." And if you go, "Bull, my son's 30 and he still never gets sick." Oh, shut up. Get out of my comments. And you're lying anyway, so it doesn't really matter. There's a reason why if you get something like chickenpox, right? You get chickenpox at 9, you get chickenpox at 39. They're radically different experiences. Chickenpox at 39 could put you into a box in the ground. Yeah. Dead. Chickenpox when you're nine is a bunch of itchy welts all over your body where you have a party and invite all your friends over so everybody gets it. You get a fever and don't scratch. Put oven mitts, tape them to your hand, and wait a couple of days and the problem solved. Calamine lotion was your best friend when you were a kid. When I was a kid, that's how it works. I had chickenpox. I'll never ever get it. You know what you can get if with a chickenpox vaccine? Chickenpox. You can't get once you've had it. And if you get in my comments again, I had chickenpox and I still got it. Listen, you're the greatest for arguing that the actual answer doesn't work for you only and everybody else on the planet it works for. Congratulations. Here's your sign. Listen, thymus alpha 1, thyosin alpha 1 is it's not magic, you guys. It's molecular mechanics. So, let me explain how it works because otherwise I'm going to be on here all day. It binds to to something called toll like receptors, TLRs. These are the they're the antennas of your immune system. This triggers this cascade inside the cell signal transduction pathway that ultimately activates a transcription factor called NFCappa B. You guys have heard me talk about this before. This is the on switch for your immune systems nuclear launch codes. It can be good or it can be bad. Which is why you have to quell the storm when I'm talking about immuno compromised people or autoimmune dysfunctions even more. So it so this is what it does. It tells the nucleus to start producing weapons, interferons, interlucans, cytoines that orchestrate this entire immune response. But this is the genius part. It's adaptogenic. It doesn't just doesn't just blast the system full throttle because in an overactive autoimmune state, it does exactly the opposite. It calms the cytoine storm. It tells the NK cells and the natural killer cells and the cytotoxic tea cells to stand down. It is the ultimate modulator. Now, do you see where I'm going? If there's an autoimmune crisis, thymus and alpha 1 helps solve it. It doesn't boost the immune system. It makes it intelligent. That's different because you guys take these things and you for immune boosting, which just to be very clear that I've yet to see a supplement actually really boost the immune system. There's a lot of bunky stuff out there and you will hear all these guys like Brea and all these shill clowns out there selling you all kinds of stuff. So you buy their products, their patches, their pills, their potions, their powders, all their stuff and none of it's going to work. It's not meant to insult you. It It's just a It's just facts. See, capitalism is amazing, but capitalism allows the idiots to come out of the woodwork and just start selling you crap. So if you go That's why we need regulation. The problem isn't the regulation. It's with who's regulating. Just so you know. Can you see that on there? No, you can't. It's by Bedro's cool mug when I was coaching with Be. Look at let's let's go purely tactical because you guys have questions and I have this great thing called biochemistry, right? Look at Hashimoto's and I've gone over this a bunch and I have a full protocol to actually this is a dangerous word but cure Hashimoto's make it go like it's gone. Hustle a bye-bye. But this is where your leaderless immune army gets very confused and starts shelling your own thyroid gland. It's a case of mistaken identity. Look at 2016 endocrine. It shows that thyosin alpha 1 re-educates those confused tea cells. It increases regulatory tea cells, T-regs, the peacekeepers of the immune system. It helps restore TH1 and TH2 balance. So, it teaches your body essentially to stop attacking itself. It doesn't just manage symptoms. That doesn't help anybody. Like when they give you thyroid medication, it doesn't help. It lets your body still do everything. And I've talked about this. I even talked about this when I went over Hashimoto's that the pro the solution that they give you does nothing. They're still symptomatic. They still have problems and they still have the freaking disease. The failure of the three biological systems, right? Inflammation, insulin resistance, and ATP shortage. Doesn't change when they do anything they give you for Hashimoto's. So, this doesn't just manage symptoms, it addresses the fundamental immune dysregulation. So, it's not the same. Look at how about viral hepatitis, HEP B and Hep C specifically. The virus hides inside your liver cells, okay? And it just laughs its ass off at your immune system. Just so you know, standard interferon therapy is like carpet bombing your own city to hit one target and then celebrating with everybody. We got it. We got it. Yeah. Brutal. An analysis hepatology research showed that adding thyosin alpha 1 to interferon therapy improved sustained viologic response rates. And here's why. In fact, you can just use thyosin alpha 1 and eliminate the interferon therapy because thyosin alpha 1 doesn't attack the virus. It upgrades your immune system's software. It enhances it. It enhances the antigen presentation, making the infected cells visible. It's like putting a spotlight on them and then you your immune system goes, "There they are." Just goes in and kills them. And then it amplifies the specific cytotoxic tea cell response to hunt down that son of a [\h__\h] and eliminate only the affected cells. Precision precision guidance, not a warthog coming in and carpet bombing your entire life and hoping, crossing your fingers that it hits everything, which is modern medicine. Modern medicine does not have your best interest in mind. It has their bottom line in mind. Look at neuroinflammatory problems. Your brain has its own immune system. Okay? Micro ga. When they're activated, stress, toxins, disease, they pump out inflammatory cytoines. You guessed it, IL1 beta, TNF alpha, IL6 that fry your neurons. This is the root of brain fog and depression and neurodeenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and dementia and MS and Parkinson's. Thyosin alpha 1 crosses the bloodb brain barrier. Journal of neuroscience shows it 100% calms down the hyperactive micro ga to zero levels of attack switching them from a destructive M1 state to a healing cleanup M2 state. It solves the problem. It reduces the inflammatory fire while promoting the production of neurotrophic factors like BDNF, brain derived neurotrphic factor. It is a firefighter and a restoration crew all at the same time. And how many times have you heard somebody tell you about that? None until this podcast. I'll guarantee it. Look at the H God, I could do this. You get me riled up and buckle up, baby, because we're going to go full throttle. Look at the HBA access suppression. Chronic stress pumps your body full of cortisol. Cortisol is an immunosuppressant. It shuts down your thymus. It tells your immune army to stand down in the middle of a freaking war. It's a biological betrayal to your system. There's research brain behavior and immunity demonstrates that thymus and alpha run counteracts all of this. All of it. It restores the function of immune cells even in the presence of high gluccocorticoids cortisol. It's the resistance fighter that ignores the corrupt government's orders to surrender. Boy, we could use that right now, huh? Listen, look at cancer. I'll go right to the heavy hitter. This is the big one, right? Cancer. Three biological failures. The world wants you to think that cancer is this genetic lottery. Bad luck, this series of random mutations, exposures, whatever is going on, chemtrails, I have no idea. Whatever it is, this is a lie sold to you by a 200 billion with a B industry that's built on treatment, not prevention. The question that should just set off bells and alarms in you is that why do some people get it and some people don't? And they always have an explanation. Except that's like people that go, I never win. Okay? And then they just explain it away as to why they never win, but somebody else does. The reason somebody else wins and you don't is because they're willing to do what you aren't willing to do. That's why they win. They deserve to win. You do not. your immune system, your physiology, your biology is the same way. You aren't, you don't have a series of random mutations, you guys. That is such a lie. It's not genetic. It's not hereditary. These stupid jackasses, they make me so angry because there is no way in hell that cancer is genetic. It's not possible. If you understand genes and you understand how the system works, your DNA, you do not inherit cancer from your mom or your dad. It is not a dominant or a recessive frigin alil. It doesn't work like that at all. Three biological failures. Cancer is not a genetic disease. It is a metabolic and immunological disease manifesting through genetic mutations. It is always good. Always a product of the three systemic failures. Look this. It's exhausting. Systemic inflammation. The constant background noise of inflammation creates a fertile environment for DNA damage and promotes cell proliferation. NFCappa B is stuck in the on position. And now I'm just talking about thyus alpha 1 by the way solving this cuz we can go take a deep dive into this which I did on my cancer podcast. And if you haven't heard it, go back and listen to it cuz I exposed the whole freaking thing. Look at insulin resistance. High insulin and IGF-1 are growth signals. They scream grow, divide, keep doing it more at every cell, including precancerous ones. You are fertilizing the lawn where the freaking weeds grow. ATP shortage. mitochondrial dysfunction. Destruction is what I was going to say. When your mitochondria, which are the power plants of your cells, fail, the cell can't breathe properly. So, it reverts to a very primitive, inefficient form of energy production, glycolysis. Fermenting sugar. Somebody asked me to explain it. It would take me an entire podcast, but fermenting sugar even in the presence of oxygen. It's called the Warberg effect. 1931, Otto Warberg went, "That's not cancer. It's not genetic. It's not anything else. It is because of this and cancer cells are what your body selects for because the environment doesn't allow your cells because of the inflammation, the insulin resistance and the ATP shortage. The only possibility for survival for a cell is to rely on glycolysis for life. Yes, it gets me irritated because people are dying and they don't need to. They're dying and they're getting vinchristen and the chop series of chemo and they're getting radiated and cut open for nothing. for money. You have a dollar value for crying out loud that it makes me so angry because these are people I don't know. I don't know any of these people that are dying for this. But it makes me angry that they're dying cuz I took an oath above all do no harm. You deserve better. This acidic, hypoxic, destructive environment is perfect for only one thing. Cancer one. That's it. And the research is undeniable. And yet they bury this stuff. science. A study in science showed 70% of known carcinogens cause cancer primarily through, you're ready for this, chronic inflammation. The epic study, I've talked about this so many times, a thousand people, half a million people, showed high glycemic load diets, insulin resistance, inflammatory systems, weird, and an ATP shortage directly correlate with cancer incidents. Mitochondrial dysfunction is a hallmark of every single cancer cell on the planet that has ever been discovered. And yet, how many times do they go, "Let's treat the mitochondria." They don't. Let's upregulate the immune system properly so it can run better surveillance and go, "That's a problem." They don't. Cancer is preventable because these three failures are preventable. It's not a lottery. It's not a test. It's an act of life. And most people are failing their own lives. Listen, I'll even explain how I wasn't even going to go this far, but how thy alpha 1 fights cancer. It attacks all three issues. It obliterates the inflammatory environment by modulating cytoine production, which is what I explained at the beginning. It enhances immune what? Surveillance. Your NK cells and cytotoxic tea cells are trained killers. They are assassins. Thyson alpha 1 sharpens their blades, give them the targets photo and says, "Go kill this thing." Clinical trials like the ones in Annals of Oncology proved its efficacy in lung lung cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer, increasing survival by 89%. I'm going to use a big number and somebody's going to get in the comments and [\h__\h] about it. I take cancer personally, very personally, cuz it's a disgusting model. The medical world, big pharma uses like f you all to hell for killing people for profit. 99% of cancer deaths are due to the organ failure because of the treatment, not the cancer. Thyson alpha 1 doesn't poison the body like chemo or radiate it or cut it off. It empowers the body to do what it was designed to do. Identify and eliminate threats with ruthless efficiency. And yet you're never going to hear it. You're never going to hear it cuz it doesn't make trillions of dollars. God, look at Parkinson's, dementia, Alzheimer's, MS. You know what the medical term is for these things? This actually makes me laugh just even thinking, just running it through my head. The medical term for these things is idiopathic. Do you know what idiopathic means? It's Latin for we have no faking idea what causes this and we give up. It's the we're idiots and we don't know the path. That's what idiopathic stands for. No, I'm not kidding. We do know. That's the problem. We do. It's a failure of the three biologic systems. Biological systems that I always talk about. The immune system and the brain in this case are what are taking the brunt of this. Look at Alzheimer's. Amaloid beta plaques are not the cause. Tow tangles are not the cause. They are the mark. They are the tombstone. They are the result. They are the outcome of the brain's inflammatory response to an insult. Thyosson alpha 1. Look at molecular medicine showed it proved thyosin alpha 1 reduces amaloid beta toxicity and tow hyperphosphorilation. But here's how. By calming what were the immune cells in the brain? Micro ga. It calms the micro gleal inflammation. It helps the brain clean up its freaking mess. You clean up the mess. Guess what? You don't have anymore? The disease. Go up and lick somebody's face with Alzheimer's. Just go up, lick them right in the face. You know what? You can't get Alzheimer's. There's no transmission. What did I say about chickenpox? When I was a kid, we used to all get together. Chickenpox. Everybody get it. Why? It's communicable. Nobody can catch dementia. You can't catch diabetes or obesity or frigin depression. How about Parkinson's? Can you catch that? Can you catch that? Can any of you guys catch Parkinson's? Yeah, this is the kind of mood I'm in today. Look at Parkinson's. The alphasyan aggregates. That's what happens. The alpha sinuclean aggregates. Same story. Same story. Inflammatory environment. The more I talk about this, the more frustrated I get because I personally know people that have gone through all this stuff and they're either no longer here or they've been given up on. Like the hell with you doctors that are giving up on Bruce Willis. I have no sympathy for you. Special place in hell for you. I don't even know him. And I would bleed out for that guy. I don't know. I guess maybe you doctors don't take your job seriously enough. I alpha when Parkinson's promotes autophagy, which is the cellular housekeeping process to do what? Clear out the damn trash. Look at MS, multiple sclerosis. Your immune system is stripping the insulin, the myelin from your nerves. Thyosin alpha 1 increases T-regs. I talked about these already to suppress this entire immune attack. All while promoting remination. Ligodendrites just running their course. It's not just stopping the damage, it's starting the dang repair. Listen, the secret is that your brain is not a stagnant organ. It can heal, it can regenerate, but it needs the right signal. Thus alpha 1 is that signal. Listen, there's a whole secret about cancer. They don't want you to know, right? The secret is that your body has all the machinery in the world to kill cancer. All of it's all in here every single day. It's called immunos surveillance. The problem is the system is turned off and it's corrupted. It's blind. It just it doesn't know what to do with its radar. So, it has no idea. Thyus and alpha 1 is like a software patch that removes the malware and then just reboots the entire system. The research is here. It's just ignored because you can't patent a naturally occurring peptide. The billiond dollar monoconal antibbody industry relies on creating exactly the thing that nobody wants, which is dependency. Thyus and Alpha 1's ability is to create a cure. It's the difference between renting a bodyguard for life and training your own personal special forces team to be on permanent alert everywhere you go. Which one do you want? Listen, and for all the people that are skeptical going, "Oh, I don't know about these peptides, though. I heard about them. I'm starting to see them on social media, but I really don't know about them." And there's always skeptics. Where's the harm? Where's the harm? Go look. I challenge you. Go look, find it for me. Scour PubMed. There is like New England Journal of Medicine, British Medical Journal. Scour the freaking internet. There is not any research anywhere in the history of mankind that demonstrates any significant harmful effect of thy alpha 1. Let me put a caveat in there before you guys go batshit and go, "What about this one?" And it's one where they literally set them on fire with thyus and alpha 1. When used at physiological and super physiological doses, both of those never ever a research. None. It's LD50 is so astronomically high. It's arguably one of the safest therapeutic molecules ever studied in history. Why? Because it's not a foreign chemical. It's you. It's a signal that your body was meant to use. That's it. Listen, let me go over this real quick because I want to go inside cuz I'm that worked up. We have a single endogenous molecule that acts as the master regulator of the human immune system. This NK cells kill anything that resembles cancer. Never mind the actual like even something that's slightly close. They go in and go, "Not today, MF." I'm trying not to cuss on these so everybody can listen. Thamison Alpha 1 can recalibrate immunity. It can eradicate persistent viruses with frightening precision. It can extinguish the neuroinflammation that is melting down your brain. It can address the three root causes of all disease, especially cancer, and then give your body the power to fight it. And it does all of this with a safety profile that's nothing short of miraculous. And yet some dumbass diet expert goes, "I'm so glad they're getting rid of these peptides." Which they're not, by the way. If you look at the bill proposed, it's not even close to that. Not even close. The system ignores this because it can't patent natural human peptides. The entire business model of sickare collapses if people become truly resilient. Agreed? If you are resilient, if you are a juggernaut, if you have the ability to withstand an onslaught, if you make your biology unwelcome to any pathology, you're not a customer. Your health isn't a mystery, you guys. It's not. I've said it so many times, which is why I want you guys to have the information. It's a predictable system of inputs and outputs. It's that it's that simple. It is biochemistry. You now understand everything that I do. Like, you have the same knowledge I do, the three failures of biology. You you know those how they create cancer. I went over them in depth in that podcast. I'm just not going to keep you on here for another hour and a half. You know about the peptide lieutenant that can retrain your entire immune army. So, if you guys are still going, "What drug do I take though?" But what drug? What's the dosage? What's the drug? Listen, you want to go over that stuff? You want to go over what drug to take? Talk to your doctor. They're expert salespeople on drugs. You want to know what dosage? You know what I'm going to tell you? Stick a crowbar in your wallet, thumb out 10 grand, and join the black card. Because I'm not going to sit here and I get people sending me messages. Well, bro, you never gave me the dosage. Join. And no, I'm not going to get on a 20-minute Zoom call with you. You're going to spend 10 grand regardless. Why? Because if you disagree with that, you're telling me that your health isn't because you're disrespecting what you've got, which is your health and your life and your body and people that love you despite what you think. I think that the question you should ask yourself is what command is your body missing? What signal is it missing? Because you have the launch codes. I'd literally tell you which ones you can use to do which thing. And this is just thus one. This is like a 25minute podcast just going this is how badass this stuff is. And I kept it simple. I've got I could go deep into the biochemistry if you want. I just This is it. Come on, you guys. The prison door is open. Walk out. I hope you get something out of this, man. I really do today. I'm lit as you can imagine. I love you guys. I got to go. Never miss.