What is up, Smashers? It's Trev. It was a grueling grizzly workout today. Look at this. We got super secret special forces animal James. We got Chelsea and Ashley, super badass athletes. Chelsea's got a weight. You know what I got to tell you? By the way, Chelsea, she got tased on purpose and she's uh I'll tell you, I don't swear much, but she is tough as hell. She barely she barely moved. She went like this and then just fell over. I'll tell you right now, if I got tased, I'd probably crap my pants. That's Chris, by the way. He's an animal. We're doing a workout today. Just before we get started, we're talking about headaches and traps and how they're super gnarly. And I got to show you this nightmare that we did. That is the workout. Okay, it's uh called the fatal 40 and it's pretty much 40 reps of everything in the hopper. So, my traps are lit. But you guys sent me a message about uh trap pain, headache pain, super pain up into the neck. So, think about this. You got the levator scapula comes off the uh the apex of the scapula and goes into the base of the skull. Well, not really the base of the skull, the top four vertebrae of the cervical spine. So when they start to pull, when that levator scapula turns into a piece of barb wire and has the mobility of rebar, um it prevents your head from turning from side to side, but it also cranks down on that cervical spine, mashing those discs together and it gives your head some translation like this. The other thing that happens is you have all three scalines. Sorry, sorry I'm shaking because this workout was hard. It was an hour. Um all three scalines um trapping all the neurological components in the neck um specifically the middle scaling. So I'm going to show you how to peel that away. And then that first rib which comes up so that neurovvascular bundle that comes over that first rib and underneath that clavicle gets compressed. So imagine ramming your funny bone 24/7 except it runs into the arm, the shoulder, and then also the base of the skull. Yeah, super schmitty, right? So I'm going to show you to unglue all that stuff. I'm going to swipe somebody's kettle bell. Hopefully nobody's using it. And if they are, well, they're going to just have to use a heavier one. But check this out. So you can see I've got a barbell right there. We're going to take this. You're going to get on the barbell. What you're going to want to do is you're going to want to tuck underneath the barbell so it's on that trap. You're just going to get a wide stance here. Turn your head away. Open the palm. Just find that hot spot. Trust me, you'll find it. Look away. And then just grind away on that trap for how long? 2 minutes. By the way, if you can't hear me, that's okay. The music's bitching here today. That's number one. Number two, it's got two components. So, we're going to take an ABM mat. So, check this out. This is where it gets super funky. We're going to take an ADM mat. We're going to move this. Oh, yeah. Super shitty. Sorry, I'm swearing a lot. I probably shouldn't. We're going to take an ADM mat, which I've said three times. So, we're going to take a peanut. Now, this is a pre-made peanut. You can make this two lacrosse balls just round together with rock tape or anything like that. You're going to take this. It's going to go on the base of the skull, and you're just going to grind around up and down on the base of that skull where the muscles attach on that nucle, unload that tissue. That's number one. Number two is you're going to trap right at the base of that uh cervical spine so we can peel that tissue away. And you're going to bridge out when you're doing it. Yeah, it's pretty grizzly. So, get this on here. Happy Labor Day. So, number one is you can see Oh, my abs are just shot. So, you can see lacrosse ball tucked in there up underneath the traps. You're going to take the arm. You're going to bridge out so it really forces you down on that uh on that peanut. And then all you're going to do is you're going to bring the arm all the way up, all the way down. You're going to do this. You're going to come all the way out like a windmill. All the way up. And you're just going to peel that away. That's number two. Number three, check this out. See if we can get this to stay here. This is going to go on the base of the skull. This one's going to be kind of gnarly. It's going to be funny, but I promise you it works. So, base of the skull. Just like that. Take the hands, cross them over your head, and all you're going to do is nod your head up and down. It's going to look funny, but I promise you, it's going to feel better. So, get your head here and all you're going to do is nod your head around. Go all the way up and down through the base of the skull. All you're going to do is this. Okay, I realize it looks funny, but you're mashing away on all that tissue, freeing it up a little bit. And then I'm going to show you two stretches. Super awesome. All right, I'm going to do a kneeling. She going to take a band. This is such a banging Labor Day, by the way. Hope you guys are having an awesome Labor Day. How about we do that? Check out the uh 2014 game shorts, by the way. First year at the games. Pretty badass. What I want you to do is loop into this. You're going to let this drag the shoulder back. So, you can see how this is dragging the shoulder back. Just take your head and all you're going to do is tilt to the side. This is going to free up the scaling in here. What I want you to do is really load this up. I'm not going to pull that hard cuz I don't want to drag the barbell off the rack. So, I would do it normally on the other side, but you're going to drag this, take the hand, peel those scalings away. That's the middle. That's the posterior. And then you're going to look up. That's the anterior. And you're going to peel all three away to unload the neurological structures underneath. All right, that's number four. But we got lots of stuff. We got the PVC pipe. Yeah, this is super awesome. This one's a little grizzly, but super effective. So, what you want to do is you want to take a PVC pipe. So kicking. Just a good environment, huh? Crossfit, UFC, everything's just a super bitching environment. I love it. So, what you're going to do, let me get this all situated here so we can see cuz I want you to actually be able to see that PVC. So, we got the PVC. And if you listen up against the wall, there we go. PVC up against the wall. There's a notch right in here. You're going to tuck that PVC right into the notch. Yeah, this one sucks. And then you're going to bend your knees. The important part is bending your knees. So, my knees are bent and they're pushing me up against that PVC. You're going to hold it with this hand. And all you're going to do Oh, it's so awful. Is you're just going to raise the arm and you're going to come all the way back down. All the way up. All the way back down. Holy god, that's awful. And that's going to unload that first rib. Super important. Unload that first rib. Shove it back down. Take the pressure off that neurovvascular bundle. Take the pressure off the base of the skull. Unload that trap. Take that golf ball out of there. Get rid of the headaches. Get rid of the pain when you pull. Hey, you know who I'm talking about. I made this video for you. I'm Trev. Labor Day Smashworks. I'll see you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome day.