man, sometimes. So, I don't always know what I'm going to talk about when I come out here. I don't I mean, I have no notes, right? I have a keyboard here and kind of a blank slate for the most part. But I have I get a lot of questions about energy to be honest. And and actually, it's it's probably one of my top five, maybe more, maybe top three. But how do I how do I solve fatigue? How do I feel like I have more energy? I'm stuck. I wish I could work out more, but I can't. I'm so tired. I wish I could handle my kids more. I can't. I'm tired. I wish I could. Honestly, I've gotten this question a lot. I wish I could have sex with my wife or my husband more often because they want to, but I'm always so tired. And all of these things come down to the same. Remember, I'm 52 years old. And so, I've lived a lot of life and I've been through some crazy things in my life. And some of you guys have followed me all the way through and have seen me go through cancer. You've seen me lose everything. You've seen me struggle in a wheelchair. You've seen me just after they pulled a lung out of my chest. like you guys have seen me go through this. I have shared it all and not for any other reason other than I'm as transparent as it gets and I think a lot of that is missing right now. But I think the fatigue question, so I'm going to teach you how to solve fatigue, but I'm going to tell you more importantly why it's important, why you need to, and why it's not a monster Red Bull problem, and why you definitely, it's not a it's not a coffee, a lack of Yes, I think coffee is probably one of the most amazing compounds, blacker than a witch's crotch, by the way, that you can ever put in your body. Coffee is phenomenal. If you aren't drinking coffee, you're actually taking something out. You're leaving something out of your nutritional intake that you should be doing. Yes, that's how big of a deal caffeine is. It's You guys need to stop reading the Insta Dimwit research that these guys are telling you that caffeine is inauthentic energy and it's bad for you and they feel so much better not drinking coffee. Absolutely not. Absolutely not. That is psychological BS and placebo hypnosis of social conditioning and all the things that come out of this matrixed driven machine that we live in. But I mean from the question I get from actually it's probably the number one question the more I think about it. We're talking like from clients that are billionaires. Yes, I have seven clients that are billionaires. That's awesome. I don't care. I you know what I ask billionaire clients? How'd you do it? How'd you do it? You guys are coming to me for for consulting, but I want to know how you did that. So what? From politicians to medical doctors to moms, dads. I I have all kinds of people that I do consulting for because I actually come out here cuz I give a crap. And for someone that's about to go, "Well, then why don't you do it for free?" Because when I do it for free, dumb asses that say, "Why don't you do it for free?" are the ones who never listen but get into my comments and run their clap trap all day long their mouth challenging everything I talk about while they sit at home and stuff moon pies and white chocolate mochas into their bark hole, wondering why they're always sick and fatigued. That's why I charge money so I can price my way out of your life so you can't afford me. It sounds like a dick move. Maybe it is to you. Or more money, have more self-respect, have more self-worth. I don't know. I paid Bedro Coulian a significantly large amount of money for him to coach me years and years and years ago. Still to this day, one of the most solid investments I've ever made because I learned a lot. And you know what he doesn't do? Cater to people that can't pay him. Same thing I do. I don't know why you'd get upset. And you guys getting in my comments, whoever the uh the marine was, I'm sorry I don't know your name. But first of all, thank you for your service. If you know who you are, you know I'm gonna give you a shout out. I just don't remember your name off of Instagram. Sorry, but he got into my comments defending me. Much love and respect for you, man. So, for all of you people getting in my comments and complaining and whining and trying to poke holes in anything I say, go [\h__\h] yourself. You don't need to listen to me. But I know regardless of what you come in and try and give me your bro science or your chat GPT invented answers that you guys couldn't stand beside me on a stage and repeat. I can cuz I actually know my stuff. Welcome to being 52 mature. I'll go toe-to-toe with any one of you doctors that tries to challenge me. I'll [\h__\h] bury you because you have no concept of just how intelligent I am with physiology, human biology, and biochemistry. Cuz I spend my days and nights making sure I know everything that I can to make everybody that listens to me healthier, stronger, better, faster, increase their longevity, and solve the problems that you guys are selling people subscription-based healthcare on. I'm out here trying to tell you things so you never need me. I'm going to give you all the answers. So, even let's say you let's say you subscribe here. I'll give you the let's say you you buy my black card membership. It costs you 6,000 bucks for a whole year and you get all the stuff that I talk about. You get to ask me questions every Monday and I stay on the call sometimes. I was almost the first was almost three hours on Monday. There was like 80 people on the call. I hit every question. I didn't miss a single one. I write answers in the community. You get access to me in the blackard community. Ask me questions. It's about a 24 to 48 hour turnaround because I have a life. I put protocols in there that I've used with patients. I've seen over a million patients. How many of you doctors can say that? And verifiably, by the way, before you start running your mouth about magical numbers that you've never seen, but let's say you spend that six grand. And by the way, I released 25 more. There are six left. I released 100. They all got sold out. 5,997. They all got sold out in 2 and 1/2 weeks, 3 weeks. And I released 25 more because you guys asked me. It wasn't because I don't need the money. I do it because I want to price my way out of the people that go just give it to me for free. I don't want you in my group. I don't want you buying. Like, I don't have a $1,500 program anymore. I had a lady come on my webinar. Just another lying clown told me she sent an email. She did. I had Amber Kane send her an email back going, "Here's the link. You think?" She's like, "I really tried to sign up. I did. I had her send the link. Do you think she signed up?" Nope. Absolutely not. which means if she does, I'm going to refund her and not let her join because I don't want people that can't make up their mind and can't commit to something 100%. But let's say you join $59.97 cuz there, like I said, I think there's six left out of the 25 and then it goes up to 25 grand just to get in and you maintain it at $2,000 a month. And if you go, that's super expensive. I'm not for you. That's okay. There's people out there that charge a half a million dollars a month for programs. Like I I don't feel bad about what I do. You're paying for my knowledge. You're not paying for 144 calls a year. You're paying for all the answers I'll give you that actually work because I actually care. I'll stay awake till 3 in the morning to make sure the answer I write in the community is the right one that helps somebody that asks me a question. That's how much I give a [\h__\h] Which is why I cause I'm disrupting the whole medical world in the entire pharmaceutical industry. You wait. Buckle up because I'm going to burn it to the ground. I will be that one man nightmare that comes through and washes the world clean of all the lies. That's fine. Whatever you guys want to think. But let's say you buy, see, six grand, okay? And then you never buy again. I want to make sure that after that year, you don't need me. If you join, great. If you decide to stay, great. If you don't, that's fine. I want to make sure you have so much information and so much knowledge in your head that you just so much stuff at your fingertips that you don't have to worry and you have an a life where you can make an educated decision about your health. Like, I'm even going to stop doing business coaching even though I get more requests now than ever because I just don't want to. because you guys don't listen. I give you the answers on how to build a 2 million I built a $2 million business cover to cover in 3 weeks. I went over it in 3 weeks. I taught how to do it. I've done it way more than that. But I've I taught how to do it three weeks in a row and I don't think anybody in my group has has done it yet. Strange. That's because they don't pay me enough. If you paid me 100, you know what's weird? The guys that have paid me 50 or 100 grand jumped on it. Did it right away. Strange. Do you see what I mean now? Does that make sense? what you pay. And if you go, "No, some of us just don't have the money." That's because you haven't put in the time to earn it. There's money everywhere. There's answers to your health problems right here. You're too busy getting in the comments and contesting it because you want to complain and whine and you want to be heard. But I ain't listening. I give you the solutions cuz I genuinely care. I am a firm believer of you can have anything in life you want, provided you help enough other people get what they want. And I am doing my best to give you all I got. Whether you disagree or agree is irrelevant doesn't change the fact that I'm still right. What I tell you is the truth. So when I have people that ask me this is the same questions. Let's say you buy, like I said anyway, you buy that 5,997 bucks. The links in the bottom. Do it. Don't do it. I don't care. And buy from Elite Biogenics. Don't buy from Elite Biogenics. I don't care if you never ever pay me again, but you have all the information to make an educated decision about your health and help people that love and care about you as well. mindblowing to me that people would run out and buy a $100,000 car or truck first just to fall apart physically or a big TV. I don't know. I've been on death's doorstep for real. None of you guys have done it with your, "Oh, bro, I almost was almost died in this motorcycle accident, but I walked away." Then you didn't almost die. I was in ICU on life support and then I came to and texted my wife that I wasn't going to make the morning while she was locked out of the hospital. Save your comparisons. We're not the same. And four years later, I'm here cuz I'm not done. So, if you think for a second that any negative comments ever going to affect me, it's not. You're just wasting your breath. But hey, you do you, boo. I'm going to keep coming out here and helping the people that want this and want the answers and go, "Thank you very much. I appreciate it." Sounded almost like Elvis when I did that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Like I said, the fatigue issue that I'm so tired. I can't I just can't get my engine going. Listen, this is from billionaires that can't focus on their next deal. from parents who can't get through a simple parent teacher meeting. I just had this conversation today with somebody who was like, I was struggling to keep my eyes open in the parent teacher conference that I had with my son. You know, without wanting to run out and nap in their car from athletes who want performance and they can't because they've plateaued because they're running on fumes. The question's always the same. It is just phrased with varying degrees of desperation. Hey, Dr. T Spartan. It's funny. Most people still to this day just call me the Spartan, which I don't care. Whatever you want to call me is fine. How do I get fatigue? I am always just exhausted. And here's the problem. For every sincere question, there are always a thousand predatory answers on social media. You guys have seen them. So, I told you that the dimwit insta expert with a a podcast microphone like like this one that costs more than their IQ, right? This is I don't know how much this thing was. 300 bucks within their IQ, right? Explaining that your mitochondria are weeping because you're not taking some magic mushroom powder that's harvested by Tibetan monks on a mountain that doesn't exist and they're counting on you never to look up or that your crippling exhaustion is simply a protein deficiency because apparently apparently the human body masterpiece of engineering from cover to cover is as simple as a car that's low on gas. Okay, none of that is true. None of that. You're not tired because you're missing Red Bull. You're not tired because you're missing Monster Energy drinks or modafanil or old school ephedra. I mean, that stuff was great, but the crash was horrible. The creatine, which is fantastic, by the way. I got nothing against creatine. I think it's great. You're not missing 5hour energies or 20 cups of this stuff. Coffee. Those are whips for a tired horse. They don't fix the damn horse, you guys. They just make it run harder until it just collapses, until it tanks. So, listen. And if it's not a lack of stimulants or some mystic berry that you have to pick from some weird bush on a mountain, then what is it? Because if you're listen, let me just follow me. If you're getting what should be adequate sleep, and that's always the first place, look at your sleep. If you're sleeping an hour and a half every night because some Insta bro says you should only sleep an hour and a half a night, that's you. And if you run on that, awesome. I only run on four or four and a half hours. I've gone to sleep early and I've gotten up at the same amount of sleep every single time. I'll get up at 3:00 in the morning. I'm like, I guess I'm wide awake and I won't get tired until the night. I'm wired like this. I've been like this since I was four, at least. That's I've so many times my parents came and found me in my room listening to a red record player. Yes. A collapsible plastic with a cord that stuck into the back. That's how old I am. And records that you would cut out of a book on the back. They were floppy. They little you had to kind of trim around them, put them on the record player. And I'd listen to like Star Wars and stuff. Or I would read or I would play with rocks. Like I mean I was an only child and that might have a weird childhood to you. I don't know. But they found me all the time with a flashlight just because I wasn't tired. But if you're getting adequate sleep, your fatigue boils down always to one of unless you are deathly ill to one of three fundamental biological failures. They're not deficiencies. They're failures. And they are what are causing the catastrophe in your entire system. So here I I'll give you even an order of importance. How about this? It's either an energy production problem. it's a hormonal problem or it's a systemic inflammatory problem. All of those will cause catastrophic disease, but only one of those is incredibly important. Now, listen, before I get into the biochemistry, and I'm going to get into the biochemistry. I will because we're not a bunch of children. I want you to understand the ultimate solution is not a cabinet full of supplements. It is two molecules that work on the very core of this entire dumpster fire, this mess that we're walking around in. One is a century old dye called methylene blue and the other is mitochondrial derived peptide called Mott C. And they are quite simply the closest thing you have to an off switch for the pathological failures that I'm talking about. But let me explain first why because it doesn't matter if I tell you how. It won't matter what I'm like you're not going to understand it. You're just going to go tell me that how do I do it? Except then you don't know what's working and what's not. You're throwing spaghetti at the wall and wondering why it's not sticking or hoping one of the strands sticks. Yes, that was me drinking coffee. So start with the biggest one of the whole group, the platform, right? The thing that everything is based on which is energy production. So you have an energy production problem. Your body's currency is not dollars or bitcoin or silver or gold or anything. It's the ATP, a denazine triphosphate molecule. Triphosphate, right? Triphosphate molecule. Every single process, every thought, every heartbeat, every move of my hand, every blink of my eyelid, every immune cell that is hunting pathogens. Yeah. Do you see where I'm going with this? every repair job on a damaged piece of DNA for you guys taking epitoolon thinking it's repairing telomeres but how does it repair the telomeir epitoolon doesn't do the repair it tells your body to do the repair the energy required for the repair is ready survey says ATP it is the foundation for everything all of it is paid for everything I'm talking about is paid for with ATP everything you do in your entire body while you are alive is paid for with ATP every time that's what crosses the counter this currency is minted in these tiny little cellular power plants called mito mitochondria. This is basic physiology. So if you get that, you are ahead of 98% of the population on the internet. The problem in modern society is it it's we don't have new fancy diseases, you guys. We don't. The merc manual is filled with a bunch of [\h__\h] It's that we have systematically dismantled our ability to produce energy and it's being slow. It's like you're boiling a frog one degree at a time. We've gummed up the works. You've got these incredible, very ancient power plants in your system and you're feeding them processed garbage that creates oxidative stress. You're bathing them in environmental toxins, pesticides, herbicides, fungicides, all kinds of like nonsense. And you're stressing them with chronic cortisol spikes. The mitochondria's electron transport chain, the final step in producing adenazine triphosphate, ATP, becomes incredibly inefficient and it starts leaking electrons. Now these leaked electrons they react with oxygen to form ROS's reactive oxygen species free radicals. This is primarily the one is called the super oxide annion. This is like it's like you have an engine, okay? You have a faulty engine and you have the hood open and it's got all kinds of flammable crap everywhere because it's built in 1972 and what happens is it sparks and crap start flying out of this engine out of the faulty engine and it damages the inside of the engine compartment to the point where it doesn't even work right. So this is what it's doing. It's sending out sparks and it's damaging the mitochondrial membrane inner and outer membrane. So it damages the mach machinery itself and it sends out cellular distress signals. Right? The efficiency of ATP creation, the production of ATP plummets brutally. So you can have all the raw materials. Listen, this is why I'm saying this is so important. You can have all the raw materials, the glucose, the fats, the oxygen, but if the power plant is broken, you get an energy crisis. This is biochemistry 101. Everybody that understands biochem, which is now you, understands this. There's nothing controversial about this. When your ATP output is low, every single action in your body suffers from vision to heartbeat. It doesn't matter. Your brain fog is a brain energy deficit. Your muscle weakness is a muscular energy deficit. You are quite literally a country undergoing rolling blackouts. And a country with no power, listen to me, if if it's a country, country with no power can't fix its roads, its plumbing, its electrical, its security forces. Which brings us to the other two problems, the hormonal problem. So most do you understand this so far? Like most people think of hormones by the way as sex drive and mood. This is so much more than that. Like hunger is a hormone related function, right? That's just the tip of the iceberg. Sex drive and mood. Your endocrine system is the master control system and it is incredibly energyintensive to run. The hypothalamus and pituitary gland in your brain are they're like management. They're like CEOs, but they need ATP in order to send out all of their signals. So when energy production dips, the first thing the body does is start rationing. It's like a triage situation. Your body goes, "Okay, let's run triage and see where the problems are and start plugging holes." Cortisol rhythms get disrupted. Instead of a healthy peak in the morning to get you going, you get this flat chaotic line leaving you wired but tired. You know what I'm talking about? Like when you drink a bunch of this, but you're still like, I feel sped up, but I could just sleep, but I'm sleeping sped up. It's just Sorry, I had to swallow a burp. But it was like that's how you feel. That is a horrible feeling. Never mind thy. So look at even thyroid hormone conversion. The process of turning inactive T4 into active the active version of T3 which happens primarily in the liver and some other tissues and it requires massive amounts of energy. So when energy is low the conversion slows down. So you get symptoms of hypothyroidism, fatigue, weight gain, cold intolerance. Never even thought of that one did you? Even if your TSH looks normal on a lab test, that's why these lab tests are so screwed up half the time because they're not accurate. They're missing massive parts of this, but they're going to prescribe something for you, or they're going to tell you you don't need it, and then they're going to treat you for a completely different problem that isn't even the problem, which ends up causing a problem, and now you're going to be on two different medications. What an interesting business model, huh? Let's charge you for two things when you needed none. Who'd have thought? Your sex hormones, by the way, take a nose dive. they tank because reproduction is a luxury that the body can't afford when there's an energy crisis. The last thing you're thinking of is sex. This is endocrinology. It's not some mystery. This is predictable consequence of an energy system that is completely bankrupt right now. Yours for the most part. And then the last one is systemic inflammation. The inflammatory problem in the system is the bad one because it's a silent killer. Acute inflammation is a very good thing. It's how you heal a cut. systemic chronic inflammation is like a it's you watch a Simpsons that the tire fire that's going on all the time right in the background it's always going whatever I don't remember I don't watch it very often but I've caught that tire fire it's like just a big pile of tires that's what's going on it's like a tire fire that's just raging through your entire body it's driven by immune cells called macrophagages and they they pump out inflammatory cytoines TNF alpha IL1 beta IL6 the ones I talk about all the time and guess what's what fueling that tire fire requires massive amounts of adenosin triphosphate massive amounts of ATP. Your immune system is one of the biggest energy consumers in your body. Your brain tops the chart number one. 20% of the ATP goes to making your brain work right. And it is only 2% of your body mass. You guys might want to seriously think about what I'm saying and go, maybe this is the problem instead of running a gambit of lab tests and checking your genetics and going for testing and getting little pouches or bags or bottles of supplements when that isn't even the problem. Because if you listen, if you can take all the supplements you want, but if you aren't solving the energy crisis, none of those supplements are working. Does this make sense? You could put the best parts on your car, you could make this car worth 2 million bucks, but if the tank is empty, it doesn't matter how good the car is, it ain't going anywhere, son. So, listen. When you're in a low energy state, you can't properly regulate the inflammation, which is where all the issues occur. So, the fire in your system burns out of control. This chronic inflammation is the baseline cause for almost all modern disease. Let that land for a second. Almost all modern disease. But what are they treating you for? The symptom. They're not treating you for the problem. They're not going, "Let's check your systemic inflammation and your insulin resistance. Let's treat you for the problem. Why? Because it sounds better. Because it's easier to sell and because then they don't really solve the problem. They just give you another drug and charge you more money." So, it damages blood vessels leading to cardiovascular disease. It creates insulin resistance, which I'll get to in a second. It promotes the DNA damage that leads to cancer. Marry systemic inflammation to insulin resistance and you are, biologically speaking, a walking cancer factory. Your cells are being damaged and your metabolism is broken, creating the perfect environment for rogue cells to proliferate. You're setting yourself up for cancer. You don't think this is planned? I'm not a tinfoil hatwearing guy. That's just physiology. Just to be clear, because I know some whiny pseudo intellectual is already crafting a comment from chat GPT. Cancer is a trillion dollar money-making industry from which they never ever want you to escape. I've been through cancer four times. I've seen the machine from the inside. They don't want you cured. They want you as a permanent medic or dead. So save your [\h__\h] bro science commentary about how big pharma saves lives. It saved my grandma. They save lives in the emergency room in critical circumstances. They do not create health. Listen, the critical insight here is the hierarchy. Just follow me because otherwise I'm going to go off on cancer. The hormonal and inflammatory problems are monumental. But they're secondary. Without the energy to fix them, you are trying to put out a five alarm fire with a cup like this filled with water. Not going to happen. You could provide the most powerful anti-inflammatory or hormone hormone balancing therapy ever devised by by the greatest physician on the history in the history of the world on the planet even better than me. But if the patient doesn't have the metabolic capacity to implement it, it will fail. The therapy is going to run out of gas. The body will never get the solution off the ground. Those are the only two options. It's never it's either going to run out of gas or it's just never even going to take off. Energy first, all things after. If you can remember that, if you can remember energy first, everything else second, you have just solved 99% of your health problems. And and the reason I'm even giving this little podcast right now is the sheer volume of bunk science sold to desperate people. They're not curing your fatigue. They're curing the poverty of the supplement company CEO. Your body, the most efficient, sophisticated problem-solving machine on Earth. It's equipped to handle virtually anything. But you've been gaslit to believing that you're sick because of lack of a drug. I'll wait. Let that sink in a little bit. So, let me get this straight. Let me just get this straight. Do you have a fever from a lack of Tylenol? Or do you have a fever because it's trying to take the bacteria out of the primary growth phase so your immune system, which functions better when it gets a little warmer, can go in and kill the [\h__\h] out of what's trying to hurt you? Hm. Strange, but you want to bring that fever down, right? Do you have acid reflux from a lack of a PPI, proton pump inhibitor? Maybe you think that's the problem. Do you have cancer from a lack of chemotherapy? Are you out of your mind? I've been through the chop series of chemotherapy and almost killed me. Are you telling me that we have shelves and warehouses full of pills that cause health magically? Get the hell out of here. No, we don't. And even if I were wrong, which I'm not, but even if I were wrong about all of these fantastic, wonderful drugs that create these beautiful, healthy people, how is it that we have more sick, cancer-ridden, obese, diabetic, cardiovascularly destroyed, arthritic, human trash bags walking the planet than ever before? Because that's not the damn problem. That's why. Because the drugs aren't the problem. Because fatigue makes you susceptible. susceptible to every pathogen, every stressor, every single disease process. You don't have the energy to perform the basic metabolic housekeeping that keeps you alive. Now, listen, I don't care what you do before some jock strap gets in my comments and tries to hammer me for pedalling my business. Should I just sit there and go Elite Biogenics, Elite Biogenics, Elite Biogenics? Should I just say that over and over again? You should just go buy there. Go buy it. Elite Biogenics. No, there's no code. So I like that's literally how like buy the black card, buy the black card, buy like [\h__\h] that's not what I do. So you want to complain about me pedaling my business. You think I come out here for free because I I don't want my business to grow. Of course I want my business to grow, but that's not my primary purpose. So knock yourself out and complain. Drink monsters until your heart palpitates and you have a massive am I. Personally, I love feeling strong and healthy. I love having the energy to build businesses, to engage with my family, to help people out here like you, to come out here every single damn day, to be strong, to have a crazy amazing life with my beautiful wife, to actually live. So, how about we just talk about the solution and leave those naysayers and whiny [\h__\h] in the comments and leave them alone. Methylene Blue and Matsi, the two things. That's all you need to do. Two. And I've talked about lots of pairings and triplets that I love, that I think are great, but I'm telling you, these are two I'm never gonna stop taking ever. This is the ultimate like Shok Kasugi snapkick double punch move to fatigue because they don't whip the damn horse. And if you know who Shok Kasugi is then you know if not you're not old enough. They repair the horse's system. They repair Mr. Ed's heart. So let me explain how methylene blue works. And I won't get into the massive physiology behind it cuz I don't know maybe you just don't care but I've done it many many times. This makes me laugh. Sorry. Sometimes I think of things and you ever do that? You're just standing there somewhere. You just start laughing out of the blue at something that goes through your head. People look at you like you're [\h__\h] crazy. Yeah, that happens to me a lot. So, apparently people think I'm nuts all the time. Try doing it in a bank. I had my buddy, my best friend outside of my wife Sean, he sent me this. What a dick. He sends me this video and I said, "We're getting these two trucks, these these giant trucks that I took a picture of this one truck. I said, "We're getting two of these. We're covering them with our logos. We're just going to drive everywhere these things." And he says, "Okay, but we got to get this horn." And he sends me this horn. And I was in the bank. It is dead silent. And I opened it up and I hit the button and it's lukaratcha this but it's like a horn and it was so loud and the whole [\h__\h] bank looks at me like what the hell. I was like you're such an [\h__\h] I'm standing in the bank. But anyway, totally random story. It's just funny as hell because well that's how we are. He's like my little brother. So if he was here I just oh he'd be getting noobgies for sure. We get noogies. So listen, let me explain blue because this is funny. The thing I was thinking of by the way is somebody says this guy's mo is just to make you feel stupid. The only person that would ever say that is a stupid person. Sorry. If you're stupid, it's your [\h__\h] fault. Do you realize that when I was a year old, I was stupid, too. I didn't know anything when I was four. I didn't know what I knew when I was 10. When I was 10, I didn't like I didn't know when I was what what I knew when I was 16. I could do this all day. If that's you, man, you must have struggled in school because every day you went to school and probably felt dumber than a bag of nails because what everything you were learning was new. I just can't understand that. The reason people complain, you're just making me feel stupid is because you're too entitled to do something about it and open these things called books. You're too busy going to chat GBT or Google going give me the answer and then it just gone. You don't remember a single thing because you didn't have to work for the knowledge. So if if that's you, yep, you're stupid. Here's your sign. So methylene, it just made me think of it. It was funny cuz you're hurting my feelings. You're making me feel dumb. Maybe you just are dumb. I don't know what to tell you. Listen, methylene blue is not anything new. Wait, once you get me started up. Ethan Blue has been used for over a century. Remember, little old lady, little Matilda, probably invented it to color her drapes or her dress. Like, I don't know, 1876. And it was probably a dude that went, "Oh, I wonder what the stuff tastes like." It wasn't a woman. Women are smarter. Yes, I will give you full credit. You are smarter than us cuz you do less dumb things. However, you suck at protecting anything. That's why you have men. And stop getting mad about it. That's why there are two genders. If you go there are any more genders, we're not going to get along. And you can gfy all day long. Okay. Gender is not an identity. It is outdoor or indoor plumbing. You're welcome. That's it. God, man, woman, not God said let there be 52 different genders. Get out of here with your nonsense. This is a whole other that's that's a whole other podcast. I'll probably get some hate for that because somebody's going to get in here some woke blue-haired fishing lure walking manw woman that can't decide a gender or just decides. I just had a reveal and I I decided I wanted to be something else. Okay, just don't cram it down my throat. Do what you want to do behind closed. I don't care. Get as weird as [\h__\h] as you possibly can behind closed doors. Do not teach it to my kids or anybody else cuz nobody cares. So little Matilda uses methylene blue and some dude sees it on the table and goes, "Well, I wonder what this dark blue stuff tastes like." Over a century. But you understand that we are now just understanding how profound a role it is as a it has as a redux cycler redux reactions right biochemically it is remember those leaked electrons the engine sparking that I talked about in the mitochondria right damaging the membrane the ones that are causing the uh it's creating the ROS the reactive oxygen species somebody asked me one time if I was looking at notes I was like there's my there's my keyboard I don't have time to write this stuff out do you have any idea how busy my day is holy Holy [\h__\h] I run 12 to 16 hour days and I come out here and I give every day. By the way, for all of you guys that watched my podcast, well, waited for it yesterday and are like, "Ah, you missed." I didn't miss. For some reason, I clicked I clicked public and it's gave me the whole thumbs up on YouTube and then I checked today. I was going to talk to my buddy Heath and I looked at it real quick and it's it didn't even have the thumbnail on it. It was it said view zero and I was like, "What the fuck?" And I looked private wasn't done. I'm like, "I don't Apparently, there was a glitch in in my thumbs or YouTube or something. Yesterday's podcast about how you shouldn't micro dose read a true tide, which you guys went mental for. Let me touch on this. By the way, when I say micro dose, because everybody immediately just goes, "Oh, micro doing is way better." And then I had some dumbass wannabe doctor who was like, I don't know, some boardcertified brain surgeon, which is great except then why do you have a longevity and wellness clinic? My guess is because you suck as a brain surgeon, which means I ain't having you go near my dome. But when you sit there and you go, "You're that's absolutely incorrect." You can tell clearly that you haven't dealt with patients a million, buddy. More than you guaranteed. And I'm right. What? Here's why people get into my comments. And just so you know about micro doing, no, it doesn't work. Pharmacocinetics is on my side. Biochemistry, practical biochemistry is on my side. It can't work. But when I say micro doing, first of all, you guys that go, "I took four milligrams and it made me feel like [\h__\h] I micro dosed. I felt better." What [\h__\h] idiot told you to take 4 milligrams of retatride? You dumbass. You're the one that is. You should feel stupid. That is an astronomical dose. And if you go, where do I get dosages? Hey, you know what? Here, I'll plug my business. One of them. Join the black card. Magically, you might learn something. You guys will spend a4 million on school to come out with a liberal arts degree and do nothing with it. But you won't spend six grand or 10 grand to actually do something to learn. make it make sense. But let let me explain this first. I have to say this. This isn't meant to treat, diagnose, cure, triage, prescribe, advise. This is only hypothetical. This is only entertaining. This is only this is purely educational. It's all theory. In fact, this is as madeup as Loch Ness Monster, man. None of this even makes any sense. If you know, you know, there you go. I said it. Put my little cover letter on top of this entire thing. So, here's the deal. When I say micro dose, it's all of you bozos that are taking Yes, I want you to feel dumb for doing it. taking 0.1 millig every day. And if you go, well, how come if and so hypothetically, if it were my kangaroo experiment, you start with 0.25 millig in one dose. And that's really low. You can't untake it. So if you take 4 milligrams and you felt like [\h__\h] good. You deserved it cuz you're [\h__\h] stupid. So just to be very clear about the micro doing, what micro doing means is you take this tiny little minuscule amount every single day and wonder why it doesn't work. It's because you're filling the bathtub with a thimble and the drain is open. Never going to happen. You don't get any receptor lock in. You don't get any receptor. Nothing. You get absolute no no steadystate satur nothing nothing. No nothing. You get nothing. It doesn't work. I just I can't I can't because it bothers me so much. It makes me upset because I see these guys come in and argue and then I realized why they're arguing. And I'm going to use this idiot doctor as a bra as a uh as an example. Micro doing means you take a fractional amount thinking it's going to mitigate the sides when all you do is get side effects. That's all you get because you're not hitting it hard enough to get the body to do it. The halflife, holy [\h__\h] is 144 hours. That's like six [\h__\h] days. Six days, 24 to 30 days to reach peak capacity. Got it? So, you're going to micro dose. You're never going to hit it because you never reach it because your body's clearing it before it can before it can do anything with it. Make it make sense. Physiology and biology are on my side. I'm trying to help you and you guys are busy in the comments arguing. What in the hell is wrong with you? This is a guy out here going, "I'm giving you my time to help." And you're like, "No, it works for me." Okay, then keep puking in your coffee cup and taking it and wondering why it doesn't work. Because if you go, I've been on Reddit True Tide for a year and I've lost 15 lbs. Dude, you could have lost that without Reddit True Tide, you ignorant idiot. But hey, you do you, boo. Here's what I'm going to tell you. when I see a doctor get in my comments who owns a longevity or a wellness clinic start crying about how micro doing is actually the way to do it and clearly I don't know what I'm talking about because I've never dealt with patients which I have for coming up to well almost 30 years more than you son more than you maybe you should just respect your elders but I see someone and here I'll paint this you guys are going to love this semiglutide so zeppero Oh, semiglutide and tzepathide, right? Both FDA approved, which means all of you medical muppets out there that are part of the system stuck in the matrix, just so you know, Eli Liy has not gotten it approved. Read a true tide. Nope. Which means you ain't using it in your clinics. Cuz if you are, you are violating laws up, down, and sideways because you are treating human beings with it for research use only. Man, careful because guys like me, if I had any slight vendetta to be a dick, I don't cuz I just don't care. But people that have the same access to information as I do, might [\h__\h] up your life. So if you sit there and you go, "Hey man, it works by micro doing clearly you don't know what you're talking about. What I hear is somebody going, "Look at my clinic because I'm smarter than he is." Writing your chat GPT answer, which is very easy to see. And I always say the same thing. Go live with me. I'll set your eyeballs on fire. Get on a stage with me with a microphone in front of 10,000 people. I'd love it cuz my knowledge is in here. Yours comes from your phone. So, let's rock and roll, [\h__\h] Well, I'm a doctor that cusses, but I will bury you on stage in my element. I don't claim to be a genius in anything else. But here, yeah, nobody's going to beat me ever because I make sure I give my my audience the best answers that work, not the ones that create the biggest comments. I give things that work, that really work, to protect you. So you can get in my comments if you're one of these muppets that complains and argues. But then remember, what are you arguing for? What are you defending? I'm coming out here to help you. Like your dad must have slapped the crap out of you because if not, you should have been smacked cuz I can tell you didn't get it. But here's why they do it. They argue and write their big long thesis of a comment in my comments to get you to go look at their clinic or to because I poked holes in their whole life because they can only sell semiglutide and tzepide both of which are crap by the way and reatride they can't even get. So how would you know? How would you know? You wouldn't and you can't unless you are selling it when you shouldn't out of your clinic which ain't legal bub or want people to look at your stuff because I'm poking holes in you and you're going but tzepite out of micro dose because I'm going to call this guy. I'm just talking about one specific dude. I'm going to call this boardcertified brain surgeon with his longevity and wellness clinic, strangely enough, and I'm going to book an appointment and I'm going to ask all about what they do for GLP-1 and GIP and Glucagon and I'll see and if they say, "Oh, we don't that's not approved yet by the FDA, but research chemicals are usable anytime you want. Not for human use, but you can use them for your kangaroo or your mouse if you know you know." So that means that you're mad because I shut down what you're trying to sell. Save your lies for somebody that isn't smarter than you that won't unpack the [\h__\h] that you're trying to sell. That goes right back. If that's you and you're that doctor, you're the same insta dimwit that I just talked about. Let me explain. I come out here because I care. You get in my comments to try and discount or dismiss what I say. You care about your ego. I don't. I care about making sure somebody hears this information and goes, "Thank God this guy gave me information. I almost screwed up and made a dumb choice." I don't come out here telling you to buy [\h__\h] from me. I don't tell you to I don't need patience. I don't even I don't even accept patients anymore. I have clients. And even then, I'm so sticky about who I take one-on-one. I take a very small amount of one-on-one clients for consulting. Very small. And I'm really fussy. And you better convince me that it's worth worth your while and worth my while. And it's expensive. I make it very hard to get to me. one-on-one. And if you want to join the black card, great. If you don't, great. But I'm doing this because I genuinely want you to have all the information and the answers. Do you understand that I have a guy that was supposed to have stances put in his heart? And 3 weeks ago, he talked to me and he said he's never felt this good in his life cuz he told his cardiologist to pound [\h__\h] sand. I didn't tell him what to do. He listened to some some of the things I've been talking about online. He says, "I've never felt so good in my life. I I finally sleep. I sleep all the way through the night and I wake up so energized. I'm stronger. I feel better. I can exercise now and I couldn't do that before. This guy feels better. Brain fog is gone. He's lost weight. You name it. I didn't do it. I just gave him the right damn answers. So save your judgment in my comments. If that's you grow up. What do you You're hating on people because what? You're hating on me because I give an answer. What are you three? If you don't like it, have the maturity to keep on scrolling, bub. So, let me let me get back to this because I just went on a rant for about five minutes about an idiot that I made his wellness clinic look bad and he just doesn't want to admit it. Sucker. Maybe you should just pay attention. I'll learn you some things. My dad My dad used to say that that'll learn you. So, methylene blue acts as an alternative electron carrier in the electron transport chain. So, remember what I said about the sparks in the engine and damaging the inner mito well it's the mitochondrial membrane. Totally. Remember SS31, that's the whole cardipin inner mitochondrial membrane repair. That is just money. But that's not what I'm talking about here. This is just this is oral, by the way. So these are the things, these sparks are what cause massive oxidative damage and ruin ATP production. Methylene blue brings it back online. So here's what it does. It slips into the ETC, the electron transport chain, and it accepts the electrons. So it's like it's got this little hands out. Accepts the electron and accept and the ones that would otherwise leak out, right? accepts the electrons and then brings them over and safely, excuse me, safely shuttles them directly to something called cytochrome C, which is the final step of the ETC, the electron transport chain. So, this bypasses the leaky complexes one and three. Remember what I told you? It's like there's a traffic jam and it bypasses it goes from one all the way past that traffic jam to the final step. So the result is this massive reduction in oxidative stress and this massive dramatic increase in ATP production. You're looking about 30 to 40% increase in ATP production. Just do the math. If you had a 30 to 40% increase in your salary every year, your life would look radically different. So just keep that in your head. It's like putting a voltage stabilizer on your cellular power grid in your system. not cellular phones, cells in your body before somebody's like, "What?" It enhances mitochondrial respiration and biogenesis. So, not only does it make it function better, it also makes you make more of these little nuclear reactors. And from a neurological standpoint, this is awesome. It's also a pretty solid MAO inhibitor, monoamine oxidase, which improves mood and focus and function. And that's just a side benefit, not a side effect. Remember, there's only effects. There's no side effects. So the core action of of this entire thing is supercharging the fundamental unit of energy. That's methyl. Man, I've been on here an hour. There's a long time around here. 48 minutes. M C is even better. This is a peptide that's not in the nuclear DNA, but in the DNA of the mitochondria themselves, the little energy factories. It's a message from the power plant to the rest of the cells. Its primary role is in metabolic regulation, particularly under stress conditions, which is all the stuff that I was talking about. That's why this stuff you have to understand physiology to understand what this is going to do for your system. So when you're in a state of metabolic distress like overeating or nutrient overload M C is released follow me on this. So it travels to the muscles and other tissues and it activates something called AMK specifically the AMPK pathway. So when AMPK is the master regulator of energy homeostasis balance in the system it's the body's energy saving mode switch on and off. When a when AM is activated, when it's turned on, it tells the cell to increase glucose uptake and fatty acid oxidation. So to burn fuel much more efficiently, it for insulin resistance effectively, it effectively reverses insulin resistance at a cellular level. It you marry this with red tide, holy [\h__\h] you become this unstoppable force in nature. And that's just on the insulin resistance side, but it tells the body to stop storing fat and start burning it for energy instead. So while, so follow me. While the methyline blue fixes the engine, M C optimizes the fuel efficiency. This is the this is where it gets beautiful. You don't just take them separately. You have to the synergy is awesome. Methylene blue provides the immediate raw power boost, right? Just gives you all the punch by fixing the electron transport chain. It gives you the ATP you need to actually do something and solve the problems. And then MO C comes in and ensures that all the fuel that you consume, the food you eat is partitioned in your system correctly. So it shovels that fuel into mitochondria that methylene blue has just repaired. You see now how this works together. So instead of that fuel being stored as fat or causing inflammatory signals, it's burned very cleanly for energy for you. It's this virtuous cycle. More ATP for methylene blue allows for better cellular function which supports the actions of MO C. Better metabolic efficiency for MO C provides. You see this this is what like follow this follows it. It provides cleaner burning fuel for the mitochondria that are supercharged by the methylene blue. They create this positive feedback loop of energy production and utilization. So, it's cranking out energy, using energy, cranking out energy, using energy. The energy doesn't just make you feel less tired. It translates into being a juggernaut, a bulletproof human being. Your immune system has all of the resources to quell inflammation. Your endocrine system has the power to fix and reestablish the hormonal rhythm that you destroyed. And your brain has the fuel for all the cognitive issues that you are going through right now to solve every damn one of them. You're no longer susceptible. You need to look at it that way because if you can get in the way of the things before they happen, then they never happen. So, I got to hit this cancer thing because people are going to ask her, "Oh, I heard it causes cancer." No, it doesn't. But let me explain how about dosing first cuz you guys all freak out. Start low. So, all of you guys that were like, I micro do my red truth tide. Stop it. what worked for me. You need to understand what micro doing is because if you're taking one milligram every two to three days, that's not micro doing. That's just taking a dose. I'm talking micro doing tiny little doses all throughout the week doesn't help anything. So, you start low with pharmaceutical grade methylene blue. You can start with honestly really low one and a half milligrams, 2 milligs per day. Even that you can start with a half. And I realize I've said 15 to 30. I've taken 50 plenty and I've peed blue which is hilarious. But you titrate up. Most people find a sweet spot around 15 to 30 milligrams a day. But you can start low. It always works. This stuff isn't I always feel it when I take it. It's phenomenal. And you can take this forever. I'm going to take it forever. I told you Matsy methylene blue forever. Mi is typically subq. Don't take it orally. It's not going to work. And it's you take it forever. Some people like to cycle it 8 weeks on, 2 to 4 weeks off, 5 to 10 milligrams every day or every other day if you hypothetically for your experiment. Let me put that in there before somebody freaks out. Now, you're going to hear this methylene blue is dangerous and it causes cancer. This is based, just to be very clear, is based on very poorly interpreted in vitro studies using concentrations that are thousands and thousands of times greater than you would ever use therapeutically. It's intentional. It's to make you look at that and go, "That stuff's terrible." Really, covering your car in gasoline and throwing throwing a match at it doesn't mean that gasoline is bad for your car. It means that you used it like an idiot and far too much. Like in in reality at low doses it is such a potent antioxidant and neuroprotectant that you can't afford not to use it. The cancer lies a scare tactic from people who don't understand pharmacocinetics or have a vested interest in you being sick. The same goes for mod. The same goes for everything I talk about for the most part. I'm not going to everything that I talk about I do to myself. So just and if you go well you've had cancer four times. Dude, I didn't get into this this heavily until after that. Mods is a signaling molecule your body produces naturally to promote health. If you want, just listen to me. If you want to handle the three primary health issues of our current time, the energy failure, the hormonal problem, the chaos, the disaster that your hormones are doing, and the inflammatory problem, the systemic inflammation, you need to start with energy first. Rebuild the foundation. And what usually ends up happening is when you fix the energy problem with tools like these two things, the other two problems simply vanish. The body when given the resources, you guys, knows exactly what to do. You know that because you've experienced it because you're not sick 24/7, 365, which means it knows what to do. But you have to change the mindset about what you're doing because right now you've been gaslined into thinking that you have a medication and a pill shortage in your system and that's why you're sick. But that's not the truth. Stop treating symptoms. Stop buying the [\h__\h] from from these doctors and nurse practitioners and osteopaths and cyros and pts and trainers and insta twits and and insta bros and all these people that have a vested interest in their business to above your health. Yeah, I'm a doctor but I don't I don't How many times do I really ask you guys for money? I don't. Start fueling the damn machine so you can go have a great life and take the information I give you and just [\h__\h] run with it. Anyway, I'm out of time. I got to go. Hope that helped. Demis.