I really don't understand some of you guys. I don't understand the mindset of people now. I don't claim to. I don't even get the ridiculous attention craving. And before you get in my comments and go, "Isn't that what you're doing right now?" No, actually, I I don't give a [\h__\h] if nobody hears this. I'm doing this because I need to get this out. I need to talk about this. Let me explain something. Like, this is all about the Tylenol and some of you toddlers that are doing the stupidest, most ignorant, selfish thing you can ever do. I'm a 52-year-old man. And for all of you idiots that are taking Tylenol out of spite, first of all, I am infinitely more intelligent than you are. So save whatever you're about to try and throw at me. But you're building a child, man. Like it is the single most pro. My wife built two children. [\h__\h] If you would have seen the hell she put herself through and how savage she is and the like she didn't take anything no matter what. Um, I rubbed her feet and I rubbed her belly and I massaged her hands and her back and I did I went and got her any food she wanted. I cooked it, made it, threw it out, ate it in the garage. It didn't matter. I didn't care. I tried painting her toes and I just destroy I murdered her toes cuz you know what? I can work a scalpel all day. But for some reason, I can't use a nail polish brush if my life depended on it because I made her toes look like I grabbed a roller and just went up and down her foot. They look terrible. But I I gave all I had. If she was sick, I did anything I could. She was nauseated for about 3 months straight bad. And the first child we had, Hope, our daughter, I was going through chemo. Let me just explain how badass a human being is and then how a female human being is. I'm I'm as gritty and tough as they get. I got nothing on my wife. Son of a [\h__\h] She is gritty. I would sit there and watch episodes of Friends till I fell asleep with a Homer's bucket because I would throw up because I would be so sick from the chop series of chemotherapy. And she would wedge herself between the coffee table and we didn't have a lot of money. We lived in this tiny little house and she would wedge herself on her side because she did not want to leave me between the couch and the coffee table with a pillow wedged in there to make sure she was right next to me because eventually I would pass out from exhaustion. And as soon as it would turn on, like she would lay there and she would watch friends through the underside of the coffee table just to be with me. While she was building, she's amazing, man. While she was building my dot, while I was sick, while I would be covered in bruises and losing weight and [\h__\h] is wrong with you guys, man. My wife built my daughter. She built my son and she put herself through hell to do it. Didn't take a single drug, nothing. I didn't tell her to do it. I didn't say don't do it. You guys are psychologically [\h__\h] broken for what you're doing. out of spite. I just want to smash you in the face. You know, and I would wake up and I would miss sometimes four or five episodes, seven, eight. It was sometimes dark when I would wake up and she would go right back to she would remember what episode I was on when I fell asleep and she would go back and watch it all again. She knows Friends easily as well as I do, if not better. Why friends? Because it made me laugh. Because I read Anatomy of an Illness by Norm Cousins and he said, "Put everything good in and just laugh and make it impossible for anything negative to live inside you." And you guys are actually searching for negative things. Like the single most profound biological responsibility a human being will ever undertake is building another human being. It's a creation of life. For 9 months, for 9 months, a woman's body becomes a universe. This is this self-contained, perfectly designed ecosystem with a sole purpose to architect a new human being from a single pair of cells. That's it. It's the ultimate sacrifice and the ultimate act of creation. To be honest, it's the ultimate act of love. outside of what God has done for us. It is the ultimate act of love. If you saw the sacrifice in any any of you moms for making all the right decisions, not the arrogant, imbecillic ones, I got so much respect for you. I I can't verbalize it because right now there are people that are using that incredibly sacred process as a weapon. This petty, spiteful juvenile act of aggression designed as empowerment, swallowing Tylenol to supposedly punish a man. First of all, I mean, I'll say it again. What in the actual [\h__\h] is wrong with you? Do you genuinely believe that you're harming somebody by harming yourself? That is the most broken, illogical, pathetic mindset imaginable. It's like swallowing poison and waiting for them to die. The only person that you're poisoning is the innocent life that you're supposedly fighting for. This isn't activism. I don't know if you haven't figured that out yet. This is a temper tantrum of a child who doesn't understand cause and effect. And if this pisses you off, good. Maybe that anger will finally cut through the ignorance and wake you the [\h__\h] up. I can already hear all the little phone tabs just tapping away, the keyboards clacking away. But the studies say, "Stop. Just stop. Just stop." You're about to quote the same peer-reviewed institutional scientific consensus that told us that the COVID shot was perfectly safe and effective. That the same consensus that told us that smoking wasn't carcinogenic. the same consensus that tells us that alcohol in moderation is healthy. Research is not truth. Research is a product. It is bought and paid for and manufactured to achieve a predetermined outcome. So if your entire argument is built on a PDF that you found on Reddit or somewhere online, you've already lost. Pack your [\h__\h] and leave my podcast, leave my feed, leave my account. This conversation is for adults who understand that the body doesn't give a [\h__\h] about your politics. I mean, you want to go you want to go full science? Well, I'll go full nerd on you. Except I'm the nerd that'll punch you in the mouth. Like, I'm talking the undeniable physiological truth. When you decide to have a baby, when you forced you to do it, so save your arguments. You forfeit your careless independence for 9 months. Every single thing that you do, every bite of food, every sip of water, every breath of air, every pill that you swallow is no longer just about you. It is a raw material. It is an instruction manual. It is it's this programming code that's being directly uploaded into the most vulnerable developing system on the planet. Your child. Your child. This coffee now cuz I'm going to throw it. So, look at Tylenol. Bunch of Einstein egghehead [\h__\h] geniuses. You guys are look at Tylenol. Then strip away the brand name and all the colorful packaging and all the knockoffs. Just its generic name, acetaminophen. And here's its precise and brutal, by the way, mechanism of action. Just so you know, 67 years old. Burn that number into your head. Listen to me. [\h__\h] burn that number into your head. That's when my dad died. So [\h__\h] you in your ignorance, your selfishness, you pathetic child. My dad died of endstage liver disease at 67. So save it. taking 18 16 to 18 Tylenol a day. And if you go, "Well, yeah, but he was just stupid." And you're such a [\h__\h] genius. He listened to a doctor that told him to do it. You're doing it because you're trying to get back at somebody. What are you, five? You swallow acetaminophen. It gets absorbed into your bloodstream. Your liver, this incredible, usually overworked chemical processing plant that you've got identifies it instantly as a foreign toxin. Instantly. Nothing about your body goes, "This is cool. It should be here." Then it uses a specific enzyme. Actually, it's a specific enzyme pathway. Cytochrome P450 system to metabolize it. Doesn't really matter. I could get into it. There's just no point because you guys are so ignorant. You're too busy looking up right now. You're listening while you're looking up stuff to argue. You're never going to win an argument against me because I'm going to demolish you with this weird thing that you have a difficult time with called the [\h__\h] truth. And here's what this process does. It creates this highly toxic vicious byproduct called NAPQI. An acetal P benzoquinone. I mean, in a healthy adult, just so you know, which psychologically none of you guys are if you're doing this. In a healthy adult, your liver has a stockpile of an antioxidant called glutathione. Maybe you heard of it, maybe you haven't. It's like a fire department. So, it just flies in. It binds to the NAPQI. It neutralizes it and it allows you just to piss it all out. But when your glutathione reserves run out because they're finite, take too much Tylenol or take it while your system is stressed. say when it's building an entire nervous system from scratch and you exhaust your fire department. Yeah, that I'm not going to keep saying it. So, just NAPQI. The toxin runs just rampant. It's just everywhere. So, it binds indiscriminately to proteins in your liver cells. It causes massive oxidative stress. And if you think that is something that you need to take blueberries for, listening to me at all, mitochondrial dysfunction, it fries your liver cells from the inside out. Which is why Tylenol overdose is the, listen to me, is the leading cause of acute liver failure in the Western world. You're intentionally swallowing a known hepotoxin, liver poison for those people that don't understand what that word means. Now, take that take that entire biological truth that I just explained in very I took an entire year of classes and crammed it down into about 9 minutes. Now, apply that to your pregnancy. There's no barrier. There's no barrier. No magic shield. Listen, the placenta is not a filter. It's it is a very highly sophisticated interface between mom's system and developing baby system. Nutrients, oxygens, hormones, and yes, all the toxins are actively transported. Your bloodstream is the baby's Oh, this makes me so mad. Your bloodstream is the baby's bloodstream. That NAPQI toxin crosses right over the baby's little fledgling miniature tiny little liver is tasked with dealing with a chemical assault it is utterly unequipped to handle. Listen, you that developing baby's glutathione levels are a fraction of an adults. Think of all the stupid things that you do. Its detoxification systems are at best primitive. It's a sponge, so it's absorbing every environmental input and wiring its entire existence around it. You know, I told my wife I was going to do this and she said, "You're going to struggle with this one." My wife never says that. She said, "You're going to struggle not because you don't know." She goes, "Because you do know. And I see how much you love our children. I see how much you love everybody's children. Even the ones that need to just get whooped once in a while because all of you parents that go, "We just believe in in having a strong conversation." We can tell because you just listen to me. And by the way, whether this goes on or not, Riverside FM just shifted to add a new track. Yeah, [\h__\h] you for all your stupid [\h__\h] that you keep doing and turning on and off. I don't know what's wrong with you, but listen to me. This isn't speculation. It's not. Maybe it's building its nervous system around everything you're doing or not. No, no. The data is there for those willing to look past all the paid headlines. Acetaminophen is an incred incredibly potent endocrine disruptor wres havoc on this delicate hormonal little orchestra symphony that is guiding all your fetal development. There's so many linked study after study. There are so many studies that are linked to this showing increased risk of neurodedevelopmental disorders. I mean, we're talking about ADHD, ADHD, autism spectrum disorder. We're talking about the very architecture of the brain being compromised because you are an [\h__\h] Impacts development of the reproductive system. It's going to interfere with the testosterone surge. Just so you know, that's critical to masculineize a male fetus linked to increased risk of cryptor orchidism. The unescended testicles, in case you can't pronounce the [\h__\h] word, hypospadedas, the mal formation of the urethra. You are potentially, listen to me, you are potentially chemically castrating your son before that boy ever takes his first breath. His lungs are full of fluid that you're busy poisoning. Amniotic fluid. Oh, you're filling that with a bunch of crap, too. And the coolest part is this, the master stroke of this entire chemical betrayal. This is the the most utterly disgusting aspect of everything I'm about to tell you is that the effects don't often show up for years. Years. You get away with it. You get away with it. You go, "My baby was born fine." You get away with it. You have your win. You delivered your little spiteful message. And then when your child is three or seven or 15 and struggling to focus or socialize just or to simply function in a world that their brain wasn't wired correctly for because of you, you will have no one to blame but your face, that ugly, smug face that you see in the mirror that used to have a bullnose and purple hair. You traded their potential, their health, their entire future, you selfish prick, for a moment of petty revenge. You were the one shot they had. The one shot they had for a healthy life and you chose to poison it. No, I I'm not okay with it. This is the ultimate surrender. This is the This This is what they want you to be. Detached from biology. You You got to listen to me, man. Detached from morality, from biology, profound natural responsibility of motherhood, even fatherhood. If you're a father and you're you're supporting this, they want you so consumed by hatred for another person that you become an active threat to your own child. They want you to believe that your body is a battleground instead of this indestructible sanctuary that's designed to build a human being. Your body is a universe. You are a god at that moment for that child shaping a new life. The power, the responsibility, it is terrifyingly beautifully yours. The question is what are you going to create? You you're going to create a disaster that you decided to do because of your spite. Like you're sitting here, you're building a life that you very clearly don't comprehend. And you think swallowing a known hepotoxin is a power move. You think you're sticking it to the man? You're not a freedom fighter. You're a toddler having a temper tantrum with a loaded gun and the bullet is aimed directly to the only innocent person in this entire sick [\h__\h] scenario. Let's be explicitly brutally clear about the physiology since your brains seem to be too adultled by social media rage to grasp it. That Tylenol pill that you're so proud of taking, it doesn't magically stop at the border of your consciousness. It gets into your blood, goes straight to your liver, which in its infinite wisdom recognizes it as a poison. So, it has to use its entire defense system, a precious finite reserve of glutathione to stop this chemical from literally frying your liver cells from the inside out. Because you are the literal life support system for another human being, this poison, this metabolic war zone that you have created gets pumped directly through the umbilical cord. So now you are forcefeeding a developing fetus, a chemical that you need a fully developed organ system to barely process. Okay, make it make sense. You are introducing the most potent endocrine disruptor into a system that runs on hormonal signals. You're scrambling the very instructions that are telling your son's body how to become a man, leaving him with malformed genitals, a brain that won't be wired correctly. You're jamming the signals that are guiding billions with a be billions of neurons to their proper place in your child's cortex, increasing dramatically increasing the risk of a lifespan struggling with autism and ADHD. And you're okay with that. And you're you're doing this for what? Instagram post, Facebook post, some likes, some follows, and join a group that doesn't give a [\h__\h] about you for the approval of other equally deranged harpies online because you're mad at some guy that you just didn't vote for because you're too ignorant to even understand what voting means. Listen, it doesn't just cause liver stress. That's the boring part. The true insidiousness is that as a massive endocrine disruptor, it directly inhibits the cycle oxygenase enzymes COX 2 and COX 3. We already know this if you've never heard of them. If you do, great. Those are critical for the synthesis of something called the prosttoland. Prostag glandidons aren't just for pain and inflammation. That's what you guys learn, just the basics. And then you come out spewing advice on social media like you're a damn expert. They're fundamental signaling molecules that are guiding fetal development. Listen to me. By shutting down this pathway, you are creating a cascade of completely silent and catastrophic errors in the construction of a brand new human being. Look at the brain. Neural migration. This process is where billions bill nerve cells crawl along gleal fibers to their precise predetermined location. By the way, in the developing cerebral cortex, it is a miracle on a it is a miracle of nanocale engineering. This migration is guided by a very delicate gradient of signaling molecules including guess what? Prosto [\h__\h] glandins. You disrupt that signal and you get miswiring. Neurons end up in the wrong neighborhood. All pissed off. Nobody's getting along. The architectural integrity of the brain is now compromised. This isn't theory, by the way. This isn't just me coming out here pissed off throwing anatomy and neuroscience at you. This is documented mechanism for development of autism spectrum disorders. You are literally scrambling the the brain's wiring diagram because of what? You're angry. Look at sexual differentiation. You guys and your multiple genders. There are two two two genders for male fet for a male fetus. There is a very critical very finite by the way window around 8 to 14 weeks where this massive surge of fetal testosterone masculinizes the brain and the body. The surge is initiated and regulated by again osteoglandins. You know what acetaminophen does? Plants the surge. The result brain probably isn't going to receive the full signal to develop along male typical pathways impacting everything from play behavior to identity and not the weird identity where you just decide to have a gender reveal. I mean real [\h__\h] identity and physically incomplete descent of the testicles. I already talked about this mal foration of the urethra where it doesn't even reach the tip of the penis. It curves down at the bottom. You're chemically intervening in the in the very process of becoming a dude, a man. And you guys are okay with this. You know, you have this system inside you. It's called your immune system. It keeps you alive more than you can possibly imagine. It works in silence in the background, constantly just running surveillance on your system, looking around for self or other. Self or other. It's just looking all the time. And it when it sees other, it sends in these cytotoxic killer tea cells. It just rip things apart and it gets more and more efficient every time it does it. You're [\h__\h] with that because fetal immune programming is happening in your uterero. So, you get TH1 and TH2 helper cell balance which is is being set at the moment that you are building this baby. prostto glandidins are absolutely crucial moderators of this entire [\h__\h] system. So you disrupt them. Disrupting them biases the immune system. Listen to me. Biases the entire immune system towards a hyper reactive hyperinflammatory state. If you've listened to anything I've ever talked about, I said that chronic low-grade inflammation is the basis for probably 90 to 95% of disease processes known to men. You know what? This also is the key suspect in the astronomical rise of childhood. Asthma, eczema, psoriasis, food allergies, hyper allergies. You're preloading your child's body for this lifetime of unnecessary inflammatory battles. But hey, you go ahead. You stick it to the man. You're awesome, [\h__\h] clown. I don't think you understand this isn't bravery, right? It is the highest form of blasphemy. It is a desecration of the sacred contract of motherhood. Motherhood. You were given the single most important job on the planet to serve as a guardian and architect of a human life. And your response is to use that life as a pawn for your petty juvenile emotional games. You know, and the the biggest reason this is even happening is because you're staggering ignorance and malignant arrogance are not just tolerated, they're celebrated. You're being applauded for your agency while you clinically castrate your own offspring. your child, your virtue signaling, your way straight to your child's first IEP meeting and pediatric urologist appointment. You're not qualified to manage a McDonald's fry station, let alone the ecosystem of a developing human being. Clearly, you've proven the most, you have, if this is you, you have proven your most profound immaturity, your catastrophic lack of critical thinking, which they don't even want you to know anymore, and you're just following suit. Your utter unworthiness of the title of mother, do you understand that? is probably the highest, in my opinion, the highest respected term a woman can have is mother. And you're doing it with this single stupid hateful act. You want to signal your virtues? I'll help you out. Try virtue. Try responsibility. Try shutting the hell up, growing up, and doing the hard, silent, selfless work of protecting the life that you chose. You chose to create instead of actively seeking to sabotage it for likes to be a to to be what? Accepted. Join a movement that you don't even know anything about. and that you join because you just want to feel like you're part of something even though you're part of nothing. The body doesn't lie. Physiology doesn't care about your feelings. And one day, one day, your child's struggle will be the permanent, undeniable monument to your ignorant spite. I got to go. Never miss.