And you know I'm excuse me it's about 2:45 and a lot of you guys have been asking me about growth hormone and even the secretogs and the mimedics and all the things all the ways around to get growth hormone to work in your system pituitary the liver which is the real player in this entire I'll explain it all to you, but I want to go over everything so you actually have some information, then you decide what you want to do. Um, because a lot of people are thinking that exogenous external growth hormone is the answer. A lot of times it's not. Does it work? Oh, absolutely. It works so well. However, there are way too many drawbacks and real documented factual side effects. And if people go secrets or mimemetics don't work, then what they're buying is fake because they always work. Hold on. And by the way, this is yet I got to tell you, man, and I don't get anything from these guys. Like I told you, the CEO of the company sent me of Clean Canteen sent me a bunch of these. I just don't have the one that the ones that he gave me. They're inside. But I mean, look at this thing. Look at how beat up that is. This thing is awesome. This thing is so awesome. I could take this thing and I could bounce it off the concrete, probably drive over it with my truck. All of them. They're all great. And I put cold water in this yesterday. It is ice cold still. I don't know. I can't say enough good things about this. And I've had a bunch of these. I bought a whole bunch from Walmart one time or Target one time. My wife and I, we bought these big ones. They're junk. They're just pure junk. This is the only one I've ever used. This clean canteen that I've ever used that's been this good. Like I said, I get nothing for this. I don't sell out for any marketing or anything. I just tell people what works. And if you need a a thermof flask or whatever the hell they're called, just use the clean cantens. Just spend the money. Just do it. They're worth it. They're And whoever you are that sent me all that stuff, man. You're a boss. Thank you so much for that. So, I wonder can you see the outside of this mug? Oh, no you can't. I got this mug from my buddy Bedros Koulian B is He's a stud, man. I've known that guy a long time. He's as legit as if you don't follow his podcast, you should. So, somewhere in here, there's going to be a disclaimer because according to free speech, we don't have free speech. But let me explain the difference between exogenous growth hormone, the stuff you take that is growth hormone, and the things that make you create your own, and why there's a difference, and what the real difference is. Because I think honestly 99% of the people out there think they understand human performance and and they're giving you guys advice and then they come in here and they get mad when I call people out. I don't know why. Just learn more. It's okay. There's a time in your life when you would crap in your pants and go hide under your dining room table when you were a toddler. So you'd turn purple trying to push out a poop. So I have two kids. Listen, who cares? You guys need to grow up and stop being so worried about being wrong because I know what's happening is you guys go, "Well, if I admit that what I have been telling everybody is wrong, my whole world crumbles." And I talked about that in my my Spartan Live call today, which is my my Saturday limiting beliefs or shattering limiting beliefs and mindset call that I do. It's fun. I love what I do. I love helping people. I love giving people real answers. I love solving health problems. I love going out. By the way, Rumble, Dr. Trevor Bachmire. I don't know if it's all one word or if it's three separate words. It's Dr. SDR though, not spelled the word. And that's my channel. It's also my username. And I am dropping videos there every single day. And my entire YouTube, all my Instagram is all going to be migrated over to Telegram and Rumble and Substack because it matters. Because you know what? You guys deserve the facts and the real answers. not to be hindered by a bunch of cryb babies. They can't stand that I'm actually giving the truth, giving the answers, giving the solutions and they don't like it. So, either they report me or they cl they cry about it or they trash talk or they act like toddlers or the left comes and just starts trying to take me apart because I'm dismantling the pharmaceutical industry in the medical industry line by line. And one of the guys that asked me a question, he asked me a question about tonitis ringing in the ears. And he led into his question with saying, "Burn it all down, Doc. I love it. He's right. I'm coming for all of you guys that are you husters, you charlatans. I'm going to burn you all to the ground because I'm giving it all away." And like I always say, I don't care if you buy from Elite. I don't. Go ahead. Great. It doesn't matter to me. That's not why I do this. And if you want to join the black card, man, you'll get nothing but solutions and answers and help and love and a community that is built around making sure you get all the stuff you need to have the life you want to become the person you want to be and solve all the problems that they make you wait a year to go see a doctor for. And I'll I've been spitting out solutions if two days, 3 days, I'll just help you. So, join the black card. Don't join the black card. I don't know. I don't know what to tell you. And if you can't get in for some reason because the links are all weird cuz I've been having some link issues. Just support Spartan ArmyLlc.com. Ask Amber and she'll get you there. She's not going to give you a long explanation. It's a one-year program. It's going to cost you six grand. There you go. I It's You get access to my Monday Q&A. And if that isn't enough of an explanation, you probably shouldn't join. It's worth it. That's how good it is. Just so you know. So, let me explain about the growth hormone because like I said, all these people out there giving you advice that I want you guys to have the answers, but they're uneducated, lazy, and dead faking wrong on most of the stuff they tell you about. So, watch. You want to be better. You want to be faster. You want to be stronger. You want to be smarter. You want to be younger, right? You want to turn back the clock. This is what everybody's asking me about. And you've heard about growth hormone, but you've heard just the surface level stuff, right? This the fountain of youth. They call it this holy grail. And you'll have forums going, "Don't ever use secrets or mimemetics because they're garbage. They don't work." They do work. They just don't work as fast, but they still work very well. And the long-term play is probably better for 99% of you. Not saying it's not. You can use what you want. I I'll give you the answers on either side of this equation. I said you decide. But most people, you guys probably think the answer is injecting synthetic HGH. And honestly, you're you're wrong. And I'll give you the cheat code that probably the elite 1% use, the people that call me, that talk to me, that need my help, so you can stop wasting your money and start getting results that actually work with your biology and not against it. That's the problem is you're making biology work against you. And you're looking at the short-term play. I play chess with my health. I don't play checkers. I look at it and I go, "How can I do this for as long as possible so I can spend as much time with my wife and my kids healthy and strong?" And if you think that growth hormone is the is the play to do that, you're playing with your own health. You're playing roulette with your your biology. I just won't do that. So you can do, like I said, whatever you want, man. But not this doctor. No way. So let me let me start with the star of the show, right? This is the Brad Pitt. The pituitary the pituitary gland, right? It's about the size of a pee, pinky nail, maybe, maybe a little bigger, maybe your thumbnail. Runs your entire metabolic existence. Follow me on this. The most famous product that it creates is smatotropen, which is human growth hormone. But HGH is not the finish line. This is where people start to get disconnected. It's it's the baton in a in a relay race if you've ever run or done track because on its own, it's inert. It does nothing. It's just a key. But the key needs a lock. And it's always the same thing. That lock is the receptor on the surface of certain cells and primarily in the liver. So when when HGH binds to that receptor, it doesn't magically start building muscle. It sends a signal, this message. And the message is for the liver. This is why I'm trying to give you the answer. It's for the liver to produce the real workh horses, which is IGF-1, insulin light growth factor 1. And it's binding proteins and all the things that come along with it. That's the anabolic orchestra. That's the anabolic system that you need to tap into. HGH is just the one that comes up and starts getting everybody ready to play their music. just tapping the podium like Bugs Bunny in that cartoon. Your body isn't stupid. It doesn't release HGH in this steady, boring drip either. And this is where a lot of people get confused cuz remember what's going to happen is if you inject HGH into your kangaroo and it's instantly going to get that hit, start pulsing your own growth hormone. It doesn't even feed that loop at all. Not even close. You just wham hit the accelerator and your body goes, I guess I don't need to do it. So, your body has this pulsatile cascade, this symphony of bursts, and usually it's during deep, slowwave sleep and after some incredibly intense exercise, any kind. But this isn't an accident. It's by design. This pulsing that your system has is very critical because it prevents receptor desensitization. It mimics the natural rhythm of life. A steady drip is a signal of a pathology. it a steady drip of growth hormone is like acromegaly. I'm not kidding. You have an infared pituitary gland and it just starts puking out HGH and your body can't turn it off. You think that'd be a great thing except Andre the Giant is not here anymore. Acromegaly, you look at uh Anthony Robbins, right? He'll talk about it. How he had a pituitary issue and they tried to do surgery on his brain and he said, "My brain, are you out of your mind?" which all of you guys should go. No, you stay away from my brain because this is the existence. This is the control center of my existence. But a steady drip is a pathology. So you're, think about it, you're introducing a pathology into your system. And I'm sure you guys are going to get in the comments, but how about you just grow up and listen for a second because a pulse is the signal of vitality. You have to play the long game. Now, I realize the market is flooded with solutions to growth hormone and most of them are garbage sold to people who don't know the difference. So, how about we just autopsy every single one so you guys have a fair playing field and then do whatever you want. So, the elephant in the room is always the same one. Exogenous HGH. It's synthetic growth hormone. It's the it's the sledgehammer approach. You're injecting the final the final product, right? The baton. It floods the system and it creates honestly abnormally high. It doesn't matter how many IUs you're doing. If you go, I only use two IUs, it's still an abnormally high non-pulsatile level. It's like trying to conduct an orchestra, but having every musician play as loud and as fast and as intense as as they can all the time, just non-stop all the time. It's it's chaos. It's just purely chaotic. Your somatastatin, the hormone that says enough, stop, goes into overdrive. So your body tries homeostasis, your body tries to downregulate its own production. the more critically you skyrocket your IGF levels which can lead to and and critically you critically you skyrocket your IGF levels IGF-1 which is going to lead to uncontrolled growth of everything everything in that doesn't have a a fail safe right so I'm talking including tissues that you don't want growing think carpal tunnel syndrome from soft tissue thickening insulin resistance and acromegalic and and acromegaly features of acromegaly that's jaw and brow and like all the bone growth that you see in aging bodybuilders and you know this is well documented none of this is some guy coming out here just telling you this the research is very clear long-term exogenous HGH disrupts the use right disrupts glucose metabolism promotes hypertrophic not hyperlastic growth and it makes existing cells bigger not necessarily yeah this is the problem see not necessarily creating new ones and healthy ones it's a short-term hack with long-term devastating consequences because it's not reversible. It should be reserved for very acute healing phases or honestly specific medical deficiencies. It's not a lifelong optimization strategy whatsoever. It's it's like taking a fire hose and just cranking open that lever and trying to water the sod that you just put down and watching it get blown all off, including the top soil. So, follow me. If it and I get the question, so injecting the final product is dumb. Okay, doc. What's what's the smart play here? Telling your pituitary to do its job, your pituitary gland to do its job better. That's the secret. That's the secret. We use secrets, molecules that secrete a go. They encourage secretion. That's what that means. They whisper. They They're really quiet. They just whisper to your pituitary, "Hey, it's time to do your thing, man. It's time to do your job." They work on the growth hormone releasing receptors. They work on the growth hormone releasing hormone receptors. They mimic the natural signal that says release HGH. So this allows your body to produce its own hormone, its own pulses with its own nuanced balance of iso forms. So this is the difference between giving a man a fish and teaching the man to fish. It is really that simple. So how about just look at all the players in the game. You guys ask me about this one a lot and I have no love for this one whatsoever because it's pure garbage. And I'm sure somebody is going to get in my comments. I don't know why you think it's a personal attack. Your insecurity screams if you do that, but hold on. Surmelon, this was this stuff's junk. It is pure junk. And if you go, I got so Stop. There are just better things to do. Back in the day, a steam engine was great. Now they're kind of junk. But this was a first gen attempt. It's a fragment of the natural GHR molecule, and it's mediocre at best. It's very weak. It has a halflife of about 12 minutes, 10 to 12. It's short. It's so frighteningly short. It's destroyed almost instantly by depalyl peptidease 4, DPP4 enzymes. They're in your bloodstream, right? This is like trying to light a bonfire with a match that is soaking wet in a classic category 5 hurricane. That's how bad this stuff really is. You get a very tiny, very brief pulse and that's it. Poor efficacy, high frequency injections, and a waste of time and money. That's literally like swipe right next. That's my opinion which is why you're going to see a lot of people trying to sell it because they're trying to get rid of their stock. I would throw it in the garbage. I to be honest I'd have to look. I don't even think we have any smearellin at elite anymore. I just think I think it's junk. It's right up there with semiglutide enters which are not these. They're basically appetite suppressants with fancy marketing. Right. But after curlin came I think the next one was Ipamarellin was the next one they kind of started toying with. It's a pentipeptide. It's five amino acids, real small. It's a growth hormone secret. It's a little different. It doesn't work on the GHR receptor. It works on the ghrein receptor, GHSR. It's like a synthetic version of the hunger hormone. So, if you remember MK-677, and I'll address that in a second because it's an oral version, not an injectable. But the beauty is the selectivity of ipamerin. It's a very low affinity for stimulating cortisol or prolactin, like zero. So, it's a very clean, very sharp signal for growth hormone release without all the side effect profile of the other dirtier secrets like GHRP for example. That's junk. It's a very precise tool, but on its own, it still has an incredibly short half-life. So, here's where the game changer came into play. And I mean, we're talking for injuries, we're talking for burns, we're talking for longevity, all CJC-1295. This is not just a secret. This thing is a genius piece of bioengineering. It blow this thing blows my mind. I look at this and I just go, this is this is a creation. It's a modified version of GHR. The key modification is adding something called the drug affinity complex DAC. You've seen this. This DAC allows CJC I feel like it's uh making up acronyms. The DAC of the ABC of the XYZ. Okay, so DAC the drug affinity complex allows CJC-1295 to bind reversibly to albumin which is the most abundant protein in your blood. And just [clears throat] on a side note that they tried to tell you that eggs were bad for you and causing illnesses, right? Yeah. I eat at least 20 eggs a day. At least minimum minimum if not closer to 25 or 30. Eat eggs. Albumin's great for you. And eat the yolks, right? All right. It's like serving a steak on a pillow and trying to eat the pillow and throwing the steak away. Eat the whole damn thing. The whole cholesterol thing is a ruse, too, but that's another conversation. So, albumin is the most abundant protein in your blood, but this creates a reservoir effect. So, instead of being clear, this is so cool. Instead of being cleared by the kidneys in minutes, the halflife is about 7 days. 7 days. But this is why you have to make sure you understand how you're doing things because it constantly tickles the GHR receptor promoting a basil very steady state elevation of GH pulsatility. It's like leaving a very gentle, very constant, very soft voicemail, maybe text message of maybe one word to your pituitary reminding it to just Jay, just just keep pulsing, just keep pulsing. But there are two versions. CJ CJC-1295 without DAC, which is basically just a more stable GHR analog, better than Surmearellon, but still obsolete, just so you know. And then the superior version which is CJC1 1295 with DAC which is what everybody means for the most part when they say CJC because if you're taking it without you're pinning all the time and it's unnecessary unnecessary and and let me explain how all this works because let me go over the the last one first before I explain the whole CJC pimellin relationship because it matters the champ of this entire system is going to be the same. It's like undisputed king of peptides for fat loss and everything else to samurrel. I mean, yes, it's approved by the FDA, treats HIV associated lipodistrophe and all this nonsense, but I don't that's not what I'm talking about. This isn't just another GH analog, though. It's a 44 amino acid analog with a a single amino acid change. This is what's cool with a single amino acid change from native GH. But this simple change makes it radically more resistant to degradation by the enzyme I told you floats around your blood, DPP4, right? the DPP4 enzyme if which makes it radically more res this simple change makes it radically more resistant to degradation by the DPP4 the enzyme that floats around your blood the half-life is significantly longer than smearlen by far but the true magic is in the in the effects the profile this thing has let me explain hold on and my son the other this is just on a tangent oh it was my daughter she goes dad how much coffee do you drink and I was like I don't know anywhere from 3 to six cups a day at least and she's like that's a lot of coffee always makes me think of Bill Angville when he talks about driving and his daughter uses smog to acronym for driving and he goes no I use suit s ui t shut up immature teenager that's always what I think I love my daughter so much my daughter's a badass but she's still 18 going on 19 but she's still a teen that's why it's fun I have fun with my kids they're awesome so the magic in this tamarellan is the profile it has so if you look at tamarlan it's got this incredible affinity for mobilizing visceral, the stuff that surrounds your organs, atapost tissue. Visceral fat, the dangerous fat that surrounds everything and keeps it locked in and pretty much kills you. Improves lipid profiles, insulin sensitivity in a way that all the other secrets and even HGH itself impair. Did you catch what I just said? It does the opposite. It doesn't have the side effects. It only has effects. And I realize I always say there are only effects, but these are all good effects. It's the most effective compound for targeted abdominal fat reduction. And I'm telling you, the clinical trials are lined up around the block. It's exceptional. Works incredibly well. Here's the pro move. The way I would look at it, if I was building something for a kangaroo experiment, the 1enter protocol, you don't use this stuff in isolation. You combine them to make them work very well. So you would marry the longlasting pulsatile like promoting signal of CJC-1295 with DAC by the way with the sharp very clean ghrelin receptor mediated punch of a pamearellin. So watch what happens. This is why it's cool. The CJC provides that constant background beat the the drum beat the music that's just playing in the background. The aamearellin injected just before bed or just post-workout. That's the solo that comes in and that's the one that makes all the changes. But together they make this very powerful synergistic physiological GH releasing profile. Here's the cool part that mimics and for the most part enhances your body's natural prime rhythm all on its own. So here's why it's good. This this combo maximizes IGF-1 production while minimizing the receptor desensitization and side effects. That's why you have to understand how this stuff works. So you're going to get the same benefits. You just do it without beating your system up and causing all kinds of problems. Like insulin sensitivity is something you want to maintain. I mean, insulin resistance is not something you want to have at all. Never mind, you know, any acromegaly issues or receptor desensitization issues or carpal tunnel or tissue thickening. There's so many things that you don't want to mess with with growth hormone. Now, I said I was going to talk about MK-677. It's like it's like the weird cousin that shows up that you didn't It's like It's like Eddie in Christmas Vacation when he's like, "Eddie, you surprised, Clark? Eddie, if I would have woke up tomorrow with my head sewn to the carpet, I wouldn't be more surprised than I am right now. Like that's how the weird cousin that shows up, right? So, it's an oral ghs, a ghrelin receptor agonist. It's like a pamarellin sort of, but it's non-peptidic, so it survives the gut. It's not a peptide. For all of you guys, I thought you said you couldn't take orals. It's not a peptide. And the half-life in this thing is about 24 hours. It's that's both that's the strength and the weakness. So, it gives it it's a kind of a double-edged sword here. That's what gives it a very long lasting GH and IGF-1 boost. But that 24-hour stimulation is anything but pulsatile. So it's constant. It's blunt force trauma to the ghrein receptors. MK-677 can make you insanely hungry. Like some of the side effects. Personally, I'll take 12.5 milligrams of this stuff and I will wake up at about 4 in the morning wanting to eat everything inside my refri refrigerator and debate on eating my children. So you have to be and I know some people that it doesn't bug them at all. So you might be one or the other and I don't know and there's no way to tell but it is a powerful powerful app appetite stimulant. Water retention is a little heavy and it can induce insulin resistance by causing sustained and elevated IGF-1. It's a useful tool in specific situations and some people swear by it, some people swear at it, but it's useful in preventing muscle wasting where appetite suppression or where appetite stimulation is something you want. But honestly, it's a really crude instrument compared to the very precise timing of injectable secrets like CJC with Dak and I Pamearellin married together. It's it's like the wrecking ball, the jackhammer of the secret world. And I know some people that love it. So I if you love it, great. I don't stop on my account. I'm just giving you the information. But here's where everybody screws this all up. The timing of this entire thing. They pin their peptides whenever they freaking remember. That's like trying to win an F1 race by randomly stomping on the gas in the brake and wondering why you never cross the finish line in first place. Biology runs on circadian rhythms. Your body is primed for GH release during deep sleep and after very intense training. I already told you this, but the correct protocol administer the secret go combo like CJC and Pamelan hypothetically once a day at night 30 to 60 minutes before you go to bed on an empty stomach. This because this is why it aligns and you go I don't do that. It works fine for me bro. you guys in your arguments. This aligns with your body's natural nocturnal surge. And the second dose, and you could take this twice a day post-workout to capitalize on that metabolic window that happens right after you work out. Taking it with food, especially carbs, blunts the release because elev Here's why. And everybody has it backwards. Like I take it all the time with all my carbs. Backwards. That's backwards. It blunts the release because elevated blood glucose and insulin suppress growth hormone suppress secretion. Most people are pouring their expensive peptides down a metabolic drain because they don't understand basic endocrinology, which is why I'm here. Now, I get a lot of questions about cancer. So, how about we just address this real quick? Does stimulating your own GH IGF-1 axis increase your risk of cancer? Valid concern. Really, it's a valid concern. Don't screw around with things like this. Understand them. The IGF-1 pathway is midagenic. can stimulate cell proliferation. But the key difference is and this is a very critical one is between promotion and initiation. So if you have an exist if you have an existing active malignancy feeding it with high levels of IGF-1 is like pouring gasoline on a fire. Effing do that. It can produce and promote growth. This is a concern by the way with every single GH therapy that exists. But the risk profile is arguably different. Exogenous HGH creates this constant highle flood of IGF-1, right? Stimulates the liver. Bam. IGF-1 just starts flooding your system. Secretogs by promoting a much more natural pulsatile release, less stimulatory environment for rogue cells. However, the rule is in my opinion absolute. If you have active cancer, you have no business. None. None. Manipulating the GHIGF-1 axis. Period. Don't be a kamicazi idiot thinking you're going to be the one that bypasses the rule. It's not worth the risk. It is 100% contraindicated. For healthy, the risk is pretty much damn near zero. It's not zero, but it's damn near. But this isn't a game. And I think a lot of times because of all the influencers out there going, "Just take this, bro. Buy from my company. here's my shaker cup and my affiliate code, you know, and let me just run my mouth about everything. They think that they're getting actual information, but real information from a doc that actually cares is the one that says don't do it when it's contraindicated. So, I'm telling you, don't do it if it's contraindicated. But when you're healthy and you're injured, oo, this is where there's some magic. Let me tell you this stuff. This is this is a great way to solve honestly, I think, every single injury that you've ever had. Yeah, let's go over this. combination of CJC-1295 and IPMLin powerfully elevate your body's own growth and repair machinery in ways that you can't ever like Wolverine is going to look at you and go how'd you do that it's stacked with healing you stack that with healing specific peptides and it is biochemical sorcery so hypothetically if I was if I were injured and I wanted to get back in the game as fast as humanly possible as a kangaroo because this is just an experiment this is just a kangaroo experiment you guys TB-500 upregulates actin it's like the key building blocks of your cells. Promotes cell migration, angioenesis, which is new blood blood vessel formation, reduces all the inflammatory response that you're having, right? Right. The cytoine storm that's just wrecking you. BPC-157, like the bodyguard, the this is the most amazing stuff I've ever seen. BPC-157 heals things so fast it blows my mind. Protects tissue, accelerates the healing of tendons, ligaments, muscles, even gut lining. So, all those leaky gut issues. No, it doesn't work orally ever. 100% of the time. You guys need to stop arguing to defend the pill bottle that you bought just because you think it's going to work. It's not. It is a neurological placebo effect. That's what you are having if you are thinking you're getting a reward for the routine, not the results. Your blood work will deny all of it and say it does not work. But BPC-157, it modulates systemic inflammatory responses and just turns you into a healing machine. Now, let's keep going. GHK-Cu, copper, collagen, elastin, glycosaminoglycans. It's the fundamental signal for tissue remodeling, wound healing, and upregulation of about 4,000 different genes that make your body do some pretty incredible things. KPV is the most potent, effective anti-inflammatory I've ever seen. I told you when I had that wrist issue, like it just this is awesome. I couldn't I could barely bend my wrist and it throbbed when my hand hung down by my side. I felt like I had somebody sewn a golf ball inside my wrist. It was so bad. If I would have had access to imaging, I would have done it just to see what the hell was going on in there. And I guarantee you it would have been swollen beyond recognition. You could see it. My entire wrist looked swollen. I've never had it that bad. KPV 2 days. 2 days local. 2 days. They would have given me prennazone and 8 to 10 weeks of physical therapy and all kinds of nonsense. And that's the money machine. I don't give you the answers for money. I give you the answer so you have the damn answer. KPV is hands down the most potent anti-inflammatory peptide that it's going to calm the cytoine storm. It's going to allow the healing signals to work without any interference, which is the whole point. Inflammation is good. Long-term inflammation is bad. Damaging inflammation is bad. That's how you have to look at this. So, that's how I would that's how I would do this. Now, think about this. CJC and Ipamarella dramatically increase the production of IGF-1. IGF-1 is the master regulator of protein synthesis. and cellular proliferation. So now you're flooding. This is cool. Listen, watch. You're flooding the the injury site with the ultimate building blocks. And then you add TB-500 to bring in the construction crews, the cells, right? Act you build the roads to the site, angioenesis, to get the nutrients and oxygen in and the toxins and metabolic waste out. BPC57 acts as the foreman. It protects the work site. It gets in there and it keeps all the bad things from getting in the way and it directs all the traffic. GHK-Cu provides it's like all the trucks coming in with the raw materials for connective tissue and repair. KPV keeps the local authorities, the inflammatory response from shutting the job down. It's like the censorship police on IG. This is a very coordinated multi-targeted physiological repair protocol that is orders of magnitude more effective than any single compound on Earth. It doesn't just mask the damn pain. It rebuilds the damaged tissue better and stronger than it ever was. Ever. You'll come back with a set of whatever it is you're repairing that is better than the other side. If you fix your right wrist, your left wrist is going to be weak. That's how badass this stuff is. So, just listen. I I know your time is valuable and you're giving me 30 minutes, but how about I just go over this real quick? So, you if you want to go to the end and listen to the end, you just peek at the end of the book. Here you go. Because your your results matter more than anything else. And if people drag it out by giving you bottles of pills and some magic cream and something you rub on and a bunch of old dated peptides and research, they're not helping you. They're helping themselves because they're getting rid of stock or an ideology that's broken that doesn't work. So exogenous HGH is a very blunt, dull instrument. It is expensive. It is suppressive and it creates non-physiological conditions that lead to massive side effects. And it is usually the wrong choice usually for long-term optimization. It doesn't run. It doesn't capitalize on your body's ability to do things. I'm not dogging on it. Before you guys get all upset in my comments, grow up. I'm telling you that it is usually the wrong choice long term. And that's just is what it is. Does it work? It works incredibly well in a ton of situations. If I'm going to choose, I'm never going to use it ever. Ever. I'm 200 lb, probably about 7 and 12% body fat, and I move and function like a very well-conditioned athlete, and I don't take any of that. So just to be very clear, there's a reason I don't take growth hormone. I won't anyway because of what's going on in my body. I just I don't trust it and I don't want the side effects, the bad effects. Secretogs like CJC-1295 and I Pamearell and that combo that's the intelligent choice because they work. Remember what I said at the beginning. I said most people are getting their biology to work against them. That's what I'm trying to do is get you to understand make your biology work together. Create this synergistic relationship with your own cells so they work with your biology. CJC and I pamearella. They promote your body's own natural pulsatile production. They are more cost effective, have a superior side effect profile, and provide sustainable results. HGH doesn't do that. So listen, you have a fundamental understanding of growth hormone without getting too deep into the physiology and the biochemistry and what it does in depth. And if you want me to, I can, but you have a fundamental understanding that separates you from 99% of the people in the gym, in the biohacking community. Definitely most physicians and definitely most of the peptide salespeople out there that like to claim that they know what they're talking about. You understand the conductor, you understand the entire band, the uh the orchestra, and you understand what the sheet music even says, you get the entire system. Now, you just have to apply it. Stop looking for hacks, you guys. Look for how this system works together with the machine that you've been given. You'll function better and you'll be much much happier because you'll have better results and they're sustainable. So now your system runs the way it's designed and at 55 60 years old at 40 years old you have all these problems. You can mitigate 99% of these problems by following the right set the right sequence of compounds and peptides and protocols and things that actually work. But most people don't they don't even know what they're talking about. So I'm just giving them all to you. So you're welcome. But the goal isn't to trick your body. It's to speak the same language as your biology. I really hope you're getting that. You don't need a wrecking ball or a jackhammer to get your body to do things. You need a conductor that comes in and directs the entire system to run at peak capacity 24/7, 365. Sharp peaks of growth hormone, sharp valleys when it's turned off, cortisol working the way it's designed, norepinephrine, epinephrine, all of the things that need to work in concert to have your body function at near wolverine levels. And if there's something that happens that needs to have a resolution, like an injury, I literally just gave you the blueprint on how to solve that. Anyway, hope you get something out of this. I got to go.