You can't miss. I never miss. Ever. I missed all the time. After cancer, after I lost my lung, after I lost everything, all the money, everything I've ever had other than my wife and my kids, I missed up until that day. And that when that happened, I have never missed again. But you can't miss if you want to win. And to be very clear, everybody wants to win. But if you want to win, you can never miss. You can't hit snooze. You can't do it tomorrow. You can't binge watch Netflix. You can't relax a little. You can't get drunk. You can't do drugs. You can't be a shitty person. You can't skip workouts. You can't avoid any damn thing you know is required by every single human on Earth in order to win. Winning isn't relative. I'm tired of listening to people try and justify their position at the bottom saying winning is relative. Is there a problem in your life that you could write a check for and it would go away? Can you write the check? If you can't, you're not winning. Not relative. Is there a problem in your life that you could have a tough conversation and solve? Are you mentally strong enough to have that conversation? If you're not winning, it's not relative. Is there somewhere in your life that you could do more, go further, endure more, be more respected, be tougher physically simply by having the discipline to go to the gym and work out every day and build a savage strong body? Of course there is. Do you have that level of fitness and health to be able to endure to go through the struggle to keep going? If you don't, you're not winning. It's not relative. If something within your potential could be done and whatever that is would solve a problem in your life and you haven't done it or you're not doing it, you're not winning. Winning is not relative. I'm tired of hearing you guys say that. Winning is only relative to the losers, those unwilling to do the work. It's only relative to the simpy guys whose wives left them for their personal trainer with a better body, a bigger bank account, and more of a man. It's only relative because your peer group or your current circle fills your head with lies about how will winning winning is just relative. You are either winning or losing. Listen, as much as I adore Brandy and my kids, Pearson Hope, I love my family so much. Your wife and kids don't make you wealthy. your ability to defend your home, provide their dream life, and give them everything that they could ever want along with the love, adoration, respect, and protection from you. That's winning. If you can't pay your bills, but you have your family, you're not winning. You're not. And you're disrespectful. Go and try and pay your mortgage with hugs and let me know if that works. Listen, Brandy wants me to win. She wants me to earn money. She wants me to be fit. She wants me to be athletic. She wants me to be psychologically strong. She wants me to be able to protect and provide. She wants me to be savage. She She wants me to be a man. She doesn't want me to cut off work early and go to the park, play with the kids, and snipples the dog. It's not offensive. It's the truth. Somehow the world has been brainwashed that being rich is toxic. Being masculine is toxic. Working hard and long is toxic. Demanding respect is toxic. Demanding high standards is toxic. That God is toxic. That marriage is toxic. That having core values and it drives me nuts. Having core values and all the things that you should have are all toxic. And that you should only get paid for done. Those are all negative behaviors and ideologies. You should only ever get a reward or paid for done. By the way, that's none of that is negative. That's pure crap. None of those things are toxic. If my farmer grandparents came back from the grave, they'd look at 95% of the population right now and know they could kick their asses. Not just physically, but in every category, health, wealth, and their marriage. Everything that makes a man powerful and undeniable is now categorized as toxic and negative and should be hidden and ostracized. I'm here saying the opposite. I don't care if you disagree with me. I'm still right. I've said it before and I'll say it again. Just because you're offended or don't like it doesn't change the fact that it's the truth. You are being programmed to miss every day. Being told it's better to miss, that it's healthier to miss. It makes you more vulnerable if you miss. It makes you stronger if you miss. How the [\h__\h] does being a weak, soft [\h__\h] make you better, stronger, healthier, and more powerful as a man? It doesn't. Be offended all you want. I'm still right. The quest that most people have to get clicks and likes and to go viral is clouding everybody's judgment. If I post this, that's what people think. If I post this, even if I don't agree with it, people will watch my video and click the little heart button and I'll feel important. But you're not important. You're not important to yourself because you look in the mirror and you know that you're a coward. You know that you're lying every day. You know that the life you truly want is never ever going to happen with you siding with everything that you disagree with. Except here's what happens. You say it often enough and loud enough and long enough and you believe it and all of the sudden you're holding a colored flag. Yeah, that one. And deciding that you're not the correct gender while your kids look at you saying that used to be my dad. Repetition is the mother of skill and repetition is the mother of the kill. If you repeat the wrong thing long enough, it's going to kill you. And you're choosing to repeat things in order to get approval and acceptance by people who don't approve or accept themselves or each other. So you're all lying, but too cowardly to stand up and say, "Fuck all of this. I'm doing everything in my power to become the best." You're being taught to miss. Would you miss a breath right now? Hold your breath. Let me know. Would you miss that? The next one? Would you miss a heartbeat? Would you miss protecting your wife or your child? Of course not. So your misses are conditional. They're based on what other people think of you and whether or not you're accepted in the current peer group. You're going along in order to get along. You guys know what a dangerous man is? A dangerous man is one who's not afraid to be alone. That's a dangerous man. Unafraid of being by themselves. One who knows that with or without anyone, they are the same. Their core beliefs are the same. Their values are the same. Their ethics are the same. They're they work the same way whether someone is there or not. They are always the same because God is looking at him 247 365. That's a man who never misses. That's a dangerous man. I said I used to miss. I don't anymore. But every day I'd miss. I'd make excuses. I'd validate. I'd miss. You know what happened? I got cancer. I lost a lung. I lost all my money. I lost my home. I lost my self-worth. All because I missed. I never miss now. Ever. You can't ever miss when you never miss. You're guaranteed success across the entire arena. By the way, that's the way you do it. Because when opportunities show up, you're already there because you never miss. The weakest man on the planet is the one who cherrypicks opportunities. They use their emotions to support which opportunity is the one that they should take. But the decision isn't based on the opportunity. It's based on their feelings. [\h__\h] your feelings. Get back to work. Do you have an opportunity standing right in front of you that you know would benefit you? Why aren't you taking it? Do you have an opportunity that would speed up the acquisition of a goal? Why aren't you doing it? I'll tell you why. Because you're a coward. Because you like the illusion of safety and comfort where you are. Because your circle says it's okay to let the opportunity pass by. because you're more concerned with feeling good in the moment instead of sacrificing it all right now for a much greater benefit in the future. That's called being a coward. You have no respect for yourself or your goals and you allow them to be purchased from you by your emotions. I never miss. You think it doesn't hurt? You think I don't hurt? You think I don't get angry or sad or upset? You think I don't get sore or frustrated or bitter? I'm upset all the time. I just don't [\h__\h] care. I made promises. I made promises to myself, to my wife, to my family, to my friends, to God. I'm not going to break my word for anything. The weakest thing you can do is break your word and subsequently back it up with whatever lie that you tell to support it. If it were your last breath on the line, but keeping your word would give you another 40 years, you'd keep your word no matter how much it hurt or what I was what was asked of you. Think about that. Cowards lie. Cowards break their word. Cowards procrastinate. Cowards blame their circumstances. Cowards validate. Cowards miss. So if you break your word, that's what you are. Cowards and liars annoy me because they demand that you understand their situation. I don't understand your situation because I'm never going to miss. You're a liar. If you never miss, if you wake up and you never miss, if you work out and you never miss, if you build your company and you never miss, if you work on your marriage and you never miss, you cannot help but eventually win. Because when those few and far between opportunities and those rare moments, they show up, you're there. You're already there. So many people, like with social media, it's a great example. So many people want to go viral on social media because they think it gives them importance. That's great. Why aren't you posting five, six, seven, eight, 10 times a day then? Because some simpy coach out there is telling people to only post once a day because it's more authentic. How does that even make sense? Do you have constant thoughts all day that you could share with your audience? Absolutely. Then why aren't you posting them? Could it benefit them? Then why aren't you posting them? because you need to polish the post. You want to know authentic, grab your phone, make the [\h__\h] post. It doesn't make sense to not do it. What it does when that simpy coach says that and it makes him feel good about the fact that he has nothing of value to add to mankind and he secretly wishes his life were different. So, he tries to get people to side with his weakness. That's how the world is twisting and manipulating everybody. The ones at the bottom are making noise, laying out guilt to those on the top who are working a hundred times harder than they are in an effort to draft people into their community. If you want to win, then you can't miss ever. Is there a cost? Yeah, you bet your ass there is. Everything you know right now, all of it, all of the people, everything, all gone because you can't stay in the same place while simultaneously growing. It's impossible. It's one or the other. I lost everything. I never had anybody come to my rescue. I never had anybody ride in to save me. I had to make every mistake. I had to suffer and experience loss and pain and struggle. And I still do. God, I wish somebody someone could have just taught me all of the things like everything I had to go through so that I could have gotten here quicker because I could have given my wife and kids a better life faster. But I didn't. I didn't have that option. That's why I come out here. That's why I come on here. I come on here to give you the truth and drown out the weak and cowardly who want you to take days off and miss and go throw frisbes at the park and drop everything for a damn recital. Your kids aren't going to remember the recital. They're going to remember remember that you had no money or mommy left because you had no money. Because the number one predictor of divorce initiated by women is men that aren't making money or simply soft men. Look it up. I come out here so you don't have to suffer as much as I have. I come out here to give you the tools so you can build everything and anything that you want. So you need to look at the people that you're following and listening to and ask yourself if you would want to trade places with them in every area. Every area. not their hair, their car, their girl, their house, every area. I'm betting that most of the people that you chase around social media, you entrace trade places with at all. You just latch on to them because they give you permission to stay where you are. I take risks on everything. People ask, "How'd you do it, Spartan? You're 52. H how did you do it, man? You started at 48 years old. How did you do this? How did you get here? How did you do it? How did you overcome one lung? How'd you overcome cancer? How did you build this life? How did you make the money? How'd you have the great marriage? How do you like all of it? How'd you do it? Must be nice. You're lucky. I'm lucky. [\h__\h] your luck. I've taken every risk and I still do every day. I risked my life going out into that gym every day, hooked up to an oxygen machine, keeping me alive while I worked out and suffocated for real, not out of breath. One lung. I could have gotten a pneumothorax and died. The nearest hospital is 16 miles away. You know what somebody's going to say? Yeah, that's not very responsible. Oo, big hero. So, you leave your wife and kids. No. The only person that would say that is someone at the bottom that wishes they had my life. You're missing. Do better. I risked my life every day going into that gym. Cuz I wanted more. Cuz I'd look at my wife and go, she believes in me more than I do right now. I need to make sure I step up. I risked my ability to take care of my wife and children starting a business with nothing, no idea, like no clue what to do while we had no money and lost our home. Like, I risked my personal brand. I risk it every day coming out here online telling the truth, going against the lies and propaganda and [\h__\h] being sold to every one of you guys. I've never been lucky. I've never missed. So, when opportunity shows up, I'm already there. I talk about my mastermind a lot because it's that good. But I built my unbreakable mastermind for people who take risks, for people who don't want to stay where they are and who know they're meant for more. I built it with my bare hands, for people who are never going to miss. I didn't have any help. I Oh, I had tons of people promise how much they're going to help me and all this stuff they're going to do for me and the money and all this. I had some I nothing to date. Nothing. None of that has transpired. Just a bunch of lies. I'm on my phone and my laptop all day helping people, working, growing, doing whatever it takes to become more than what I am today and helping as many people and being with as many people as I can and bring as many people as I can to the top with me. I don't go sit in movie theaters for hours. I don't scroll social media. I don't play video games. I don't have downtime or sleep in just a little bit on weekends. Every day is the same. You know what people say, "Oh, it must be so boring, bro." Nobody successful has ever said that to me. The only ones who say that it's boring, are the ones playing dress up with their friends to go to a bar or spending all day in a trampoline with their kids while their business is crumbling or drinking or smoking or doing drugs or whatever it is they do to escape the life they've created by their inaction. I love working. Like, I love working. Working is entertainment to me because I love seeing the progress. You go to the gym and you start seeing progress and you start to see the results after months of work. You like it. You build your business one sale at a time and finally start to see the fruits of your labor. You like it. But most of you guys aren't willing to do that. You're not willing to do it at all. So you'll spend hours online combing Instagram looking at everybody who's winning, thinking that by what? Proximity. by leaving a comment. Somehow you're going to win as well. Or even worse, you drop hate thinking that people like me care about your [\h__\h] opinion. The life you have, the time you have, the body, the health, all of it has a lease payment. And that payment is the work you do every day. And everybody's heard it. Nobody listens to it. Most of you guys spend all your time working hard and not working hard and complaining about the life you're in. Then more than you put time into doing everything and taking all the risks to change it, whether you pay or you don't, that bill is due. And every day you do less, you lose a little bit. Lose a little health, you lose a little more time, you lose self-respect, you lose respect from others, you lose the chance to change it all because you're running out of time. You have the most time today that you've ever had to do anything about where you're at. Tomorrow you have less time. You're [\h__\h] stupid. If you're waiting until tomorrow, the only way to guarantee winning all the time is to never miss because you're always in a position for the opportunity that shows up and it will. And when it shows up, you'll have the capacity to carry it and move on to the next win. Until you're taking every risk, you're a coward. Until you never miss, you're a liar. That luck that you keep talking about, it shows up when you stop validating every miss. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.