Got to look at my forehead. See if I've got big mark for my hat. Tell you when when you got no hair. I want to wear a hat. Sometimes you get your head burned. One one time Brandy and I we went to This is going to be a banging episode. By the way, this is by the way before I even get into anything. This is you guys. So many of you guys, when you're losing, you quit. When things get hard, you quit. When you're losing, when you don't see any other option but to lose, you stop making moves. You stop trying. You stop going all in because you go, "What's the point?" And I'm going to change your mindset, man. I promise you, you stick around me long enough, I'm going to brainwash the hell out of you into thinking that you can do anything you possibly could imagine. Just got to hang around me, that's all. Cuz I've been you. But real quick, Brandy and I, we went to to Mexico. This is almost 20 years ago and I was going through chemo. And so I was hyper sensitive to the sun. And if you guys don't know, chemotherapeutics and antibiotics make you insanely photosensitive. Even if you've never burned a day in your life, you will come out of the sun purple if you're on antibiotics for the most part. And same with chemotherapy. And so I went to Cancun with with Brandy. And actually that is the trip that we got engaged on. And I got roasted. I was burnt so bad. My head was burnt so bad that I had this spot about the size of a tennis ball on my forehead and part of my dome on the front looked like I had a horn. But it was this burnt spot. It was just a perfect circle and it was so burnt that it was solid. So when I would raise my eyebrows, this entire scale would move up and down and it was like I tried to put coconut oil and all kinds of stuff on it because it was splitting and hurting like it was like a callous on my forehead. And the day we were going to go home, we were there for I guess 8 days. The day we were going to go home, this was like day one. I smoke myself, which is common if you go anywhere that you've never been with some sun and you think you're not gonna get burnt and you go out and you try and do a week's worth of tanning in the first hour you get there, you're going to hate the rest of the the trip. I didn't. I just wore a hat for the rest of the time. But I learned a valuable lesson about wearing a hat. But it came off in the shower. This slab of shingle that was on my forehead. I'll tell you, it was like [\h__\h] relief. I'm like, "Oh god, my head feels normal." But I got I've never been so burnt in my life. And so I learned a valuable lesson that when you don't have hair, wear a hat. And I've had convertibles and I realized like I've gotten my forehead quite tanned with the top down. So trust me, the sun is it'll rip the hide right off you if you let it. I think 99% just to come back to what I was talking about 99% of the people 99% of you guys you self-destruct when life gets when it gets hard because you think the outcome's already written I I think after listening to this not you man not anymore just bear with me follow stick with me man I promise this is worth it stick with me this is because you need to have this relentless precision and the ability to make decisions when you're under pressure when you're under stress under duress when you're basically under fire right like the bullets are whizzing over your head and you have to still be able to make the decisions. And there is a it is it's pretty much a guaranteed compounding power of of always doing the best decision, right? Making the best move, the right move. And especially when things look hopeless. And I think the habit is you guys retreat right away. And I think honestly you need to have no mercy. No mercy for yourself. No mercy, no retreat. Because if you've ever played if you've ever played chess, right? And I play chess. I actually today I thought about I need to make sure that I teach my son how to play chess really well because it's a great game for strategy and playing moves ahead, right? Because if you understand the principle of chess, it's not to win one move. It's to play 20 moves in the future and understand all the contingencies for everything that your opponent's going to do. That's what makes a great chess player. And if you look at like Kasparov, right, when he played Big Blue, Deep Blue, I don't remember the name of the computer, but it was the greatest chess computer in the world. And he beat the computer and then I I think it was two out of three, but then Big Blue, Deep Blue, I don't remember the name. This is a long time ago. I wound up beating him, but he this was back before AI and all this stuff, but it was the world's fastest, greatest, most intelligent chess computer. And that's what made Casper out very famous chess player. But it's a strategy game. And I think the point of chess is this isn't about teaching how to play chess. This is about teaching you how to be persistent in the face of adversity or when things look like you just look lost, right? Like you're staring at the board and your queen's gone, your position's trash, you're one move away from that dreaded checkmate, and the only piece you've got left is some crippled shitty bishop in a corner in a pawn that can't walk straight. Right? That's where you're at. And most people, they just sit there and they want to flip the board over. They get upset and they throw the game. They say, "Screw it. I'm already losing, so who cares? I may as well not bother." But the person who wants to win, you have to understand this principle. The savage is going to they know something. They don't. Let me explain what that means. like they know that there's still a move that they can make that there are all kinds of it's like a multiple choice and none of the answers are right but one is more that's the right answer. Why would you throw it just because none of them are right? You still want the points. That's what a savage does. That's what a leader does. That's what somebody who is destined to win does. And it's you have to get emotional control because your default is going to be why quit. There's no point. This is stupid. I'm just going to lose. But there's still a there's still a best choice. There's still a best move. And the ones who want to win, the ones who always end up winning all the time are the ones that [\h__\h] make it. They do that best move. Not because it guarantees a win, cuz it doesn't. And not because it'll save you this time because it probably won't, but because it is the best out of all the things that they can do, whether it's business or marriage or fitness or mindset or anything. Like even when I was when I came out of the hospital, I couldn't run. I couldn't lift at all. I had huge incisions in me, six of them. They were like this long. And I was weak and flabby and disappointed and defeated and frustrated. I was all the things that made me just want to sit on the couch and go, "Fuck the world. I'm I've I lost. I thought I was going to win. I got my ass handed to me. I lost." Except the best move was go outside and do whatever it is I could, which at that moment was drag a sled around my gravel driveway in a circle because I have this circle gravel driveway. It's I don't know 3 400 ft something like that with a weight on it and a strap off my waist cuz that's all I could do. And I did I really don't remember how many laps I did when I got home. When Brandy said, "What do I do?" I said, "I wanted to work out." And I maybe two. It wasn't a lot. It's not like I was like, "Oh, I did two hours. I collapsed. I collapsed. Smashed my knee. Got upset. Got frustrated. Cried. My my wife came and got me and brought me into the house cuz I couldn't walk. Was done. I gave all I had. But that was my best move. Was I running a Roger Banister mile time? No. Was I squatting or doing cleans or pull-ups or anything like that? No, cuz I couldn't. But it was the best move. Had I not done that, I' I'd probably be dead because I would have succumbed to the medication and sitting on the couch and I would have lost. See, so in the moment I lost, but the long play I won. Again, the best move, making that best move is who you are. You have to make that decision. And I wasn't always like this. you neither. A lot of you guys aren't like this, but this is life. This isn't a fantasy. This isn't Tik Tok or Instagram, and it's not therapy with your stupid lights and candles and feelings. Life is war, and you always have to look at it that way. The board doesn't care the board that you're in right now, the board that you're playing on right now, the board, the planet, the life. It doesn't care if you're down bad. It only cares what you do next. And so I think you need to look at it as you lost your business. Okay, so what? Make your best move. She left your ass. Okay, make the best move. You got cancer. You went bankrupt. You got screwed over, humiliated, rejected, disgraced. Make the best move anyway. Because here's the truth that nobody wants to hear. the compounding effect of your best move, even when you're losing, it'll save it'll save your life. It saved mine. Understand? You guys look at me and go, "Dude, I can't train like that." I'm a 52year-old man with one lung who is slaughtering 99% of the population. I shouldn't be, but I am because I only make my best move. It doesn't mean I win all the time. You guys only make the best move when it guarantees a win. And that's what's holding you back. But the compounding effect of your best move, even when you're losing, is what takes you into that victory circle. It's what keeps you as the last person in the arena standing. You're not going to win. It's going to save your [\h__\h] life, but it's not. And you're going to win, but you're not going to do it every time. You're not I lose all the time, but enough times to change my entire life, my entire destiny. And that's important because you make the best move when your legs broken. When you've got one lung, when your lungs are on fire, when your name is trashed, when you've been rejected or humiliated, when your name is dirt, when your friends are gone, when everybody's gone and you're all by yourself because you're still in the [\h__\h] game cuz you're breathing. Winners play until they win. Losers cry until it gets comfortable. And it never does. So losers cry because it's uncomfortable, right? If you heard that, it's because I'm drinking water. And no coffee that I own, just water. I think the moral imperative is clear and that is you act according to a winner. You act well. In other words, regardless of the outcome, because your identity is forged in decisions, not emotions, not luck, not comfort, not all the fun stuff. It's formed in your decisions. Who you are is based on it's predicated on the decisions you make. So you're I keep banging into my mic here. So you're broke, you're divorced, fired, you're fat, you're alone, you're tired, you're living in your car, you're bleeding out of both ears, you're missing a lung. Okay, cool. Who cares? Make the best move, cowboy. What else do you got? What are you going to do? Curl up in a ball or you can sit there and let the vultures eat what's left of you? I I think the difference between legends and losers is not whether they win all the time because they don't. It's whether they keep moving like they will. Does that do you guys get that? It has nothing to do with winning. You guys only look at the victory and I'm not winning. I'm going to stop. But winners move all the time. I always move as if I'm going to win. All the time. It doesn't mean I do. I get my ass handed to you all the to me all the time. All the time. But I move as if I'm going to win. And you know why most people never become great? It's not because they lack talent. sure as hell isn't because they lack talent. It's not because the odds were stacked against them. No matter what you guys always I'm just unlucky and everything's against me. And it's not because of their trauma or their ex or their stupid horoscope. It's because the second they start losing, they give themselves permission to start losing worse. They stop making good moves and they start making lazy, emotional, self-sabotaging moves. Right? You guys do this because somewhere deep inside their cowardly little brains, they believe, "Oh, it doesn't matter anymore. You don't understand my situation, Spartan. You ever hear that little [\h__\h] voice?" You guys hear the, "Well, I already missed the workout. Might as well eat like [\h__\h] today. Might as well just trash my diet today. I already spent too much. May as well blow the rest. She already left. Might as well spiral. I'm already late. May as well be later. You can't get more late. You can. Trust me, I'm a parent. You come home 5 minutes late and you're my child. That's late. You come home an hour late, I'm making a new child and burying you in the backyard. Like that. That's not logic. The I may as well because that's loser math. That's loser based calculus. And that's how average men compound destruction instead of creation. Because you lose once and you think it's an excuse to [\h__\h] up the next 10, 15, 20 moves. That's how you guys are being taught. That's how social media teaches you. You're losing. You may as well just [\h__\h] it all up then. You only live once, right? And then you burn your life to the ground and then complain that your life is burnt to the ground. No, you don't [\h__\h] up the next 10 moves. No, you lose once, then you double down, focus harder, and attack the next rep like it owes you something. Oh, yeah. I'm going to make you my [\h__\h] But you guys don't want to do that. You don't get to fold. You get to fight. You get to. You don't have to. You get to fight. So get in the arena and you make the best move like it's life or death because sometimes it [\h__\h] is. For me it was actually life or death. I think there's a couple of things people should have happen to them. Number one is they should all be servers in a restaurant for at least a year just to know what it's like to be on the other end when you're that dick at the table that's mistreating your server. You're a douche. I think everybody should be a server and learn how to deal with people in places where you have got to hone your people skills, your conversation and communication comprehension skills. And I think everybody should have the fear of death at least once in their life so they know exactly and not the oh I was on this roller coaster. It terrified me. No real. So you appreciate the life that you've got because you know who folds when they're losing? gamblers and drunks, losers, and people with zero accountability and a like a [\h__\h] PlayStation addiction. Like, that that's a thing, man. I swear it's a thing. You guys with your video games, you throw your controllers and cry when you lose. The game's rigged. They're using whatever, some kind of tech to beat me. Maybe you just suck. Maybe because you're a grown ass man playing video games, that's part of the problem. Like meanwhile, there's some savage out there like me who just clawed his way out of a losing position with blood in his teeth and a big [\h__\h] smile cuz when I did it, it didn't feel good when it felt good when I was done. The reason your life hasn't changed isn't because you failed. It's not. I failed probably more times than anybody listening to this. I probably fail more times in a day than most of you guys fail in a year because you're not willing to do it. You're not willing to make your best move. You're you just turtle. I had to save the money. I'm going to wait one more month. Then I'm going to pay. I'm going to wait one more month. Then I'm going to go to the gym. Then I'm going to work out. Then I'm going to change my diet. Then I'm going to fix my marriage. And then all of it's gone. Next thing one more month turns into a 75-year-old working at Walmart as a greeter wondering what happened to his or her life. You failed. It's because the moment that the moment that you noticed that you were failing, you gave yourself the green light to just start quitting everywhere. You lose money, stop working hard, forget it. Not worth it. You get dumped, start hitting the bottle, the drugs, the entertainment, the porn. You get injured, [\h__\h] stop training altogether. It I was still anesthetized and high when they woke when I came and started doing laps around my room, hooked up to a vacuum tube on the wall with hoses coming out of my side the size of a garden hose. Stop. Just stop with your excuses. You guys quit altogether when something happens. That's weak. You know what that is? That's what prey does. You act like a kill is final. You just turn your belly up and say, "Okay." But it's not. You still breathing and make the [\h__\h] move. Are you still breathing? Because to make to this is great to make poor decisions. This is the stuff that goes through my head. Believe me, even my kids are like, "Seriously, your brain works so fast." My wife has said that for 20 years. She's like, "You your brain is just like light speed all the time. It I don't have another speed because I don't know how to be any other way. I've slept 4 hours, 5 hours a night my entire life. And like I told you, my people, I'd go to sleepovers and people would tell my parents, "Dude, your kid is up at 2:30 in the morning, a flashlight, a book. Couldn't sleep. I was ready to go." to to make poor decisions in response to loss is to build chaos into your very identity. You actually fold and weave it into who you are. It's moral decay disguised as some [\h__\h] emotional coping. It's the abandonment of responsibility at the exact moment when it's needed the most. Why would you do that? You have got to develop a character that does what's right, not what feels safe or reasonable given your feelings don't matter. So the psychological shift is like this. Even now, you should just memorize this phrase because it goes to your head all the time. Even now, when things are going bad, even now, especially now, I act well. I think that's probably one of the most powerful phrases you can put into your mind when things are going poorly. Even now, especially now, I act well because here's the truth, and I said it earlier. Making the best move doesn't always save the game. But sometimes it does. And over time, the sometimes it does is what builds momentum that weak people will never understand. And then they call people like me or anybody else that's winning lucky. I'm just not built like you. No, you choose to not to do the work like me. That's why every single great comeback story, I heard Rogan say it, is somebody that's gone through adversity, massive adversity. Every billionaire who started broke. Every legend who was once canceled, beaten, humiliated, ignored, hated. They didn't rise because they always won. They rose because they made the right [\h__\h] move. when things were still when they were losing, when things were still on fire, they went, "I don't care. I'm still going to make the right move." Like, where where in your life have you just given up? You stopped trying to win just because you think the game is already over. And what would happen? What would happen if you just decided to make the best move anyway? You just decided, "The hell with it. I'm going to make the best move." Because I I think the lie is you have to be perfect to win. [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Nobody in the history of greatness was ever perfect. They were precise, not the same. They didn't make They didn't make every move. They didn't. Trust me, I'm going to drink something here. Hold up. They just made the best possible move every time. Even when the board looked like a blood bath, their life looked like it was just on just ashes and cinder. That's the difference between a man who evolves and the man who evaporates and just vanishes and is forgotten. It's irrelevant. One plays like his next move matters and the other plays like nothing does. And only one of those two gets to win the long run the game. Like you understand life is a long game. You guys are playing as if it's a sprint. No, you don't have time. So that's not what I'm saying. Speed wins. But you need to play the game as if the move today is going to affect something you're doing a year from now and a year from now you're going to win. You ever meet that guy who says, "Man, I'm just waiting for the right time to get back on track. I'm just waiting for that right moment, man. I'm gonna do it. I just have to wait for that right time." Yeah. He's usually saying it while holding a beer, wearing a tank top that's fighting for its life to hold on to this fat bastard and complaining about taxes while his fourth or fifth baby mama posts thirst traps on his damn account. That's who's giving you this advice. Who's and who's justifying that they're waiting for their right moment. Maybe you should look in the mirror because if that's you, I hope that pisses you off. How about I break it down for you, champ? There's no perfect moment. There's only your next move. That's it. I could stop here. That will change your life. There is no perfect moment. None. There is just your next move. So, make it clean, make it strong, and make it [\h__\h] count. Or sit in the same damn spot that you've been whining about for the past 5 years. It's not going to change with you complaining. Like, I wasn't perfect when I did pull-ups connected to an oxygen machine. I wasn't perfect when I had no idea how to start a business. When I was broke, when I was bleeding through my savings to keep my wife and kids alive. I wasn't perfect when I had to teach myself how to do all of this that I'm doing right now. I had no idea even how to do this. But I made the best move available every damn time. And it compounded into muscle, into psychology, into momentum. You want to escape your damn situation? Then stack the right moves. Don't miss, don't sulk, and don't second guessess all the time and go. I just you guys overthink everything and wonder why you struggle. Never miss. You know how you never miss. Don't keep making the best move. Just make the best play over and over again until you you stop doubting you. People will stop doubting you. You will stop doubting you. That's how you know you're making the best move. Everyone's obsessed with hitting these damn home runs all the time. The perfect business, perfect marriage, perfect plan, perfect relationship, perfect fitness, perfect time to start. Meanwhile, I'm over here stacking nothing but bass hits every single [\h__\h] day while they're still googling how to feel motivated, how to get successful without leaving my Netflix. You guys are nuts. You don't need perfection. You need commitment at the highest probability move every single time. That's what you need. You need commitment to that move. The one that's going to give you the highest probability of success every time. Even if it doesn't, even when you're tired or you're broke or you're hurt or you're behind or you've got your ass handed to you, because consistent precision outpaces flashy per perfection 10 times out of 10, 100% of the time. Like you do understand that the world is not it's not one by flawless execution, which is the problem. You guys are so worried if it's flawed. The world isn't won by flawless execution. And it's one by those who make this intentional aligned decisions in the face of chaos, in the face of adversity, in the face of their whole life burning down, they still make intentional aligned decisions. And I promise you, the best move, it's rarely comfort. In fact, my best move's almost I don't think they've ever been comfortable. It's rarely a comfortable decision. It's the one that aligns you with your highest potential even when the odds are stacked against you. Everybody, just so you know, the odds are always stacked against you. That's why there's a phrase called survival of the fittest. But now it's become survival of the fattest, the weakest, the brokeest, and the whiniest because you guys get on your computers and you cancel and complain and whine, but you hate your own life. So if you hate your life so much, but you're trying to recruit everybody into your fat, broke, disgusting life that you have, you think you're making the best move. Cool, bro. Listen, the man who consistently chooses his highest potential even when suffering, that's the man who ultimately builds a destiny beyond comprehension of this crowd. All you weak [\h__\h] out there, you're never going to get it until you start only focusing on what is the best move and not the what's the move that's going to make me feel the best [\h__\h] It irritates me because you guys are choosing. Listen, I should not be winning and beating 99% of you guys. I'm old. I'm missing parts and I started at 48. Some 22-year-old gets in my comments and starts dropping, "Hey, go [\h__\h] yourself. I can do more in one day than you've done in an entire year, and you couldn't keep up with me on your best day and my worst day in any category, health, wealth, and relationships." And yet, you're shit-talking. You guys who go in and hate because you've quit and dro and made your worst move instead of your best move every time and created this compounding effect down versus up. Keep the successful people's names out of your mouth unless you are thanking them for the advice and the vision that they have that or that you get from watching them. Because let's be clear, you don't win because you were perfect. You win because your precision just kept stacking. Every rep, every call, every email, every post, every hard conversation, every tiny minuscule action, all of it added up over and over again. Over time, it became undeniable because you kept doing it, but you had to do that the wrong direction. That's compounding. Most men are never going to feel it because they quit after the first busted broken position. Maybe you ask yourself where you're chasing perfection instead of stacking the best move. And how would your life change? I don't know. If you just stayed precise and consistent starting right now, starting today, starting right now after you listen to this podcast, how would it change? Because the real crime I think that most men commit, it's a crime. It's a travesty. They quit playing. They quit playing the game. You look at kids who have exceptional parents who demand exceptional from their kids and give them the opportunity to acquire it and they become exceptional men and women. You look at fat, soft ninth grade art teacher dressed like a kitten deciding to do a new gender reveal at 14 years old for their son now daughter. Those people, all of you myopic impetent wind socks that are doing that, you guys are corrupting the future because you're telling your kids not to try. You're telling your kids never to make their best move. You're telling them to fold and you don't think you are. You're like, "No, I'm telling them to be brave. You aren't holding standards. You're holding feelings." Like, that's the real crime that most men commit. Like, all you men that are allowing that in your house, you're [\h__\h] cowards, man. Do you guys disgust me because you're just a coward? You won't stand up for what's right. You're failing God. You're failing yourself. You're an embarrassment to mankind. You should have been eaten. Because the crime most men commit is they just quit. Quit playing the game, which is what you've done. If that's you quit playing the game, not because you couldn't win, but because you got tired of losing. [\h__\h] I lose so much. you guys. They got punched in the face. Life said, "I don't know, check." Instead of playing harder, they slid their chair back like little boys who forgot this [\h__\h] was real. That's what you did. Let me say it straight. Winners keep playing no matter what. Even when the score is bad, even when they've got 7 seconds left, even when they're bleeding, they're beat up, even when the whole [\h__\h] crowd is booing them or cheering for them to stay down, they keep moving pieces, keep taking shots, keep studying the [\h__\h] board, the life they're in, until a window of opportunity cracks open and then they strike. But the problem is if you're not playing the game and those windows of opportunity show up, you're never going to you're never going to win. You got bad news. So what? Good. Good. That's how I look at bad news now. Awesome. Awesome. What can I do about it? I I just I'm going to go right through this bad news onto the next great thing. Your girl left you. Good. Probably deserved it anyway because you were a [\h__\h] loser. You lost your job. Good. It wasn't doing what you wanted and you're not making the money and you hated your boss. Now, let's see if you can stay in the [\h__\h] game when all that happens. Because the second you back out, you don't just lose the batter the battle. You train your soul to quit. Quit. And that's what you guys do. You train your neurology to go, "Yeah, I'm going to quit." And by the way, every time that life gets hard and you quit like that, you're not doing it because you're weak. Oh, you try and convince yourself and you hang around people that go, "It's okay. You're weak. That's a lot harder than we than most people could ever handle." No, it's harder than they could handle and they're trying to convince you to stay in their little group of [\h__\h] It's not because you're weak. It's because you practiced being a coward and it's getting easier for you. Listen, you ever see a man quit something important and then start talking like he's wise? This I'll give you a great example. A man whose wife left him and all of the sudden now he's giving advice on how he's much more aligned and much more fulfilled. And it took his catastrophe to make him realize that coffee is a terrible thing. I have real energy now. I didn't realize how dependent I was on caffeine. That taking TRT is terrible for you. And that trying to create a successful multi-million dollar business is not the way. In fact, you need to stop creating a business and start only creating family. But your family looks at you like you're a broke simp. I don't care what they tell you. They don't look at you as a superhero. Put a real man in front of them and they'll be like, "Wow, Dad, why aren't you like that?" Get mad. I don't care. So many of you guys, you quit something important and you know it's what you wanted, but it didn't work and you got smacked in the mouth and then you guys start talking like you're wise. Oh, I just realized it wasn't aligned anymore or I'm going to just take a step back and recharge and get connected. You know what the translation is for that? I suck at this and it's hard and I'm scared. So, I'm going to hide behind new age hashtags and [\h__\h] mindset and pretend it's growth. Hey buddy, this ain't yoga. You're not sitting in some little hot room sweating all over each other. This is life. If you can't take the pain, get the [\h__\h] off the board. Get out of the arena. But don't act like you're some strategist when you tapped out on level one in a 100 level game. That doesn't make you wise. It makes you ignorant and a coward. Listen, I don't care who you are. Every man, even if it's the own dialogue in your head, talks about wanting to win until [\h__\h] gets dark. Until he's broke, alone, overlooked, full of bitterness and pain and anger. And that's when you find out who the [\h__\h] who's a king. I know I've been there because I sat there and twice I have contemplated and attempted my own demise. No, it's nothing to be proud of. It's disgusting and embarrassing and it's a coward's way out. And the last time I felt angry and alone and broken was when I opened my eyes in that hospital. As much as I adore my wife, I felt like a failure. I didn't feel like I failed. I felt like a failure. It's not the same. It's so much worse. I felt like a failure to my son and my daughter and my wife and I hated it. And I've I've said this so many times where I've always thought I've been pretty gritty and I've been through some pretty atrocious stuff and I've come out the other side. But I didn't know for sure. When I woke up, I found out who was a king. Take that as narcissistic if you want. It's not. The best moves I could make I've been making for the last almost four years. Because that's what a king does. That's what a leader does. So when shit's going dark for you, you are about to be exposed. And that's when you find out who's a king and who's just cosplaying masculinity for social media. Because I've posted every single thing I've been through, good or bad, terrifying or victorious, it didn't matter. Or courageous, it didn't matter. I posted it. But what I haven't done is not make a best move every time. See, because real men, they keep moving even in silence, even in fear. In fact, especially in silence. No applause, no likes, no anthem, no no cheering, no motivation, just cold, calculated best moves again and again. And it's lonely. And then one day, checkmate. And the losers are still sitting on the sideline talking about how lucky you are. So many times, we don't have your money, we don't have your fitness, we don't have your marriage, we don't have your mindset. Nope. Not their dead eye. The man who plays long enough with sufficient attention and unwavering discipline, that's important, inevitably begins to shape reality itself because you're bending it to your will because you refuse to quit. My my body goes, "This [\h__\h] guy just isn't going to quit because the board's not rigged. It's just complex." It rewards endurance. It rewards clarity. It rewards singularity of focus. It rewards sacrifice, courage, and most men opt out because opting out is an option and it feels better and feels safer than staying exposed. But the consequences of that safety is this shallow, just disgusting life devoid of depth, devoid of any risk, no victory, no triumph, none. You lie. You have a triumph with your little loser circle or your little Facebook friend group that recruited you because they're all losers. the cost. Yeah, it's everything you could have been. Not a chance. Let me put it like this. You don't lose when the scoreboard says you're behind. You lose when you stop playing the best [\h__\h] move you can. That's when the dream dies. Not before, never. All the way up until that moment. It's like Top Gun in the very first one. He says, "That was some of the best flying I've seen yet." Right up until the point you got killed. Never ever leave your wingman. You're the wingman to your goals or your goals are the wingman to you, however you want to look at it. But you guys split all the time. You wonder why you get killed. So you better stay in the [\h__\h] game even if you're down. Even if the board is on fire, even if your lungs are there's pieces on the floor, who cares? Because the next move still counts. And the one after that and the one after that and the one after that. And on a long enough timeline, the man who stays in the game wins everything 100% of the time. and wins everything because you should ask where in my life am I sitting on the sidelines because I've convinced myself that the game isn't winnable, right? You've convinced yourself it's just the game is not you cannot win this game. What would it look like if you just decided to go back into the game with all you've got full force today and never ever make a change other than best move. Right? That if every time you set up for the kill shot, every time you got you came into the game, it was just I'm going for the kill shot today. You might not get it, but that's all you're looking for. Like, you guys look at people that are winning and you just go, "Damn, they must be lucky. They're not. Nobody winning is lucky. They've just They're playing longer than you. They're playing better than you for sure because they're playing longer. They're staying in the game. They're playing when they don't feel like it, when they're angry about it, when they're sad about it. They're stacking every single best move they can. Whether they're up a 100red or down a thousand, it doesn't matter. They don't win by magic. They win by math. Period. It's just odds. You just keep doing it. Eventually, you're going to win. You make one good move today, you're still broke. You make one good move every day for a year, just a year, now you're dangerous. You make one good move every day for a decade, you become a [\h__\h] legend. It's not because you were better, smarter, or faster, or more talented. It's because while everybody else was melting down in their corner, crying about everything, checking out, posting their little memes, getting in comments and hating on people and chasing all their distractions, their booze, their weed, their porn, their [\h__\h] body counts, all this stuff. You stayed in the board. You stayed in the arena and you just kept making the move. Which way are you going? That way. Why? Cuz that's where the throne is. That's where I'm going. The secret ain't talent. The secret is consistency. And you guys keep saying, "Well, it's got to be some talent." You'll argue about it. Get consistent first and then start talking about talent. Cuz if you ain't got consistency, you better stop calling yourself motivated because you're not motivated. You're soft. You want a new life? Then make the best damn move every day like your soul depends on it. God's watching you because your soul does and he is. You know what's funny? I like this stuff. This is funny to me because people live like math doesn't apply to them. Math is it's only applies to those people over there, but not to me. They want abs in two weeks. They want a multi-million dollar business in 6 months. They want respect in two days. And when it doesn't show up fast enough, they quit. Call the whole the whole system toxic. Here's a thought. Maybe you just suck at math. Results equals best move times time pain times repetition. The end. There's your math equation. You skip any one of those variables, you lose. Simple as that. There's no option. If you knew the best move would eventually lead to dominance, would you still whine about how slow it feels? No. Of course you wouldn't. You'd shut the hell up. You'd exe because you knew you were going to win. You'd shut up. You'd execute. You'd die on that board before you bowed out like a [\h__\h] just because it's taking longer than you wanted. It's always going to take longer than you wanted. Because men who win play to win no matter what. And they play to win over time. They don't Oh god. They don't chase the dopamine or the 8-second distractions. They chase legacy. They chase their own legendary life. The great tragedy isn't that men fail. It's not. It's that they stay engaged long enough to feel the pain and the discomfort. And as soon as that shows up, they and they want to tell everybody, "Oh, I've stayed in the game." They might stay in the game longer than somebody who hasn't even been in the game, but just long enough to feel a discomfort. So now it trains them to quit every time it's uncomfortable. The greatest problem in all of this is that they fail to stay engaged long enough for all those actions that they took even when they before they quit to to have any ripple effect to have any to bear any fruit. The harvest doesn't arrive just because you think you deserve it. You get that? It arrives because you swed the [\h__\h] seed, you watered it, defended it, and refused to abandon it, even when that damn plant looked dead. That's the great paradox of growth, by the way. Only those who act as if victory is inevitable will ever have the patience to reach it. Imagine if you just went victory is inevitable and you actually believed it. You'd never stop taking the best move or making the best move ever. You make the best move even when you're losing because it's the only shot that you've got. What What other option do you have? You sit down and you look at everybody else winning and you complain about it or you keep making the best move. One of them changes you. The other one fills you with regret and hate. Turns you onto a fat [\h__\h] denting a couch. So, you just keep making the best move. Doesn't matter whether you're losing or not because one day that habit of excellence is going to tip the board. tip the scale in your favor so [\h__\h] hard, you're not going to believe that it used to look hopeless. You won't. You're going to be like, "Holy [\h__\h] how could I ever doubt myself?" Because success, it's not a miracle. It's a ledger and it remembers your every move. You might not be tracking, but it does. Because if your life was just a scoreboard of your decisions, what results have you actually been stacking? And how do you make sure that the next move that you make changes everything? Because until that, you're just making complaints and looking for the easiest move or the worst move and then complaining why you don't win. Make the best move every time, no matter how bad it gets. And all of your decisions, they compound into nothing but victory. Because the results that you have, the receipts you have behind you, they've been pushing you to the success. That's what I'm trying to tell you is you guys look at your life and go, "It doesn't work. You can't always make the best move." Yes, you can. Because there is also always a worst move. Most of you guys choose that because you give up. How about you just stop giving up and never miss? I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.