You guys, you ever wonder why if I say something, you get all pissed off? I'm not listening to this guy. He's offensive. He's oppressive. While your stomach gets all knotted up, while your face gets hot, while your brain goes full defense, and you start crafting all these arguments in your head before I even finish the sentence. You ever wonder why you do that? It's because I'm right. It's because I'm right. That trigger, that little piece of emotion that you feel, that's the truth. Landing a punch in all your lies and your weakness and your ego is just too damn fragile to handle the knockout. Listen, you guys are going to get so mad because I tell you the truth. I have come out here every day for 136 episodes and told the truth. And if I have ever said something ignorant, irrelevant, wrong, you wouldn't feel a damn thing. You'd laugh, brush it off, and you'd ignore me and ignore it. But that's not what happens, is it, baby boy? That's not what happens, little Nancy girl. You get offended. You get all buttth hurt. And then you get in the comments either on Instagram or in social media or in my YouTube. You're like, I remember how you used to be. You weren't a arrogant [\h__\h] with money and thinking you're all that. Listen, soy boy, grow up. I leveled up and I'm trying to help you by telling you the truth and then giving you every [\h__\h] tool to get there. You guys just are too arrogant to think that it's going to help you. And arrogance, by the way, is to think you know everything when you know nothing and then do nothing about it but tell everybody else how they're wrong, stupid, and offensive. that you guys keep confusing arrogance and ignorance. You guys are ignorant and you're arrogant and you guys sit here, I'm not going to listen to this guy bate me. Maybe you should get off your ass and do something about your life instead of listening to a guy like me go, you could do better if you just But instead, like I said, you get offended, you get buttth hurt, you start typing in the comments like some therapist with a vengeance, and then you scream, "That's toxic." Which makes me laugh so hard. That's not how mental health works. You don't understand depression. You've never had it. You don't understand my anxiety. You're fat phobic. That's shaming. No, it's the truth and you're just exposed. Yes. It's funny to me because it makes me laugh. I'll tell you this. I I tell you that your childhood trauma I talked about trauma the other day. I tell you that your childhood trauma is just [\h__\h] and that's not what what's holding you back and you flinch because deep down you're just milking it. You're lying. When I tell you that it's not your grandma's thyroid, that your weight isn't genetic cuz it's not. It's a discipline problem. You rage out because you know you haven't done [\h__\h] about it and you're just a fat [\h__\h] It is so frustrating. I could hand you We own a peptide company, a huge one. If you want red a true tide, I've got it. Some of you guys wouldn't even do that because it would actually solve your problem. If you don't know what red a true tide is, you just need to look it up. It's that's not what this is. I've done a podcast about ozone peak like semma and all that stuff. And do I think it's the greatest for you? No. But if you had to do one, rea for sure. For sure. It's a triple receptor. It works so well. I can't even keep it in stock half the time because it's so good and so effective. By the way, if you want it, message me. Just say the word rea and I'll just send you the link. Don't ask me questions cuz I'm not going to give you any answers. Don't ask me questions or how to do it or how to mix it. You guys asking me how to mix it. [\h__\h] look on Google. Yeah, it pisses me off. How helpless are you? That's why you're fat. That's why you're broke. That's why your wife left because you aren't willing to do the work. Yes, it bugs me. And if that triggers you, that's a problem between you and God, not me. But if you want Retta, this that's not this has nothing to do with this. But if you want Retta, send me the word rea. Rea, I'll just send you the link. Buy it. By the way, it is if you don't like using crypto, don't buy from me. I'm not selling you [\h__\h] without crypto anymore. I'm just not. I'm just not. Because 95% of you guys are a bunch of scammers with your credit cards. You get something and then you go, I'm going to dispute it. it didn't work for me or I didn't like it or I wasn't willing to do the work. I'm not taking your risk. You're taking mine. So, if you don't like that, go buy it somewhere else. Good luck. Nobody will give it to you. Listen, I've been around I've been a doc for 25 years and I've got the most solid reputation online cuz I'm anytime even if I have screwed up, I owned it right away. But I never [\h__\h] with people's health ever. I take my hypocratic oath very seriously. So if you want to deal with a doctor who gives a [\h__\h] about you, there you go. But you guys rage out when someone calls you out on your lack of application because you haven't done anything. When I say depression and poverty or choices now that you're a grown man or woman, you call it what? Abbleist. Is that the latest thing? Abbleist. Because it's easier to blame your brain than admit that you're just lazy. You are. You're just lazy. Offense is not oppression. It's a mirror. I got a D mark. You guys wouldn't know it, but I got two little Shih Tzus sitting right here. We've got three dogs. Giant Aussie. He's about 85 lbs. He's a nutcase. He's a savage. And then two two Shih Tzus. Bandit and Blaze. They're good little dogs. We've had them for about God, it's got to be six years now. But anyway, they're sitting here hanging with me in my studio today. But offense is not oppression. It's a mirror. And And you're not mad at me. You're not You're not You're mad at that somebody It just happens to be me, but you're mad that somebody finally said what you already [\h__\h] know and ripped your little dis or your little comfort bandage blanket right off of you in public. In public. I'm humiliated. Or you just face the truth. You're not triggered because I'm wrong. You're not. You're triggered because I'm right. And now the responsibility is yours. Like I I didn't grow up soft. My dad worked me like a rented mule. My mom had rules. I didn't get cuddled and I sure as hell didn't cry if somebody ever said I was weak. I got to work. You guys, you hide behind your feelings. You call the truth an attack. That's not the truth. That's not my truth is what you say. There's no my truth or your truth. There is the truth. But you call it an attack. You weaponize your own emotions because it keeps you from having to face the war inside your own soul. Listen, you're upset. Good. You're upset. Good. Then I know where to dig. See, people only get defensive when the ammo's live. And all your little Tik Tok therapists ain't giving you live rounds. They're handing you affirmations and little snack breaks and pillows. Meanwhile, I'm over here lobbing facts like [\h__\h] grenades, and you're pissing yourself because I dared to say the problem might be you. It might be you. Oh, heaven forbid. Right. See, you here's why you reject the truth. You reject it not because it's incorrect, but because it demands accountability. The offended mind resists order. It resists growth. It resists meaning. Because embracing the painful truth means death to that identity you've built on all of your excuses. And most people would rather preserve a lie than die and be reborn as somebody responsible. But you don't get anything out of your life. And you spend your entire life wishing you were somebody else. So how about this? Here's your [\h__\h] wakeup call. You don't get triggered by lies. You get triggered by facts that shatter your favorite little fantasy. And if you're still hiding from discomfort, you're still a child. You're a child in an adult's body. There's a lot of toddlers out here playing adult. You're living, I don't know, half-life built on half-truths, pretending your feelings are more important than your damn future. Stop protecting your weaknesses. Let me tell you how truth works because I think you guys are just you're misconstrued. You listen to this guy talk about truth when he did this in his past and he did that in the past. Dude, I'll go toe-to-toe with you and air out every ounce of my dirty laundry. How about you? You won't. I'll drag all my [\h__\h] out into the light all day. I don't hide truth. You do. That's why you point at everybody else's. So, let me tell you how truth works. If it ain't about you, you don't feel a damn thing. It goes in one ear and out the other just like plain boring white noise. But if it's about you, oh, you feel knotted up in your gut. Punches you in the soul. You get that sick, hot, shaky, like just rage energy rising in your chest. You start making excuses before the sentence even ends. Why? Because deep down you know it's true. Listen, anytime I've said something that pisses you off, you weren't offended because I was wrong. You were offended because I said something that you've been trying not to say to yourself. Like, like even this, it's still here. Still here. This grocery bill, the one that was I have to look at it. I don't remember what. 630 something. Where are we here? $622.33. 622 right there. One week of groceries. And you guys went bad [\h__\h] You guys went bad [\h__\h] Never mind the RM on the bill or anything. You guys went nuts. All your validations and attacks and everything. All because you couldn't spend 622 bucks on groceries. Or you validate why you would never do that. What a waste of [\h__\h] money, but you don't have the money because you aren't doing the work to earn the money. That's why you're mad. You're not mad about the groceries. You're mad that it's calling you out that you can't do it. That is 3 months worth of groceries cuz you're a [\h__\h] poor broke ass and you get mad about that. Do something about it. I've been poor. I've been broke. So, it's not like I'm speaking from some place that I've never been. I lived in my car. I'm missing a lung. Dude, I could go headtohead with you on any catastrophe you've ever had, and I guarantee you I'll win. Like I said, you weren't offended because I was wrong. You were offended because it's all the things you've been trying not to say to yourself. Like I said, you're fat because you eat like a farm animal and move like a corpse and you got mad. Not because it's false, but because it exposed the truth that you've been hiding from yourself for years. Because it took a flashlight that you've been swinging at everybody else and it turned it on you. It made you look at yourself instead of all the things you're pointing at everybody else. It's what I just said. You know who doesn't get offended? Winners. Winners. Leaders. Men building. Men creating. Men who own their [\h__\h] and take responsibility. You know who gets offended? Men who are pretending, little toddler baby [\h__\h] boys, men defending weakness as an identity. Men who are so far from who they could be, they treat every truth bomb like it's a personal attack. I'm not attacking you. When I tell you the truth, it's not an attack. It's me going, "For the love of God, do better. If someone says something false about you, you laugh. At least I would. I don't care if it's true. Oh, God, it rattles your cage. You get so bent out of shape." That's your signal not to run. It's to fix it. Listen, you can't outwork the truth. It'll find you at 2 a.m. 3:00 a.m. It'll find you when you scroll past that video. It'll find you when someone else like me calls you out for quitting every damn thing you start for being a liar. See, that's nothing pisses me off more than a liar. That's when you That's when you flinch. That's when you say, "This is toxic." No, [\h__\h] This is the truth. And it hurt because it's about you. I'll say something that pisses you off. I like it. I'm okay with that because it's the truth. And if I say something that pisses you off, that's great. Because it means that we finally found the nerve that you've been hiding under all of your therapy buzzwords and cheat meals. You triggered my trauma. No, I exposed your pattern and instead of breaking it, you wrapped it in a blanket and you asked for more likes, more follows, more attention, and more approval. But no solution. Offense is a byproduct of emotional immaturity. Go ahead and write that down. To become triggered is to demonstrate the gap between who you are and who you wish you were. The insult is not in the words. You guys get that. It's the alignment. Yours theirs. So, whoever this is talking about with the inadequacies inadequacies that you've chosen not to confront. Here, I'll make it easy. It's all the stuff that you've been ignoring that you know you should do. You're not under attack. You're under audit. If you respond with outrage instead of this deep introspection, you forfeit your personal opportunity to grow. And here's what most men won't admit. The mo the moment the instant something triggers you is the moment you should lean in and ask why. Why did that hurt? Why did that upset me? Because that's your blueprint. That's your road map. That's your healing. In fact, that's the exact spot where the [\h__\h] ends and the breakthrough begins. You want to talk about breakthroughs, that's it. Most of you go and run. You hide, you cancel, you ostracize, you hate, you cry because it's easier to feel better than to do something to make sure you are better. I think if you asked yourself, what truths have I been? What offends me? That's it. Just stop there. What offends me? And what do those things say about the lies that I've been telling myself? What offends me when I see something and I get offended? What is that? Because what does that say about everything that I've been hiding? All the lies that I've been saying. Because if you're not willing to turn that volume up, you're going to stay where you are and blame everybody else. Go ahead, [\h__\h] It ain't about me. But then don't get pissed off when somebody blows by you who's willing to look at their own life instead of everybody else's and solve their problems before they try and solve everybody else's. You're not looking for truth. Most of you, you're looking for someone to tell you that your excuses are valid and justified. You don't want the red pill. You want the sugar-coated blue one. And you want it all. But you want more than that. You want it all wrapped up in dopamine and compliments topped with a side of validation and follows and likes, star emojis, and you're so brave. But yet you say you want change, but the second someone tells you what it actually requires, you fold. So you don't want change. You want approval because the truth demands action and you'd rather be comforted in all of your weakness than confronted in all of the power. [\h__\h] What do you want your life to look like? All of that stuff is on the other side of the truths that you are not willing to face and the ones that you are too busy getting offended by jumping into the comments and just rattling off like a [\h__\h] toddler. You've been hypnotized by the culture of soft. Oh, take your time. Don't be so hard on yourself, bro. You're doing your best. This it's not your fault. Sound familiar? Because that's all of you guys. That's not healing. That's enabling. How is this so difficult to understand? And you eat it up like it's gospel because it gives you permission to keep your foot off the gas and your ass deep in the dirt. Listen, you don't want to be a beast. You want to be accepted. Not a chance, man. I'll be a beast all day. People go, "I'm more of a beast than you." And then why are you so fat and why are you so broke and why is your wife off banging her trainer? Don't get offended cuz if it offends you then it's true. You want to be accepted. So when somebody says you're not fat like a doctor because of your thyroid, you're fat because you eat garbage and skip the gym. You cry. You get a me you get angry and try and cancel them. You report them to whoever YouTube, Instagram. The fact that even exists is embarrassing. You you don't fact check it. You don't act on it. You cancel it because the truth offends your fragile little identity. You don't want transformation. You want applause for standing there just still doing nothing. You want to feel good about staying the same. You should approve and and applaud me for doing nothing. I'm so brave. You want to be told that you're a warrior because you went to therapy once and lit a candle, listened to 9-in nails, and called it brave. You guys, most of you guys want someone to say, "It's okay. It's all right. It's all right, Tommy. This isn't your fault." Because that way, you never have to fix your diet, your money, your business, your marriage, your psychology, or your damn habits. You don't have to, cuz it's not your fault. You don't want to win. You want to be seen trying without actually trying. So, you want the credit for the work without even doing the work. You just want people to think you're doing the work. You ever see somebody post about their growth journey? You see these people, they're like, "Let me tell you all about my growth journey in the last two years when I got divorced and how much of a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] I am." While doing the same dumb [\h__\h] they've done for 10 years, still broke, still validating, still blaming, still asking for patience. That ain't a growth journey. That's a scenic tour of your own denial. You don't want growth if you're doing that. You want a pity party with cupcakes and jelly donuts and no mirrors? Don't show me that I'm fat, that I'm irresponsible, that I'm worthless. I just want everyone else to approve of me. The modern individual is no longer pursuing truth. They're curating comfort, right? They surround themselves with voices that that never they never challenge. You never get challenged by these voice. I get challenged all the time. But you surround yourself with voices that never challenge, environments that never stretch, and ideologies that never ever require transformation. And in doing that, they become not liberated. They become enslaved to a narrative that justifies every shortcoming as fate, trauma, or some horrific injustice. It is easier to be told that you are enough than to confront the fact that you're just not. And I'll go as un you know me, I'm as unfiltered as it gets. You already know what needs to change in your life. You do. You already know what's holding you back. You already know who you've become. But the second that somebody says it out loud, oh yeah, you get triggered. Except it's not because it's false. It's because it means the charade is over and that illusion is dead. And now it's all on you. Like you guys reject truth in favor of comfort. where I've done that. It almost cost me everything. So where in your life are you rejecting truth in favor of comfort and maybe look what's it cost you? Can you guys hear that on there? Me gulping water like I haven't drank anything in my entire life. I think you ever notice look online. Let's just take online. We I could go into all kinds of things. television li like events, radio, it doesn't matter, but just online. You ever notice what happens right before anybody lashes out online? Just listen to me. Follow me. They don't refute you with logic. They don't they don't bring in real facts. They don't build a better case. They'll tell you, "I'm offended." And then they slam the panic button because the truth cornered them and their guilt can't [\h__\h] breathe. It's like a boa constrictor around their neck. Offense is just guilt. That's all it is. Just guilt that's been left unresolved. That's what offense is. You want the definition? You're welcome. Guilt that's just been left unresolved. It's shame that's trying to escape responsibility by shooting the damn messenger. What do they say, though? Don't shoot the messenger. Do you guys get all pissed off at the person telling you the truth, yet that's the truth you desperately need? You say something that exposes their laziness or their passivity, their cowardice. And here, listen, instead of admitting it, they start swinging like truth is violence. The modern man is, listen, the modern man is so damn weak. He thinks being exposed is the same as being attacked. You guys have no [\h__\h] idea. That's why the truth hits so hard. It doesn't just hurt. It threatens the entire lie that he's been living. That's why you get so mad. You're not mad at me. You're mad at You're mad that I told you the thing. the thing that your own inner voice has been whispering at you for years and now you can't ignore it anymore because everybody can see it, including you. And you can't even walk past a mirror without seeing it. Whether it's your body, your mindset, your psychology, your marriage, it doesn't matter. Do you ever feel that burning in your chest when someone calls you out? Cuz I have, and I damn well know anybody that's triggered has it. That's not anger. That's guilt. That's your soul asking, "Dude, why haven't we fixed this yet? I know I want more. Why won't you take me there?" You didn't get mad because I lied. You got mad because I held up a damn mirror and now you see the truth in 4K. And instead of doing the work, you choose offense. What? You choose offense. And I here's why. Because it's the only weapon weak men have left. When reality finally shows up and punches them right in the mouth, you're not a victim. You're just guilty and obnoxiously loud. It's wild how fast people go from live your truth to how dare you say that when the truth ain't pretty and it doesn't come with a [\h__\h] filter. You're not oppressed. You're just pissed that somebody finally stopped applauding your stupid [\h__\h] Like guilt when unadressed, let me explain this part because it's not just guilt. Guilt when left unadressed becomes weaponized through outrage. This is not courage. This is not virtue. This sure as hell isn't righteousness. It's I love this part. It's psychological projection. Maybe you should Google it or chat GPT it because that's what it is. I guarantee you that my definition right now is 100% accurate. You guys just don't like it. Not in every case. Every case. Rather than confront their moral failure, they cast blame outward. They cast it at the speaker, at the standards, at the system because if the standard is valid, their lifestyle is not. And that psychologically is unbearable to the unexamined man. That's why change my mind. You can't cuz I'm right. Because here's what most people don't understand. When something offends you, that's not a call to cancel it. That's a call to confront it. You guys have it all mixed up. You're convoluted in the way you're looking at everything. Your guilt is talking and it's not your enemy. It's your opportunity. You feel exposed. Good. That's your conscience telling you it's time to go change. Maybe instead just go, what moments of offense was actually my own damn guilt screaming at me to change. And what would it look like if I just finally [\h__\h] listened? That is literally all you have to do to change your life is just listen. You feel that that twinge, that anger, that rage, that fury inside you. Listen to it. It is desperately trying to tell you something because where, not even where, why, why are you triggered in the first place? Ruminate on that while I drink coffee. Why are you even triggered in the first place? It's almost a rhetorical question. You can answer it, but I already know the answer. It's because there's a lie in your life that you've been protecting for so long that you forgot that it was a damn lie. Maybe it's the I'm doing my best. Not everybody's you. I don't want everybody to be me. The world doesn't need nine billion Spartans running around. The world needs 9 billion men and women giving everything they [\h__\h] got, not telling people they are actually doing it. So maybe it's the comments, your lies. I'm doing my best. These are all the things that are triggering you. the thought and the verbalization of the fact that you think you're doing your best, that it's not your fault, that I've been through a lot. Oh, I lost my dad last year. Was horrible. I lost my dad, too. It was terrible. I was trying to go through cancer. Me, too. Four times. I was trying to figure out my marriage. I've been married 20 years. You don't think we've had to do that? I was I had no money. I was bankrupt twice. I lost everything so bad that I lived in my car and slept with a screwdriver under my arm. I could do this all day. I'll just get to it when I'm ready. I just need more time to heal. How much time do you think you've got? No, you don't need any of that. You need to kill the lie. You need to destroy that story that gives you permission to stay in the same place while pretending you're on the path. You ain't on the path, sweetheart. The trigger is nothing more than truth. Throat stomping your excuse with a steeltoed boot. You want peace, kill the excuse. You want confidence, kill the delay. Move faster. You want freedom, kill the [\h__\h] lie. Because until you do, you're going to get triggered. I promise you, you're going to get triggered by everyone who's doing better than you. And this, yeah, I realize a lot of social media is a highlight reel, but those that aren't and are doing better. Look at all of you guys that get pissed off by success. Why? Instead of you going, I hate that they flaunt it at me. Don't follow them. I hate that I have to see it. Block them. Well, I don't like the way they do it. Again, you keep seeking them out. You watch movies, $25 million a film for actors and actresses. You watch athletes play sports. Why don't they trigger you? That's different. No, it's not. You've put them so far beyond your possibility, but the people you see online are like, "Fuck, I could have just done that if I would have just never quit. That's why you're triggered by people doing better than you." And here's what's even crazier. Every man living in truth is offensive to the man living in delusion. I will be offensively offensive to you for the rest of my life. I hope so, cuz I just tell the truth. You don't hate the millionaire. You don't hate the billionaire. You hate that that he proves your poverty is optional. You don't hate the fit guy like me. You don't You hate my discipline that makes your excuses look like horseshit. You don't hate the alpha like me or anybody else. You hate that our strength exposes how soft you are and that you need to be in touch with your feelings. You want peace? Start telling the truth about who you are and kill anything in your life that protects your lie. Readro says it. Rewrite your damn story. Listen, you want to stop getting triggered, then stop living like a liar. Stop being a lying piece of [\h__\h] It's all you have to do. I can't stand liars. I can't. I had a guy in our life both promised Brandy and I the world all kinds of [\h__\h] for over a year kicking back the date to fruition. Literally month after month, I promise it'll be this month. Oh, you're going to see this. Oh, you're going to see that. I'm going to help you do this. I'm going to help you do that. It's been over a year, I've seen absolutely nothing. But I've helped this [\h__\h] so many times with so many of his problems, and I've seen nothing in return. Do you know why? Because I'm not a liar. So when people drag out a day to fruition, but then they tell you it's still in the plans, go [\h__\h] yourself until I see results, scars, bleeding for it, and results, you're a liar. So keep that in mind when you do that to yourself. Stop living like a liar. Because then the man who lives in truth doesn't flinch. He doesn't argue. He doesn't validate. He doesn't justify. He doesn't come up with reasons why it's going to be later. He doesn't get offended. He nods when someone calls him out because he already made peace with what it is and he's already doing the work to fix it. But you, you're triggered because the lie that you're living can't survive the light of truth. The devil owns the darkness. Drag your [\h__\h] into the light and let God and Jesus just rain down on you and save every [\h__\h] thing you've got because all of your problems will go away because you will solve them. He won't solve them for you. He will give you the opportunity to solve them and show you how. Yes, it will come dressed as work, but the devil owns the dark. You cannot beat him in the darkness. So, stop getting triggered and just drag your life into the light. So, listen, either fix your [\h__\h] life or keep throwing tantrums when someone tells you that's broken. Look, you you can't be both triggered and honest. It's impossible because when you're honest, you don't need defense. You've already surrendered all of your [\h__\h] You've just let it all go, but you're still trying to sell that same tired ass Saabb story about how your situation is different. It's not different. You're not different. The rules are the same. And the truth is undefeated of all times. It is. Since the dawn of mankind, the truth is undefeated. So either get better or keep pretending that your life is your lifestyle. It's okay. It's all on you, man. It doesn't hurt me because I get up and I tell the truth every day. If I'm in a shitty mood, I'm still going to do things that I need to do. If I'm not where I want to be, I look at something and I go, "That's what I want, man. That's what I want. What do I need to do to get there?" I don't get offended by those people. I go, "Well, it's [\h__\h] possible cuz they're doing it." And even if I don't get to their exact position, even if I get to number two, still better than where I'm at. But like I said yesterday, you guys won't even make your best move. You'll just throw in the towel, get triggered, and point your finger at everybody else, call them lucky, and hate everything about their success, and blame your genetics. Listen, the path to your transformation begins the moment that your ego is dismantled. And if you go, "Oh, bro, you have an ego." No, I don't. I'm confident because I've been willing to come to terms with every screw- up I've ever made, and I've owned the [\h__\h] out of it, and I will continue to own it. Unshakable confidence is what makes me win. Because no matter how bad it gets, no matter how shitty it is, no matter how upset I am, how angry I am, I know I'm going to win. I know for a fact. I already know I'm going to win. And if people go, "That's delusional." That's why you lose. And I don't. The lie you protect is the prison that you remain in. Like, please tell me you understand that triggers are not wounds. They're warnings. That's literally a flag waving going, "Hey, pay attention to me, man." And until you stop reacting to them like they're insults, which they're not, and start responding to them like a blueprint, which it is, you are never going to create anything that you want, you're never going to get out of the hole. You are going to be stuck in that manure pile for your entire life. You cannot build a future on a foundation of selfdeception, which is where you guys live. either excavate the lie, expose it, destroy it, and build a life that can stand without any excuses or sit there and shut up because your constant attacks and talking about how oppressed and offended you are is just reinforcing the fact that you're a [\h__\h] Here, I'll say it plainly. If something I say offends you, it's not because I was wrong. It's because you've been living wrong. And the only way to silence that trigger is to go to war with the story and the lie that's just been keeping you small. So honestly, either get offended again by listening to this or grow the [\h__\h] up, get free. It's your move, man. It's not me. Your move. I got to go. Never miss.