So listen, today I'm going to take a little bit of a different direction today. I'm going to give you a bunch of health information to fix a lot of your problems. To fix two of your problems, you want to fix more problems, just join my mastermind. That's what I do. I solve your problems. Money, health, it doesn't matter. Listen, I think part of the problem is a lot of people have no idea what I do in the Unbreakable Mastermind. My wife said that. She goes, "You know, I think a lot of people don't even know what you do in the Unbreakable Mastermind." I said, "Son of a [\h__\h] You're probably right." Everybody that's in it, any of you guys that are in it that are listening to this, first of all, thank you. I really appreciate that. And second of all, you need to tell everybody about this mastermind and how badass it is and what you've gotten out of it. cuz I have never had anybody join my mastermind ever and not say within less than a week this is the best thing they ever could have done. Don't take my word for it. Go to Instagram and type in the word join in my messages and you'll see testimonials of people just pop up in your DMs. It this is I'm as real as it gets. But most people have no idea. So I'm going to be very honest. Most masterminds or coaching groups, they're pure bunk. They give you this raw little motivation, maybe some very nebulous Google searching, Google coaching that you could find anywhere that you're gonna while you're going to pay 10, 20 grand for a year to somebody whose life behind closed doors is not what they're showing you. My life is exactly the way you see it. I have crazy cars. I have a lot of money. I love my wife more than anything in the world. I adore my wife, Brandy, so much. Oh, God. just I love my wife more than you can possibly imagine. I thank God every day for my wife. I walk with God. My family walks with God. I train harder than the way you guys see because I just stop putting every single thing I do out on on social media and on the internet and on YouTube because most of you guys would just sit there and whine and complain about how it's not healthy. Then don't [\h__\h] do it. I will outwork everybody I've ever met. And people take that as some kind of offensive statement. It's not. I train hard because I'm fighting every demon in my head and making sure that I'm in control. I'm getting rid of all the garbage that's in my head when I train. The byproduct is I'm fit and athletic. But I come out here every day for free to give you answers. And if you don't like the truth, you're not going to like me. If you don't like the direct approach, you're not going to like me. If you want solutions that actually work and you're going to actually do it, you're going to love everything I tell you. But that's what I do in my mastermind. I solve problems. That's all I do. Whether it's money, I we have a guy that's he just made 140 grand last week. He made 200 grand the week before. Don't take my word for it. Look him up. Tom Commerce. Ask him yourself. I do this all the time. Yes, I'm that good, but I don't h I don't put all this stuff out. And I just figured, you know what? I'm going to start because apparently nobody has the depth to go one layer deeper to see what the [\h__\h] it is that I do. So, it's my responsibility to show you guys. But listen, before we go any further, these guys, they give you this raw motivation. I'm tired of these Google groups or these coaching groups and these there's somebody out there that has my unbreakable. [\h__\h] off, man. It's mine. And there's nothing about you that's unbreakable. I am. I'll prove it. I'll go toe-to-toe with anybody that says that. But they charge all this money and their life isn't like that. That bugs me when you're going out and you're trying to solve problems claiming that you have the solution, but you haven't solved the ones in your life. You have no business trying to help anybody else. Help yourself first. I had to because my life was in shambles. And by the way, like I am a very big advocate and I will get to the solutions that I'm going to give you. Health, if you have health issues, you want to watch this episode. I'm a very big advocate of masterminds and coaching groups. I really am because they work better than almost anything else because of the accountability. But the problem is who you're accountable to. Like I do three things in my mastermind. I'll make it very easy. I solve any health problem you throw at me. I don't care. I have solved cancer problems for real. I have any wealth problems. I will scale your business from zero. I don't have an idea what to do for a business all the way up to I have a nine figure business owner, multiple nine figure business owners in my group. And I will solve your relationship problems. Your relationship with yourself, with God, with your spouse, it doesn't matter because I've done most of it. I spent all Monday just getting a volley of questions from a shitload of people in my Monday call. You guys saw the video that's live. Those are all the people that are in my group. This is the fastest growing coaching group and m or fastest growing mastermind group in the world for a reason because nobody coaches like I do because I'm solving real problems. I don't just have you come in my group and tell you how to here's some magic script and here's how you scale and here's how you do it organically because I never used ads. I don't do any of that and I'm real. I'm not some simpy dude and I tell you what actually works and I'll call you out on your own [\h__\h] because I know you do the same for me. But I'm a very big advocate for masterminds and coaching groups. You just have to make sure that you are accountable to the right people. Most of these online transformational specialists. They they haven't even transformed their own lives. Don't take my word for it. Don't really don't find one of these coaches and throw questions at them that would be almost impossible to find an answer for on the internet. I'm I'll almost guarantee that 99% of them give you some cookie cutter straight out of someone else's playbook answer that they've never done themselves. My wife and I, like I said, we were talking about people nowadays and how all of these Insta gurus and coaches have come out of the woodwork as self-proclaimed experts. Experts of what? I'm 52. I have a track record of kicking ass and taking names. I've had multiple clinics. I've had I multiple clinics doing well over seven plus figures a year before it was trendy to even put on social media. Nobody even knew except my wife and I and the fact that people saw us having nice cars and living in a big house. But other than that, nobody knew. We've done this. We built fitness. We've battled cancer. We've solved the marriage equation. We've done it all. So when I see people with these coaches come out, experts of what? Cuz you have a nice car. What? Because you you allegedly went through some health crisis. You still haven't because you spent all your time complaining about it. So clearly you haven't. Where's your expertise? I want to know. I want to know. I want to see it. Show me. Surface level problem solving is what I see. Which is why I built this mastermind. You know why my mastermind is growing faster than anyone else's in the world right now? It's because of what I just said. Because I actually solve problems. Real problems. The problem isn't my solution. It's that most people are too lazy and they think that something should do the work for them and they should just reap the benefits. Not going to happen. Don't hang out with me if that's what you think. Like I've cured cancer in my mastermind. Real. And I'll bet that at least one of the people that I've done that for has taken all of the information and claimed it as their own. Listen, I've even sent a client thousands of dollars worth of a number of things that they couldn't purchase somewhere else to help them solve their problem cuz I actually give a [\h__\h] And they ghosted after they got what they wanted. Those are the people that are creating coaching groups, which is why I'm telling you this stuff. You can't listen to people like that cuz they're going to do the same thing to you. Why would you like I am here every day. Find a day that I've missed. I haven't. Like I've cured cancer. I've cured depression. I've cured anxiety. I've cured self-worth problems. psychology. I've scaled businesses to a million per month. And I've done it all live on the calls with proof by the business owners. I've solved lead generation and automation and social media. I've solved marriage problems and weight loss. I've solved just about every possible health issue. I've solved connection with God. And why is that, do you ask? Because I actually do this for you guys. I don't do this for me. I've done it for me. I come out here and I give you solutions for you here. and I solve your problems in real time on the mastermind call because I want you to win. So before I go down this rabbit hole giving you a buyer beware for the coaching clowns out there that who haven't even solved their own lives, how about I just solve something for you guys right now. So I get dozens of messages. This is literally shooting from the head. I get dozens of messages every day asking for help across the same three categories: health, wealth, relationships. Now, I've gone pretty hard into the paint on psychology and money, right? Building a business, getting your money, how to get very rich, how to bulletproof your psychology over the last little while. So, today I'm just going to hit some of the questions that I've got about health. One is from a client that I got this morning, actually, and they're health questions. Let's see how many I get through before I get too hungry and I want to go have date night with my wife. These are what I'm going to tell you is real life. It'll work 100% of the time. These are the kind of solutions. So, let's go through some stuff. that. So, I'm going to go into a little bit of a deeper dive on this, but something as simple as allergies. So, I have two clients. Uh, one of them, he's in both are in my group, but one of them asking me a very specific question about allergic renitis, a bunch of swollen membranes. They don't want want to go in and do a bunch of surgery to shave down the turbineates. No. Kill all. So, I'll give you the very basics. I I'm not going to go into the details of what I gave him, but this is something that you need to add. Kill all dairy completely. All of it. And if you start arguing about dairy or your bones being fragile or shattering or you're going to whatever problem you're going to manifest, no, you get more calcium from spinach. But kill all dairy and fix your liver. The it plays a critical role in allergy problems. Food, environmental, it doesn't matter. So here's how you fix your liver. I'll go through this real quick because honestly, I want to go hang out with my wife because have you seen my wife? Like 20 years and she just gets sexier by the day. So, whatever allergies you have, if it's a food allergy, by the way, you need to find out what food it is. But as far as it like you have sinus allergies around from the environment, your nose is chronically stuffed up and you're not an afrin addict. Milk thistle. You want to detox your liver and kill all your dairy. All of it. Every single bit of dairy in your like we're talking cheese, yogurt. Don't start giving me the nonsense about what about Greek yogurt? What about this yogurt? Dairy is dairy. I've gone into this. It is good for baby cows. because it is not good for humans. Period. I'm tired of people arguing this. Argue all you want. Go back to your symptoms and quit asking me to help you cuz I gave you the solution. You just don't like it. So kill all your dairy. Yes, I'm that I'm just I'm a real [\h__\h] doctor. I'm just not too much of a [\h__\h] to tell you the truth. I want you to win. You got to want to win. That's the psychological part. So milk thistle is one of the best detoxes for the liver that you can possibly take. Start at 1,000 milligrams and work up to 2,000 milligrams a day. There's a supplement. It's called Lymphonist by Marco. It's one of the most incredible lymphatic cleansers on earth. I would do 50 40 50 drops in the morning, 40 50 drops in the evening. Right? I think you I haven't used it for a while. I have some still in my house. I I'm a practitioner, right? So, I have a license which allows me to buy things that a lot of people can't. So, if you have questions about it, just hit me up at supportpartan armylllc.com. That's where you hit me up with questions. You send them to me on Instagram, I might answer them. I don't know. I get about a thousand messages a day. So, if you have So, that's what I would start with as far as clearing out your lymphatic system, cleaning up the liver, and getting rid of the allergy issues. If you have a specific food allergy, by the way, figure out which one it is and cut that food out forever. It's not complicated. It's not. Dairy causes more allergy problems, by the way, let me back up. than any other food group on the planet. You're not supposed to eat it. I don't care if it's from a goat or a turtle. Stop putting dairy in your body. Runny nose, stuffy nose, red nose, rhyitis. Get the hell off of dairy. Here's why. When dairy, when you ingest it, and you can argue all you want. I am still right. When you ingest it, it makes your body produce more mucus. So, we're talking like cheese, yogurt, milk, all of it. Get rid of it for 2 months. I guarantee that you will feel better. And another one that people hear this and they go, "Here we go." It has to be local. Local honey. Take one to two tablespoons a day. It's all you got to do because it's going to have the attributes of the pollen that's all around your area, which is what's causing you to have the allergic response. Or you can keep taking handfuls of Claritin and Tavst and antihistamines and benadryils before you go to bed and all that stuff. That's fine. But I'm trying to help you so you don't have to take all that crap and screw up your system. But again, milk thistle and lymph that those are the things you need. get rid of dairy and probably most of your 90% of your problems are going to be gone. Now, I had a client, the wife of a client ask me about rosacea. Now, the rosacea is a little unique. If you don't know what rosacea is, it's reening of the face, a flushing of the cheeks, right? And it's not sunburn or anything like that. It's there's a real deal to this. But the problem is they use topical steroid creams, antibacterial creams, or even oral antibiotics. And none of those things are going to permanently change and solve the problem. They're not. It is not a skin problem. It's a systemic problem. And I'll explain why. And when you hear why, you're going to be very alarmed. The area that's responsible for rosacea is the spleen. So, let me explain what the spleen is cuz some of you guys are like, I don't even know what that is. Okay? Left hand side of the body. It's the largest lymphatic organ in your body. And it's responsible for almost all of your immune function. Almost all of your immune reactions. It does it does immune function and it's connected to everything in your body via the lymphatic system. So you see where I'm going with this. And it removes tired old broken down red blood cells. You make red blood cells in the flatbones primarily the bone marrow of the flatbones and you destroy them. You have to take them back up. You need something to do that otherwise they just circulate. And the spleen does that. The spleen takes up the red blood cells that don't have any iron. No iron. They can't bind to oxygen. Right? That's just the simple red blood cell physiology that that you might want to know. So here's what happens with rosacea. The spleen has an infection. I could probably stop here. Go out and get some dervet and you'll be good. But there's more to it. Yeah, it probably would work one month maybe at the most and the rosacea will be cleared up. But the issue becomes there's more to it than that. And if you're looking at things like an antihelment like like panicure, right? the other version of the the horse paste. It's a different version, a different type panicure. See, you need to take it once and then take it again in two weeks when the eggs hatch that are in you. It sounds gross, but it's a fact. So, you can kill the second round. Otherwise, you're just going to keep running cycles, right? So, Dervet, the ivormectin, you can take the whole tube over time, right? The size of your pinky nail. the panicure take once a solid dose three days at the most and then wait two weeks and then do that again so you kill all the eggs that hatched and all your problems would be gone as far as a a parasitic infection goes but with this it's the spleen so the spleen is infected the spleen rosacea spleen infection viral bacterial fungal parasitic guaranteed 100% guaranteed the problem is you don't know what kind it is right so if it's there's a lot of things like if it's an antibiotic and you took it and your rosacea went away awesome then you had a bacterial infection and they threw a dart and hit the right one. It usually takes about 1 to two months to clear out the infections and the rosacea goes away. Now, here's where rosacea gets a little complicated and this was her concern. This was my client's concern today this morning and it was that it is the precursor 100% of the time to SLE lupus, right? Systemic lupus, right? And lupus is no joke. Don't [\h__\h] with lupus. lupus don't because they treat it with off label chemotherapeutic drug methatraxate. They they will give you hydroxychloricquin right which is an autoimmune suppressant for it's an antimmalarial and they'll give you predinazone. The issue is you can't manage it with anything else other than that then the effects there's no such thing as side effects and I realize I'm going full medical physiology health on this vlog but you guys need to understand this. There's more to what I know than just how to get you guys to do things that you need to do to change your life. This is and again all of this information is worthless if you're not willing to do it right. Same thing with making you grow your business. I'll get you to whatever number you want in my mastermind. And if you want to do one-on-one, I promise I'll get you there because I'll stand on your throat. But I'm also very picky about who I take one-on-one because if I some of you guys aren't ready, like I want it. You might not be ready because I demand the same standards I have of you. And I've run people through the one-on-one program where once in a while they come out the other side and they've done 10% of what I told them to do and blame the circumstances. It's not the circumstances. You were a [\h__\h] It's that simple. You were soft. So, my standards become yours. So, if you're not ready to do that, do not ask for one-on-one, but join my mastermind. And I'll tell you, it's such it's worth it because you get I answer these questions live every Monday. I don't care what you have going on in your life. I will solve it. That's your life equation. Your life equation in the moment. Remember what I was talking about it. And if you followed me, like I said, for any amount of time, the life equation that I'm always solving for is the variable of the moment, which means this is the goal on this side, the target, whatever it is. Get rid of rosacea. These are all the hurdles and obstacles and adversities I have to overcome in order to do that. That is the life equation of the moment, right? You can use this for business. You should be solving life equations all day. But your main life equation is how to make my life look like the kingdom on the horizon that I keep walking towards. I talk about this all the time. It's very important to get this through your head. So rosacea is the precursor to lupus. Don't screw with lupus. Don't because it is catastrophic and there is no such thing as side effects. There are only effects. So now you're taking an off label chemotherapeutic drug which they also use for RA, right? Rheumatoid arthritis flare-ups, methtoate. And the it's a it's chemotherapy, man. It is also a abortion pill. So there's all these things. If your body does all of these things when you take it, why would you put that in your body? And prednazone. If you don't understand how bad that is for you, then I you need to look it up. But follow me on this. Every single person I've ever seen in my CL and I've done I've been a doctor for well over two decades. Every single lupus person has had a spleen infection. Every single one. And before you guys go all kind all crazy sending me every health problem you've got. I'm going to tell you yet again. This is another reason why the Unbreakable Mastermind is the fastest growing best mastermind in the world. Nobody does this. Health, wealth, and relationships for real. I don't sit there and go, "Here's your diet. Here's your workout. Have a nice day. Let me get you motivated. Raw. You need a little pep talk. I actually know what I'm doing and nobody else can do what I do. I'm not arrogant. I'm just that good. You should be joining this because I really do solve the problems. I solve every problem. So, I'm going to give you an opportunity right now to get in. This is pure pitch. You should listen to me. I'll let you in at 90% off. The mastermind is $25,000 a year and it is only going to go up. I promise you, because it's growing that fast. But I'm so tired of seeing these [\h__\h] coaching groups and raw business and mindset groups that really do nothing but give cookie cutter basic information and go, "It's not what the information is, it's who gives it to you." No, it's not. It piss You're not given any information. And it really pisses me off. Everybody thinks it's hilarious. One of my best friends, Rick, he's, "Dude, I love that you know so much and you're so intelligent when it comes to medicine and life and business because I don't have I'm a tattooed bald guy with a big beard that curses, but if you set me off on what I need to talk about, believe me, and I've proven it time and time again, I know damn what I'm doing." But it pisses me off because these mindset groups, these raw [\h__\h] coaching groups, they just never mind. It's just aggravating. So, I'm going to just suck the eyeballs out of all of them. So, if you want in on my mastermind and you don't want to spend 25 grand, everybody should want to give me that money. By the way, it's that you're going to spend it on something stupid that's not if it saved your life, would you do it? Some of you knuckleheads be like, I don't know. You're crazy. I would spend every dime and a little bit more besides to make sure that my wife or me or my kids are okay because I've been one foot in the grave. I know what it feels like. And if you don't know my story, you should look it up. I almost died. So, it's not I'm missing this lung. Remember, I don't [\h__\h] around with this. I want you to win. Nobody coaches like this. There's plenty of motivators out there. This isn't about motivation. This is about changing your entire damn life. So, if you want to in the mastermind, I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it again. I've done this before, but I'm going to Don't keep waiting for it because eventually I'm going to stop doing this and I'm going to give you a shot to get in at 1,500 bucks for the year. $1,500 for a year. This is a $25,000 mastermind or $4,997 for lifetime access to everything, which is a $50,000 program, which there are people, ask them yourself in my group, did you pay this? They'll be like, absolutely, cuz I don't [\h__\h] These guys are full of crap everywhere. I just don't do that. You get 144 live calls a year, three each week with me. Saturday, I solve all of your limiting beliefs, anything. Bulletproof your psychology, whatever problem. I give you marching orders for the week to level up every single day until the next call. Sunday is the inner circle. I show you exactly how to build any business, solve any business problem you have or all these bad habits you got from a different coaching group. And I turn it, you can turn your business into however big you want it to be. Six, seven, eight, nine figures. I have them all in my mastermind. And it doesn't matter where you are, by the way. You could start from I don't even know what to sell. I don't even know what kind of business I should do. Okay, so what? We solve it. And Mondays, Monday evening, I have what's called the campfire. This is everybody's favorite call, mine included, where I solve anything and everything that you throw at me live on the air. I stayed on the call last Monday, almost over two hours. People just kept throwing [\h__\h] at me and I was finally like, "Okay, I got to go. I'm hungry. I want to go hang out with my family, but I'll stay on because I want you." And there was, I don't know, 50 60 people on the call. There's a ton of people on the call because they want solutions. If you want, and I promise you, this is going to be a thousand people in a call. And if you're like, "Oh, see, I don't want it. I want that many people because I'll stay on until all thousand of you have a solution. And if you doubt me, ask anybody in my group. I've stayed on for every single one of them until everybody's solutions are met for that Monday. And I'm going to do this every Monday until God says I can't. That's how badass this mastermind is. How much I give a [\h__\h] about you guys. So, here's the deal. $25,000. Go ahead, send it to me if you want, but that's this is a deal. Over 90% off. $1,500 for one year or $4,997 for lifetime access to everything, including every archive in the community. There's over a,000 recorded calls and courses. Nobody has a mastermind like this. I guarantee it. So, the lifetime membership, I said, is 50 grand unless you come off this vlog. And you message me on Instagram. On Instagram, you need to listen to the instructions. You message me on Instagram the word yes, and I will send you a payment link for each one. You choose which one you're doing. the one year or the lifetime, that's up to you. The best, like option B, the lifetime is a no-brainer to me. But hey, you do you, man. I'm not going to chase you all over the internet to join. I don't need you. People are joining. And it's not an arrogant statement. It's the truth. People are joining every day because what I do is actually give people a place where it's likeminded, solutionoriented, high performance people, all led by someone who's actually done everything. He's coaching you on me. I've done everything I teach you. I don't have any weird hidden secrets where I'm like, I really don't know what I'm talking about. That's why I built the unbreakable mastermind. That's why. All right, let's go back to rosacea real quick. Just message me and you're in. So, the spleen, right? That's left side. The problem with the spleen infection is that it's connected to every single part of your body via the lymphatic system, which is why when you have the flu, when you're sick, all that stuff, your joints hurt like crazy. Your skin hurts, every your head hurts, scalp, all that stuff. Why? You're sick. That's why because it's connected. That infection is traveling all over your body. And that's why they hurt with lupus and why when the pathogen is gone, all those symptoms are gone, including rosacea. But go even further. Fibromyalgia. Listen to me you guys. Lupus, so systemic lupus, athematosis, fibromyalgia, rosaceia, chronic fatigue, all of these are spleen infections. And I'm sure some do I'll go toe-to-toe with you if you're a doctor and I will I will bomb you with the facts. Stop lying to your patients. Knock it off. Yes, it pisses me off. Stop lying to your patients because I want you to be better. Most of those people don't. And by so those all spleen infections, lupus, fibromyalgia, rosacea, and chronic fatigue. All of those are spleen infections. And by the way, like I said, if earlier, if you take an oral antibiotic and your rosacea disappeared, go figure. Spleen infection. It was It's not an infection of your face. If you have a beard, it gets itchy. Your mustache gets itchy. So, here are some things you need to do. This this will solve your problems because I can tell you all about it. What's the fix, Bachmeire? What's the fix, Spartan? Got it. So, number one is you have a vitamin B2 deficiency, guaranteed ribboflavin. So, you're going to go out and you're going to buy your B complex. Stop buying your supplements at your local supplement store or Safeway or god forbid on Amazon. Stop it. Here's the four companies you want to use. Argue all you want, doesn't matter. One of these four. Thorn, spelled with an E at the end, Orthomolecular, Standard Process, or Professional Complimentary Health Formulas. That's it. Nowhere else. I don't care who says they got better supplements. Nowhere else. I get no money from these guys. None. I just know how well they work because I've used them all in my clinics for well over a decade. So, here's why the riboflavin does what it does. There are mites that can live in the skin and they can't tolerate B2. So crank it up 80 milligrams twice a day. There's more. We want to fix the there's there's a gut issue too. So the we have a microbiome problem which is easy to fix. So pancreatic enzyme deficiency and hydrochloric acid deficiency are also part of this puzzle. And a lot of the issue becomes nobody looks at this. They just bomb you with prennazone put topical creams on. It's not a skin problem. It's a systemic problem. you take some antibiotics is it doesn't work well because again or it slightly worse and it just keeps coming back. So if you the precursor to lupus is rosacea the precursor to all to fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, all of this is rosacea. [\h__\h] How bad do you want that problem? That's why these problems never go away because the infection if it's never handled just keeps growing and infecting and growing and infecting till your whole body is just riddled with this infection. So all of this is part of rosacea. So all of this spleenic infection you need to handle. So, you're going to want to go and take something called pancreatin. It's a pancreatic enzyme. Pancreatin. P A N C R E A T I N. You're going to take 800 mg 30 I'm going to go rip through this cuz now I'm getting hungry. 30 minutes before you eat so you can begin cranking out all those digestive enzymes to help you digest your food. 30 minutes before you eat. If you eat 10 meals a day, that's too many. Three meals is fine. One meal is even better, but that's another podcast. That's another vlog. So pancreatin 80 800 milligrams 30 minutes before you eat. Here's how you handle the hydrochloric acid deficiency. Right? So you don't have enough hydrochloric acid in your stomach. Hydrochloric acid cleaves molecules. It helps you dig. There's a lot of things it does before we I don't need to get into this, but you need to pay attention to this one because this part is completely predicated on awareness and sensation. So you want to order 600 mgram tabs or capsules. They come in both. I like the capsules. They're just easier. Some people don't tolerate the membrane, but Thorn has a really good The capsule is not doesn't have any weird crap in it. So, hydrochloric acid capsules, they're 600 mgram capsules. You want to take it right before you eat. Take the capsule, start eating your food. You're going to feel your stomach if you might not. If you start to feel your stomach get all warm, it'll feel like your stomach's getting warm inside, not from the food, by the way, when you're at the right dosage. So, if you don't feel it, that wasn't the right dosage, right? So, if you don't feel warm, work up by one pill every day. Keep adding hydrochloric acid pills, one per day extra. Do not add a whole bunch until you start feeling that warm sensation that when your stomach starts to feel warm. Once you get that feeling, you've been adding once you've been you've been adding those hydrochloric acid pills, back off by one capsule. So, if you're at six capsules before your meal, back off by one. You're taking five. You shouldn't feel it. Now, stay on that dosage. the dosage that is one tablet, one capsule below the dosage that made your stomach feel all warm. Here's what's going to happen. Over time, your stomach's going to begin making more hydrochloric acid than it's been making and it's starting to catch up. It's starting to fix itself and you're going to feel that warm stomach again out of the blue. And you're going to think, "Okay, what the hell, Spartan? Why am I starting to get the sensation? I'm taking less." Drop the dosage down by one capsule. Your body's starting to pick up the pace. When you're going to get no warmth, stay there until that feeling kicks in again and then reduce it again. Usually takes about 1 to two months. I've been doing this for 25 years helping people with this. It's like [\h__\h] magic. Probably two months in pancreatin 30 minutes before you eat hydrochloric acid, right? 600 milligrams to work your way up until you feel warm, then back off. Buy one pill and all of those spleen issues are gone along with all of the other problems, the rosacea, the pain, the joint, all that stuff. Now, there's a couple of things we can go into. You can find out if you really want to and I think it's a good idea. You should find out what the uh infection is that's in your spleen. So you can find a parasite testing center. I wouldn't use a single testing center that is on either coast or in Colorado. So I would never use California. Never use the east coast. I would never use Colorado ever or Washington ever. None of those places. Those places are train wrecks for your health. So I would look at Arizona or Texas, right? Find a parasite testing center. You just look them up. parasite testing. Just look for a stool test. So, here's how it works. Because your MD is not going to have this. You can go to your doctor. If you go to your doctor and you ask this and they go, "Oh, yeah, we could do this." They are not going to give you a very comprehensive solution to this and they're going to want to drug you anyway. So, if you want to go that route, we're not going to be friends. That's totally fine. You do you. I'll do me. I'll be healthy. You won't. But, I'm trying to give you a real solution. So, don't ask your MD for this. It's not going to do you any You can try. It's just not going to be very good. This one is much better. So, you order the They just send it to you, right? You get this kit. You just you put your poop in this kit. Yes, it's that. Just let's stop being weird. Just take some, put it in there, send it back, and in I don't know, give or take a week, maybe a little more. They're sent they'll send you the results. And there's a couple of in Arizona that work really well, and I'll find out what they are. I just don't know off hand. I It's been a while since I've sent patients to this stuff. They'll send you the results and a list of all of the supplements and things that you need to do you need to do every day to get rid of whatever the infection is. Do every damn thing they tell you to do. It's like listening to this vlog. Just do every damn thing I that I tell you because listen, why why would you want to take the chance of this progressing into lupus, which it will 100% of the time. Don't [\h__\h] with your health, man. Really, don't. It bugs me that some of you guys are so flipping careless with your health, going, I'll just wait until I'm going to do the cheapest thing for my health, the cheapest thing for my business, but I'm going to buy the car that costs me the most, the watch that costs me the most that I have no business buying, and the house that cost me the most that I have no business buying because I can't support it. But I'm not going to build the business, the mindset, my wife's going to be out banging her [\h__\h] trainer because she can't stand my big fat belly, but it doesn't matter. Like, you guys have your priorities are all screwed up. Take care of your health, your wealth, and your relationships. You need to join the Unbreakable Mastermind. There's nowhere that's better than this. Come back to lupus for a second. It's going to demolish your life because once they intervene, listen to me. Once they intervene medically because of the treatment, they're going to use methtraate. I said it's a chemotherapeutic drug which you just never want to mess around with. And I've talked about this with rheumatoid arthritis already, right? The the chloricquin, right? The antimalar antimmalarial and the predazone. All of these things are terrible. So, I would even think of things like add nicotine. And I've talked about nicotine a lot because nicotine is a supplement, not a drug. It's not a drug. 1996, they decided to classify this as something that is highly addictive and it causes problems. It does not. By the year 2030, they are trying to make it impossible for you to buy commercial nicotine and it requires a prescription. You're crazy. You better start stocking up right now. So, you need to add nicotine into your life ASAP. Use Rugby. The brand Rugby spelled just like it sounds. R U G B Y. I've said this so many times. I get no money from these guys. I just know what works. the addictive aspect of cigarettes and tobacco and everything. It's not nicotine. They proved it. Harvard proved that it is not the addictive problem. It's the 15 pyroines. There's chemicals called pyroines. There's 15 pyroines patented and approved for use that they add to the tobacco. 599 chemicals. I've talked about this before, too. I don't need to do this. And nicotine isn't what's addictive. Listen, have you ever been addicted to an eggplant or white potatoes or a red tomato? No. They have the highest concentration of nicotine in nature as far as foods are concerned. And you know what they tell you when you have rheumatoid arthritis? Avoid all nightshade, right? Avoid all nightshade vegetables because they're going to cause a flare up. No, they're not. No, they're not. And if you've had that problem, you have all kinds of other things going on. It's not just the RA. So these are all things if you have questions, support armylc.com. If you need me to fix your business, fix your marriage, fix your mindset, get rid of your limiting beliefs, bulletproof your psychology, you got health questions, send them to me. I'll either try and talk about them here on the vlog or I'm going to send you a link to join the damn mastermind because if I have people like this lady that I was talking about right now who asked me the question Jenny this morning she has a doctor on demand because they got one-on-one with me. She just sends me a message. I send her the solution 100% of the time. Her and her and her husband use me all the time. I'm always right because I'm not going to [\h__\h] with someone's health. I want you to win. Whether it's your mental health, your physical health, or it's your business health, it doesn't matter. The issue is like, God, lupus freaks me out because anytime they begin using massive amounts of corticosteroids and chemotherapeutic drugs as an answer to a health problem, the outcome is catastrophic for people. It It's like you guys have to think a little deeper about what matters. And if you want your business to grow, stop thinking that 2 hours a day is going to make I hate when people, but let me post a multi-million multi-millionaire routine every morning. Let me show you a day in the life of a hund00 million business owner. Yeah, I have a good friend of mine. His name's Eric Spaford. This guy is as legit as it gets. I absolutely love Eric because he's a no [\h__\h] guy. He's one of the most straight shooter in your face. I have lost it all. [\h__\h] up my life, burned it to the ground, built it up to epic levels, had a an exit, and is still cranking. Eric Spaford, he has a yacht called Bonus Round, and he's like levels. This guy is so good and so smart and the [\h__\h] he tells you on social media. You need to follow him. You need to give him a follow. I have another friend of mine, Howard Paynees. The guy took an EIG brand, Logic, sold it for $3 billion, is still cranking. He was 600 grand in debt. Follow him. Tell him you know the Spartan. Tell them both that you're good friends with me cuz these are two people that I highly respect. Bedros Koulian, right? an immigrant, an Armenian immigrant who has built an epic empire who is probably he is the role model that if you heard my call yesterday, that's the guy when I went what would be bad do in my head quite often that's what I'm doing and I think I'm actually older than he is but I have a lot of respect for how he handles situations and he's a very wise man. So I look for things where people are winning and I go how do I apply what they do into my life. I don't argue with them and go, "How do I find the cheapest, biggest [\h__\h] loser that's selling the most rinky dink [\h__\h] raw program that's posting all the dumb things online?" I go, "How is this going to help me? Are they coming out and showing up and helping me all the time? Can I get something from them? Can I give something to them?" That's how you have to look at your life. That's that your health, your wealth, and your relationships. And what that involves, my mastermind, the unbreakable mastermind. Nobody does it like this. You're either going to spend 1,500 or $4,997 as opposed to 25,000 a year or $50,000 a year. You choose, but you have to send the word yes to Instagram. It's not automated. You're going to get me. I'm going to send you a message with a link. That's it. Pick one. The one year or the lifetime. You get it all. Only thing you don't get, excuse me, is one-on-one with me. So, don't expect it. one-on-one with me is significantly more expensive and most of you guys would abuse it and not do anything I tell you. Just want someone to give you a pep talk once in a while. Anyway, I hope you got some information about this or that helped you. If you need anything else, you let me know. Other than that, you guys should join my mastermind Tik Tok because I'm only going to run this till probably the end of the weekend and then it's over. All right, I'll see you guys tomorrow. I'm going to date night and I'm going to have an amazing night with my wife and yeah, it's going to be awesome and messy and I just love my wife. I'll talk to you guys later. Never miss. This is where they die.