What's up, guys? I've been doing this. I'm 112 episodes deep on this and I'm only a what, quarter of the way through the year. Just a little more. These things still amaze me. If you're listening, I'm talking about AI don't know, a Hydro Flask or thermal thermos, whatever they're called. I'll give Rogue a shout out because that's what this was. It's just been dropped. Look at this thing all dented. It's always my gym. But that's ice. You guys hear this, right? Everybody listen. There's ice. That's from yesterday. Like yesterday afternoon, we're going 24 hours. It's still got ice in it. These things blow my mind. Remember, I come from a time when thermoses were plastic, had a screw on cup on the top, and they had a glass liner. And if you dropped it, you were screwed. You had to throw it in the garbage because why? There were shards of glass in there. cuz the lining broke things that sat in the top of your lunchbox. Some of you guys don't even know what a lunchbox is. You guys are so young. So, you know, I I get a lot of I get a lot of I don't know, I wouldn't say hate attention from how hard I train. A lot of people who don't train the way I do, you're training too hard. You're training too much. You're too intense, bro. I get the I liked you better when you were. I liked it better when you did this, but I'm not here for you. I'm here to be the best version of me. And I think a lot of you guys need to understand that. Like, I grew up in a time when men were men and women were women. There was no blurring of the lines. There was no gray area. A mouse's [\h__\h] is gray. That's it. Right. But I think now the lines have been blurred intentionally and the victims are all the men and the women that are making the decision to blur the lines. They are blurred. You're choosing to blur the line. And so now it's become this time like if you look at someone that's jacked and fit and capable and strong and stoic and they have a valid opinion, not just an opinion to make noise because a lot of you guys confuse your opinions for being wise. And it's not. You're not wise at all. And and don't take offense to that. Understand. Do you guys even think about what you're saying? Do you even think about what the words are going to be? Are you just excited to hear what you have next? What's going to come out of your mouth next? Or are you just acting in defense of being called out by somebody that pointed at the truth and you just don't like it? And that takes a strong person to point out the truth and then to stand by the truth. It's very easy to run a run your mouth on social media and talk. It's very easy to say I do this, I do that, and then hide behind some illustratory creation thinking that everybody believes you. But nobody believes you because your results can't lie about your discipline. You know that. Your body can't lie about it. Your bank account can't lie about it. Your marriage can't lie about your discipline. None of it. You are exposed. And so that's why the highlight reels on social media are you have to take most of the things with a grain of salt. And so when a guy like me comes out, a man like me or anybody else that comes out is very transparent. You could look, you could follow me around with a camera. You could look inside my head and you could hear my entire conversation 24/7 365. What is exactly what you see here? I am the same. I am the same here. I am the same on social media. I am the same in front of people. I am the same at church. I am the same at every meeting with my staff, with my team. I am the same all the time. But that's a rarity because a lot of people now send representatives out in an effort to avoid being ostracized and attacked. They want to go along in order to get along. And it it's men right now. I think the problem is a lot of you men, you you need to just stop being a [\h__\h] You do. You need to just stop being a [\h__\h] You don't need to get in touch with your feminine side. You need to stop being a [\h__\h] You need to you don't need to validate all kinds of things that are going on in your life and come up with all this research to say this is why I can't. You need to just not be a [\h__\h] You need to get your ass to the gym and just work out. You need to stop finding science to justify why having a dadbot is okay or why you're a dude that now identifies with a being a woman and you now wear a dress. You need to just not be a [\h__\h] And the problem with that is that you get attacked by all the people that are acting like a [\h__\h] I I think the world doesn't hate men. And that's I've seen it. Somebody it just came. Oh, the world just hates men. The world doesn't hate men. The world hates strong men. It hates structure. It hates authority. It hates the man that doesn't flinch or fold or beg to be liked. That's what the world hates. What's being worse than being hated by a weak world? The world is weak. What's worse than being hated by a weak world is being liked by it. If you're admired by the average, if you're celebrated by the complacent, or if you're accepted by all these passive people, you're not a threat. People only threaten what they feel threatened by. So, that's all I'm going to talk about. You need to be a man who terrifies the systems that feed on weakness. And somebody I'm sure is going to go off on this going, "Here's another ma toxic ma masculinity, another man acting like he's tough." I'm not acting, but I'm also a man. You need to be a dangerous man. You need to be a strong man. You need to be that kind of man that terrifies the system that feeds on all the weakness and complacency and passive [\h__\h] You need to do that because strength exposes weakness and they can't stand that. And people don't hate strength for what it is. They hate it for what it reveals. You guys understand that, right? When a man walks into a room with laser focused, clear eyes, with a trained body, with a disciplined schedule that never misses, when a man is calm under pressure and acts according to standards and certainty in their speech, that man doesn't need to say a word. The weak feel it and they resent it. So, they attack it on social media. But why? Why? Because strong men don't conform ever. They don't ask. They don't apologize for their frame, their tone, or their ambition. I have never apologized for who I am because I'm a man. I have strong tone. I have a solid frame and I ambitious as [\h__\h] So when society rewards passive compliance, the presence of a strong man is seen as violence. Walk with me. Stick with me here for a second. Because this begs the question then, if you've been shrinking yourself in order to fit into soft environments, what does that say about the version of you that still exists underneath? Ask yourself, don't don't just listen to this. Apply it to your life and see what you get out of it. See, go deeper. We're living in an era of institutionalized emasculation where strength is called toxic. Toxic. If you're strong or toxic, just follow me on that. Institutionalized emasculation. Strength is now called toxic. Dominance is abusive. Leadership is misogynistic. And ambition is what do you guys? Capitalist greed. Come on, man. Here's the truth. Weak men are easier to control. That's what it is. They consume more. They question us. They apologize more. And they obey faster. That's what this is about. And what better way to neuter a generation than to convince them that their very nature is offensive. So now men are medicated before they're mentored. They're shamed before they're sharpened. They're guilt tripped for wanting to protect, build, conquer, and lead. Ask yourself, where in my life, this is great, you're going to love this, where in my life have I started to believe that being less of a man would somehow make me more acceptable? All of you listening to this need to ask yourself that because the world doesn't want you disciplined. It wants you distracted. It wants you soft. It wants you addicted to comfort, validation, and your own little soft feelings. You need to not be a [\h__\h] But here's the paradox. Most men know they're supposed to be strong, but when they start acting like it, they feel guilty. The guilt isn't coming from the truth. It's coming from years of psychological conditioning to associate masculine power with danger. So follow me. You've been told, "Don't be intimidating. Don't take up too much space. Don't raise your voice. Don't take control. Don't be aggressive. And don't lead without permission." So you can't lead if you're asking permission. Do you follow that? That doesn't even make sense. And now, so now here's how you conduct yourself. You overthink every move. You apologize when you don't need to. You shrink your tone. and you dilute your fire and you feel bad for wanting to win and that's being condoned. And most of you weak [\h__\h] on here are thinking one thing and doing another. Nobody wants to be weak. I'll say it again and again. Nobody wants to be fat, broke, or alone. Nobody. So, here's the reality. power. Real power with morality is the most necessary force on this planet. The issue isn't strong men. It's the absence of strong men in critical moments. Look at yourself. Look at your behavior. Look at your life. Look at your conduct. Where in my life do I suppress strength because I'm afraid of how it might be perceived? Most of you guys aren't going to look at that because it's uncomfortable. But this is where it flips. You don't build strength by chanting affirmations. You build strength by becoming the kind of man like that drive. I'm going to back up to that because you don't build strength by having these affirmations and holding your hand up and using a sound bowl and cutting putting your phone in a box at 6:00 p.m. so you can have family time. If you're an entrepreneur, don't do that. That makes you weak because then you're not an entrepreneur. You're a entrepreneur and you're on a treadmill and you damn well know it. If you have lofty aspirations and audacious goals, they are put there by God. You need to have the chops and the stones to do it so you can call on the strength or build the strength to go and achieve every [\h__\h] one of them. But you don't build strength by saying affirmations. You build strength by becoming the kind of man who is mentally ordered, emotionally restrained, physically unignorable, because you stand out. You're covered in muscle, financially equipped, spiritually grounded, and socially respected and envied. That's how you build strength. But that man, me, men like me, he's hated. And people go, "Listen to this egotistical guy. I'm not egotistical at all. I'm telling the truth." And by the way, everybody that is successful that I know, every athlete that I know that's just crushing, every business tycoon, every CEO, everyone that is genuinely successful, not want to be successful, but really successful, they got an ego and they could back that [\h__\h] up. You don't think Tom Brady has an ego? He knows what he can do. Even before he did it, he knew what he could do. That's called confidence. You do that with believing in yourself. You all should read a book, Louis Pasture, The Value of Believing in Yourself. You should all read it. But see, that man, the one that's social, socially respected and envied, he's hated because he can't be manipulated. He doesn't seek approval. He doesn't need validation. And that makes him [\h__\h] dangerous. This is the best part. The modern world warns women about this man. They'll say he's too much, controlling, egotistical, rigid, unavailable. Okay, let you open the door. We're going to ride this horse. Now, let me ask you, would you rather be misunderstood by the weak or become invisible to the strong? Which one? There's no middle. You're either commanding or complying, dominating or explaining, or leading or lingering? Which one? There's no gray area. Which one? Me. Commanding, dominating, leading. That's damn well the only direction I'm going to go and that's the only direction for a man. If you aren't doing that, you are not a man. Because if your presence doesn't provoke some resistance, you ain't powerful yet, son. I I think if you actually start questioning yourself and looking in the mirror, and I know I went a little deep on this, but you guys need to do this because nobody I think of this stuff because I actually give a [\h__\h] That's why I come out here because I want you to win and because I'm going to tell you the truth. I don't care if I get post throttled, shadowbanned, if someone else says that you complain, write your four page or your four paragraph complaint or get in the comments. I don't care. I know I'm right just as much as you doing that know you're wrong. I'll leave you with this. The world has always hated strong men. Always since the dawn of time. It crucified them, censored them, mocked them, feared them. You know what else? It also followed them. It needed them. It was also built by them. So when you feel that that push, that that resistance that just getting against you, that discomfort, that the mischaracterization, the isolation, good. Good. Because that means you're on the right [\h__\h] path. Because the moment the world stops resisting you is the moment it has succeeded in taming you. How about you sit with this question? What am I willing to be hated for? What parts of me have I sacrificed to be liked by people who will never build a [\h__\h] thing? And who do I become if I stop negotiating with the weak? The answer isn't soft. It isn't friendly. But the answer is [\h__\h] necessary. I got to go. Never miss.