This is an early vlog today. Yeah, early but not too early to drink a Coke Zero. Look at this homie. You know what's funny is so we could get into the health aspect of this. I can make an entire vlog about this with the nanotech that's inside these things. Even with the graphy, right, that's inside. Real quick, I'll help you guys out. Listen, you guys do understand that every time I come out here, whether it's harsh or not, you might not like to hear it, but it's still the truth and it's still what you need to do and it's still the facts. You don't like them honestly because you're stupid and you defend being stupid. Smart people go, I didn't know that. That's going to help my life. I need to do that. Instead of going, you know what? I don't like that. That makes me come out of my comfort zone and it exposes all my weaknesses and lies. Screw him. I need to run a campaign against him and bury all that information. That's what stupid people do. But let me come back to the nanotech and the graphine. We can even just stop at graphine. It's in vaccines. It's in anesthesas, right? Injectable anesthetics, dental offices primarily. But that's not the problem. You need to listen to what I'm about to say because it's has nothing to do with this vlog or podcast. They changed ivormectin, not dervet, not the horse-based, but pharmaceutical grade ivormectin that you get from whatever lab makes it for humans, right? You do understand that if it's for a human or for an animal, it's the same damn thing, right? In fact, it's probably better if it's for an animal. But you didn't hear that from me, but they changed it. Two ingredients. Don't ask me what they are because this was just really quick and passing. And so I have to go down the rabbit hole and give you guys more information. But the hearsay is, and it could just be hearsay, it could be anecdotal, but it seems very likely. So don't take my word for it. Look it up yourself. And if you need help, join my mastermind. Literally, Monday is doctor on demand for lack of anything. It's a Q&A. I answer anything from health questions, rehab questions, psychology questions, business questions, relationship questions, money questions. I solved every problem. And last on Monday, I stayed on the campfire Q&A call in the unbreakable mastermind for almost two and a half hours answering questions. Lot of people in there. You should join. Where else can you get real information? You might not like it. It might be the truth and it might sting a little, but it's exactly what you need to do and where you need to go and how you need to handle whatever problem you're dealing with. I'm probably the only real person out here that's trying to help, which is why I come out here every day. I've never missed and I'm never going to miss. But the change in Ivormectin now allows graphine to cross the bloodb brain barrier. That's a big [\h__\h] deal. And I'll leave it at that. I'll come back and I'll go deeper into that on a on an actual podcast, an actual blog in maybe the next week or so, and I'll give you guys information on on what that actually entails. We already know graphine is really bad, so I don't need to go into that part, but I'll explain which brand, what it does, how it allows barrier because that is the ultimate shield, right? That's the ultimate defense shield, the bloodb brain barrier. And the body is extremely selective about what crosses that because the brain, that's you, man. All you guys sitting here going, "Yeah, but I have a lung and I have the joint, some tissue." The computer that controls everything that you do and ever will do and ever will come up with to do resides here in this bony housing right here under 24/7 365 protection. Protection autonomically. Your nervous system will go to war. The reason people pass out, right, is so it blood can reach the brain. You have these barrel receptors in the corateed sinus in your neck and they sense blood pressure. Blood pressure drops. Reflexes. lay this son of a [\h__\h] down now because it's easier to pump blood laterally than it is horizontally or vertical rather against gravity. And if you understand how hard it is to pump blood, then you understand what I'm saying because your heart is the size of your fist and it's pumping through 63,000 miles of vessels in your system and it's like trying to pump syrup. See how well that works? That's why you have something called the skeletal muscle pumping in all kinds of things about physiology that I don't need to get into because that's not what this is about. Anyway, blood brain barrier. don't want to cross it ever. It's very selective. The body knows what the hell it's doing. Stop [\h__\h] with it. It's that simple. Because listen, that goes right into what I was talking about, right? Smart people versus stupid people. That's what this whole vlog is about. God, this is going to piss so many people off. And it should. If you're stupid person, if you're a smart person, you're going to go, "Damn, that hit." And I understand it because it is smart versus stupid. And the reason that most people stay fat and broke and powerless forever is because they're stupid. They're stupid. There's only two types of people. Like, stop pretending it's complicated. There are only two types of people in this world. Smart and stupid. Not educated or uneducated. And I'll explain that in a minute. Not rich, not poor. Smart and stupid. Listen, stupid isn't about IQ. Because there are oh god there are plenty of people with degrees on their walls and diplomas all over the place in their drawer all over their office bragging about how many schools they went to and how many degrees they have who still can't figure out why their life looks like a meth fuel episode of mory. If this pisses you off by the way good because I'm looking at you I'm talking to you because nothing exposes a coward faster than the truth they pretend doesn't apply to them. And we see it every day on social media. Listen, I didn't say this was going to be polite. By the way, you guys understand that this is me. I'm not filtering who I am for you just to make you feel better and make sure that you don't feel offended. I don't care if you're offended. I'm going to tell you the truth. I love you enough to tell you the truth. So, I this isn't going to be polite. I said it was going to be true. If you want nice, you should have gone to brunch with your [\h__\h] horoscope app because that's you guys sit there and you just delve into your phone. I don't like how it makes me feel bad. Listen, smart people know where they're going. It's that simple. Smart people know exactly where they're going. They've got direction. They've got a blueprint. They've got a map. And they've got some bruises from using it. Stupid people. They've got God. They've got time to stalk everybody everybody else's success online, cry about why they haven't got it, and then scroll their way back to depression by 300 p.m. How does that make sense? Smart people create their identity around future value. Stupid people anchor their identity in past pain. One is building a life and the other is reliving one over and over again. And I said this in a post the other day. I said, "If you keep bringing up the past, the problem isn't with the past. The problem is with you. And you keep going back to it as either an excuse to validate where you are or why you haven't done the work or because somebody else has leveled up and you haven't and you're trying to bring them down. That's the only reason you do it. Listen, the reason you're still broke, and this is to all the people, listen, if you are a broke or AI don't know, poor, whatever the hell it is, if you don't have the money you want, and you do, listen, I'm tired of people justifying not everybody wants to be rich. Not everybody wants a Richard Mill or a Rolex. It doesn't make a difference. Yeah, you do. You want the money to be able to do it. You might not want that, but you want the money that gives you the freedom to make the decisions you keep wishing you could make. The reason you're still broke is because every time somebody shows you how to get money, you ask, "But is there a discount code?" The broke want cheap options for rich results. That's why they lose. If your Let me help you. If your plan for success involves some kind of vision, bull work, manifestation, maybe a dance, and no job, congrats. You've just earned your doctorate in homelessness because you can't function like that. That's not what it looks like to win. That's what stupid people do, believing eventually it's going to work. It doesn't. You read a book and think if you think about it long enough, it just shows up. It doesn't happen like that. And then you complain about how you have this laundry list of things behind you that have never gotten done. But you're thinking about them all the time and you're going, I'm manifesting all the time. I'm man like I can manifest I said this about the water the other day. I manifested this coke from my fridge in my house to my hand. No, I thought about it. Took it out of my fridge, brought it in here, and I'm sure somebody can come up with some convoluted logic to go, you manifested it. No, I thought about it and then I took action to get it to take this and do this. Ready? watch and drink it, homie. That's not manifestation. You guys use that as a way to excuse yourself from the work. And then you get all frustrated and you feel defeated and overwhelmed because you haven't gotten anywhere, but you think you're doing things and you're not. You're not overwhelmed. You're just not disciplined. You hide from effort like it's going to come up and punch you in the face. You need to do more work because listen, break down the psychology of stupid. How about this? This is easy. You're not stupid because you don't know the answer. You're stupid because you're addicted to the wrong question. Do you guys understand that? Why am I like this is what you ask instead of what am I doing to change it? It comes back to the same two things. The quality of conversations you have in your head and the quality of questions you ask yourself determine the quality of your life. Think about stupid people. They don't reject the truth because they can't handle it mentally, psychologically, intellectually. They reject it because it threatens their narrative. It threatens the conversation they're having. the fragile story that you guys have built to justify why staying where you are is important, why it's safer, why it's better, and then you guys look out at everybody else and throw hate. Listen, have you ever met someone who spent more time crafting their trauma story than building their resume? Yeah, that's who I'm talking about. Just so you understand that that person, if you're smart, if you remember me when I rolled out of the hospital, oh, I was in pain, physical, mental, emotional, all of it. And I was bitter and angry. And I used all of that as fuel. Stupid people use that pain as a couch and a bed and a chair. They use it to lean on and lay down on. It's something they rest on while they tell everybody else about how bad their life is. It's a complaint center. They lean on it and then just start issuing complaints to you, to everybody, to the comment section here. Listen, you don't need a therapist. You guys are all like, "I'm going to go sit on this couch. I'm going to tell everybody all about my problems. I'm going to find the right podcast that helps me feel good about quitting." You don't need a therapist. You need a [\h__\h] war with your own [\h__\h] You're not sick. You're soft. And you're not broken. You're undisiplined. They're not the same. And you guys have this cognitive dissonance in your head all the time. Constant arguments about why one side of your brain goes, "That's what we want, man. We want all of that. But [\h__\h] them. They have it and I don't. The hell with that. They're lucky. I can't do that." And then you put somebody on a pedestal who's doing more than you in order to absolve yourself of the work required because you say, "I can't do that." I get messages almost every day going, "Yeah, but that's you. I can't do what you do. I have one lung and I'm 52 years old. I have people that are 25 sending me messages like that. Are you high? You have more than I do and you're half my age. You should be destroying me in life. But you're not. Most of you guys couldn't keep up with me on your best day on my worst day. You wouldn't even come close. And you guys take that as arrogant. It's not arrogant. It's fat. You're stupid. I'm smart. I've given everything I've got every day since I opened my eyes after surgery. You've made excuses for everything you don't have and why you can't have it for the last three and a half years. The same amount of time. I'm the example of what happens when you're smart. You're the example of what happens when you're stupid. Stupid isn't just a mindset. It's a lifestyle. And it's the one you're paying for with your health, your relationship, and your damn bank account because they're all at zero. You want to know what the symptoms of stupid are? Here, let me help you. You're fat. That's your nutrition and discipline problem, right? You're broke and that's your productivity and execution problem. And you're anxious and sad and overwhelmed. You've been ruminating in your own damn weakness for so long. You think the smell is normal. This [\h__\h] stinks. Like I was in the shower this morning after after my workout with Brandy and I just started talking about it. I went, "Listen, I'm going to start just talking about stupids and smarts. Those are the only two types of people in the world." And she started laughing and she said, "That's true. My wife is so cutthroat and she's so blunt and direct. I wouldn't have her any other way. It's amaz She is exactly like me except incredibly hot and far more athletic. And I'm athletic as hell. She makes me look like I've never worked out a day in my life. Yeah, my wife's awesome. But listen, I've never met, look at me. I'm 52. I have never met a man who was shredded, focused, and doing pull-ups at 5 in the morning who also had time to cry on Instagram or Tik Tok about how hard their life is. I've never seen that ever. The problem is if you look at what Jordan Peterson says, he says, "Suffering without a divine purpose is chaos." You're not supposed to avoid suffering. You're supposed to aim it. You guys just try and avoid it. You come up with explanations all day and go on Instagram, excuse me, and explain away all of the things that you refuse to do yet know you should be doing because it's tolerated. If you're still blaming your ex, your parents, and your high school coach for your current condition, you're not oppressed. You're just a grown ass child in debt to your own bad choices, your bad decisions. It's It has nothing to do with your past. It has nothing to do with where anybody else has been. It has nothing to do with what somebody's doing right now. It has to do with you refusing to acknowledge your bad decisions. You want a better life, but you don't want to sweat. You want results, but you don't want the consequences just in case it doesn't work. You deserve to be exactly where you are and you deserve exactly what you got. And that pisses people off. Listen, there are people with for I know this is there are pe if you have a degree that means nothing cuz I know somebody on here say I got a PhD. I don't care. I know people with PhDs that are incredibly stupid. Smart and intelligent are not the same. You can be intelligent, have all these degrees. I said at the beginning that doesn't mean you're smart. We already know because we've seen the example of what intelligent people do. They add or subtract. genitalia. You're an idiot. There are people with four degrees who can explain climate change, the theory of relativity and quantum [\h__\h] mechanics, but they can't do a single pull-up. They can't look you in the eye. They can't keep a promise. And they can't even pay their damn rent. They're still living with their parents. Your GPA doesn't mean [\h__\h] if you're still blaming the economy while living in your sister's basement. Like, I I've met cats smarter than you people and they clean themselves. It bugs me. It bugs me a lot because our institutions, they've rewarded intelligence without integrity. That's a problem because the result of that is a generation of emotionally stunted adults with Instagram doctorates in victimhood and blame. You guys might want to think about that. Smart is knowing how to get paid, stay fit, dominate psychologically, and elevate everybody around you. If you can't do that, I don't care what your diploma says. You're educated, but you're still a loser. Smart is earned through struggle and adversity and going through every obstacle and coming out the other side, not quitting partway through. It's earned through suffering, reps, grind, commitment, discipline, through choosing hard [\h__\h] every damn day. That's how you become smart. If you want to listen, if you want to know whether you're smart or stupid, here's the fastest way to find out. How do you react when someone tells you the truth? Even this, if this triggers you, it's the truth. Whether you like it or not, it's the truth. Sometimes I I do these vlogs and I get so pissed off and so disgusted with mankind because you guys chronically make stupid decisions, read stupid things, watch stupid things, listen to stupid people, listen to stupid things, and then conduct yourself in stupid ways and complain about why your life sucks and blame blame everybody else, but you're the one that's being stupid. Stop doing stupid [\h__\h] and you'll have an excellent life. But you guys get offended about that, which is why I said here, it's a mirror test. How do you react when someone tells you the truth? Cuz if you get pissed off when I go, you're stupid. Because you know down you are. That's why you're pissed off. If a statement threatens you, it's because it revealed every part of you that you've neglected. That's why it makes you mad and you damn well know it. If you hear this and feel personally attacked, congratulations, Sherlock. You just confirmed everything I just said. You ate the truth because it hurts. You ate the truth because it stings. But that sting is exactly where you need to put in the [\h__\h] work. That's where it hurts is where you need to go. You guys keep running away from all the things that cause pain because you I'm not supposed to feel that. My feelings tell me don't go there. But that's exactly where you need to go. You can't change your life if you don't go to all the [\h__\h] that you don't want to do. Strong men look in the mirror. Men like me look in the mirror and ask, "What needs to die in me to become who I was born to be?" I ask that question. Weak men just look for filters. How do I avoid it? How do I change it on picture? But I'm still somebody else on the other side of that camera. You can follow me around and you can watch me on here. I am the exact same damn person. I am who I was born to be because who I was died. Smart people build, they grow, they bleed, and they dominate. And they win. Stupid people scroll, cry, whine, talk about how frustrated or defeated they are, how overwhelmed they are. They validate their excuses and die surrounded by people just like them clapping for nothing. Yes, I'm irritated. Here's why, by the way, cuz if you're like, "Oh, great. The Spartan's angry." Listen, just another angry guy. I've said this before. I'm irritated because you guys keep pissing away the time that you have. Think that you are all about God. You guys talk about religion. You talk about God, but if you are made in God's image, which we are, why are you such a disgrace? Why are you such an embarrassment? Why are you deciding what gender to be? Chopping things off, sewing things on, sticking things in you to lose weight that you don't have the self-control to do, that you don't have the commitment to do. I said it yesterday and people got butt hurt. Go to the gym. Go work out and go to the gym. Even if getting jacked and fit doesn't solve your problem, who you become, who you must become in order to build that body is going to be able to solve every damn problem that shows up in your life. If if this pissed you off, by the way, this vlog, podcast, whatever you want to call it, that's not a bad thing. That's your call to action. Smart people evolve through pain. Stupid people just repeat it. So, pick your side and back it up with how you live. Because right now everything about you is exposing whether you are smart or stupid. I got to go.