The world doesn't care about your feelings. It doesn't. And I don't understand that. At 52 years old, my dad, Brandy and I were just talking, my dad, God rest his soul, 12 years ago almost, he passed away. Both my mom and dad to be honest. I love my parents. My mom is as gritty as it gets. and she has her own little idiosyncrasies and we can agree to disagree on a bunch of things, but my mom's a great woman and my dad was a great man, but they didn't care about my feelings when work needed to be done. I grew up in the country working outside all the time. I was allowed one day for 6 hours or however long I wanted at 12:00 noon, you turn off the TV, get the hell outside, I'll see you when the street lights come on. Don't be late for dinner. That's the kind of thing that I grew up with. My parents made me do hard work. I fell down. I broke things. I skinned things. I bled. And my parents didn't worry about my feelings as much as they worried about whether or not I got the job done. And my dad, Brandy and I were talking about this. My dad would give me something to do, whether it was weed the driveway or cut wood or build something or clean something or take apart something or put something together or it was always hard labor. Lots and lots of hard labor. My dad was the guy that could put his hand inside a fire when it was burning and move a log around it. I'm not kidding. I would see him do it all the time. And what's interesting is my son says that about me. I didn't even realize that I had picked that up from my father. And I think I I start to see a lot of things that I picked up from my parents. And when you're a child, you think they're a pain in the ass because they're workrelated and they're task oriented and they're achievementbased, which means we don't confuse movement for achievement or results. We have results and achievement. Movement doesn't matter. So my dad would give me something to do and he would just walk away. Okay, go get this done. Peace out. And he would go do something else. Same with my mom. And I'd be left to figure it the hell out. A lot of you guys don't even know how to do that anymore. So you wait for somebody. You just stand there looking like a deer in the headlights confused about what you're supposed to do because you've lost the ability to get creative and figure out how to accomplish something. So you wait for somebody to tell you. That's why you're a loser, man. That's why you're failing. Get upset. I really don't care. Like I said, I don't care if one person sees this or a million people see this. If one person sees this and changes their life, I win. I win. Because I'm not trying to get along with everybody by going, "Don't worry, I'll do whatever it is you want me to do." I'm going to tell you the truth. The world doesn't give a [\h__\h] about your feelings. My dad didn't care about my feelings. He cared about me doing what he asked me to do. And if he would come outside and look at whatever it was that needed to be done and it wasn't done, he'd go, "Nope, do it again." And it was from start to finish, cover to cover. It wasn't just fix the spots where the holes were, whatever they were in whatever the task was. It was, "Do it all again." Why? Because you're going to learn it, right? So, let me offer you a thought here. The world is not obligated to care about how you feel. You understand that, right? And no matter how loudly you scream, post, blame, project, whine, you are never going to escape the reality that life rewards output, not emotion. Like, the market doesn't care how you feel. Your competition doesn't care how you feel. Your woman, if she's truly feminine, not all batshit crazy like a lot of you weird blue-haired people that think you're men, she doesn't care how you feel. And the version of you that you're capable of becoming is sickened. He is sickened by how much you care about how you feel. Listen, this isn't meant to motivate you, by the way. So, if that's what you're here for, you may as well leave. It's meant to dismantle the lies that you've told yourself about why your life is the way it is. Like, wait. We live in this culture. This is what I was talking to Brandy about. We live in this culture that's pathized discomfort and glamorized emotional fragility. Think about that. You've been taught to think that if I feel it, it must be real. But yet, that's completely manufactured. Feelings come from what you're thinking. You are in control of your thoughts. So you focus on something. You give it a meaning. You feel something and then you take actions. But now you have gone, I'm going to choose to feel something bad. You're a girl. If you're a man, you're acting like that. You're a girl. We've been taught to think that if we feel it, it must be real. But it's not. If I'm uncomfortable, something must be wrong. Quickly go get a pill. And if I'm emotion, if I'm not, by the way, emotionally validated. This one's a trip for me. I'm being oppressed. Ah, none of that's true. It's just convenient. This hyperfocused emotion has created a generation of men who can explain everything but execute nothing. You're just a bunch of talkers. You guys just talk. You talk a lot and you do nothing. You have the language of healing but none of the habits of strength. So here's the consequence. You feel entitled to outcomes you haven't earned. Why should your body be strong if you haven't disciplined your diet in 5 years? You eat bowls of milk duds and eat fast food all day, but complain about why you're fat. You're fat. You did it. Why should your woman respect you if you keep folding emotionally every time she tests you? Why should the world listen to anything you have to say when you've contributed nothing but complaints? Feelings aren't metrics. They're data points. Useful, but they're not commands. Here's a deeper question you might want to wrestle with. When did you start prioritizing emotional validation over truth? And what does it cost you? Listen, I'm going to drink some of this. You guys here freak out. Coke zero. Tell me all about how bad it is. Dude, none of nothing as bad as the [\h__\h] you guys do. Most of the things that you guys do are embarrassing. If you are made, and we are, we are made in the likeness of God. You are a disgrace. Because when people look at you, they should see God. They should see fit, strong, confident, powerful, loving, kind. What they see is simp, soft, nice, fat, flabby. They see this disgrace that you walk around as. One of, just so you know, one of the most painful truths about life is this. You are constantly being measured whether you like it or not by the world, by your peers, by your woman, by your kids, by your future, measured by your output, measured by your standards, measured by your consistency, not your intentions. So go a little deeper. Have you guys ever noticed that how people treat you differently when you're dialed in? Like when you're focused, you just have singularity of focus and you're dialed in. How people treat you differently in all respects, health, wealth, and relationship. When you're physically strong, when you're making money, when you're locked in psychologically, there's no mystery to it. It's biological. It's tribal. That's how you are designed to be. You guys are constantly diving into these emotional tarpits and getting stuck. Humans gravitate towards demonstrated competence and energetic certainty, not emotional noise. So, I'll give you another question. Here's a hard one. Are you showing up in a world in a way that commands respect or requests sympathy? As most of you guys, you thought, "Oh, just acknowledge my feelings." Oh, that pisses me off. Listen, there's a reason why Jordan Peterson, I love listening to Jordan Peterson, by the way. There's a reason that Jordan Peterson talks about order as the antidote to chaos. If you listen to him, you'll see that's what he talks about. And most men today are drowning in chaos because they have no structure. You have no blueprint. You just keep aiming yourself towards where your feelings are going. Men have no code, no non-negotiables, no process that holds their soul accountable when life gets messy. So you have nothing to fall back on. Here's something Peterson says that's always stayed with me. You should be a monster and then learn how to control it. You bet your ass I'm a monster. I'm dangerous as [\h__\h] intentionally on purpose because that's what's required of a man, not someone that bounces on a trampoline and hugs teddy bears all day and doesn't know how to fight and control themselves and be emotionally stable. Men that run around crying and begging for sympathy are not a man. So, I don't care. All of you people going, "Well, that's getting in touch with your feelings. It's being soft and it's costing you. But what we've created instead, this is the problem, is a generation of men who have completely bypassed becoming a monster. They skipped strength, skipped grit, skipped adversity, and went straight to empathy, emotion, and expression. You guys hate on men like David Gogggins. You hate on men like Bedros Coulian. You hate on men like Wes Watson. You hate on men like Andy Fcella. You hate on men like me. Yet, we are the men. We are the men that are leading from the front. I'm not afraid to get hurt. Believe me, I'll still cry, but I'm going to get the [\h__\h] done that needs to be done. But with all of your empathy, emotion, and expression, there's no structure. So now expression becomes just noise. Without pain, you have no strength. So ask yourself, what system governs my life? Ask yourself. Don't ask me. I already know what does for me. It's God 24/7, 365. And if you think Jesus or God are soft, you need to read the Bible again. So what system governs my life? What order am I submitted to that refineses me when I'm lost, soft, or emotional? Because if you don't have that in place, you are a product of your emotions. And a man with no framework is a man who gets replaced fast by the world, by your woman, by your family, by your boss, by everyone around you because you've got nothing. Listen, there's a scoreboard that nobody talks about, like it or not. It doesn't hang in your house. It doesn't glow on your phone. It doesn't pop up with your app. It governs everything in your life. It determines how she looks at you. It determines how your kids feel around you. It determines how much money you make. It determines whether people listen when you speak. It's the scoreboard of results. Are you putting points on the board? Because every day at the end, I pray before every meal with my family. And I thank God for another day and the wisdom and the strength to guide my family and everybody that listens to me into the direction that they need to be towards God to be a better human being, to be a better version of themselves. And I end with the same thing. Scorch the earth and change the world. Amen. Me. That's what I believe I'm here to do. The scoreboard of your results is what determines all of the things I just talked about. How she looks at you, how much money you make, whether people even listen to what you say, and how your kids feel. Do they feel safe around you? It's not your feelings, not your opinions, not your trauma, and not your potential. Results. Results. Believe me, I'm trying really hard not to cuss. Not because it's not me, just because I want to control to see if I can do it. But results, it's brutal. It's binary. It's unforgiving. And it's fair. It's fair. No results, you don't get anything. So, if you're not getting the results you want, it's not because life is unfair. It's because you're not producing the outcomes that command the rewards. So, ask yourself, where am I confusing effort with execution? Where am I still trying to negotiate with the scoreboard that only respects production? Because that's what you're doing. You're just negotiating with all of the points you're not getting. Going, why am I not getting the points? You're not putting the ball in the net. You're not putting the puck in the goal. It doesn't matter what it is. You're not scoring the points. You're not knocking out your opponent. You're shooting arrows and bullets at something and not hitting anything cuz they're on the other side. So, here we are. Listen, another episode. And you're sitting here feeling pressure from me and going, "I don't like this guy. He's angry." I'm not angry. I'm telling you the truth. And that's the problem is you guys are you guys want a watered down truth that makes sure that you feel better before actually hearing the truth. I love you enough to tell you the truth independent of how you feel. I love you enough not to lie to you and tell you the truth instead. So you're feeling pressure listening to this. That's usually what you do. Not motivational pressure moral kind. The kind that forces you to reflect on yourself, to audit your damn life, to acknowledge honestly with surgical precision the ways in which you have abandoned your own damn greatness. And you've done it for being emotionally understood. What are you, seven? That's what kids do. Children, they eat, they cry, they complain, they whine, and they poop their pants. Is that what you do? Because if that's the case, that's why your wife left. I don't care if it hurts your feelings. You don't like the truth, grow up. Cuz right now, if you can't handle the truth, you're the disgrace, not me. So, if you're listening to this, by the way, this is the good news. You're not done. You're still breathing. You can change everything. I had to change my entire life at 48 years old. That was just under four years ago, from what I thought was killing it to actually doing it. Because when I got put in that position when they pulled out the lung and they rolled me out in that moment, I knew I knew damn well I do what I say and I'm as gritty as it gets. But before all that happened, I thought I knew. But that exposed me to me, introduced me to myself. I know damn well who I am. And I'm a badass [\h__\h] because I do what I say. It's not to brag. My outcome shows that I am. My conduct shows that I am. My values show that I am. My standards show that I am. My family shows that I am. My physical body shows that I am. If you are fat and soft, you're a disgrace. I don't have sympathy with you. You're trying to get everybody else to go, "As long as you feel good, because an idea about something to eat pops into your head, you should eat it regardless of how you look and how you feel. You're disgusting. You're a disgrace to God because you think God is fat, sloppy, broken, miserable, and whiny and complains all the time. Not a chance. But we are made in God's image. Why aren't you? You're insulting our creator when you do that. So, if you're listening, you're not done. If you can hear this, you're not done. If you're still breathing, you can rebuild. You can change your whole life. If you are still aware enough to feel the fact that this probably stings, then you're still in the game. You're still in the damn game. Just understand life isn't going to stop demanding results because all of a sudden you acknowledge that you're still in the game. The world's not going to soften itself to fit your sensitivity. And neither is greatness or becoming exceptional. Because if you want to become exceptional, then you immediately become the outlier because nobody else does. So you are either going to build a life where your results protect you or you're going to live a life where your feelings destroy you. You choose. It's not up to me. But you are living on finite time. Your calendar is the only thing that is forever shrinking. Your bank account of time is the only thing that is getting smaller. And you guys whine about money. I don't have the money to do that, Spartan. I don't have the money. You have the money, but you're protecting money that you can earn more of instead of the time that you can never earn more of. I tell people to join my mastermind, not for Oh, and the money is the barrier to entry. Absolutely. You're not ever doing payments with me. You're never going to get in without paying the price. And you go, I thought you want my commitment. Yeah. The commitment from you is showing that you're going to pay it. Because if you're not committed to paying the money, you sure as hell aren't committed to listening to anything I tell you to do in the mastermind in view. I would never want to be in your mastermind. I don't want you. And neither does everybody else in my group. And there are hundreds of them. We're growing faster than any other mastermind in the world because I'm the one that keeps it real as [\h__\h] But you have to want it, not me. Because the clock's ticking. And every minute you stay stuck in your emotions, someone else like me is out working you, out building you, out becoming the man you were supposed to be. So choose. You can stay where you are, or you can go, "How do I change? What do I do, Spartan? Join my mastermind." Yeah, you bet your ass. I'm plugging it. Join it. Send me a message on Instagram and say, "I'm in. I want to join." And I'll get you connected because it's the only real place that'll get you to where you want to go. I got to go. Never miss. where we fight. This is where they die.