Man, life's a wild ride, isn't it? It's a trip. Woke up this morning, sunny, beautiful outside. And about a half hour ago, lightning strike right outside my lab, probably 20 ft. And so bright, so loud. My wife was like, "What the hell was that?" It's a trip just throws stuff at you. But I was outside in the studio and I was thinking about what I was going to talk about and why you guys should even bother listening to me. Don't. That's what I think. I think some of you guys don't listen to a damn thing I say. Piss off. You don't even need to be here. because you don't want what you say you want. You like to talk. You run your mouth about how you don't like your life. You don't like your marriage. You don't like your boss. You don't like your body. You don't like your circumstances. You don't like your neighborhood, your car. It doesn't matter. You don't like anything. But you do nothing about it. You just talk and then you come up with all the reasons why you can't. Let me make something crystal clear before we even start. And if you don't want to hear the truth, I'm not the podcast to listen to. I'm not the vlog to watch. I'm not the guy to to hang out with or follow because I'm just going to keep telling you the truth. If you want the truth, then I'm definitely the guy you want to follow. But the other side of that is I'm also the guy that will make you insanely rich, unbelievably fit, and solve every relationship problem you have and demolish any limiting belief you've got. Because I've actually done it. I'm not an Insta guru or insta coach bragging about how much money I've made every month for the last 10 years or whatever nonsense I'm talking about. I'm the guy that's You've seen me just under four years ago. You've seen me and I've never missed a day showing up showing you the entire evolution of the process. So you know for a fact what I do works. I don't just show highlight reels. I show you everything good, bad, or otherwise. You can throw all the hate at me you want. By the way, I'm still winning and you're not. If that's you can throw all the love at me you want if I helped you anyway. But the only way anything I tell you is going to help you is if you actually apply it. It's not an information problem. It's an application problem. It's not an information problem. It's a comprehension problem. But like I was saying, let me make something absolutely crystal clear before I even start. You're the reason that your life sucks. Stop blaming. It's not your dad, your mom, your boss. It sure as hell isn't the president. It's not your alleged ADHD or ADD or your hormones or your trauma or your [\h__\h] zodiac sign or that your cat doesn't know how to use the litter box. It's you. It's you. And until you swallow that truth, it's a hard truth. But until you swallow that truth without choking on it, you will never ever change your damn life ever. I know because I've been you in all your excuses. And like I said, I'm not here to inspire you or motivate you. I'm here to absolut like to slit the throat of that weak version of you permanently. Put it in a box so you can actually do something with your life. You know that you have limited time here and yet you guys keep saying tomorrow. It's because you live in comfort. But comfort, man, it's not just dangerous. Folks, you got to understand, man. It's not. It's parasitic. It rewards you chemically for doing nothing. Your neurobiology, if it's left unmanaged, will seduce you into the slow suicide because comfort provides the illusion of peace without the earning of the peace. When people say, I just I need to protect my peace. No, you don't. You're looking for excuses to stay where you are. When you go, I deserve a break. I've been through a lot. It's okay to rest. No, it's not. And you haven't been through a lot. And you don't deserve a break. Here's how you know you don't deserve a break. Your life doesn't look the way you want it to look. So, there's only two things you can do in that circumstance. Either raise your action and your behavior or lower your standards. Most of you lower your standards and then justify why that's really what you wanted. No, it's not. If your life is a disaster, the last thing that you need is comfort. You need fire, friction, you need pressure, you need somebody kicking your ass, and it needs to be you, the person in the mirror. Comfort isn't keeping you warm. It's keeping you weak. When we have all these memes and posts about how all men need to be strong, but they're all made by weak men. Listen, I followed this. I'm not going to give the group or the guy any credit, so I'm not going to put it out there. But this person and I did a podcast. I was on their show and afterwards I'm like, "Dude, I don't even want to be part of your stuff, man. You and your brother are simpy, whiny people. You're soft talking about your safe places. That's why you guys have miserable lives because you're choosing comfort and validating why you need to protect your peace. Listen, your brain like it's like a dog that hasn't been trained, right? We have all these dogs. It's like a dog that hasn't been trained. It just keeps dragging you into this loweffort, high dopamine, low return behavior that makes you feel like a man for 5 seconds and a fraud for the rest of the day. You guys like, why can't I stay motivated, Spartan? Because your brain associates safety with inactivity. And you've trained it to believe that pain equals danger instead of pain equals adaptation. I think, listen, let me ask you this, and I love asking you guys questions. You should really write these down and just ask yourself these questions in front of a mirror. What have you done in the last I don't know 30 days? That's not even a long time. What have you done in the last 30 days that required you to suffer intentionally and without any applause or acknowledgement? You had to do it. If the answer is nothing, you're not growing, man. You're dying. You're dying. Listen, you know what most men fear? Not failure, exposure. this thing, the social media machine here, your cell phone, it exposes all you frauds and then you guys get mad in the comments and start hating, but that exposes you even further because no winners do that. That's what most men fear, exposure. They say they want to win, but they don't want to bet anything that would hurt if they lost. So, they have no skin in the game. None. You're not built for war because you've never bled for anything, but you talk about how tough you are. You want more money, more power, a better body, a kingdom, right? But you want it delivered to you through PayPal with a guarantee and a refund policy. Let me help you out. Here's a new here's a news flash. If you're not willing to lose everything for what you claim to want, I mean everything, then shut the [\h__\h] up. You don't want it. You don't. You don't. Because the winners, the real kings and queens, I'll just talk about men. the winners, the kings, they will risk all their money, all their comfort, all their stability, their [\h__\h] name, like my name. Oh, I'm proud of my name. I'm a Bachmir and everybody calls me the Spartan for a reason. I don't care what you think. I earned that. That's what a real king risks. Money, comfort, stability, peace, their [\h__\h] name, to build something that lasts longer than every excuse they can come up with. Most of you guys, you're still waiting for the right time. What if this is your last year? What if it is? Most of you fall back on, then you only live once. I may as well just make it all count. I did that when I was diagnosed with cancer just over 20 years ago. They gave me less than nine months to live. And I blew a million dollars just shy in just shy of 3 months and then I wasn't dead yet. And I had all kinds of friends. I've said it before. Everybody hangs out with you when you want to spend money on them. when you're the high roller that's blowing money on everybody. Oh, everybody wants to be your friend, but they don't stay with you in the trenches trenches when your life goes to hell. Because when I ran out of money, I also ran out of real friends and I only had a handful of them. But all of a sudden, here I am flat broke in an apartment, second floor, looking out, thinking, "Dude, I'm not going to make it and God's going to win because he's trying to kill me." Even though that wasn't the case. And you know the story I chambered around. Give me a reason to be here because I'm not going to let you in. And two days later I met Brandy and my entire life changed. You guys are still waiting for the right time. I risked everything. She risked everything. 20 years later we have a badass life. So let me ask if this was your last year. You going to go do that? You only live once. You're a [\h__\h] if you do that because For a lot of you guys, it is it is your last year and then you're going to die with this belly full of regret and a browser history full of motivational quotes and porn. And all those motivational quotes, you never applied a damn thing. You just put them out there and talked about how motivated and powerful you are. But if I went into your life, you're not motivated or powerful. You're a sad man sitting on a couch wishing their life was different, trolling Instagram. Risk is the tax that you pay for relevance. No risk, no empire. Period. It bothers me. You're soft. And I've said this so many times. I could come on here and say this on every vlog. You're soft. You break every time it gets hard. You hide behind. I'm processing this. I need a little more time. I'm doing 24 hours. I have to do a little more research. I'm doing my due diligence. X. like all these [\h__\h] excuses, but next thing it's a year later and you're still in the same spot, but you're still doing research. You're still processing. You flinch at adversity and struggle. You tap out when life starts pressing on the bruises that you've got that you did to yourself. How about this? Let me break it to you. You're not overwhelmed. You're just a [\h__\h] coward. Pain isn't the enemy. It's the gym. That's the training room. That's the arena. And like every single arena, every single gym, pain gives you one option. Adapt or die weak. You want to build resiliency. I love when people tell me how resilient they are. And then I know them personally and I see their life is a dumpster fire. A [\h__\h] show. I told you about a client I had. That's what she was. She's a fraud. Believe me, it takes everything I've got not to just go that do not do business with her cuz she's a fraud. But she'll talk a good game. The internet is full of people like that. You can follow me around 24/7, 365. This is exactly how I am all the time. And you know what's wild is anybody that meets me in person goes, "Holy [\h__\h] you really are. I'm the real deal." But I don't need to tell you that. I just show up and do it. I don't tailor my highlight reels so you guys go, "Wow, this guy's great. I don't give a [\h__\h] what you think about me. I'm as raw and gritty and real as it gets." If you don't like who I am, don't follow me. If you go, I liked you better when you were like this. Don't follow me because you don't like that I grew up. I have emotional maturity and resilience. You don't. So, you can take offense to that. It doesn't matter whether you're offended or not. It's still the truth and I'm still right. You want to build resiliency, then stay in the fire. Stay in the storm. Stay in the [\h__\h] suffering. I said it yesterday. Like, when I lost my lung, I couldn't breathe. I couldn't walk without holding on to something. And I was 48. That's just shy of four years ago and I had every reason to fold. I'd look at my wife. I can't let her down, man. I can't be this soft [\h__\h] like that. Listen to all the doctors going, "You can't, Mr. Bachmire. You can't. [\h__\h] you. Don't you tell me what I can't do." I suffocated every time I went out to the gym. 3 6 months probably 6 months I would suffocate to the point where I had to crawl inside into air conditioning to breathe air that wasn't humid and thick here in Texas like it is just so I could breathe without passing out and I would be on the floor on all fours on my black slate floor huffing and puffing begging for the pain to stop. And then when as soon as it subsided I went back outside and you guys go listen to this guy acting like he's all tough. It's not an act. I stayed in the pain because I hated where I was. See, that pain was the only thing that reminded me you're alive. No [\h__\h] fight for it. Like, you want to build mental toughness? That's what you want. But if you want to do it, if you really want to build mental toughness, this savage mind, then you need to stay in that pain and take every risk long enough for your body and your mind to mutate into something completely unrecognizable to your old self. Most of you, you don't stay in this discomfort for more than 48 minutes, let alone 48 days, let alone doing it when you're in your 40s. And you say you want to be unbreakable. You guys send me applications. I want to join the unbreakable mastermind. No problem. Here you go. Boom. 25 grand. Oh, I can't do that or the money. What do you expect? You think I'm made of money? I can't do that. I have to wait till I have more money. And then I go, how about this? I'll give you the promotion price of 1,500 bucks. That's over 90% off. Oh, can I like talk to some people in the group? Can I do something? I don't know, man. It's I don't want you. Go back to your little $40 programs. Go back to your wannabe workouts. Keep doing P90X pretending like you're actually doing it when you keep hitting pause 10 minutes in because Tony Horton kicked your ass. Keep doing all of that. I don't want you and nobody in my group wants you because you're a [\h__\h] loser. And if you take offense to that, good. I hope it pisses you off. Go join your little Facebook group full of fat people that all want to talk about how fat they are and it's not their fault. Talk about how you don't have any money and you the economy, it's their fault and it's Trump's fault and it's your mom's fault and it's dad's fault and if you didn't have those kids, you would have more money and all the excuses you come up with. Keep doing it. Keep doing it. You're the ones that are like, "Oh, I get it. Believe me, I get it. You can't win right now because your wife isn't on board, because your boss is toxic. Your nervous system is regulated for healing, not hustling. You're working through some inner child trauma. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Meanwhile, your bank account looks like a [\h__\h] soup kitchen and your testosterone is down with your standards at rock bottom. And you haven't done a single hard thing without permission from your wife, your counselor, or your star sign. You don't have struggle. You have a pattern. You have a habit. You do something once, possibly an accident, a mistake. You do it twice, it's the beginning of a new habit. And it was a decision. Right now, most of your patterns, God, probably all of you guys listening to this. Justify, delay, flinch, repeat every day. This is how much it costs to join this group. Justify why you can't delay it. Flinch a little bit. Repeat, repeat. Stay a loser. I got no time for you. But you you have all the time in the world. You guys make your little loser groups. How about this? Let me ask you this. What's the last decision you made where failure, your failure, absolute crippling failure would have hurt like hell, but you did it anyway? When's the last decision you made like that? Cuz if you don't have an answer, then your life ain't a result of hardship. It's a symptom of your excuses. Listen, I'll give you a solution. See if any of you guys do it. Yeah. Because honestly, I'm embarrassed about mankind right now. And at 52, I'm running out of time to change as many people and save as many people as I can. And after I'm gone, somebody else has to take my place where you guys all fail. Cuz I'll give you some tactical marching orders. Like I, you understand. I come out here and I hand you the blueprint to solve your life equation. Number one is you should be taking every single risk no matter what. You should risk every dollar, every single ounce of energy, every second you've got in your life, but you don't. Oh, you expect me to risk everything? I got a family. So do I. Yeah, but you have all this money. I didn't. Yeah, but now you have a company. I didn't. But you're stronger than I am. I wasn't. I could come back to your excuses with something worse in my life every single time. The only difference between a winner and a loser is a winner isn't a [\h__\h] And a loser looks for every reason in every statement, every Reddit forum, every piece of research to justify why they can't. Winners go there is no other option. So go ahead and hate on winners. The only person that looks like a loser is you. The only person that looks like an idiot is you. The minute you justify, I can look in your eyes when I ask, "Hey, listen. How bad do you want this?" And I'll look in your eyes. And if you start going, "I do. I really I totally want this, bro, but" and then you start going, "I don't have the money. I don't have the time. I have to ask for permission. I have to see if I can. What else is included? Can I do this? Can I do that? Get away from me. I already know you're never going to win. Never. And if that triggers you, good, because your history and your life right now is an example of what kind of a failure you are. And you guys get mad at that instead of doing something about it. Instead, you leave a thumb down and a negative comment and then go back to the shitty life you're in justifying to somebody else that your life is still way better than mine. I doubt it. I doubt it. I highly doubt it. I built my life Your life is an accident waiting to happen. You're a disaster. You're a heart attack waiting to happen. You're a repossession waiting to happen. You're a divorce waiting to happen if all of that hasn't already occurred. And you guys get so mad about that. So, I'll give you tactical blueprints you can use right now to change everything. Set a target that terrifies you, that scares you so bad. None of this. Just get a little better. Go 1% better. What are you, gay? Pick a goal that would require Let me try that again. Pick a goal that would require a violent identity shift to reach. You need to become somebody completely different where everybody else looks at you and goes, I remember when you used to be I like that person better. That's what I did. Weird. And I'm successful because I stopped listening to anybody else and I started looking at the targets I set and then I went, who do I have to become to hit them? How about this? Look at everything that you're still protecting and then kill it. Is it comfort? Is it your schedule? Is it your image? Is it your social media? Is it your lies? Whatever it is, it's the idol that's stealing your future. That's what it is. That's idolatry. You need to force accountability and responsibility at gunpoint because you hide behind your own lack of accountability, validating that it's offensive when somebody else calls you out. How about this? Make it public. Make it costly. Make it absolutely humiliating to quit that if anybody sees it, you're going to be devastated. That's what you need to do. Put yourself on the line. Slip your head in the noose. You [\h__\h] up, the bottom drops out, you die. You need to build a daily tolerance to pain, too, by the way. Physical, emotional, financial, relational. If you flinch, double down. If it hurts, stay there longer. If it scares you, move even faster. Those are the things that get in your way. Oh, you flinch. Oh, I better stop. I better hide. If it hurts, oh, I got to stop. I need to protect myself. I'm just healing right now. No, you aren't. You're hiding right now. You want Here, I'll give you this one. Eliminate every excuse. All the excuse systems that you guys run. You guys have all these programs running. No, you eliminate them all. No backup plans, no fall back, no supportive people who enable your stagnation. Take a flamethrower to your circle. I'll give you a great challenge. Normally, I'm not even about these kinds of things, these 90-day challenges, but do it for 90 days. I would tell you to do it for a year because if you join Unbreakable, you're giving me a year minimum. I It took me a year. And I promise you, I'm more resilient and tougher than you are. And I had nothing to lose. So, I didn't have a choice. I did it. It was either that or die. So, go all in. Everything you've got, 90 days, every dollar, every minute, every breath. Prove to yourself what's possible when you take away the damn parachute. How about that? everything you've got. Risk it all. You understand that? If you risk it all and right now, if you're like, "Oh, bro just wants me to buy his program." No. Because if that's what you're thinking, you're the last person I want in my house. I want people that are fighting to break through the door to get in here because they're going, "I got my shield. I got my spear. Let's get it [\h__\h] work." And then I want to look around at everybody else and go, I brought more soldiers than you cuz that's all I got in my group. You guys that go, I want to be part of this. And then I send you a link. Oh, and then you ghost. Dude, you're a coward. Even if you asked me later, I'd say no. And people go, "No, you wouldn't." Yes, I would because I have. I keep my word. Why don't you? You're not losing because of all the stuff that happened to you, going through cancer, going through a divorce, going through this loss or that loss. You're not stuck of be because of what you lack or what you lost. You're not. you're losing because you've never gone in and stayed there long enough to become unrecognizable. You've never gone with all you've got. Like you've never run until you collapse. You've never gone until you have no more money. You've never done it till there is no more energy. You've never done it until you have nothing left. That's the difference between people who win and people who lose. And the world somehow is confused. most of you guys to think that's not really what's required. Yes, it is. Anyone that's ever done something remarkable and exceptional has suffered greatly and gone through it and come out the other side going, "Damn right, that's exactly what was required." You want to change? Burn the [\h__\h] boats. I'll say it again. Get in the pain, feel it, risk everything, and make your damn name so heavy that you can't ignore it. Just make it too heavy to ignore. or stay where you are and keep complaining and scrolling to the next podcast that tells you it's okay to stay there. You need to create aa safe place for your feelings. But remember, you can you can control people like that. So don't do that. Don't abuse that power. You create a safe place. The only people that are coming there are other versions of you that are just like that. Fat, sloppy, broke, whiny, simpy who probably lost their wife to a trainer. I'm out. No way. Stay where you are if that's what you're going to do. If you're not willing to burn the boat, stay where you are. warmed, fat, broke, forgotten, all of it. Cuz that's what you're going to be. And you guys get mad, but you know what you need? You need a good dose of the truth. Because I had to face the truth. You understand? Like when I come out here and I explain all this, it's because I had to face the truth. I didn't have another option. I opened my eyes and I'm like, "Hey, guess what? One of your lungs is missing and you're never going to do anything again. Congratulations on the shitty life that we just prescribed to you." And I went, "Not a chance." And my wife went, "I got you, babe. Let's go." And right there, hearing that what I just said about Brandy, 90% of you guys looked at that as an excuse to go, "That's why I can't. I don't have that kind of a spouse." Your brain will find the evidence to support whatever logic you give it or whatever statement you give it. So, if you say you can't, your brain will go, "You got it. I will find all the evidence to prove it. Don't worry. I'll prove to you that you're a bitch." Or if you go, "I can't be stopped and I have only one option." Your brain goes, "Well, you only got one option. We got to go. Let's hit the gas. Because you know what I do is I stay in places that suck, that hurt, that are uncomfortable until I adapt. I talked about this yesterday. But I do it because I want to become a better version of myself. I told you I have two voices. I have Trevor and I have the Spartan. The Spartan is powered by God. And Trevor starts to go, "Ah, dude, this is hard. Maybe I should just Why am I out here? Why am I doing this? This is stupid. What am I doing to myself? If I could go inside, sit on the couch, my life ain't that bad. I'm doing better than Billy down the street, which is what you guys do. You compare down so you can feel good about where you are instead of looking up. Because when you look up at somebody doing better than you, you throw hate and anger and criticism at them and complaint about them. And then you condemn them because they have everything you wish you had because they've been willing to do everything you aren't willing to do. and they've sacrificed everything that you won't. You don't deserve their results. You deserve to be where you are. In fact, if you get a lifeline handed to you like this and you don't take it, I hope your life burns to the ground. You deserve to stay where you are because there's no excuse to fail anymore. None. None. You have this information machine right here called a cell phone and you guys use it to find support to stay where you are. Instead of the answers and instructions and marching orders to change everything about you and become what you want and what you wish you were, you binge watch television just so you can get away from the life you're in, but when the TV goes off, you're still alive. You open your eyes every day to a movie you can't stand, but you go, I guess I just have to watch it. But you'd never do that on Netflix. You'd find the movie that you want to watch. Yeah, that's the one I want to watch. Why would you do that with your own life? Because when that voice Trevor starts saying, "That's stupid. You shouldn't do this. This is too hard." Even today, I had 10 rounds to do. And on round three, I did clean and jerks, pull-ups, and sit-up twists and have a blown out adductor. Believe me, this hurts. I don't care. I'm not dead. But on round three, I went, "Dude, I've still I've done three rounds. That's quite a bit. Remember, I'm injured. Come on, Travis. You're still crushing. You're doing better than most people comparing down." And then the Spartan went, "Can you do another rep? Can you physically do another rep?" "Yeah, pick up the [\h__\h] bar. Can you do another rep?" "A rep?" "Yeah, get on the bullet bar." So I did extra reps and extra rounds until the only voice I heard was a Spartan. You guys listen to that little [\h__\h] voice all the time and go, "That's" and then you look for proof. You look for someone to massage that [\h__\h] voice and go, "It's okay. You're good. Stay where you are." It's never okay to be fat, broken, alone. Never. You choose that. It's nobody else's fault but yours. [\h__\h] all your excuses. [\h__\h] your past. [\h__\h] your childhood. [\h__\h] your psychological issue that you think you have. [\h__\h] your boss. [\h__\h] your neighbor. [\h__\h] your neighborhood. [\h__\h] the uncle that took you out onto the barn and did weird [\h__\h] to you. [\h__\h] the trauma. [\h__\h] the pain. [\h__\h] the cancer. [\h__\h] the ADHD. [\h__\h] the Crohn's disease. [\h__\h] the bad experience you had with a girl before. [\h__\h] the bad experience you had with a guy before. [\h__\h] the horrific trauma, the PTSD, everything you've got and understand that it is your fault. It is your fault. And if you go, "What about this place where it's not their fault and they didn't ask to be bombed?" Arguing the extremes, the fringe, the outliers on either side is a sign of a weak mind. And it's what people do to validate that they're okay with staying where they are because they can't change it. So, let me get this straight. You think that's a victory by going I can't because they can't but that's less that's the 0.1 of.1%. You're arguing the extremes to validate why you can't but you're not the extreme. That's not a victory man. That's delusion. You guys need to toughen up your skin. You want to be resilient. Resilient means nobody knows when [\h__\h] happens to you because you just keep on going. People that say they're resilient but fall apart when they can't get a funnel to work or their Facebook ads suck or their business isn't making any money or their marriage is trash. They're not resilient. They're a fraud. Doesn't mean it doesn't hurt. Let me get that straight. But instead of you going, "Listen to this macho tough guy." It's not. I still have things to do just like you. The difference is yours had a price. Mine have no price. I'm unbiable. You cannot buy me away from my marriage. You cannot buy me away from my goals. You cannot buy me away from my children. You cannot buy me away from my self-worth. You can't buy me away from my bulletproof psychology. You cannot. I don't have a price. You can never buy me away from God. So until you realize that you are unbiable, you have a price. And that price is going to be the comfort that you decide to gravitate towards when things get difficult. So you can change. You can change. You can burn the damn boats. You can feel the pain. You can risk every dollar until you have zero. I don't have $1,500, Spartan. Figure it the [\h__\h] out. Get resourceful. You're resourceful enough to find your excuses and validations. Why you have to stay at the job that you hate? Why you have to stay in a marriage you can't stand? Why you have to stay fat? Why you can blame your grandma's [\h__\h] thyroid? You have all the resources and where you're resourceful as hell to do that. Why can't you be resourceful for success? You are. You just choose not to because it's easier to make up your excuses and blame because it's tolerated. If it wasn't tolerated and the consequence was they snipped off a finger every time you made an excuse, you would do it once. Some of you idiots would do it twice. But the consequences aren't that great. In fact, your consequences aren't consequences. When you're in a bad position and you're fat and broke and alone and stupid and making dumb decisions and validating and going into other people's comments all the time and just dropping negativity and hate, that sticky, nasty stuff, by the way, that's negativity. It's celebrated. Oh, you're so brave. You're not brave. You're not brave because you're fat. You're not brave because you're broke. You're not brave because you're alone. Stupid. And until you realize that, you take those justifications out of your mouth. You deserve to be where you are, not celebrated. You just deserve to be there at the bottom. So, you want change? Burn the damn boats. Burn the boats. Feel the pain. Risk it all. Risk. Max out your credit card to do something. To change your life, not to escape your life. to change it. Move, buy something different, take a course, join my mastermind, do something. Make your name so heavy you can't ignore it. I said it before. Cuz otherwise, oh yeah, you go ahead. Stay warm, fat, broke, forgotten. But it's your call. Nobody's forcing you to stay where you are except you. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.