Man, my stomach is so full. It's Saturday and what are we? Vlog 108. And every Friday to Saturday, Brandy and I fast, right? 8:00 at night. We don't eat again till 2 p.m. the following day. And we eat everything in the house at 2:00. She makes homemade chocolate chip cookies. I think I had 10, 12. They're so good. Pizza, meatballs, big giant piece of gar, like a garlic knot, probably about this big. And I just I pasta, got a coffee, right? I think I'm going to drink some water. All the myths and lies about nutrition, everybody with their magic diets and their special training and if I had to get this much protein, this is what I would be eating. If I had to get if I needed to get my 10,000 steps, if I needed to lose weight, gain muscle, I have the special workout. I'm the coach that's going to make you all the money. The nonsense that I see. I'm 52 years old and I can't believe the level of [\h__\h] that I see on social media coming from most of you guys. And I love how people get mad about that. Follow me around. Follow me around for 24 hours. You'll see I am exactly who I say I am. Are you who you say you are? Because most of you guys send a representative out into the public and then you get mad at people that call you out for being a liar. Or you get mad at the results you're not getting from the work you're not doing. Or you get mad at people that are crushing it and have the entire life that you wish you had and you spin it to try and tell everybody that's not what you want. You'd rather be mediocre and broke. Mediocre and fat. I'm fat, but at least I'm happy. No, you're not. You know who proved that? All the fat people that were happy being big-bodied women who all of the sudden when Ozan Peak came out went bam onto Ozan Peak skinny as a rail. You guys can't hide your true identity. That's the issue. You Why would you want to a lot of you guys just posers man? And it pisses me off. It actually makes me mad because you guys are you guys run around preaching to everybody and somebody is probably going to get in my comments go. You're preaching right now. I am who I say I am and I show up here every day helping you guys win. The only people that aren't going to win are the people that hear what I tell you on this vlog or podcast and don't apply it. Why? Because of out of spite, out of arrogance, out of your ignorance for information and your lack of application. You don't even need any new information. I'm not telling you anything you probably don't already know. You're waiting for something new. And it's frustrating because what's going to end up happening is you're never going to get the life you want because you're constantly justifying why you shouldn't listen to the people that are telling you exactly how to do it because they're wrong. You hate them. They're hurting your feelings. They're mean. No, you're just soft. Listen, I'm going to make this quick cuz I want to go back inside and eat some more cookies. We've all heard it before. You become two things. And not the average of the five people. There's more to it than that. You become two things in your life or you are a product rather of two things. You become what you think about and talk about most of the time. I'll say that again because a lot of you guys are running dialogue and you are rehearsing and practicing a life you don't want. You spend your time complaining and pointing fingers at everything that triggers you, but it triggers you because it's the truth or it's what you want and you can't stand it because they have it and you don't. They have it and you don't because they did the work and you didn't. I don't care who you are. I don't care. You can get as mad as you at Wes Watson's a great example. So many of you guys give him so much static because he calls you out for being soft, but he's [\h__\h] the guy came out of prison with $200 and he's built an empire and somebody's going to get in the comments and go, "Oh, go figure. Of course you like Wes." First of all, I was bald and had a beard long before Wes. Second of all, yeah, I like Wes. He's a friend of mine. I trust him. He's a good dude. He's never let me down. I've known him for six and a half years. So, I'll say that because I respect my friends. I don't take the public's opinion when the public's wrong or just so I blend in with everybody else. I am not I'm going to go along in order to get along. And that's where you guys are. Most of you guys, you see what shows up on social media and then pivot and go that's the direction I'm going. You have mob mentality, but you don't even believe the mob. You just don't want to be left behind and you don't want someone to point the finger at you. Listen, you become what you think about and talk about most of the time and you become the average of the five people you're around most. You know that, but yet the words that come out of your mouth and the thoughts you have in your head are the catastrophes that you're predicting that have never happened or the misery that you have and you house inside yourself that you wish you didn't have, but you feel you need to talk about and think about because it helps you justify where you are that you hate. If you hate where you are, why are you rehearsing to stay there? What if you woke up this morning and did the exact same thing you did yesterday and you don't like your life? You deserve to be where you are. I hope it hurts. I hope you fail. I hope you burn your life to the ground because that might be the only way you change. My life was burned to the ground 48 years ago or when I was 48 rather four years ago. Decimated nothing. So I don't have sympathy for you people that go out and complain and go you don't understand. It's I still got this grocery bill sitting here. And most of you clowns, you cowards got so buttth hurt about the grocery bill because you went, "Bro, for that kind of money, I could eat this and this every day." But you don't. And you don't have that money. One person out of 144 comments said, "I need to know what he's doing and how he earns the money to be able to not bat an eyelash at that grocery bill." If you're listening to this, you're the smartest one of the group because you asked the right question. because you're thinking about where you want to go, not justifying where you are against where you see that you wish you were. It's like the people that go out and key cars and you hate on nice cars. Dude, you're a [\h__\h] I don't have sympathy for you. You deserve to be exactly where you are because even if you have no money, YouTube is free. You can learn anything you need. This is free. This is free. My mastermind, it's not free. And it shouldn't I should charge you guys a h 100red grand a year. I just don't. I give so many opportunities to join my mastermind. And in my mastermind, just to be clear, I teach you how to make an awful lot of money. I fix your business. I fix your psychology. I fix your marriage. I fix your health. And we're growing by the day. No, this isn't a big commercial for a mastermind, but you guys should all be in it. If you're not in my mastermind, you're missing out. How long are you going to wait until you you do the things that you know you should be doing instead of practicing and rehearsing the life that you wish you weren't in? The life you're in, you're doing on purpose. I said it in my coach call today. Why aren't you executing on purpose to have the life you wish you had? You keep hating on and talking about. Instead, you're in the life that you're where you are on purpose, no matter what is happening in your life. I don't care how bad it is. I lost a lung, went through cancer, and lost everything in my world, including every dollar I had. You got nothing. You've got no excuse. Your life isn't worse than mine. But yet, I went further than you, and we've had the same four years. Yes, it pisses me off because you guys get in the comments and start hating and whining and complaining and justifying where you are, but where you are isn't where you want to be. Then do something about it. Stop justifying where you are and stop asking the wrong questions and whining and looking for people to support where you are. Get around a group that demands you raise your standards. That's why I have my mastermind. I told you my mastermind is $25,000 a year. You get in my you get in my DMs from this call, I'll say it. I'll bet you most of you guys won't do it because either you're a coward or you're cheap or you're looking for some kind of easy. It's not easy. I'm going to demand high standards. the barrier to entry to get into my mastermind because I don't put everybody on game. I turn tons of people away. Doubt me. I'll just post non-stop DMs or I went, "Nope, nope." Why? Because you aren't willing to commit. I don't want your money as much as I want your commitment, but you're damn well going to pay to get in. That's the barrier to entry because that proves you're committed. Because all of you guys want something for free and then do nothing. I know because I post things for free all day. Other people post things for free all day and all you guys do is complain and say, "It doesn't work. It doesn't. It works just fine. You don't work. You don't need a special workout or a special protein drink or you guys and following just like sheep just following the latest trend hoping it's going to be the thing that gets you to success. The thing that gets you to success is the psychology to do whatever the [\h__\h] it takes to get there to pay whatever price to pay the bill, the money, the time, and the energy, whatever it is. Because listen, if you had five grand in your bank account and that's all you had, my lifetime membership in my unbreakable mastermind is $50,000. $4,997 is what I'll let you have it for. Yeah, I'll let you have it for that. I'm doing you a favor. You're not doing me a favor by joining my mastermind if your standards are low. I don't want you. I don't want to be king of the losers and the [\h__\h] So get offended by that because only the losers and the [\h__\h] are going to be offended by that. $4,997. You send me a message that says I don't know. Let me see. Savage. There you go. That sees it. That that'll tell me for paying attention. That's how on the fly this is and that's how much I believe in what I do. But that's how much I care about you guys and how tired I am of seeing people pass up every opportunity looking for the next easy thing and wondering why their life still looks like [\h__\h] You're rehearsing it. You're rehearsing it on purpose and you're thinking and talking about all the things to justify why you shouldn't do it. But if you had just five grand in your bank and that's all you had and you go, "All right, $4,997." You send me savage on Instagram. I'm not going to have a conversation and it's not going to be automated. It'll be me sending you a link going, "Here you go. $4,997. You get lifetime." We're talking 144 calls a year with me. Three a week. Every business course I've ever made, every business call I do, I'll help you fix your business and I'll actually do it. The best one I've got so far in my mastermind in the inner circle portion of it, which is the business, which you get, he's making $200 to $300,000 a week. 14 months ago, he made zero. Look him up. His name's Tom Conmer. You don't I'm not going to sit here and try and coax you into it because you've been burned and ripped off before. That's your problem because you followed stupid people. I know what I'm doing. My results prove that I know what I'm doing. Your failures expose your lies and your inadequacies. Yes, it pisses me off. Yes, I'm lit. You send me the word savage. $4,997. If you go, I don't have that kind of money. Figure it out. How bad do you want to win? Are you looking for cheap or you looking for success? That's cheaper than just about any other program out there. That's not one-on-one, by the way. If you think you're going to get me on a phone call, never going to happen for that. Never. Never. One-on-one is a completely different, but you can ask me questions in my Q&A all day and it's really me and I don't give generic loose answers. I'll solve your problem. Man, I have cured cancer in my group. Are you kidding me? I'm tired of you guys looking for the cheapest, easiest, and wondering why your life sucks. So, yeah. $4,997 for a $50,000 program. You never anything that gets upgraded, you just come right along for the ride. I'm never going to charge you again unless you want to go one-on-one and then that's a whole another fee. I'm transparent. I don't have weird things. I listen. If I guarantee you this, if you don't do it, if you don't join, if you go do something else, I guarantee that you will stay exactly where you are, justify all the things you're doing and tell everybody how what you're doing isn't working, but you haven't found anything that works yet. And you will do that until you're 95 and then die. Yeah, it pisses me off because I wish I had the opportunities that I see right now. I wish I had somebody like me when I rolled out of that hospital to help me. I had to figure this all out on my own. Do you have any idea how many screw-ups I made, how many failures? How many days I wanted to quit? I threw the weights, how I threw I was I would freak out and get so angry, so sad, so upset, so devastated. I'd stare at the ceiling feeling like a liability. If you had just five grand, here's the worst thing that would happen. You spend it. You max out your credit card, 4,997 bucks. The worst thing that happens, nothing. And you stay where you are in your life, which means you didn't lose a damn thing except five grand. And if you go, some of us can't lose five grand. Don't join my program. Don't. I don't want you. I don't want justifying soft people that go what if it doesn't work. It won't. Not if because you are rehearsing. Your life has to be successful on purpose. You are creating your world right now on purpose. Either direction you are getting. I said it today in my call. Good reps are bad reps. You are putting them in. You choose bad reps, you choose good reps. Bad reps are the times where you justify why you can't yet. You guys wait until you're in a better position. I said this too in my call. I said, "Listen, you guys wait until you have the money to be able to spend the money to learn how to make more money and fix your business, but you keep doing the same thing and wondering why you're not getting the money." That's like saying I need to be incredibly fit before I go to the gym to work out to become incredibly fit. Oh, it just it Yeah, it makes me mad because it's disappointing. I'm so disappointed in mankind and humans because you guys are so lazy and cheap with your life and all you do is complain all the way along and never do a damn thing about it and call everybody else like me who's winning lucky. Yeah, I'm lucky. I'm lucky I lost my lung. I'm lucky I went broke. I'm lucky I went bankrupt. I'm lucky I lost my $2 million home. I'm lucky that I almost lost my I almost lost my life. I'm lucky. And I work 16 18our days. I'm lucky. And you guys go, I have more wealth than you because I have a family. I have two kids that look at me as a superhero and a wife that adores me of 20 years. What do you got? What do you got? couple of kids in a trampoline in the back of a rental house that you can't stand. I'm not going to be nice. And if you want to give me no no likes and hate all this, that's fine. That's you, not me. I'm not telling you anything that isn't true. Apparently, right now, the truth, that's offensive. It's hurtful, bothers me. It's off-putting. Whatever the hell else you want to come up with if you aren't, you know what happens? You have to be willing to sacrifice everything. You guys think five grand is a lot of money. Oh, it's relative. For some people it is. It is never a lot of money ever. That's the problem is you're justifying being at the bottom and going for some people it is. If I go to a third world country and they're eating grasshoppers off a leaf, that $5,000 would buy them a mansion. Outliers. The weakest form of any argument is to argue the extremes. Also pisses me off. You want to make the most out of yourself. You need to ring every ounce of life out of you to become everything that you are meant to become. Do you think that you're meant to become this mediocre person? Listen, I said it the other day. I don't care if you think 50 grand a year is rich and it actually puts you in a position where you adore your life and so does your spouse. It ain't just you, boy. So does your spouse. So do your kids. They absolutely adore everything in their world. then that's rich for you. The problem you run into is when a catastrophe rolls along in your life where you can't write a check for. But you never think that far, do you? Because you're too busy justifying where you are. Because when someone else goes, "That's not enough, man." They're not coming at you to go, "You should be driving a Lamborghini." I don't give a crap what you drive. I don't care if you drive an old piece of [\h__\h] Doesn't matter to me. I had a Lada. I had a Dodge Omni. If you guys know what that is, it's a piece of crap. I've had so many shitty cars. All you guys see are the Lamborghinis and all the Porsches and the Gwagon and all that stuff. Do you have any idea how old I'm 52? I got a buddy of mine that just spent $10 million on two cars. Two. I don't have any $10 million cars. My buddy Howard Paynees, multi multi-billionaire, he's got more money tied up in one car than most people have in their house and their entire life and savings and will for the next 25 years. He was 600 grand in debt. He built that with his bare hands. He wasn't lucky. You guys are so busy hating. You're not busy. Look, you're not you're not looking at where you want to go. So, you're always talking about it's not the same, bro. You have all these opportunities. If I could train all day, I'd look like you. No, you wouldn't. Cuz I don't train all day. You have all the opportunities I have, the exact same ones, if not more, because you have two lungs. You have more excuses than I have. You have more validations than I have. And you hang around with more losers than I ever will. And if you take offense to that, your problem, not mine. Like I said, you will become the product of two things. what you think about and talk about and the average of the five people that you spend the most of your time with. And if you go, "Whoa, these people are still I love them." Are they screwing up your life or helping you level up? Do they demand high standards from you? My wife adores me. You don't think for a second she demands high standards? Absolutely. Why would you want to be with somebody that doesn't? I do for her, she does for me. But you know what? Our kids see two superheroes. Some of you guys are going to get mad. We don't all want to look like you. Yes, you do. We don't all need to be rich like you. Yes, you do. Not everybody's wants to have a marriage like that. Some of us are okay with only having sex once a year. No, you're not. No, you're not. But you're too busy justifying where you are. You want to know how to figure out who you are? I'll help you out because this pisses me off. Again, like I said, lifetime. Don't even bother me if that's not what you want to do. $4,997. Savage is the message you send me on Instagram on here. I'll send you a payment link. You put the credit card in. Welcome. I promise you this. You'll get out of it exactly what you put into it. If you put everything you got into it, you'll get everything out of it. Oh, I'm not going to make some big fancy guarantee like a bunch of other Insta coaches. I have the results most people want. It's not an arrogant statement. It's not an egotistical statement. It's fact. And I built this from the ground up. And I have shown every ounce of my progress from day one. If you don't know who I am, look me up. All of my fuckups. Look at my CrossFit [\h__\h] Look at all up. All of it. But you make sure you look at what I've done with my life. Despite any adversity, my past is just nothing but lessons. Doesn't define me. There's only one person's past who defines me. He has holes in his hands and his feet. His name's Jesus. Yeah. His past divides me. The rest. So you go ahead and judge. I don't judge anybody. I'm disappointed in people. I'm disappointed in the way mankind is conducting themselves, demanding other people take the responsibility for your actions. If you want more, be more. If you want more, do more. If you want more, show it. Talk about it. Breathe it. Live it. What if I don't have $49.99? That's $4,997, by the way. Find a way or make one. Because the other option is staying right where you are and waiting until later and wondering why your life sucks. But the one bank account you're not getting more of is your time. Your time. And if anybody's listening to this who is already in my program, I'll give you the same deal. But you got to show up. So ask yourself, listen, I I could sit and do this part all day. Ask here. I'll define exactly who you are. I'll expose you to yourself right now. Ask yourself right now, what is everything that you've read, that you've watched, that you've listened to, that you looked up on Google or anywhere else, you talked about with your friends or your family or your wife, wife or ask chat GPT, all of that. What is everything you've done in all of those areas in the past 24 hours? Because that is who you are. A lot of you guys, a lot of people in general, and think they're conducting themselves one way, the way they want, just imaginary, man, because they're usually acting in a way that goes against what they want. If you are going into anybody's comments dropping hate, you're never going to win ever. You think that's a way to succeed? Want everybody else to win? I do. God, I want every one of you people to win so big. That's why it pisses me off because I see I know what the potential is because I had to do it. And yet you guys look for reasons to go, I don't have the same. I can't do that. I don't I'm scared. What if it doesn't work? I maxed out every single penny in my life. I leveraged everything I had to get here. And I have two kids and a wife all counting on me. But you can't do it. [\h__\h] You don't doubt anything but your follow through. Most of you guys are conducting yourselves in a way that goes against everything you want. So ask yourself, do you actually want what you think or do you want something else? Why are some people more successful than others? Some of you guys are going to say, "Oh, it's because of nepotism. I hear that all the time. You guys are full of shit." You guys look for any way to justify why you're not winning. To disregard the power of your mind to create anything in your reality is to disregard and disrespect God. Like we've heard, I love this. We've heard it's my fault by a lot of people. Yet we manufacture extenduating circum circumstances around why it's not in this particular moment. Why right now it's not really my fault, but every other time it's your fault. It is always your fault. It's always your fault. I you know what's funny is you guys think you're ambitious. You guys think you're driven. One time we were driving to a jiu-jitsu tournament and we were sitting at this intersection before the 30 in here in Texas and I watched these kids with signs holding up for a baseball team. Kids maybe 12, 10 maybe. And they were asking for money for push-ups. A dollar per push-up. And I'm in the passenger seat because I was about ready. I did a call. any of my my mastermind knows I did the call in the passenger seat of that G Wagon driving to a jiu-jitsu tournament. I never miss ever because that's how important you guys are to me. Nobody coaches like I do because nobody goes all in on their members like I do. I don't care who it is. It could be [\h__\h] Tony Robbins. I'm doing better because I never miss. And this kid says I said, "What is this for?" And he goes, "Oh, it's for we're raising money for our baseball team. There's some parents and stuff. They're all in their little jerseys and stuff." I said, "I'll tell you what." It was a 100 bucks. He freaked out. And I said, "100 push-ups no matter what. The lights about to turn green, so I'm going to trust you." Yes, sir. Absolutely, sir. I filmed it. He's banging out push-ups. You know what happened when I posted that video? A bunch of soft little girl adults started going, "I'm counting one, one, one, one." None of those are real push-ups. None of those are accurate push-ups. I don't see any push-ups being done. Yet, this kid was giving all he had on the concrete and 85 degrees. It's a little kid, but that's what you adults are doing because this kid's outgunning you. Pissed me off. I guarantee you that kid did a hundred of what he was capable of doing. He showed everybody when we were driving away, "Look, this guy's awesome. I got to do a hundred. I could hear him yelling." But some of you weak adults are going up against a kid. A kid to validate your inadequacies while this kid got on the concrete and started banging out the push-ups as best as he could. And you went, "I count no push-ups done there." That's because you can't do any. Oh, it just pisses me off. I'm really doing everything I can not to swear. Listen, if you look at those who stack wins more than any others, they all have the same characteristics. I'll list them for you. You might want to write these down. So, stop whatever you're doing and pull out a damn pen. Everybody who stacks wins more than anyone else. They all have these same characteristics. You can start adding and taking away all you want. You're wrong. These are the ones they have. Extremely resultsoriented. It is always their fault. They eliminate every single option other than where they need to go. All options. They stop when they're done, not when they feel like it. They only do high consequence actions. They surround themselves with people doing better than they are. And then they take notes. They're constantly learning and they know how to prioritize. You know what the most valuable asset I have for my life? It's the same one that all of you guys have. The ability to get results. That's the most valuable asset you have. It's not your connections. It's not your car. It's not your bank account. It's your ability to get results. And the better you hone that ability, the more you make out of your life, physically, mentally, financially, emotionally. Your speed matters. Let me explain. Your speed matters. The speed, and here's why. Because the speed at which you learn something new and then try it out immediately will impact your success above almost anything else. Intelligence is how quickly you take new information and apply it and succeed. If it takes you 20 times to succeed after learning new information versus the person that takes twice, that person's more intelligent than you and you guys will get offended by that. Maybe I just don't learn things as well. Then they're more intelligent. You guys look for reasons to be pissed off instead of reasons to win. Do you learn daily? You should. But do you learn daily? Are you consuming high value information like this? Or are you merely entertaining and hiding on this cell phone all the time? 5 to seven hours of screen time a day is the average a day. A day. And if somebody goes, "Where'd you get that data?" I think that's inaccurate. Pull out your phone, look at your screen time. I bet I'm right. I talked about the 1 hour window yesterday, I believe. But there's more to it. So, I'm going to add to that. It's the 60-minute law. This law says that if you continuously increase your level of productivity in an hour, which means you get more efficient at your productivity in an hour, which means you get better and better, so you get more done in that same 60 minutes. You just keep doing it over and over again. You build on the last hour. You will achieve whatever it is you're working towards in less than a year. What do your hours look like, man? You doawling around. A lot of you guys wander around the gym telling everybody you work out for three hours, but what you do is really work out for about seven minutes. How about you look at how many how long you're actually moving in your workout. Do that for me. How long you're actually moving and sweating and breathing heavy. If you aren't moving a weight, running, jumping, climbing, anything. I don't care what it is. If you're standing there for any capacity, you're not working out. So, how long are your workouts for real? Wandering around the gym with your coffee isn't a workout. What do your hours look like? Because most of you guys don't work for an hour. You work for seven or eight minutes and then you have 50 to 60 minute almost 60 minutes of nonsense. You work a couple of minutes and then dotle and come up with reasons why you can't and drag your heels and take a task and make it take as long as possible, which means you're inefficient. No wonder you fail. But you're running that dialogue in your head. 8020 rule. This is a big rule and some of you guys need to hear this, I think, because apply it to what I call the 100 hour blueprint, right? So, the 100 hour blueprint means if you stick to something for 100 hours and really 100 hours, that's why I prefaced it with the most of you guys aren't doing the work for the hour. You're doing it for a couple of minutes and then the rest of the hour you're convincing yourself and everybody else around you that you're doing the work. You're not. 8020 rule. Apply it to the 100 hour blueprint. 100 hours in one specific skill set. By the end of those 100 hours, you'll be an expert and you will be the 1%. That's how profound this is. Doubt me all you want. The only people that are going to doubt me are the ones that aren't willing to try it. Or the ones that'll go, I tried it, it didn't work. Then you didn't give all you had for that hour. If Dorian Yates, I know him. Dorian's a good friend of mine. He's a great guy. Which is wild because when I was a kid, I used to look at Muscle and Fitness and Flex and stuff like that and see Dorian Yates with this giant back send him a message and ask him how long his workouts were. I know this answer. An hour. He went Mr. Olympia a whole bunch of times. And he looked badass. He just made that hour count. Most of you think you do. So, take the 8020 rule and apply it to the 100 hour blueprint. If you can make it past the first 20 hours, this is why I'm telling you, if you can make it fast past the first 20 hours, your likelihood of absolute success increases exponentially. So, you want to make it past the first 20 hours because that's the critical that's the critical point, right? You reach critical mass at hour 21 where you just become this unstoppable juggernaut. People do well, how I get distracted. You answered your own question. Stop being distracted. Lock yourself in a room. Chew a couple of pieces of nicotine gum or slap a patch on you. Nicotine patch. Get focused. Drink a bunch of coffee. Slam a bunch of water. Don't have a big sugary whatever the hell you eat for breakfast. You guys turn off everything. Ignore everybody. And get to work. This isn't complicated. So, I'll give you how. The conversations you have in your head. This is how. Listen. the conversations you have in your head, the questions you ask yourself, the people you're around, your self-worth, image, and perception. That's how you need to mount, you need to monitor and manage all of that. The consequences of a thought or action determines the value of the thoughts or actions. I'll say that again. This is important because it it's I'm just thinking your thoughts, what's the consequence of that thought? Because if the consequence is catastrophic, it's not a valuable thought. If the consequence of that thought is victory, it's a high value thought. So the consequence of a thought or action determines the value of the thoughts or the action. If the action is going to take you down the wrong path, no value. If the thought is going to take you down the wrong path, no value. Do you see where I'm going with this? long-term perspective. Here's what you do. You give a lot of thought to the consequence of what you're doing in the short term to assure what happens in the long term is exactly what you want. That's where you guys are screwing up. You're taking short-term actions and having short-term thoughts and going, I just want to have this entertainment right now. I just want to do this one thing right now. I don't want to finish it. You know what? To be honest, I love my daughter. My daughter is such a badass. I love hope so much. And yesterday, I'll give you a great example. Yesterday, I said, "Hey, I have all these trees down here, these green giants down here. 40 or 50 I moved down here." And I said, "I need you to cut between my trees." Okay, kid. She was outside cutting the lawn. She was snippy, irritated. She's 18. You tell her to do chores. Sometimes I don't like it. I don't care. Do the chores. My dad would make me go outside, do my chores until they were done. And if they weren't done properly or to the standard he had, go out and do them again. I would stay out there from morning to sundown if I didn't do it right. That's having high standards. But you know what that taught me? Work ethic. But this is where I'm talking about give a lot of thought to the consequence of what you're doing in the short term to asssure that what happens in the long term is what you want. Look at what you're doing in the short term. Is it is it going to give you what you want in the long term? Because most of you guys don't even play that game. You're like, I don't know. I don't give much thought to it. That's why your life sucks. You're like, if I spent I'll go right back to my mastermind before I tell you the story about hope. I will go right back to that 4,997 bucks. Oh god. Listen to this guy pitching. You want to win? Pay the money. Join the mastermind. Succeed. It's for life. I'm only going to get more expensive and I'm only going to win more. I want to bring you my my entire mission, my vision from God is to build my life so big. I kid you not. This is from God. Build your life as big as you possibly can. So big that you can put everybody else's hopes, dreams, victories with you in it and take them with you all the way to the top. You can fit all of them in you. All of them. But you guys go. I just I can't yet. Then don't win. I'm the ark you guys need to be in. That's how simple this is. But your long-term play doesn't exist in your mind. Your long-term play is I'll do it later. But you don't even know when later is. Your short-term play. I have a guy right now. I said here, this is what you need to do. Oh, I'm going to shop around to see if that's what I want to do yet. You don't want to succeed. I'm already I got an endorsement from a half a billion dollar Fortune 500 CEO because he believes in me, because he knows what I'm capable of and because I've worked with him. His name's Pedro. He doesn't give those out. That's respect. I have so much respect for that man. I've learned so many things from that guy and vice versa. But those don't come easy. So when you look at people that endorse you and go, "Yeah, that guy. I have those people." So if you are looking around, knock yourself out 150%. Go. Don't be pissed off when the opportunity is gone when you come back. That's on you. You know what some people will say? Oh, that's a hard push. No, you just don't want to win. I will do anything shy of going against the word of God. It's the only thing I won't do to make sure I ensure victory. Long-term perspective, most of you guys don't do it. Give the thought to the consequences of what you're doing right now in the short term to ensure what you get in the long term is what you want. You guys play safe. Playing safe in the short term does not give you what you want in the long term. It protects what you have right now and even then it is always losing. You are a diminishing asset. You, your money, your relationship, all diminishing assets if you are playing safe. So to come back to hope, she's cutting the front part. Where are we? We have acorage everywhere, but she cuts a certain section. My son uses the riding mower for the rest of it. And I have all these trees. I said, "You need to cut between all the trees." Okay, fine. Irritated. When I came out this morning, I do my morning routine. 100 pull-ups, 100 squats, 100 push-ups, 100 bicycles, and I look out when I'm done. I back my car out and I look out when I'm done. I see the first row of trees here. And I look down into the yard and they have one stripe between each trees, each of the trees, and probably 2 feet of grass strips sticking up on either side of the tree like a star around every tree. Which means, did she do it? No. She got pissed off and ran the mower through it a little bit and went down each one. That's the equivalent of talking about flossing versus doing it. So, I came in the house. I said, "Hey, hope." I wasn't happy at all. Did you cut between my trees? Yeah, I did. I said, "No, you didn't." She said, "Yeah, I did." I said, "If you guys have a teenager, you know exactly what I just said and how that sounds." He said, "No, you didn't." "Yes, I did." I said, "Listen, we could do this all day and I will wear you out cuz I'm right. I'm just not going to bother with this." No, you didn't. You need to go out and do it. However, you can't do it right now because we had a thunderstorm. The ground is soaked. The grass lays down when you cut over it with a mower. You're going to have to do it again when it's warmer and the grass dries out. So, never going to happen. You cost yourself the next couple of days because you cannot do anything. This is where the long-term play comes in. You cannot do anything until your chores are done. That is a rule we have in our house anyway. It's not something manufactured that I did in the moment. I had plans. Guess you're not going. And you know what people would say? Some [\h__\h] parent. Oh, that's mean. That's not fair. That's why your kid is a dude but dresses like a girl and thinks that they can crap in a litter box. My daughter knows she's a badass little girl. My son knows he's a badass boy because we have standards. So now my daughter will not get to do anything she wants to do until it's done. And if she rushes to do it, I will make her do it again. Standards matter. But did it cost her in the long term? Absolutely. But you guys don't have the long-term perspective because she invested very little in the short term because she didn't want to waste her time. What are you even rushing for? She had nowhere to go in the moment. But you're investing very little of your time, money, and energy in the short term, and you're wondering why the long term doesn't work out. That's why that's why you're not willing to give it all. So now she gets to wait until Tuesday. Tuesday, she can do it. The point is that how many times are you going to look at the short term and play safe and go, I can't yet? Your brain is going to go to work trying to justify and come up with all the reasons why that's the best play. Except it's not. And here's how you know. You're not where you want to be. And you haven't even moved the needle. I'll do it next year. How long do you think you have? You are on a finite schedule on this planet. So you go ahead and keep waiting. You go ahead and keep looking for reasons. So, do you just want do you want your life to look exactly the same tomorrow as it does today and not justifying my life's pretty good, bro? I bet it's not cuz you're listening and you're trying to figure out how to fix it. You're looking for YouTube videos to solve your problem. I just solved your problem. Do you want your life to look like it did like it does right now tomorrow? Or do you want your life to be a little bit better than it currently is right now? Because the way you do that is you give a lot of thought to the consequences of what you're doing in the short term and make sure that what you're doing in the short term guarantees what happens in the long term is everything you want. And that might mean in the short term you blow every dollar you've got to learn the skill set, get around the people, get everything set up so you can win in the long term. But a lot of you guys go, I just I'm just going to learn it. I'm just going to figure out on my own. You keep doing that. Men like me will keep putting points on the board going, "Here's the hand. Trying to help you, man." Long-term perspective matters. I got to go. This is where we fight. This is where they die.