Listen, today, so I saw this guy. He came into my feed and he's got to be early 60s. This guy was a clown. And like anyone that claims to have high level training and then acts like a low-level toddler does not have highle training and it's exposed in your conduct. And I made a post about our son who god I am so proud of my son. Like my son is a badass. He is going to be 16 years old. He just got his driver's permit, his learner's permit. He's driving around which is still weird as hell to me because to me he's still that little kid that used to cling to my leg when I'd sit on the couch and I'd roll around and he would do arm bars on one arm. Like he would cling to my arm and I would stand up and do a Turkish get up with my son on my arm and when he was like four. Right. So, it's a wild trip to see my boy who's 140 pounds and almost the same height as me and fighting for 12 years. He's Muay Thai and jiu-jitsu for for 12 years. He is a dangerous young man and he's got such great emotional control. He's a great kid. He's such a great kid and and we're hard on him in a good way, but not for any other reason other than he needs to not ever get crippled by failure. So, he gets humbled in jiu-jitsu all the time. like he fights four days a week and he's been doing that for 12 years. But he also understands how to handle failure. He knows how to lose. But this guy, it was the funniest thing. I got to tell you guys, this is the most ridiculous thing I've ever seen. It's a grown ass man with his thirdderee black belt in Taekwondo. Now listen, if you've taken Taekwondo and if you are going to get all pissed off and frustrated about how taekwond do is so lethal, no, it's not. all your patterns, your pump says, and your spinning crescent kicks and all your highkicking nonsense. Listen, taekwond do is useless. Everybody knows there was a studio when I was growing up. It was called Kangs and it guaranteed you a black belt in two years as long as you paid two grand. There were black beltmies. These things are everywhere. Anyway, Taekwondo is very showy. It is not very functional. I don't care who you are. I don't care. I would rather put you in boxing, judo, wrestling, jiu-jitsu for sure, Muay Thai, those you know what crav those are fighting. Salat, all of that stuff is way better. Taekwondo and your jumping frilly nonsense [\h__\h] And this guy and his and hot keto, there's another one. Dude, come on. No, that's why you never see this stuff in UFC. You don't see MMA guys doing any of this nonsense. And what's his name? I I don't remember. Mashidto. Mashado. It's been a long time. So, if you want to correct and get in the comments and start bitching about how I mispronounced it, whatever. I think he was a taekwond do guy, but he's also everything else. So, before you start getting all weird about it, but this old dude gets in and starts trashtalking me about how I trash talk my son all the time. And I'm like, are you high? There's been this many times I've ever said anything bad about my son ever. Ever. I love my kids. I since the day they were born, I have been all over my kids and I like how much I love them and how hard I am on them because I want them to not need me. The whole point of when you raise your children is so that they don't need you. And parents are the only two people on earth that want those two people. They're in our case like my son and my daughter or however many kids you have. They are the only people on earth that want their kids to beat them. Everybody else does not want those people to beat them. No matter what they say. I want my son to beat me, but he'll beat me when he can damn well beat me. I'm not going to let him win races. I'm not going to let him submit me unless he earns it and he's getting close. The kid's fast and he's strong. He's getting he's coming into his strength. But the reason I'm saying this is this guy got in and just started throwing nothing but hate. I'm like, you're at this high level. You can tell like my son would never do that. I have the number of times I've gone into somebody's comments and gotten triggered and run a paragraph is zero. I'm 52. I've never done that in my entire life. And the only fall back this guy had after I called him out for basically calling him a grown ass toddler for coming into the comments going and he it was all about money which is really weird. And he was like I think something just triggered him. Maybe some repressed childhood problem. Maybe his dad beat the [\h__\h] out of him. I really don't know. Maybe. And I was like dude you're breaking boards for your thirdderee taekwond do belt. You're breaking boards. I keep thinking of the dimmuck right in in Blood Sport where brick not hit back. Like it's like the truth though. No board is hitting you back. Show me how you do against real opponents because I'm pretty sure my son would tap you out three times in five minutes. He'd just shoot your legs so fast you wouldn't even know what to do. And if you're like, "Oh, kick him right in the head." No, you wouldn't. No, you wouldn't because you'd never get the opportunity to. You got to understand fights end up on the ground. And all these guys that go jiu-jitsu would be useless in the street. [\h__\h] You need to look at my buddy Tom Delas and just follow him. That's it. I'll leave it there. Understand becoming a proficient dangerous man under control like Peterson says is the duty of every older man to teach every younger man to become. That's your job. You guys getting in touch with your feelings and then getting into comment sections and getting all triggered. That says nothing about what it says everything about you and who in the mirror. So, this guy went off and then when I called him out on basically just being a low-level, low frequency coward. I was like, "Dude, what are you six?" He came back with this long thing. I don't want to embarrass him. I have too much respect. I was like, "Show me the post that I've ever said bad things about my son." Oh, wait. And all these I love If it's any of you guys, thank you very much. Because you guys all came into my feed and went, I've never I've been following him for seven years. I've never seen him talk poorly about his kids cuz I never have. I've never talked poorly about my wife, my kids, anything. I just don't I don't see the point. And I sure as [\h__\h] haven't gone into anybody's comment section and left any kind of negativity ever. So, he was like, "No, I don't want to embarrass him." And I showed my son and my son laughed at this guy. Like I I wanted to like and I'm not going to put my He's 16, right? So, I'm not going to put him on the spot like that, but and I have respect for my son, but he looked at this. I go, "Hey, Pierce, come here. Check this out." And he looks at it and he goes, "What a loser." And I go, "Yeah." I go, "Here, let's look at his." I go, "Let's just see. I want your opinion. Here's his third degree black belt test." And he goes, "He's kicking boards." Yeah. And he goes, "I'd love to see that guy on the mat." And I'm like, "I didn't say anything." You when you get triggered by somebody else, the problem is with you. And that's the world right now. You guys get so pissed off and triggered about a bunch of things, but nothing triggers you. Nothing triggers you. It exposes you. It's not the post. It's not the flex. It's not the quote, the car, the caption, the confidence, the life, the physique, the belt, the fight, or the freedom. None of it. It's what all of that reveals about what you're not. And that's what you hate. That's what you I didn't even know this guy. He just showed up, which is hilarious. I think it's funny. And of course, what just so you know, this is what people that get triggered do. They look for a [\h__\h] in your armor that they think is going to affect you because they think you haven't grown past it. So, of course, he said, "What about the CrossFit video, right?" And I was like, "Dude, that's eight [\h__\h] years ago. I grew up. Clearly, you haven't. The only people that will try and remind you of your past are the ones who haven't grown past where they were at that point in time. The best thing my dad always, he was a preacher, my dad always said, "Say sorry, make amends, and move the [\h__\h] on," basically, right? Like just why would you ever dwell on something that has been done? And if people need to be accountability, long gone, [\h__\h] Long gone. Already did it. But that's all people have. So remember, when they attack you with something that happened yesterday, you are not that person. You are who you are today. You are not your event. You are not your actions. You are who you are. And if you atone for your actions, just move on. Don't be a dick. But understand when you get triggered, all that stuff reveals everything about what you're not. You're mad that something is it's all the stuff that you've quit on. It's that's why you hate it. That's why you lash out at it. That's why you go running to the comments with the courage of a coward hiding behind a Wi-Fi signal, right? Like you didn't get triggered by a post or a meme. You got exposed. You weren't angry about a video. You were embarrassed by what it revealed. drinking more Coke for you guys listening to the podcast. Why? Cuz it's delicious. You didn't comment because somebody offended you. You commented because deep down you felt small. You needed somewhere to project the echo of your own inadequacies. Let me make this really simple. You are responsible for your emotions. That's the It's called being an adult. Nobody else is. If someone's life, if someone's life or their watch or their money or their mindset or their physique, their body count, their business sets you off, you know, your inner alarm goes nuts. That's not a red flag about them. That's a red flag about you. You feeling something? Yeah. Own it. Own it. The post, whatever it is, didn't make you feel inferior. You already felt inferior. The post just confirmed it. You want to lash out? Go ahead. But the real work, it ain't in the comments, son. It's in the mirror. Most of you are just too scared. You're too scared to stand there long enough to confront that weak [\h__\h] staring back at you. Dude, it's you. The human tendency to be triggered is not a moral reaction. It's an involuntary spotlight on unintegrated psychological shadows. That thing that you can't tolerate. That's the one thing that you haven't mastered. And most of the time it's you. You hate the rich because you've avoided building wealth. You resent discipline because you've abandoned self-control. You mock confidence because your internal dialogue is a it's like a civil war of shame. You spend your day running conversations in your head about what you haven't done and calling yourself out for it, but your external world proves it. You cannot lie about your lack of discipline and you hate that. All that stuff, those are revelations. And the emotionally mature man, not boy man, uses those as mirrors, not weapons. Like, you ain't mad at the video, son. You're mad that the guy in the video isn't you. You might want to listen to that part again. You didn't comment because you're brave. There's nothing brave about getting into the comments, right? You commented because you're bored, bitter, and broke, and figured throwing, I don't know, digital rocks would make you feel alive for a second. So, how about this? Let me ask you this. When's the last time a powerful man got triggered, got into the comments, or posted about it? When? When? Never. Because real men don't attack people. They don't They don't attack people doing more. They study them. They take notes. Maybe you should ask yourself, what have I blamed for triggering me when in reality it exposed something that I refuse to confront in myself? That would probably be a highle question you might want to ask. Like you think you're expressing how you feel. You're not expressing. You're confessing weakness, envy, and your lack of self-control. And it if it bothers you, I'll make it easy. Then it owns you. But until you face it, you're going to keep calling your exposure offense. You're not offended. But you do that because it's easier than admitting that you're the one that's bleeding. See, like you see a man driving a beautiful car, a Lamborghini, Bugatti, Rolls-Royce, Porsche, whatever, and it bothers you. You see a woman who says she wants a high value man, and it bothers you. You hear someone say that they work seven days a week and love it, and that one really [\h__\h] you up. You make your little posts about how God said rest and respect it and all that. It's not true, man. Ask yourself why. Because you you don't hate the statement. You don't hate anything about that statement. You hate that it made you feel exposed. See, if it didn't poke something that's already raw, you wouldn't feel a damn thing. The truth, it's not offensive. It's ownership. You guys are just scared of it. It owns you because you haven't done the damn work. You haven't built the mindset, the psychology, right? You haven't earned the identity that's immune to exposure. See, that's what it is. You're immune to any exposure if you are who you say you are and you do what you say you do if you keep your word. You're weak because your feelings got more reps in than your focus. Dude, I'd be embarrassed. You're fragile because you haven't exposed yourself to enough pain to build up any scar tissue. You have no armor. You're a [\h__\h] You're triggered because you still haven't fixed the part of you that feels like a [\h__\h] fraud. And people go, "Why are you so angry?" I'm saying this with a smile, man. I see a guy stronger than me, richer than me, smarter than me, with a better life than me. Good. Now I've got something to chase. You You got something to cry about. That's the difference between killers and critics. When something unsettles you, it's a signal. You have to look at that. It's a signal that your internal architecture is misaligned. And the emotionally weak will externalize the discomfort instead of integrating the lesson. You guys just look at everything and turn everything over to an external locus of control. I said that yesterday. You got like you label what is toxic. This is my favorite. Toxic. Narcissistic. That's my favorite one. Most of you guys can't even spell that word, let alone know what it means. Toxic. Some alpha [\h__\h] Narcissistic, harmful, problematic, self-centered, egotistical. All to protect the fragile self that you've got from a confrontation it desperately needs to have. You guys are afraid to confront the mirror. I said it yesterday. Because that's what you're really at war with. the version of yourself that you were supposed to become but refused to pursue. You didn't get triggered. You didn't you you got I don't know shown up. You didn't get offended. You got reminded of every single thing that you've quit on. You're not a victim. You choose to be a victim, but you're not a victim. You're just pissed off that somebody else is living at a level that you're just too damn lazy to reach and work for. If it stings, shut up. Don't comment. Compete. Shut up. If it stings, shut your mouth. You're hoping that your comment gets them to stop so you feel better about the loser life that you've built. Ask yourself this. What's the one thing that I constantly criticize or attack that's really just a mirror for something that I haven't owned in myself yet? Think about that, right? Because it's like cultural cancer. Feeling triggered is this it's this diagnosis. You guys triage yourselves and come up with triggered. It's a confession. That's that's your diagnosis. You're welcome. It's not a cry for help. It's a neon sign that says, "I haven't mastered myself. I need the world to bend around my weakness so I never have to grow." See, triggered people don't need sympathy. They need selfmastery. And you don't have it really. Let me be clear. Nobody can make you feel anything without your permission ever. I don't care what you say. Nobody has control over your emotions except you. You all need to re read man's search for meeting, Victor Frankle. The guy was in a Nazi concentration camp. None of you listening to this were in that. And if you were, well then you're a savage son of a [\h__\h] But I'm almost guaranteeing that none of you were. And he turned it into a good experience. Is your life that bad? He never got triggered cuz he saw a meme or a post. Nobody can make you feel anything without your permission. So, if you're offended, if you're pissed off, if you're triggered, you permitted it. If you're agitated, you authorized it. If you're reactive, you're out of control. You don't need a therapist. You need standards, high ones. You don't need a safe space. You need to put some titanium in your spine. And you sure as hell don't need the world to tiptoe. You need to dominate your own [\h__\h] nervous system. You guys are waiting for the world to bend around you just because you feel bad. You want to stop getting triggered, then stop being so emotionally fragile. You've trained your entire nervous system to tap out the second un uncomfortable things show up. Now you're crying about a [\h__\h] post like you got stabbed. They like your soul is bleeding everywhere. Tell you what, you want real strength? Learn to feel the fire without flinching. Stick your hand right in it. Master your mind. When you want to quit in a workout, keep going. You want a challenge? Do a workout today. [\h__\h] tomorrow. Do it today. Go out, work out till you physically can't. And if you instantly just started going, that's not healthy. It has no physiological benefits. Start talking about pragmatic and all kinds of that nonsense. Get out of here. Then you've got no spine. You're looking for reasons to tap out before you even started. The number of times people try and achieve their goal is less than one because they talk themselves out of everything before they even start. Master your mind, your psychology so your environment can never own you. That's adult [\h__\h] That's grown man work. And most of you are still little boys throwing digital tantrums. Listen, the world is not obligated to avoid all your pain and your suffering and your wounds. It doesn't owe you anything. That's your work. That's your burden. That's your cross to bear. That is your test of maturity. When someone else's confidence or success or truth or intensity rattles your little emotional cage, it's not a call to silence them. It's a call to confront yourself. You want to know why? Because until you do, you're going to be emotionally enslaved by anything that you can't control. What are you, five? A man ruled by emotion will never rule anything else ever. It's impossible. You try and bully other people by getting into their comments. Now you say, "This is what you guys talk about now. This content is harmful." No, dumbass. Your ego is delicate. It's fragile. You say, "I don't feel safe." You're not in danger. You're in denial, man. When you go, "I'm triggered." Yeah, so are landmines. And guess what? Nobody wants to be around those either. You're alienating yourself from anybody and everybody. Get your [\h__\h] emotions under control like an adult. Or just stay broke, bitter, and [\h__\h] made blaming the world for showing you all of the things that you haven't become because you don't have the stones to do the work. That's on you. I come out here and I tell the truth and I get irritated at mankind because I'm disappointed in how weak most of you guys are because you're choosing it. And you get mad. You get in the comments and get all pissed off and go, "I remember when. I wish you were." But you know what the problem is? You got softer. I got stronger. And you don't like it. Level up. Become better. Maybe ask yourself, where in my life am I expecting sympathy when when what I actually need is some personal discipline and emotional control? Like, how about you think about this? Dismiss the idea, the psychology of envy disguised as offense. That's what it is, right? The truth. You don't hate what you hate that it reminds you of every single thing that you've quit on or have not become. You hate that you admire it and can't replicate it because you don't have the work ethic to do it. And instead of confronting your own mediocrity, you attack the man, the post, the car, the money, the message, the watch, the girl, the marriage, the house, because it's easier than admitting that you've never earned it. You don't hate the guy with the Rolls or the Bugatti or the Porsche or the Lamborghini. You don't. You hate that he did everything that you quit on. That's what you hate. You don't hate the confident woman. You hate that she won't validate your mediocrity. Good. You don't deserve her. You don't You don't hate the man in the gym that's all fit and jacked and athletic. You hate that he represents the discipline you couldn't maintain for a [\h__\h] week. So what are you to do? What are you to do? And you think of you think the way you act is mature. You mask your admiration with criticism. You throw shade because you can't create light. Every time I see somebody faster, stronger, sharper, just doing so much better than me, that becomes my new manual. I study everything about them. I don't tear them down ever. I don't roll my eyes. is I don't get in their comment comments and start trash talkinging them. I don't click away and cry into my [\h__\h] protein bar. I respect it because real men do not envy power. They pursue it. But then you go, "It's not all about power. It's about your feelings." No, it's not. That's your problem. You're not offended. You're jealous. And instead of leveling up, you're busy running your mouth in the comments section like it's going to build your legacy. Hey, spoiler alert. It won't. Just trying to tell you that unacknowledged admiration often masquerades as outrage. You want me to say that again? Because that's what it is. You're not enraged by what you reject. You're enraged by what you've abandoned within yourself. The stronger the trigger, the deeper the resonance with your own unrealized capacity. You didn't do it and you know it. The longer you project your pain outwards through sarcasm, passive aggression that's everywhere, criticism, the longer you delay the integration of your own potential, your own capacity. you your own life. You're not mad at that, whatever that may be, him, her, it, you're mad at who you could have been if you didn't betray yourself, you liar. Like, you ever notice that the people hating in the comments never have their face as their profile picture or their private accounts? That's not coincidence they have three followers. It's because they haven't built anything they're proud to put their name on. I'll slap my name on anything I've built because I bled for it. So these people that haven't built anything worthwhile, they tear down everything that reminds them of the mountain they never had the balls to climb. You don't hate the man. I'll say it again. You hate what he reminds you of your [\h__\h] comfort. I ask yourself I who about what even what what have I been attacking or mocking or criticizing or being offended or triggered by that I actually admire but I haven't had the courage to pursue if you aren't willing to ask that the problem is even deeper than you think because the cancel culture like you guys run out and cancel things that are doing good work that are showing you the example of what's possible. You cancel it. But it's never cancelled by somebody who's succeeding. It's canceled by some blue-haired, gender confused idiot at the bottom that is trying to justify that God doesn't exist and shits in a litter box, which all of that is a lie. But they have nothing. They try and be unique, but then they create a group of a bunch of unique people and now they're just like everybody else. That cancel culture that you s see today, it's not righteous. It's not powerful. Sure as hell isn't justice. It's a graveyard for quitters. It's what it is. Cowards don't build movements. Just for the record, they build comment threads and echo chambers and mobs. Why? Cuz it's easier to cancel what they quit on than face the shame of their own surrender. You know who starts these cancel mobs that run around social media cancelling stuff? It sure as hell ain't kings. It's not killers. It's not entrepreneurs. It's no men in shape or power or self-controlled men. It's the ones who quit. Don't take my word for it. Look at them all. And if you're one of them, look in the mirror, you pudgy bastard. They quit their goals. They quit their identity. They quit their discipline, their marriage, their morals, and their mission. And now they formed these little clubs and they burn down every single thing that reminds them of who they could have been and chose not to do. It's not a revolution. That's a mass suicide disguised as virtue. By the way, you didn't cancel that man. Whoever you canceled, if that's you, run out and talk about being offended and report posts like a little 2-year-old. You didn't cancel that person. You canceled your own [\h__\h] standards a long time ago. Now you just run around making sure nobody else shows you how weak you are. Now you sit around with other halfbuilt humans trying to torch the ones who finished the race that you never even started because you got to the finish line, got scared and went home like me. You don't hate me. You hate that I didn't stop where you decided to give up. And you think that's power? That's weakness weaponized against you. Cancel culture is not born from strength. Let me be very clear. It's this manifestation of like collective cowardice. When people when individuals refuse to carry their own burden, they just band together to destroy those who remind them of their abandonment of personal responsibility. The psychology of cancellation is always rooted in projected failure. Nothing else. The man they attack is never the real problem ever. He's the mirror and they can't stand the reflection. And look at you. You quit the gym. You quit the business. You quit the marriage. You quit yourself. You quit your standards. And then you log on and go on Instagram or Tik Tok or YouTube. And you try and cancel the guy that kept going. [\h__\h] you. You're a [\h__\h] That's not accountability. That's digital jealousy dressed up like activism. You can't cancel what you never had the balls to commit to. Sit down. Grown men are working. Sit your weak ass down. Maybe ask yourself, what have I tried to tear down or criticize that really just reminded me of where I gave up on myself and I tapped out and went home like a pouting little child? Because if you're not willing to ask that question, you're not willing to make any changes, which means you are constantly going to be triggered by what on social media. Yet none of that is the problem. Nobody can make you feel anything without your permission. You can argue that till you're blue in the face. I am still right. Until you look in the mirror and demand that person becomes who you respect and everything you want, you are going to be at the mercy of everything outside of yourself. I got to go. Never miss.