So, I'm wearing this hat, right? It's got a Spartan helmet on the front with the American flag on it. My son found that hat for me. And I don't even remember where we were, but he disappeared and came back. We were in the store. So, maybe 45 seconds. since he had seen it, I guess, when we walked in and came out. He goes, "Dad, this is your hat." And it was four years ago. Always, man. And and I think you should be the superhero for your kids. You should be the superhero for your wife. A lot of people get offended about when someone like me comes and says, "Listen, you're supposed to be masculine. You're supposed to be manly. You're supposed to be strong. You're supposed to be rich and powerful and undeniable and unbreakable." And I get people, I have this one guy, he came into my comments yesterday, and I don't care if it's any of you guys. It doesn't matter. You need to understand that your opinion of me doesn't matter as much as my opinion of me. And the ultimate opinion is God. So, I really don't care. But and people get offended by that. Like I should value your opinion over my own and pivot. Like I've had people tell me, "I think you should do this. I think you should do that." Why? Because that's what you would do. But not me. I don't care if one person sees this or one million people see this. If one person's life gets saved, then I'm doing my job. The issue isn't that my information is incorrect. It's not even the delivery. Yeah. I'm abrasive. I'm gritty. I'm harsh. I'm in your face. I'm blunt. I'm direct. And I'm exa I might even be an [\h__\h] but I'm the [\h__\h] that you guys need. And this guy goes, I it was about how your wife doesn't respect you. Boy, that one got all you guys pissed off, huh? My wife respects me because I respect her and I respect her enough to be the best version of myself. Your wife doesn't respect you. And that's not what this one is about. But your wife doesn't respect you. Your girlfriend doesn't respect you. your woman, your girl, whatever, doesn't respect you because you don't respect yourself. And he goes, "I liked you more when you helped me fix my shoulder range of motion. But do you think I'm going to pivot and go back to where I was? If not this, then what? Then I'm going backwards just to make you happy because I don't care if you like me. I care that I'm telling the truth. And I love you enough to tell you the truth. You you guys want people to lie to you. You guys spend your lives finding people that will are willing to lie to you to make you feel better and sure that they protect your little bubble of feelings. And then you go home, you look in the mirror and you go, "Yeah, they're right. I am this. I am that." So, you protect your own little lie. But then you go out into the real world or you go and you talk to your spouse and you wonder why she doesn't want to sleep with you. She doesn't want to be around you. You don't get promoted. You're never gettingwhere anywhere in work. Your kids look at you like a joke. Your dog doesn't even listen to you and you're not in the life that you want. And you get mad about that and you go, "I liked you better when you were fixing shoulder range of motion." Yeah, but you guys didn't even do it when I gave it to you. The number of people that I gave hacks to, you can always tell a winner. A winner goes whatever it takes. You give me the answer, the blueprint. Even if it sucks, I'll keep doing it until it's fixed, until it's right, until it's built, until it's where I want to be, until I am where I want to be. And a loser goes, "Do you have anything else I tried that it didn't really work?" No, you didn't try it at all. You looked at it, didn't like it because it was a lot of work. So, you want something easier because the number I have a full shoulder series. This is funny. Five videos back toback. And they are from I can't move, my shoulder is devastated. A grenade went off inside all the way to I can do handstand walks and pick up a Volkswagen. And it's every step all the way up. And I love, by the way, some of you guys come into my webinar. I'm just going to quickly pivot. Thank you. Because you guys tell me, I had a guy last week, Gabe. I This guy was so great. And I don't know where you are, Gabe, if you're watching this, but maybe the link didn't work cuz you were ready to rock and roll. So, I'll help you out if you show up tonight. But he said, "You know what? Whatever happened to Smashworks?" And I said, "Uh, that's four years ago. There's Smash Works is in the past. It's all the videos are still there. You know, the hack is still the same. You want something new because you think that didn't work. But it does work. I know because I have celebrities and athletes and parents and kids and you name it. All doing what I told them how to do and it works. But I've done my piece there. I moved on. But this guy, Gabe, said, "Dude, thank you so much. you saved me. I had this guy, this marine go, because of you. I don't remember what it was, what he was, I didn't even look to see what he was competing in because he didn't really tell me, but he said, "I podium, I think, three times. I qualified top five, five times, all because of your videos. Thank you." But that's my job. You know what's wild? If I would have come on and say your shoulder or your knee or your hip or your back is screwed up because of your continuous lack of respect for your body and your engagement in stupid behaviors thinking that it's going to work or your 10 years of trying to cover it up with Tylenol, Advil, Bofreeze, muscle stem, whatever you get uh anything, right? cortical corticosteroid injections which also come with an anesthetic by the way. All of that stuff. I would have said it's because of your lack of care and respect for yourself. Now we have to undo the knot. Frankly, I'm disappointed that you beat up your body that bad, but I'll help you fix it. But I understand it's your fault that you're there. You guys get mad because you No, it's not. It's not. I had this injury. Why'd you get the injury? No, it's not. I got up one day and it was just broken. How's that my fault? because it's the culmination of all the stupid things you did up until that point. My back hurts. Lose weight. You know how many times I've had that conversation with people. My back hurts. Lose weight. You're 80 lbs overweight. That's not what it is, bro. I have a friend of mine that's this heavy and his back never hurts. Then why are you asking me? People want easier. A lot of you guys want easier. But I come out here and I go, listen, you are where you are because of what you've done or failed to do and what you've thought or failed to thought or to think. Let me try that again. What you've thought or failed to think. And you get mad because you think I should value your opinion because I hurt your feelings. I don't care about hurting your feelings. I care about telling you the truth. Why would you want someone to lie to you? You guys spend your day looking for liars to make you feel better about where you are. But most of you guys hate where you are. But when that's challenged, you guys go, "No, it's not." And you defend where you are, even though you go to bed at night when all the noise is gone. And inside your head, you [\h__\h] about it and think about it and hate it and ask God for help to get out of this circumstance situation that you're in. But then when the opportunities show up, let's say me, and I go, "You have to do this. You have to do this." You get mad. You're a [\h__\h] I don't know how else to say it. And you guys get pissed off. What an [\h__\h] baby. But like I said at the beginning, I'm the [\h__\h] you need. You don't take your life seriously. When you take it seriously is when things start to fall apart. I told you, health, wealth, relationships, all deficiency needs. When you have them, you never think about them. when you don't have them, that's all you obsess about until it's repaired. You can doubt me. I'm still right. But instead of always going in defense of your position because somebody calls you out and because it's tolerated, because right now the world goes, we should concentrate on your feelings. And you think that turning around and coming back at somebody trying to make them feel bad for the decisions they made that better their life, I'm not talking about someone that goes, "I decided to be a crack [\h__\h] I decided to ruin my life. I decided to screw up my marriage. I decided to go and gain all this weight. I decided to disrespect myself so bad regardless of what my family needs me for." No, I'm talking about people. That's why my generation is the last hope for most of guys because we're one generation away from becoming the softest, weakest men and women historically ever. And you guys get mad about that instead of going, I demand more of myself. You should be rich. You should be fit. You should have an amazing marriage. But your first reflex, a knee-jerk reflex, is to blame somebody else or get pissed off when somebody points their finger at you and goes, "Maybe look at the [\h__\h] in the mirror and make a decision." And you go, "Why do you need to say it like that?" Because you're not listening. Because you think it should be nice. Because you think somebody should powder your butt and spoon feed you all the way to the victory, but you aren't willing to do a single piece of work. I have no respect for you. I don't care if you don't respect me. I respect me. And if you go, I respect me, too. No, you don't. No, you don't. Because I've never once in 52 years gone into anybody's feed and dropped hate. Not once. I've never dropped hate. I've never dropped anything negative ever. And I have a giant account. I've been doing this for well over a decade on social media. All of this is earned. Whether one person sees it, I said, or a million people see it, I don't care. If I can help one person, then I'm winning. But that's what I'm here for. That's my mission. That's the vision I got from God. And people get pissed off and then I remind myself they hated Jesus and yet he's right. By the way, today is Easter Sunday. He is risen. If you don't like that, get off my vlog because God is the ultimate gangster. He made you. He made me. He made this. He gives me the words. So save your justifications. in your weak impetent attack for someone who it's going to affect, which are all the people like you at the bottom. Not you who are listening, the people who are doing it. Let me clarify before somebody has an aneurysm. But I'll give you the tools. You have to use them. I'm like a bunch of other people that come out here and you go, "Oh, great. Another toxic male." No such thing as a toxic male. There's toxic conditions and toxic behavior. There's no toxic men or toxic women. But I know what you guys do. You look for reasons to validate where you are because you're so tripped up in your own [\h__\h] and your own lies, but you want people to lie to you so you feel better about yourself. I won't do that cuz I actually care. It's like having a conversation with your kids. And your son or your daughter goes, "Well, their parents let them do anything." Their parents don't care. I love you enough to not tolerate you doing stupid things so I can teach you better so you can conduct yourself better in the world and go higher and further than wherever they are. Why? Because you deserve more. So if you are pissed off with me calling you out, give me a thumbs down. I think the weakest thing anyone can do is put a dislike on anybody's video. By the way, that's the ultimate act of cowardice. If you didn't like it, just move on. And you know what? This is where the cowards come in. If you didn't want to be disliked, then you should not put anything on social media. Yeah. Go back to living in your mom's basement heating up hot pockets, brother. People get mad. You're missing life. You're missing life because you're so concerned about what people say about you. You're missing life because you're so caught up in your own defense of the [\h__\h] pile you live in. And then you get mad when somebody says it, but you want more. So if you want more, shut up and do something about it. If you want it, take it seriously. If you want more in your life, take it seriously. What What has your attention? What What are you constantly focused on? What everybody else is doing, what everybody else is thinking about you, where the current trend is, how many likes or follows you get? I don't care. You guys are looking at the wrong details. What has your attention? Listen, I can slide into this and just go off for an hour about this. What has your attention? Why does it have your attention? Is it a distraction? Is it an escape? Does it make you feel better for quitting? Because that's what excuses are. And that's what distractions are. And by the way, they only sound good to the person that made them. Everybody else knows you're a liar. You don't want someone to hold you accountable. You want some to approve what you're doing so you can stay there even though you don't like it. I'll say it again and again. Nobody likes to be fat. Nobody likes to be broke. And nobody likes to be alone. But you can keep justifying it. I don't know. So what has your attention? Let's drill down on that. Why? Why does it have your attention? How much time is it using these? You should really you should write these down. You should take my dad always said short pencil better than a long memory. Write it down. But even that people go I got a good memory. It's when I ask people about their targets and their goals. What are they? Oh, I got them. I got them all up here. you don't have any. Those are the same people that go, I see red and then you get your ass kicked. If and you're not doing anything to actively take yourself in that direction, then you don't know. To know and not to do is not to know. So, what has your attention? Write it down. What has your attention? Why does it have your attention? And what did I say? Oh, how much time is it using? Is it bringing you closer to X? If you've ever taken algebra, x is the variable for the most part or anything else. Calculus based physics, it'll be that too. It doesn't make a difference. Is it bringing you closer to x? Understand in life, we are always solving the same equation. I call it the life equation. This is what I've become very well known and good at solving. I become very well known for this. This is why people call me. You know what's interesting is one of my buddies, Rick, one of my best friends, one of the closest people to being a brother that I've got, and he said, "You know what? This is why the CEOs call you. They don't care about the money. They'll pay you whatever you need, but they can't get their head into the right position. They can't get their mindset right with all these mindset coaches." And then you come along and you give them the most direct line to becoming the most effective version of themselves as fast as possible. And then they tell their friends, "That's what I do. I made my mastermind so everybody else could do it and they didn't have to spend a hundred grand." It's 1,500 bucks for a year. It's a $25,000 mastermind. I tell everybody every time you listen to this vlog, 1,500 bucks if you just show up and say, "I'm in." Go to my Instagram. $1,500 a year to get direct access to me. Yes, it's a big deal. It's not an arrogant statement. It's because I actually give a [\h__\h] I had a guy in my vlog today or in my inner circle today. His name's Paul. Great guy. Love the guy. Him and his wife Jacqueline. Great people. And he's so pissed off because he spent well over 50 grand on coaches and none of them have taught them what I've taught them. He said, "Thank you so much." I had another guy, Chris, same thing. Over 60 grand in coaches. And he said, "I should I if I could go back in time, I would just hand you my card. I've learned more listening to you than I have in everybody else. I'm not telling you because I want to impress you. I'm telling you because I actually care and I'm probably one of the only ones that do. So, go back to your life equation. Go back to that variable, that X. We're always solving the same equation, the life equation. And we're always solving for that X. This is important. And some of you guys are going to be like, "Oh, snooze. Where's the Mr. Beast video? That guy's a genius. I think that guy's so intelligent because he knows how to leverage attention." However, that's not what I do. The life equation is, let me explain what it is. It is all of the struggles and obstacles and adversities that you must overcome on one side, right? On one side of that equation and the goal, the vision, the target on the other side. And the X is the goal. So, you have all the struggles and the goal. Now, what the X is, that's entirely up to you. Whatever your goal, whatever your vision is, don't solve an X for somebody else. Solve it for yourself. Unless you're doing it for a living, which is what I do. What is your variable? Why is that your ex? What is your variable? And why is it your ex? Is it yours or somebody else's? A lot of you guys are solving goals and setting goals rather based on what other people want you to do. Listen, if you don't want to be masculine and strong and a man of faith and understand elite performance and conducting yourself according to a blueprint that actually works and once in a while dig into some controversy, that's okay. That's what I do. That that's for me and that's what I give. If that's not what you want to do, that's okay. If you think I said yesterday 50 grand a year is rich, that's fine. If somebody tells you if you don't make more than a million dollars a year, you're a [\h__\h] I don't agree with that. Go ahead, make 50 grand a year if you can do all of the things you love to do that you've always wanted to do and you can do everything your wife and your kids want to do. And before you start citing, I have what I need. Are there goals and dreams that you want to achieve? If the answer is yes, then you need to do something about it because God put those there. But I don't care how much you make. I don't care how much you earn. Do I think everybody should be unbelievably wealthy? Absolutely. Absolutely. But if you have 50 grand a year and that's you're killing it at that and you love and you actually genuinely go to bed every night going I love everything about this not cherrypicking what you like even though there's other things that you could solve if you could write a check for it then you're in the right place. But if in your life but if not then you need to level up. And that's a you justifying why you're not is you telling God I want to be lazy. You're never going to make it if you do that again. that probably offends somebody. I don't care. The problem I always have with somebody that earns a lower income like that is when a problem comes along and it will where you need the money and you won't have it. The person on the other end of that equation is going to be the one that suffers. And it's not always you. What if it's your mom? What if it's your dad? What if it's your son? Your daughter, your wife, what if it's your dog? It doesn't matter. Whatever. If it's something that you wish you could do something about, but you don't have the finances to do it. I've had people come up to my program going, "I've blown every dollar on bunky coaches and bad knowledge and terrible teachers and consultants, and I sat in one call with you, and I'm so blown away, and I hate that I don't have the money to do it." That's where having more money comes into play. So, understand, back up. What's your ex? What's your variable? Why is it your ex? Is it yours or somebody else's? Because often times the influence of others determines the outcome in ourselves. Because our decisions, they're made in emotional stress, good or bad. Your life is always, I'll tell you, this is the life formula. Your life is always a product of the following formula. Belief plus thought plus focus times emotion plus action equals the results. The results, that's your ex. belief, thought, and focus times the emotion and the action equals the results. In other words, what you focus on matters. The meaning you give that matters even more because that's going to determine the actions you take. Easiest way to break that down. But who's really in control of what you're plugging into that formula? This is about to blow your mind. By the way, most people rarely question their beliefs. Yet, all beliefs are from somewhere else initially. All of them. So, well, if beliefs aren't questioned, then your thoughts become a conditioned response, which means the focus is wherever someone else wants it to be. Wait, which means the emotion is the result of someone else's thinking? Argue it all you want. I'm still right. So, whose action is it? Whose results are they? Why? Are they yours? And if they're not, why? Like, do you believe something because you like it? Do you believe something because you like how it makes you feel? Do you believe something because it keeps you in good standing in your peer group? That's my favorite. You guys that get all buttth hurt and get into people's comments and spend all day trolling social media and YouTube and everything, getting into the comments, firing all this negativity because your life sucks. Anybody that's winning that loves their life doesn't do that. Do you understand that? They never do that. Nobody who is crushing it in their life, whatever that means to them. Nobody who's doing that ever goes into anybody's comments and drops hate and negativity. Only you bottom feeding [\h__\h] are the ones that do it. How does that not like painfully obvious? But you think your opinions matter? And I'm sure some of you go must matter because you're talking about it. No, I just think it's hilarious to me that you guys think your life is going to get any better by dropping hate on someone else's life. You know how you win? Because when you want every other person to win, too. When you want people to succeed so big, other people, not you. That's when you start winning more. I think most people are going to come up with reasons why they can't when it's uncomfortable and why they must when it's distracting or it's an escape. The quality of your discipline is the one quality that will make you successful. It's the ability to demand that you do what you must do that you know what's that you know what must be done right? That's the easiest way to look at it. Persistence is self-discipline in action. And here's where it gets awesome. Persistence equals discipline equals persistence. You need to have persistence in the direction that things need to go. Well, that requires discipline. But then that discipline gives you it feeds the engine to be more persistent. They play off each other. The discipline of persistence, let me dive into this for a second, in the direction of your goals builds an engine that given enough time makes you unstoppable because that's all you focus on. You don't have to write down all your goals all the time if you don't want to. If that's all you think about, that's what I mean. It makes you unstoppable because you get to a point where you know that you can get to X, that variable, whatever that is. And that's how you solve for any variable, however grand it might be. A lot of people, a lot of you guys, you're on a downward spiral solving for X to make yourselves feel better for your lack of results. You go in and you drop hate. You go and you create little groups. You validate where you are. You tell everybody, you know what? I like I'm a big-bodied woman. I have a hormone problem. I like being broke. I have true wealth because I have a family. I but most of those are not true because when exposed to a way to get out of it and it requires nothing from you. You win the lottery. You get Ozen Peak like all of these things you guys immediately pivot to go the direction that exposes your true thoughts. It's like you guys are adding weight to the bar on a constant basis and then complaining about not being able to pick it up because you've never worked out right psychologically. You've never done the workout to build up your psychology, your mental capacity, but you keep adding weight to the bar, right? Like, you add weight to this bar. Listen to this. You add weight to the bar on a consistent basis and complain about not being able to pick it up, but constantly give this convoluted logic about why you can't work out. This is what you guys do. What's X for you right now? Ask. I'm not asking for me. I'm asking for you. What's X for you right now? This is usually a very uncomfortable question because your ego gets kicked in the balls. What is your ex right now? What do you really want? What's all the thing? What what's all the [\h__\h] that's in the way? Why aren't you solving? If your reflex right now is to come up to with all these reasons why you can't. There's your problem. You always can. If you don't have a way, make one. If you don't have a way, figure it out. If you can't come up with $1,500 to join a mastermind for a year that people pay 25 grand for, and if you listen, most of you guys are going to go, "Oh, I'm sure they pay." My mastermind's huge. Just jump and sit in it. I don't have to prove it to you. That's the other thing. People run around going, "Let me prove it. Let me prove it." They puff up their chest. I don't care if you believe me or not. I know the truth because it is the truth. It's not my truth or your truth. It's the truth. Like I said yesterday too, you can get in if you come off this vlog for five grand for life. You never have to pay a dime again. And that is business mindset, psychology, Q&A, real. Like it's unbelievable how many people go, I need to do something else. Is a $29. You have a $29 life. Okay, get away from me. I would never want you in my group because you have a terrible reputation for yourself because your reputation is that you're cheap for yourself. You're cheap with your time, your money, and energy. Unless it's to escape or distract yourself. So what is your reputation to yourself? So people, it's the question that you want to ask is if there's one thing I know, it's that and then fill in the blank. Struggling with selfmastery is a problem for most of you guys and you get mad about it. Don't know why. The best thing someone can do is tell you the truth in effort to help you. You guys go, I'm telling you the truth. I hate you. I don't like your [\h__\h] beard. I I miss when you were smashworks because you were nicer and I'm still the same man. I'm just holding you guys to a higher standard because my standards are higher. Don't hang out with me if you don't like high standards. That's okay. Selfmastery is your ability to be your master. And a lot of fragile little egos get hurt when they're exposed to the fact that their master are all the emotions they experience. Listen, you aren't punished for your sins. You're not. You're punished by them. So, what do you see in your mind? What do you see in your mind? What do you see in your mind for your life? Because probably 99% of you people in the world live daytoday without any clear goals and thoughts. Dude, that's like getting in your car and going, I don't know where I'm going. I'm just going to drive and hopefully I'll get somewhere. And you don't even know where it is. Like I said yesterday, failure and success, both planned events. You just don't like that your planned event to fail is your planning. The idea that your life is this series of accidental occurrences is why most people are negative because they feel like they they're behind the wheel. They've got no control. If you look at your life, not others, yours, everything in your life can be traced right back to some type of catalyst in your life. It comes down on it comes down to this. Keeping your word at all times. And every time you haven't, every time you haven't kept your word, there have been consequences. Where are you not keeping your word? Ask yourself where where am I actually not keeping your word or my word. Ask if you have an effect that you want more of. This is the easiest way to look at it. If you have an effect that you want more of, whatever that is, you can trace it back to a cause. So if you want more of this, you can find a cause that causes this. Repeat and duplicate that cause over and over again. How often do you find yourself talking about things that have happened to you that you didn't like? What a waste of time, man. So you guys, and you guys do that. You come into my feed. You go into other people's. Oh, I remember when you did this, dude. I remember when seven years ago you did this. I remember when that happened. Yeah, but nobody cares. Just you because you haven't evolved. You haven't grown. So, how often do you find yourself talking about all the things that have happened to you that you didn't like? Trauma comes from you, not the event. By the way, oh, I'm sure that's going to trigger you because then it affects your Paxel subscri or prescription. Overwrite the data. Everything in your That's it. Overwrite the data. Everything in your life comes from cause and effect, which goes back to the formula that I talked about at the beginning. The discomfort of challenging beliefs is why most people avoid doing it. I'm going to drink some more coffee. Pardon me. Thoughts are causes. Conditions are effects. Thoughts become causitive agents and conditions become the effects. So if you want to change any condition in your life, you must change the thoughts preceding the actions you take. The only thing that you have absolute control over in this universe are your thoughts. However, since thoughts precede effects and conditions, you have absolute control over your conditions. Yeah. And this is where you guys argue because you don't want that amount of responsibility and accountability. So you go back to blaming somebody else, but you want the outcome of having accountability and responsibility. You want the results, but the only thing you have are your thoughts. Excuse me. That's it. However, based on what I just told you, since thoughts preede effects, results, right? Since thoughts preede effects, results, conditions, whatever you want to call it, you have absolute control over your conditions. Thought first, action, conditions as a result. Because if you control the thought, the conditions will take care of themselves. Most of you guys validate why it doesn't work for you. And yet, you're not where you want to be, which proves it works. Because your thoughts are corrupt data producing corrupt conditions that you don't like. If you control the thought, the conditions will take care of for themselves. I promise. But you have to be willing to do it. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.