It's Sunday and Sunday, every Sunday I do a webinar, free webinar and I teach people how to go from where they are what I don't care how stuck you are. I don't care how stuck you are. You could be at rock bottom. You could have no money. You could be living in a homeless like a cardboard box. It doesn't matter where you are. I teach you how to go from there to whatever it is you want because I did it. So I have a system that works and it's not complicated. So anybody trying to sell you a complicated system saying theirs is going to work and it's incredibly convoluted. They don't want to help you. They want to confuse you so you think you have to rely on them. I taught everybody how to do this. You don't need me. The reason you join my mastermind is because I keep you accountable so you keep going when you want to quit. But you don't need me telling you. Like my webinar is so badass. And the unbreakable mastermind is nothing like it. There's nothing like it. That's why it's the fastest growing mastermind in the world because nobody does what I do because nobody goes all in on the members like I do. But what you don't need like 102 vlogs, 102 episodes I've done so far here. What you don't need is me telling you what to do right now. You don't need me giving you like another playbook on how to be successful. The problem isn't with what you don't know. It's with what you're not doing. I hope this pisses somebody off today because the world is littered with people who think they deserve more than where they are simply because they woke up this morning. If you deserved something other than where you are, then you'd have it. I'll say it again. If you actually deserved it, you'd have it. Somehow people have forgotten the common denominator for everything they want in is in the work that you're not doing. I need you to think about this. If you wake up at all in your life and you aren't where you want to be, number one, it's your fault. Number two is you don't deserve anything other than where you are. And number three is the cheapest, easiest, least expensive thing you can find is not going to help you. Struggle ends when commitment begins. But somehow people have forgotten all of that. I don't need to tell you this. You know what you're not doing. And you know where you're lying. You know where you're lying to yourself. You're looking in your own eyes and you're lying about it. You're not keeping word to yourself. You're not keeping your word to other people. But you keep covering it up with as much noise as you can. If you deserved more money, you'd have more money in your account. If you deserved a nicer car, it would be in your driveway. All of them. If you deserved the fit body, you'd see it every day reflected in the mirror when you stepped out of the shower. It is nobody else's fault. It is not your condition. It's not some kind of label that somebody gave you. You know what you're telling God when you say that you deserve it? Whatever it is, listen to me. This is what you're telling God in the universe. Every time you say, "I deserve better." Whatever it is, you're saying that you're lazy, you're saying, "I'm going to sit here on this couch in my apartment or my tiny little house that I feel should be bigger and nicer, and I'm going to do nothing because I deserve more. So, I'm going to sit here and do nothing until it shows up. I'm not willing to get up earlier. I'm not willing to spend every dime I've got in order to get somewhere I want to go. I'm not willing to put the time in, the energy in. It is the three things again. You're not willing to pay the bill. That's what you're saying. I'm not willing to pay the bill. I'm not willing to put in the time, money, energy to change my circumstances. I deserve better. It should come to me. You're going to die on that same couch. What you should be asking is where am I missing? And how can I earn what I want? And why do I want it? How can I earn the fitness? How can I earn the girl? How can I earn the guy? How can I earn the job? How can I earn the lifestyle? How can I earn the career? If you want something different, how can I earn the car or cars? How can I earn the money? It goes back to what I said a few episodes ago. You guys are asking the wrong question and then getting angry at the answers. You ask stupid questions. Yes, there are stupid questions. So what? So what? When you ask, "How can I earn whatever it is?" You're telling God that you're willing to work. That's what you're doing. You're telling God you're willing to do whatever it takes. No matter how much it costs, how much that bill is, no matter how much time, money, and energy it takes. You are the only person that believes your own lies. So when you say, "How can I earn whatever it is, you're saying, "Whatever it takes. Lay it on me. Whatever it takes." Then all you need to do is jump on the opportunity, every time it crosses in front of you, which is that's where you guys get tripped up. Opportunity shows up. I'll do it later. I'll do it next Monday. How many Mondays have you restarted? Hey, this opportunity, it's five grand. I talked about it yesterday. It's five grand. That's 14 bucks, whatever a day over the course of a year. something like that and you're not willing to spend that. Let me get this straight. You're not willing to spend that to change your life and instead you'd rather go out to eat, put get new rims for your car, buy a new television, make payments on your computer, make payments on your $1,500 phone, your phone that isn't even making you money, unless you're like me and you own an online company, which probably most of you guys don't. However, again, Unbreakable Mastermind, I teach you how to do this. all of this and I knew nothing. But I teach you what I actually know that actually works. I'm tired of these spoonfed InstaGuru liars telling you that you have to do nothing and you should be rich. You have to do nothing and you can be fit. You have to do nothing and your marriage should be awesome. None of that is accurate. You need to go how can I earn whatever it is and then whatever opportunity shows up you jump into anything that is asked of you. No matter how much it costs, no matter how long it takes, no matter how much energy is required, you don't deserve anything than other than where you are. You earn the upgrade. Listen, yeah, you can tell I'm lit, but you guys in life right now are complaining about where you are. First of all, you don't even know where you are. Most of you guys don't even know where you are. When is the last time you actually took a look at your life, looked at it under a microscope? Most of you can't tell me because you've never done it. You cherrypick what you look at in your own life so you don't feel too upset about where you are and it gives you a way to defend that shitty life that you wish were different. And instead of taking offense and going not everybody wants to be exceptional. Yes, you do. It is just the level of exceptional that you want to be. But nobody wants to be mediocre and average. Nobody wants to sit in a house they hate driving a car they hate in a marriage that is dead and just this embarrassing relationship. They don't want to be in a life that they keep looking at every time they wake up and want to get away. You open your eyes every morning. Open them up and you see the same movie. And every time you see that movie, you go, "I'm just going to keep doing the same thing." But yet, watch. I guarantee you, most of you guys want financial independence. You want financial freedom. You want to have more money. You want a better lifestyle. You want a better body. You want a better marriage. I'm in a life that is kick-ass. It is so badass. My life is so awesome. And I still want more. I still want more. The issue is I'm willing to look at where I want improvement because it hurts, because it motivates me to go where I wanted to go. But all of you guys complaining about where you are, you don't even know where you are. You are not willing to look at the painful, uncomfortable places. Instead, you cover them up with noise. That's why you can't tell me when the last time is that you looked at the shitty part of your life. You've never done it. It's no, very few coaches tell you to do that. Very few consultants, very few leaders will tell you to do that except the really good ones. You need to know where you are before you can get to where you want to go. You think you have a focus and a discipline problem. I see that all the time over social media. Focus and discipline. No, it's not. You don't have that. Listen, it is it is 7:30 p.m. on a Sunday and my family is inside right now eating dinner without me because I told them to eat because they're hungry. Because I love my family. My family is my life. My wife. My wife is my best friend. I absolutely adore my wife and I love my children so much. And after this, I'm going to go inside and I'm going to spend the rest of my night with my wife and kids. But I've been doing this every single day for 102 days straight. I'm not going to miss. I don't come out here for me. I come out here for you. I come out here and I drop value bombs for you guys because I want you guys to win. And I'm tired of seeing all these knuckleheads out there giving you information that's not going to help you or saying, "I'll give you a tiny little bit of information. I'll give you the rest when you join my program." Yes. I absolutely think you should join the unbreakable mastermind because you already said you want to have a better life, you want to make more money, you want to have an increased lifestyle, you want to have better health. You get in there, you get 144 live calls a year, three a week with me, where I actually solve problems, where I teach you from A to Z how to make a business and make a bunch of money. I don't care what kind of business it is. where I teach you how to get the limiting beliefs out of your head and replace them with programming that actually gets you to where you want to go. I do all of this stuff. We've solved problems, we being me, cancer, injuries, mindset, families, marriages, it doesn't matter. $1,500 bucks if you get it off of this call. I'll just do that. That's what I just did in my webinar. It's the same thing. $1,500. It is a $25,000 a year mastermind. Yes, it is what people pay, but I'm just so sick and tired of these guys charging so much money and giving you nothing. And you get access to this whole community. I've got three and a half years of archive videos in there telling you how to do just about anything from sales to fixing a shoulder problem to starting an online business. I've got a whole online business academy. This community is unbelievable and nobody's doing it like I am. Nobody. But I have been coming out here and I have been doing this vlog, this podcast for 102 days straight, dropping value for you guys because I actually care about you. That's why my mastermind is so badass because I actually go all in on my members. I give you the answers to change your entire life. There's not a single vlog that I have ever come out here and giving you an answer that hasn't worked and won't work. It will work 100% of the time because I've done it. These are all things based on my life. And if you know my story, three and a half years ago, I rolled out of a hospital in a wheelchair missing a lung with nothing. No money, no self-worth, nothing. I'm coming out here giving you the way to make the money, to get the guy, to get the girl, to lose the weight, to gain the muscle, to fix the life you're in. And most of you guys won't do it. You won't apply it. Oh, I'll tell you what to do here today, too, as well. But you won't commit to it. You'll go to bed tonight thinking that you deserve more, and you'll wake up tomorrow in the exact same place. You become nothing. No evolution. You become nothing. But then you'll validate it and defend it and go, it's I need to find something that resonates with me. I'm not for everybody. But what you're looking for isn't something that resonates with you. What you're looking for is something easy that gives you permission. If you want different, you must do different. If you want different, you must think different. It's not a focus problem. It's not a discipline problem. You're ungrateful. That's what it comes down to. You're ungrateful for your life. Let me say it again. You're ungrateful for the life that you have. You think you have gratitude because you spend an hour every day practicing your gratitude meditation. You think you've got gratitude because you keep a little journal by your bed and you write stuff down. That doesn't mean anything. You're not grateful. You know how you show gratitude? By getting up in the morning and doing the work to make your life better every day. That's gratitude. By getting up and earning more money. By getting up and building more muscle. by getting up and loving on your family. And I'm not talking at the expense of your business, by the way. I'm not talking about that because your family is not you are not treating them with respect if you are sacrificing earning a better life just to go throw a Frisbee in a park. That's not gratitude. That's selfish. You're doing that for yourself. That's the same person that calls when their kids are staying with the grandparents and the mom and dad are on vacation and mom and dad call to make sure the kids are still doing great and the kids are just playing like crazy and they go, "Hey, put little Tommy on the phone. Has Tommy said anything about me?" No, Tommy's having a great time. Put little Tommy on the phone. Hi, Tommy. It's mommy and daddy. You did that for you. You screwed up Tommy because you're selfish. You didn't want to just leave him alone because you wanted to feel needed by your kid. That's why a lot of you guys are doing this. Oh, I just want to go spend time with my son or my daughter or my family in the park and have barbecues and drunk on a trampoline and all. But your business is crumbling, but your life is crumbling, but your health is crumbling, but your marriage is trashed. What are you doing? Too many influencer coaches out there saying how grateful they are while jumping up and down on a trampoline with their kids or having coffee dates with their new wife or playing Scrabble with the in-laws while they go to bed every night with a list of things that they don't do that they know they should do that if they did would change their entire damn life. But not just their life, everyone else's lives around them. Listen, you are being watched by people, your children, your neighbors, people around. And I'm not telling you about giving a crap about the opinions of other people. I'm telling you, be the example for other people. And if you are the example of what not to do, eventually people will start doing that because repetition is the mother of skill. So, they're going to see you going, I'm going to do less. I'm going to play more. I'm going to work an hour a day. I'm going to sit there and go, I'm going to I'm going to become a disgusting version of myself physically. I'm going to validate why I'm not making the money I feel I deserve inside. Cuz psychology doesn't lie. If you have goals inside of your head and you're not hitting them, you can say it on the outside all you want. Your brain knows you're lying. Your brain knows you're lying. Which means so does the universe and so does God. Because that initial goal was placed there by God. Don't think he ever tells somebody to have a lesser goal. He doesn't. Which means if you had an original goal and you downgraded it, that ain't God talking. I'll leave it at that. You go to bed every night with a list of things that you aren't doing that you know you should do because if you did them they would change your entire damn life. You show gratitude by coming exceptional, not writing it in a journal. Gratitude is a verb. It's a verb. Gratitude is shown through the work and commitment to grow each day in your health, wealth, and your relationships and doing whatever it takes in order to do that. Because a better version of you means a better version of other people because they're looking at you. That's why this pisses me off. But like I said, most of you guys won't ever do it. You're looking for something cheaper and easier. And then you want to be able to blame whatever it is when your life still hasn't changed. The highest expression of gratitude is work, focus, and commitment. So unless you're doing all of that at 100%, you're not grateful. You don't need me to You don't need me telling you, right? You don't need me telling you all of this stuff. You deserve to be exactly where you are right now. You don't need to hear it from me. And you know that. You know that. You're looking for a video that tells you that you deserve more and then some secret method of acquiring all of it. All of you people who are running from book to book or program to program are bouncing from coaches to coaches. You're not looking for the solution. You're searching for permission. And when you find it, you get mad at whatever you pseudo committed to because obviously it didn't work because you want permission to do nothing with the expectation the the entitlement of the result of all the work that you're not doing. Your life your fault and you're unwilling to look at where everything is in chaos in your life. You just want more noise, less accountability, less responsibility, more blame, more entitlement, more noise. That's what you want. and you wonder why your life isn't evolving. We've had the same four years, you and I. You can get mad at me. You can dislike me. I don't care. It's about time somebody came out here and started telling the truth and going, "You guys aren't doing what you know damn you should be doing." We have had the same four years and I'm missing a lung. I began with less than you. I guarantee it. All of you. Everything you have inside of your world, your reality right now is your choice. You are choosing to be broke. You are choosing to be fat. You are choosing to have a shitty marriage. You are choosing to procrastinate. Especially right now in 2025, you have no excuse not to be wealthy. You have no excuse to be fat. None. You have nothing but resources surrounding you. You're not resourceful enough to use them. You demand victory, but you never go to the practices. Your life is your fault. I am so tired of people blaming anyone other than their own reflection. Listen, I'll make it easy. Watch. I'll make it easy. Did some of you wake up fat this morning? Oh, I know somebody's going to get their feelings hurt. You're not supposed to say that. It's the honest truth. Get comfortable with the truths. Just because it's the truth and you don't like it and it hurts your feelings doesn't mean it ain't the truth. You need the truth to stop defending what you wish were better. That's why it never changes. That's what you need. Stop defending what you wish were better. Did you wake up fat? Yeah, some of you did. Listen, just accept it. So, did you wake up this morning? You woke up fat. Yeah, you did. Did you wake up this morning then? Obviously, did you wake up this morning and choose to hit snooze, to not go to the gym and work out? To not go for a walk, to not eat a healthy breakfast, to not drink water, to not commit to changing your weight. Who did that? Who did that? Whose decision was that? If you chose to do that, then you chose to be overweight? Did you choose? Did you wake up this morning? Did you wake up with a money problem? Did you wake up broke? Did you wake up not making the money that you want to make this morning? Yeah. Yeah. Did you choose to go to the same job that you hate and complain about your boss that you hate, your cubicle that you hate, your salary that you hate, and the car that you hate? And you still chose to still go to that cubicle, drive the car, and go to that job. You chose that. You chose to not you chose to not start a side hustle or if you own a business, did you decide not to DM non-stop and prospect non-stop until you hit the number that you wanted to hit every day? You chose that. You chose to not do that. Did you choose to not get into my unbreakable mastermind? Get around people who want you to win with higher energy, a place where there are courses and systems and a community unlike anything you've ever seen? Did you choose to not take the opportunity to go line by line and learn how to do what's required to gain the skill set required to change your financial position? Did you choose to make the excuses? Did you choose to look for the cheapest? Did you choose to wait just one more day? Did you choose to say next Monday cuz tomorrow's Monday. I'll do it next Monday. If you woke up, then you had a choice. You choose the life you're in by default every morning when you wake up and do nothing to change it. You're not grateful for your life. Because if you were actually grateful, you'd never stop upgrading yourself. You'd never use anything as an excuse, especially money. You'd never buy the cheapest. You'd never choose the easiest. And you'd never choose average ever. Gratitude is looking at that vision that you've got for your life and comparing it to where you are right now and then waking up and doing everything possible as quickly as possible to change where you are into where you want to be. That's gratitude. That vision was put there by God. So if you're not doing that, number one, you're choosing. There's nothing in your way that you can't handle. Nothing. I'm missing a lung and I restarted my life at 48. You got nothing. I am so tired of you guys coming up with excuses about why you can't while you excuse me while you complain in the DMs about where you are. So freaking do something about it. Here's what you do. I'll help you. I will give you the exact steps I took. I took these steps just under four years ago. Make a list of everything that you hate in your life. Oh, why would I do that, Spartan? How are you going to know where you need to go if you don't know number one where you're starting from and number two where you want to go. So start with this. Make a list of everything you hate in your life. Don't justify any of it. It's not really that bad. Every single thing you hate. If you hate your nails, if you hate your hair, if you hate the bed that you sleep in, if I don't care if you go hate's a really strong word, it doesn't matter. You need to hate where you are more than you hate all the work required to change every single thing about it. Go line by line. I said this before. I taught you how to do this before. Then make a list. One year from now, this is the different part. one year and go all in on this list of all the things you want. Like we're talking a nine-year-old at Christmas. Make a list of everything you want in a year from now. Make it as just get audacious with your goals. As outlandish as possible because the problem isn't the goal or the target, it's that you don't believe that it's possible for you. But if you can find even one person that's done it, it's possible. The only reason you put somebody on a pedestal is to make you feel better about where you are so you don't have to do the work that they had to do to get to where they are. It's possible. Now you have a list. Now you have a list. You have a list of all the things. This should be pages long of stuff. My life isn't that bad. You don't like where you are. You have a list of everything of where you are. Everything. Line by line. All the things. You don't like the hair, the house, the cars, the job, the money. You don't like the relationship with your wife. You don't like the dog you have. You don't like the bike you drive. You want like all of the stuff you don't like. You don't like your boss. You don't like the comm. You don't like the town. You don't like the neighborhood. You don't like the smell in your car. It doesn't matter what it is. You don't like it, write it down. I don't care if you don't like the way the sheets feel when you go to bed. You don't like you don't like the food you eat at dinner. You don't like your refrigerator. You don't like the way your ceiling looks. You need to be that detailed because you're that detailed about your excuses. You're that detailed about all of the gratitude that you have when you're writing it down and sitting there with your little sound bowl listening to Enya, right? Bouncing around going, "I'm so grateful. I just I'm blessed with all this gratitude. If you were grateful, you'd be doing whatever the hell it takes to change where you are to where you want to be. You would go, I don't care how much it's going to cost me financially. I don't care how much time it's going to take. I don't care how much energy it's going to take. When I hear somebody, this is why I'm never going to be the king of the in my mastermind ever. I won't accept them because the barrier to entry is at minimum $1,500 minimum in one year of your life. If you can't commit to that, I don't want you because I don't want to be king of the and you're an because you want it cheaper. You want payments. You want something that costs a little less. You want to dip your toe in the water. You want to try it out. I had a guy send me a message. Hey yo, bro, do you have a monthly p a monthly subscription for your for this thing above and it was my one-on-one coaching. I go, "Here's what I got for you. It's this one or this one." And then I explained it all. Seen seen nothing. This guy Rob ghosted yet I know he's not making a bunch of money. I am. And I went I'm going to help you. Ghosted. That's not my problem. It's his lack of commitment to changing where he is. He's looking for cheaper. What he's looking for is permission. So I don't want to be king of the king of the So I never let them in my kingdom. The only people in my circle are people that are going to be killers and warriors who want to do everything they can to constantly upgrade their life. So you have a list of all the things. Write it down. Stop putting it in your head or putting it in your phone. Write it down. Take real paper. Write it all down. Short pencil better than a long memory. Once you're done, look at it. I don't want to look at that, Spartan. That's an ugly list. This is all the stuff I don't like. Good. It should sting. It should hurt. It should drive you nuts. It should piss you off. It should keep you awake all night so you stare at the ceiling. How are you going to change your life? You going to wait till next Monday? I don't know, man. I don't know. It's $1,500. I don't know. All this work? I don't know. The gym membership. I don't know. I got to ask this girl. She might say no. What is wrong with you? You have got to look at your life and treat it like it is so serious that if you don't squeeze every ring like ring every ounce of juice out of your life, you are letting God down. Your kids are looking at you. Other people are looking at you and they're going, "Huh, it's okay to do less. I guess that's why I'll stay." But you hate it. If you woke up and you didn't do all all that is required, every single thing to change your life and to make it look the way you want it to look, you are choosing to be where you are by default. Your lack of action is the default choice that you want to stay where you are. It means you're happy and you're not. You're not. That pisses you off. So now you have a list of all the things you hate in your life. You have a list of all the things you want your life to look like in a year. Get nuts. Go bat chick crazy on that list until all is like I said it in my webinar. I said I don't care if it's Asgard. Make it as crazy as you possibly want it to be. Stop sitting there and go, "That's not realistic. You don't understand the problems I have. You don't understand. I just had a newborn. I have to take care of my baby. I just put all my money into this business. I just did this. I just hurt my thumb. I sprained my leg." Not all of us have a story where we lost our lung. I don't care. I had to start with nothing. No money, no knowledge. I didn't have a guy like me coming out and just dropping knowledge bomb after knowledge bomb to help you. I had to figure this all out on my own. And then I had to rebuild my entire life at 48. And you guys are complaining about going, "Oh man, I don't know if I can commit." The problem isn't with the vision you want. The problem with is with your lack of gratitude for the life you have. So you take this entire list of the way you want your life to look in a year. Could be a year. It can make it 10 years. I really don't care. And your entire job for the rest of your existence is to make this side of all the things that you can't stand look like this side. All the things you love. That is your life equation. Your macro major life equation. The vision of the life you want and all the struggles and obstacles and hurdles that you have got to overcome which are all the things that you can't stand in your life that you have to solve for to get here. That's how you solve your life equation. And then you look at what you have right here and you reverse engineer everything. What are all the steps? And distill them down until they are they take no longer than one day per step. There should be nine 900,000. I had 941 action steps when I did this the first time. Missing a lung sitting at home in a shitty h it's a beautiful house where I was losing the house. I lost everything including my self-worth. 150 lbs hooked up to an oxygen machine starting from nothing and you guys are complaining about where you are and saying you deserve more. I did all the work required to get more. I deserve to be exactly where I was when that happened. I had to earn it. How can I earn? And then I filled in the blank and then I just got to work. And every one of my action steps on the way to that vision took one day or less. And then I wouldn't go to sleep. And I still don't. You guys know what I do every night? I write down seven or eight things that I'm thankful and grateful to God for. And then I write two to five action steps from another list that I made at the beginning of the year, just like my first one. I won't go to bed until they're done. This vlog is one of them. This podcast is one of them. I will not go to bed until it's done. I've done this at 10:00 at night when I've been just going at it since 6:00 in the morning because I do what I say. Keeping your word is the most important thing you can ever do. When you lie, when you don't keep your word, when you come up with excuses why I'm going to have to do it next month, bro, you know what? Little some things came up. I'm still wrestling with this. I'm still wrestling with that. It's going to take me about another four months, but you promised it on a certain day. You're a liar. You're a liar. I have no stomach for that because I will never break my word. Why do you? God didn't break his word to you. He never will. So, you can. So, now you have all these action steps. Write down one every night before you go to bed. Get up the next day and do it. Eventually, you just can't help but win and create the vision. How is this complicated? You build out the entire blueprint of tasks and actions and skills required to get you like everything you love. That's what you do. You build this entire blueprint. That's what you're doing. You are the architect of your life. And you build this blueprint of all the actions, all the tasks, and all the skills required that you like that you love. to create the world that you love to get out of that to change that crap list into the vision you just built. That's what you have when you do this. Now, all you have to do is do it. And the only thing between you and that life that you wrote down is whether or not you are grateful enough to just absolut is whether or not the only thing that's standing between the life you're in right now and that vision that you decided that you just wrote down that you want for your life is whether or not you have the gratitude to get up every day and do whatever it takes to get there. That's what gratitude is. Because the focus and the discipline and the commitment come with it. I got to go. Go. I'm going to go hang out with my family. Never miss.