Let me give you my standard opening. Welcome to the Unbreakable podcast. I am Dr. Trevor Bachmire. Most people call me the Spartan. My son started calling me that. Said I look like Kratos, god of war. And he said it's pretty cool. And my son doesn't know he's my hero even though he calls me his hero. So I listened to the name he gave me and it just stuck. And everybody else has been calling me that for years. Anyway, today I actually got it on the Polar Express with my family, including a little silver bell and the hobo that ran through the train sat on the top and Santa Claus. It was pretty badass. We did it in California with some friends of ours, Ryan and Deion and their kids. I'm going to talk about my diet of all things. Listen, you guys will latch on to the dumbest things on earth. So, I'm just going to unplug every lie that you've been told. And I'm a 52year-old man. And if you are watching this, like I am lean as hell. I'm athletic. I can run, jump, climb, do all kinds of anything. I have one lung and I will outdo probably most 22 year olds. But number one is because I train to be like this. This is my mo. This is me all the time. But I listen like I used to go to this coaching group and my wife and I screwed this coaching group up forever. like we demolished it because we used to go to this thing called I won't give the name away because I'll give away the coaching group. But we were in this group for almost a decade. It was a bunch of disasters all walking around pretending that they were rich. And we'd go to Hawaii all the time and we got invited because it was an invite. It was this little special elite group that when you get invited it's woohoo. We just got to go to Hawaii all the time which we liked. So we went to Hawaii. We did nothing that anybody else did. We didn't drink gallons of alcohol. We didn't eat stupid food and we worked out for real every day. But we always work out. We've been working out since the day I met Brandy. We've been training. She's former pro athlete. So, she's been training since she was probably five. And we showed up on the beach and we are shredded, jacked. We look like gladiators compared to everybody else. And the follow everybody was just like, "What the fuck?" We didn't do anything different. That's just how we look all the time. But the following year, a month and a half out, two months out, people were all of the sudden dieting and training for the yearly Hawaii trip all because of Trevor and Brandy. We laugh about this every time because it's, dude, we screwed that whole trip up because they used to go there and just drink and gorge themselves. They would get all [\h__\h] blasted on alcohol. They would be a disaster. and come back and go, "It was this great seminar." It was nothing great about it. It was just an excuse to sit on a beach and pretend to talk about something. The beauty was Hawaii and I got to be there with my wife. So, there I was sitting with all these people. All right? Some of these guys made a lot of money. We're talking, you know, millions and millions and millions of dollars in real estate and investing and businesses and multiple businesses. All kinds of stuff. A bunch of big dogs, people doing way more than we were doing. and some pretty big minds and some giant bank accounts. You would think that the bulk of the time we would be talking about like strategy and money and what to do next and where to invest and how to do things. Most of the time people were talking about the dumbest things on earth like how they were eating and how they were training and what their macros were. I I remember that because as I stepped away from that group and we actually started our own companies and you guys know the story. four years ago, we just totally changed our life. But I started off as a fitness guy. Like I started because people were just asking, "Hey, can you train me?" I was like, "Sure, why not?" I realized nobody listens. And that's why I said anybody that wants me to train them. It is $100,000. $100,000. No, I'm not going to follow you around. I'm not going to chase you around. I'm going to give you exactly what to do. I'm going to give you exactly what I do, exactly how I eat, designed for you, and you are going to look like me, and you have a year. No refunds, no guarantees. The guarantee is that if you don't do it, you're going to stay the same, and you're going to keep bouncing from program to program. But I'm also going to hack your psychology and make sure that you understand why you're doing it, so you don't need me ever again after that year. But I'm not. It's $100,000. And I've had people message me and go, "Dude, you're arrogant. How do you think you're worth a h 100red grand?" Because if somebody has a better life than me and I want their life, I'm going to pay them whatever is required. I think the weakest thing you can do is to justify why you can find something cheaper when you want what somebody has. That's on you. Anyway, so that's what it was. I used to coach all these people and they never listened. Never listened. Never did the workouts. Complained, "Can we change this? What's a sub? What's that? What about eating? What about when I do that?" Just all of you guys that train, that work out, this [\h__\h] isn't complicated. And I'm going to prove it in this podcast. I'm going to prove it. I'm going to give you exactly how I eat. And I promise you, if you train like I train, don't sit there and tell me that you're you don't look like I do when you don't train like I train. What spikes their insulin? And what the [\h__\h] they eat on a Thursday? And yet I'm sitting there every morning putting a slab of bread covered in a gallon of honey with a half a stick of butter on it. I eat cookies by the dozen on Saturday when my wife makes them. Date night we smash everything we possibly possibly can at dinner and then at night we smash each other and it's we eat the same but we eat so much stuff that you guys go I could never eat like that [\h__\h] It's cuz you guys don't know how to do it. We would, we don't really drink, but if we did, we'd drink margaritas because I'm looking at all of you guys sending me messages or all of you Insta Fitness gurus making posts about the ideal carb ratio and what spikes your insulin and how you should be eating and nutritional timing and glycogen and gluconneogenesis and all the stuff that you guys are gleaning off of chat GPT that you know nothing about. whole I fast except I eat during this 5hour window during the day and I strictly follow keto and sugar diet and I'm now carnivore and you guys look at me like I'm committing a felony every time I do something. I'm the leanest, most athletic one out of all of you guys that message me. And you get mad. Like, I've had I've been shredded and jacked decades outside of one small window where I woke up missing a lung and I was soft and flabby and broken because I spent three months in a hospital. Other than that, I've always been fit and I don't have any ups and downs. I don't have this bulking season, offseason, reset season, autophagy season, fasting season, rebound season. You guys are so confused. So, I'm going to clear this all up. I'm going to clear this all up. Every single thing you have been told about your diet, your nutrition, your fitness is all trash. It is all trash. And you know what? My buddy Jud made a post the other day. They said somewhere there is an African dude in a back lane training with axles and cinder blocks that is more jacked than athletic than you. You guys are complicating the [\h__\h] out of this. Most of the stuff that you see on social media, in fact everywhere. Even you go to your supplement stores, just stay away from these places. They're just overpriced superstition wrapped in some fancy influencer lingo sold to you by people that either they have great genetics or great lighting. That's it. And I'm going to expose it all. I'm going to tell you everything and you guys are going to be like, "Son of a [\h__\h] I either got to listen to this or I don't want to hear this." Listen, I'm going to reset your whole operating system about athleticism, food, fat loss, muscle gain, what you need to be doing, and why you are still stuck in that fat potato shaped body that and the life that you don't want. And listen, I don't care. You don't have to give up. I listen, this is going to drive me nuts because you can eat all the carbs, all the sugar, all the desserts, all the ice cream, all the cookies, drink all the booze you want. if you do what I tell you to do. And you're going to go, "Not a chance. No way. That's going to do all kinds of things to my pancreas, to my spleen, my gut lining, my neurochemistry." If you get inflamed because you smash sugar. Absolutely. But you could still eat it and you can still be lean. I know. I'm an example. Do you have any idea how much honey I eat every day and how many cookies I eat? I had the last six cookies last night right before I went to bed. Homemade butter fil, sugar-filled, chocolate chip filled cookies about that big. I ate one in one of my Spartan philosophy rants the other day. The philosophy you need to remember is everything worth doing that really is going to produce the results you want. It needs to sound like a contradiction to every one of you weak people. So if it does good, then it's worth doing. How's that sound? Because otherwise you're going to wind up doing the same thing everybody else is doing and wondering why you look the same and you're all complaining about the same [\h__\h] But you guys all look the same. You think the same. You have the same crappy bank accounts, the same empty dead marriage. You guys have been duped into thinking that what you're doing is going to produce results if you do it long enough and hard enough even though you're going it wrong. Why is it that some of the most disciplined, the most successful, focused, driven men in the world still walk around tired, inflamed, miserable, and absolutely embarrassed about because think about these are guys that can lead massive teams. They can scale to billions and billions of dollars, but when it comes to how they look and how their body moves and how they feel, they're rodeo clowns. like these guys are idiots because somewhere along the way they traded all of the facts that actually work that have been working for thousands of years for something trendy they saw on social media where some influencers said it is not the secret way that they do it. That is a special tactic they're using to market to you. I don't have a secret way. I pick up heavy [\h__\h] and I put it down a lot. I eat cookies and ice cream and cake if it's around. And actually, let me back up. I don't eat ice cream anymore because it upsets my stomach. But I eat because dairy is [\h__\h] for you. This is what they've done. Somewhere along the way, they traded all of the facts that work for what is trendy on social media and what looks easy. And they stopped asking themselves the right question, which is, does this actually work? Does this work? And they started asking instead, is this optimal? Is this optimal? That's a weird word right now. And honestly, that's the first critical error that you're going to make because this is what optimal means. So, if you joined my mastermind for a whopping 1,500 bucks, I'll also teach you how to get rich as hell. It doesn't matter what business you have, I'll help you grow it. Anyone that's joined, you just ask them and they'll be like, "Holy [\h__\h] this is awesome." I could read message after message. You guys are just apprehensive because I'm going to expose all the [\h__\h] that you aren't doing that you need to do that you wish you didn't have to do. But no, all of you guys going, I help optimize health. That's not how this works. So when someone says optimal, that's an insecure man's way of sounding intelligent while avoiding all the effort. That's all like when you guys and you're I only eat within a small window. Okay, great. Is it working cuz you're still fat? Like you're still fat. So is your window broken or are you just an idiot? I'm sorry. You can't hack your way into discipline. You can't find a a blueprint that takes you the easy way into discipline. You can't biohack your way out of eating too much food. And you guys still try because it's easier to buy into gizmos and gadgets and hacks and fads than it is to just face reality. You're fat because of the things you do. Listen, you have only two aspects. I'm tired of the white fat, brown fat, muscle, all this. Listen, you have two things in your body. Muscle, fat. That's it. That's all you have, muscle and fat. So decide, are you too fat? Are you like Dr. Gabby says, undermuscled? Are you overfat? Where are you? All of this is based on your behavior. Just decide yourself. Where are you? And then decide where you want to go. Do you want to be hyper muscular, have a little layer on you, but build like a grizzly bear? Do you want to be like crazy lean and athletic? You want to look like me? Do you want to be just like, are you a dad bot? Are you frumpy? You listen. Where are you? You have to look at yourself. Where are you? That's what you need to do first is go where am I? And get honest about it. Not my wife loves my big pudgy dad bod belly. No, she doesn't. She loves you. But if you were athletic, she would love you even more and she wouldn't be able to keep her hands off you and she would respect you more. So listen, you could be skinny. What if you're skinny and you want to just stack on muscle? Okay, listen. If you're skinny and you want to get big, you go and add more. Eat more, train more. If you're fat and you want to lose the fat and get lean and show off all your muscles or build muscles at the same time, that means eat less and move more. Calories in, calories out. That is how this works. And I but this is not biochemistry. This is not neurochemistry. This is not physiology. This is not endocrinology or toxicology or any other that I've taken in med school. This is math. It is plain math with muscles and jacked abs and giant quads and the ability to do things. That's it. Once you understand that, all you need to do is go calories and training, even less calories and volume. This is so easy and yet if it's frustrating because I know you guys get inundated with information. And I'm really trying to use my nice voice here, but you guys get inundated with information and when it sounds easy and you see some big titty woman with shredded abs or some jack dude in a set of biker shorts, you guys lose your crap and you go, "Absolutely. I'm going to listen to everything they say. How do I sign all my assets over to your name? You are the gospel." But what they're tell they're telling you is a lie. I come out here and I just tell you the truth and you guys get pissed off, [\h__\h] I give you the answers for free and you guys still go, I don't I don't what an [\h__\h] And then you go look at the lies and buy into that and you pay for it. I don't even ask for money. Listen, it's this is all you have to eat more or eat less. Move more or move less depending on what you want to do. That's it. Oh, I'll break it down. Don't worry. You don't need another 20 tile Instagram carousel explaining the pathway of sugar and gluconneogenesis and what happens and glycogen storage and the liver's emphasis or the liver's participation in all of this process and what your body does and what ATP does and the breaking of ATP to ADP and what happens when you break that triple bond and all that. You don't need any of this. You don't need to know. You need to know what math is. Calculator and a spline. That's all you got to do. Listen here. I will absolutely obliterate the entire diet industry in about 10 seconds. You ready? Buckle up cuz this is going to piss people off. Every diet works the same way. There you go. You're welcome. It doesn't matter what you eat. Before you guys go, that's not exactly true. Yeah, it is. You might not feel good. You might not be healthy, but 1,000 calories is still 1,000 calories. 1,000 calories of one thing doesn't make you fatter than 1,000 calories of other. That's like saying a ton of feathers or a ton of bricks. Which one's heavier? You want to do the math? You want a calculator? Maybe some paper. I'll help you. A ton of feathers or a ton of bricks, which one's heavier? And right now, 80% of you just started arguing. They're both a ton, dumbass. That's how calories work. Listen, I'm really trying here because I've been a doctor for 25 years. a real doctor. Every diet works the same. They are coming out with new things to sell you new products and services. That's it. We own a peptide company, a huge peptide company. I could sell you Redat True Tide all day. And yep, it works. And it's awesome. And I think it's probably the best of the ones out there. And nobody sells it cheaper. So if you want it and nobody sells it better with a better guarantee that's local and completely tested because I take health very seriously. Above all, do no harm. I apply that not just to medicine, but to finances, to my marriage, to my mindset, psychology, my kids, my clients, all of you guys listening, it matters to me. Most people don't take their life seriously enough to take other people's lives seriously. They're selfish. Every diet works the same way. I don't care if it's carnivore or paleo or the zone or the Whole 30 or keto or fasting or lowfat, highfat, protein, fat, reverse carb, blood type, all with a little side note of spiritual journaling. They all do the same thing. They reduce your calories. That's it. There's your magic. When you cut something out, whatever it is, whether it's carbs, protein, fat, time window to eat, portion size, all of this stuff, it all works the same. And you accidentally eat less, which is what happens. And because you're eating fewer calories, you lose weight. You're welcome. You guys buy into this. I triggered autophagy. Yeah. Yeah, but that doesn't make you scrawny. That doesn't make you lose fat. It repairs cells and eats the pieces that aren't working well. That's literally the gist of it. I could get into the fancy explanation if you want, but nobody has that kind of time. And honestly, it's boring. It doesn't reset your hormones. You cannot reset your hormones. This I had a buddy of mine. He goes, "I'm going to do this. I think it was 3 days, 72-hour fast because I heard it's going to reset for my heart." Are you nuts? Zero. Zero. So, fasting doesn't reset your hormones. you this you don't have to you didn't switch fuel systems when you changed your diet of the three basic pathways, right? There's more than that, but the three basic ones. You just stopped stuffing food into your bar hole. That's it. Do you want to know why the diet you're on right now isn't working or the diet you tried before doesn't work and the one you're on now does? Because you replace the calories you were eating with different calories. That's it. You could get just as fat eating just protein. It'll just be really hard to do. You'd eat. If you're vegan, you're just broken. But that's a whole other conversation. You want to sit there and tell me a gorilla gets jacked eating just vegetables and leaves and shoots and berries and stuff, that's fine. Except you don't understand at all physiology and how they work. Because what the gorilla is eating are the bacteria in their gut that are eating the vegetation. And the bacteria are the protein source that the gorilla is eating to use. So gorillas are carnivores. We can unpack this all day, man. If you think that the shoots and the leaves and the bamboo and stuff they eat is what's making them jacked. No, they still eat meat for lack of a better way of explaining it. They eat living creatures, bacteria. When I stopped drinking coffee, I felt like a brand new person. No, you didn't. Coffee had is the one of the most tested substances. Anyway, I could do this all day. There's so many things that you guys got wrong. When you go, I went keto and I gained weight. You cut carbs and then started eating sticks of butter like they were Snickers bars. Of course, you gained weight. Yes, it does. Cuz you just ate too many calories. Fat has more calories than carbs per gram. You cut 400 and you added a,000. Awesome. You're worse off. But you're like, "But I'm eating keto." You guys don't do the full deep dive into whatever diet you're going to do. You just look at the diet and you're like, I'm going to do this because my friend lost the weight. This influencer lost the weight. That per You look at Rebel Wilson. She went from a the she looked like a Zephr blimp to Paris Hilton. Why? Cuz she used a GLP. Like she used Sema or Rea or whatever it was she was using. Okay, great. Good for her. But it also proves that people that are fat actually want to be skinny. And that's a whole other conversation. But all of these people, they think they're biochemists now because they've watched a YouTube video, you guys, on metabolic flexibility. Not even a term. You don't need a hormone panel. You need to be honest with yourself. Look in the mirror. Just look in the mirror and go, "Yeah, I am eating like a Gernzy, man. Like, I'm a [\h__\h] cow and I eat far too much and I need to control what I'm doing." You don't have a diet problem. You don't have a medication or a hormone problem or a It's not your Hashimoto's or your menopause. It's not. And that drives you crazy. And you guys get so defensive about that because you're like, "You don't understand what it's like to be a woman." You're right. You don't understand what it's like to be a man. I don't know what it's like to be him. Let me give you the three things that you need to pay attention to. Like, you want to eat, you want to eat anything you want. And really, look at me. I eat just about I eat anything I want. I don't sit there and go, I should probably be careful. Never. I haven't done that in four years. I look like a savage. And I stay here every day. I don't have cycles to how I do this. You only need to know three things. How many calories you need every day, how many grams of protein you need every day, and how much training you need every day to stimulate change. That's it. You're welcome. You just graduated with your CSCS or NASM or all the other [\h__\h] that they try and get you to take. That's all you need to know. When you get those right, you can eat buckets of frosting. You can eat ice cream. You can eat cookies and cake and candy and bags of Skittles and still look like you're carved out of stone like me. I know. I do it. It's not you guys in your It's got to be TRT. It's got to be peptides. It's got to be genetics. It's got He's in the gym all day. None of that. None of that is accurate. It is because I understand how to eat. And I'll help you. Listen, just buckle up. I'll help you. Start with calories. Here's the formula. And you want to write this down. You probably should take your total body weight, multiply it by a number based on your goal. Whatever your goal is, this is your goal. Stop setting goals for other people because they think you should look a certain way. Do I think you should look a certain way as far as fit? Yeah, but you don't have to look like a bodybuilder. You should be jacked in some way, shape, or form. You should be. That's how you're designed. You're designed to be muscular. We've just evolved that out in thinking. It's the deevolution of thinking, not physically. You work a human body and it's not like a Honda. It gets stronger and faster. You work a Honda, eventually it breaks. So here, take your current body weight, whatever it is, times it by a number based on what your goal is. So if you want to have super fast fat loss, times your body weight by 10. Moderate, times it by 12. maintenance, 15. Muscle gain, 18, 20 plus, depending on how you want to do. I would wake up every night when I was a kid in bodybuilding. These are the days that I used to watch Lee Haney and Dorian Yates and Lee Priest before he got that face tattoo. He was just a kid like Tom Plattz. Like all these guys, man. I used to see these OG guys. What's his name? I don't remember Bob Paris. That guy had the most perfectly symmetrical body. The people just look great. I used to eat a loaf of bread. I'd wake my I set an alarm 2:00 in the morning, get up, eat a loaf of bread. Why? Because this guy Grant that I met at the gym, who happened to be way more jacked than me, Grant and Jeff, they were both these two jack dudes. good people, but not a lot of knowledge when it came to training. You had to get up cuz I was skinny, right? You had to get up and you just got to eat. So, eat a whole loaf of bread. So, I would sit there and smash as much bread as I could. My mom's like, "Where the [\h__\h] is all the bread?" Yoink. In me. I'm realizing now that was one of the dumber things I could do. But hey, that again, great example of how you follow what somebody says because you go, they look like that so they must do it. They never did that. They told the idiot skinny kid to do that. Weight loss, body weight times 10. That's like fast, hard. So you got to be able to stomach that. Moderate times your body weight by 12. maintenance times it by 15. And muscle gain times it by 18, 20, somewhere around there. Right? So let's go. I'm almost 200 lb. So if I weigh 200 lb and I want to lose weight at a steady, consistent rate, 200* 12, 24,00 calories a day. That's it. Stop compl. Just stop talking. You don't need to be perfect. 2430 2370. It just needs to be very consistent. And if you're not losing weight, drop it by a couple hundred calories and keep going. I'd say 200. I'm trying to help you and I realize that, yeah, I'm gritty. I'm edgy. I cuss. I tell you the truth. Stop blaming your thyroid, your genetics, your graves, your Hashimoto's, your menopause, your big bones. I've seen tens of thousands of X-rays. I've never seen a big bone. Blame your plate. and blame your spoon and blame your behavior where you go. The second or the next thing is going to be what Gabby talks about a lot. It's the staple in everything and I think people have gotten away from it because they eat a lot of processed food, but it's protein. Protein is the golden gun. Protein is the if you watch James Bond, you know what that means. Protein is the beall end all. That is that deflects everything that comes at you. And I cannot stress this enough. And this is where most of you guys screw this up. You're eating 50 gram of protein a day because some idiot out there in social media said you shouldn't eat too much protein. It's hard on your kidneys and it causes all kinds of problems. [\h__\h] It does. [\h__\h] Not a chance. Not a chance. I eat so much protein. But you're eating 50 grams. You're wondering why your body looks like a crumpled up wet napkin. You want to be lean. Proteins your non-negotiable. The end. I stay away from shakes. I don't care what shake it is. It doesn't matter. Shakes are garbage. Oh, you don't understand. Got to get this really great pea protein from this guy that makes it in his basement. Shakes are garbage. Go call American Rancher Beef. Ask for Mike. He owns it. He and his wife. I kid you not. I will plug the [\h__\h] out of him. American Rancher Beef. Call him. Say, "The Spartan sent me." Said, "You have the best beef on earth." He really does. They don't hormone their cows, nothing. And these guys work hard. They work for you, man. Tell them you want whatever you want. Just tons and tons of beef. Stop getting pork and weird [\h__\h] Just get beef. Tell him how much. He will help you. Tell him I sent you. He will hook you up. I promise. You want to be lean. Protein is non-negotiable. Red meat. Red meat. I used to say one gram per pound of body weight. I do 1.5. So I eat 300 grams of protein a day. So if you're doing one gram just to make it easy, which is still plenty, you're good at that. So you don't have to freak out. I just like a lot because I like protein. I eat tons of ground beef. I ate ground beef and steak all the time. My wife makes the most banging tacos on earth. I told her, I said, "We just eat this for the rest of our life every day, like every meal. I'm good." She said, "That' be boring." I go, "Fuck no, I get to do this all day." So, one, if you weigh 200 lb, you need 200 g of protein. One, it's just one to one. It's don't get complicated. You want to know the hack? I'll help you. 100 gram of protein is about a pound of lean beef. Notice I didn't say 70% fat. If you're like, "What? You need fat?" Don't worry about this right now. I'm just trying to help you. So 200 is 2 lb, 300 is 3 lb. You could do this all day. That's it. Stop complicating this stuff. You eat that every day. Your body is going to stack muscle, keep muscle, and build muscle, and protect muscle, and fuel muscle. The Pentagon guarding secrets, man. like it's going to go to war to protect you. It doesn't matter if it's chicken or beef or shrimp or crocodile or ostrich or whatever it is you want to do. I'm a beef guy cuz I I like it. It's easy and honestly, it's pretty much the safest one. Stop getting your weird hormone stuff from Safeway. Don't. Protein is protein for the most part. Once you've eaten your protein for the day, I don't care whatever you eat after that. I don't go out to your freezer and just smash ice cream up to what your calories are. Wait, you said I could eat anything? Yeah, but if you're eating 3,000 calories a day and 2500 you got from protein, that means you have 500 to play with. That's your spending money. That's your go out and burn it all, throw it in the casino, go to Vegas, go nuts. You're playing with house money. Knock yourself out. That doesn't mean go out and eat a,000 calories of Ben & Jerry's. It means eat 500. But go ahead. It's not going to hurt you. I promise. Look at me. I do this every day. Once you've eaten your protein and you've reached the caloric load and you've reached the grams that you're supposed to eat for the day, know how many calories that is. Know what you have left over to play with. House money, the house calories. Go nuts. Go down to whatever. Go to Crispy Cream and get donuts. I don't care what you do. It doesn't matter. Like ice cream. You want to drink, take alcohol. It is pure sugar, by the way. So, you better know your calories for alcohol. Don't think just cuz it's really small it doesn't. You can do this because you built the platform. You want your secret? You want the secret? You're welcome. This is why it works. Because you can eat like this. Because the diets that restrict you and say you have to be in a like stocks with your feet and your arms locked in and a shackle around your neck and you can't you can lick an apple and that's about all you get to eat. That's why they don't work because you're limiting something to the point where people feel so desperate that now you spend your entire day looking forward to the end of the day so you can at least eat something or when your diet's over. So when you reach that point that you want to weigh a certain weight or anything like that, you go off the rails because you haven't done it. It's like that Mormon girl that comes from Utah and then she goes to college. She's never done anything crazy in her life ever. I know this person. I've seen these people. I went to college with these people and they got to college and next thing they literally [\h__\h] everything that moved and drank everything they could. They went insane. That's what you guys do. Stop it. See, the reason this works so well is nothing is off limits. Which means there's no cheat meals are stupid. You can't cheat on this. You can't cheat. You can't fall off. You can't bail. You can't screw it up. You can't binge. You just don't. It sucks. This is this is the only thing that you could stick to because it doesn't feel like you're sticking to something. Like I said, I'm going to change your operating system. This is how I do it. Once you know your calorie target, you just got to be honest with yourself. Once you know your calorie target and your protein that you are just a one to one, don't be like me. You don't have to want one gram per pound. There you go. Whatever you weigh, eat that. The rest is just accessory. You get like just eat go to the movie theater, eat a [\h__\h] hot dog in a bucket of popcorn the size of St. Bernard. Looks like a Homer's bucket. Who cares? You can eat one meal, 10 meals, three meals, five meals. It doesn't matter what you do. Split it up however you want. It's your damn life. Listen, you want to have a carrot cake every day before you go to bed. Lit. I challenge you. Do this for 100 days and actually jump on board with me. Send me a message. Do this for 100 days. Exactly. If you screw up, don't message me. If you can't do it, don't message me. If you're going to make up some story just to try and prove me wrong, don't message me because I know this works. I know for multiple reasons. One, I do it every day. Two, my wife does it every day. Three, I am actually a doctor, so I know what I'm talking about. I'm not an idiot that's too much of a [\h__\h] to tell you the truth. I will just tell you the truth and help you get to where you want to go. Whether it's your money, your psychology, your fitness, your life, your marriage, your business, I don't care. That's why I built my mastermind is so I can help you guys win. I'm not in this for me. I'm in this for you. that some of you guys are so paranoid and cynical about everything. Listen, eat carrot cake every night. There's your do 100 days, whatever it is you want. Just do not go over your caloric load that you're supposed to be at. So, if you are two if you are 200 lb, what did I say? Fast fat loss. What do you do? 200 lb times it by 10. There you go. 2,000 calories. That's what you have to eat every day. See, now you have to do some math because if the calories from the protein is more, you see where I'm going with this? So, you have to look at what you want to do. But none of this is hard. I gave you the recipe and the blueprint that's so easy to follow. I'll if I get around to it, I'll stick it in the comments underneath. But you want to drink, you want to have I'm not a fan of alcohol. I think it's terrible for you. But drink your tequila, smash wine every night, eat cookies, have ice cream, eat cheesecake. Yes, you can. Because you've created the base on protein. Everything else is just filler up to the it's the bucket. The bucket changes size based on your goal. So if the bucket is a 2,000 calorie bucket and to get your protein in for the day for what based on the numbers I gave you gets you 3/4 of the way to the top of the bucket, the last quarter of that you can put anything in it. Anyone that argues against you is wrong. So program this into your life and just do it. You want to eat cookies, program it in. Make it part of your day. Like you you stop outsourcing all your decisions to some 22-year-old Tik Tok influencer and start using your freaking mind and listen to people that probably have a little more experience and knowledge than you. Fat loss isn't about food, by the way. It's like psychological warfare for you guys. It's an identity. The reason you stay fat isn't because you don't know what to do. It's because you don't believe that you're worthy of the body that you say you want. That's what it comes down to. And that's why you keep hopping around because either you don't see the results fast enough or it's just too hard. Or number three, somebody says you should be happy where you're doing better than they are. Look at them, they're 200. You guys are settling for things because you're looking at what's worse than you. You use keto and sugar diet and like the Whole 30 and all the stuff that's out there. Biohacking is my favorite one. They're as distractions from the pain of discipline. You don't binge because you're weak. You do it because you're still punishing yourself for not being perfect. Listen, people ask me all the time when they join my mastermind or even if they do one-on-one, "What kind of guarantee do I have? What kind of guarantee do I have that I'm going to make a million dollars? That I'm going to be successful? That I'm going to lose the weight? That I'm going to change my mindset, that my marriage is going to be fixed, that I'm going to start this business, grow this business, scale this life, move, get the car, get the house, all the things." I've asked people ask me about the guarantee all the time, and I go, "I have a guarantee." Absolutely. I have a guarantee. The guarantee is that if you do the same thing you're doing right now tomorrow you will wake up with the same stupid results that you are trying to escape. I guarantee that if you never post on social media and you never do the work on social media, you never ask people for money on social media, you are never going to affect change and help anybody that you so desperately say you want to help. I guarantee that if you never have that hard conversation with your wife or your husband, your marriage is going to go right down the [\h__\h] toilet. I guarantee that if you do not tell your spouse about all the freaky weird things you want to do in the bedroom, she's not going to tell you either. And you're still going to sit there and get up every night and look at the glow of the screen at 2:00 in the morning and look netwacked to porn that you wish you could be doing in your life. I guarantee that if you do nothing, your life stays the same. That's your guarantee. Guarantees are for people that expect perfection. I am not perfect at all. I'm far from it. But I do know this. When you eliminate all the distractions from the pain of discipline, you are left with no matter how ridiculous it is, it's like AAM's razor, right? You are left whatever you are left with no matter how improbable is the truth. That's how this works. If you can't regulate your behavior under stress, then you're not integrated. You're fragmented. So you want to be whole, you want to be excellent, you want to be the blueprint that everybody looks at and goes, that guy, that girl's got they got their [\h__\h] together. Then do what needs to be done even when your mood tells you to quit. That's what this comes down to. It's not about how many calories you want to lose. It's the fact that you are either worth it or you're not. You need rules, structure, and you need a little voice in your head that says, "Hey, this is what we do every single day." Zero negotiation and exceptions because until that voice becomes louder than all of your excuses and diet hunting and yeah, but my condition, but my doctor, but my medicine, but this, you are going to stay in the same body telling yourself next year is going to be different. Precious about food. You're complicating the simple and you're hiding behind all this terminology that you just hear. your headline readers, stop doing that. Every diet is the same. Every diet is the same. It is a system to help you eat fewer calories than you burn. End of story. Somewhere it got confused and people got delusional saying, "But it's not that simple." And if somebody goes, "Yeah, Rea says you are catabolizing muscle tissue and using that as fuel." Yes, muscle tissue is actually easier to burn than fat. It doesn't matter. You're still going to lose weight. Throw in some workouts and actually eat properly and do the calculations I just gave you. Use some mathematics, you will lose weight. In fact, your body will reset and do all the things it's supposed to do. You don't need a fast or a medication or a magic pill or selenium in your body. What you need to do is actually just do the work and get focused on the results and do not stop until you get there. If you want to be jacked and free, then eat your damn protein and fill in the rest with all of the things that make you feel alive that you like. Because this game, it's not about how clean you eat. We walked out of Costco with muffins and all kinds of [\h__\h] And this lady goes, "I could never eat that like that. Look at that." And my wife was like, "This is exactly what we eat. There's no way. That's how indoctrinated you are. That's how much hypnosis of social conditioning you guys are under. It's about how consistent you are. That's the game. The man or woman that learns to stay in shape while still just crushing it and enjoying the piss out of life, that guy never falls off cuz there's no reason because he never climbs back on. He lives in that zone and stays in that lane and has a hard line between the right and the wrong. That's it. This is how I've done this for four years. Four years. I'm gonna do this when I'm 95. This is why people hire me. I got somebody asked me how I made my money. And I love it because it was a high level question. I was actually really impressed. I don't remember the guy's name, Jordan. I think he was in my comments. I was pretty impressed with the question because and the followup because I actually broke it down. I'm like, I did fitness. I hated it because none of you [\h__\h] listen to what I tell you to do and you just go, "Oh, the workout's too hard. I can't do it. I don't have the equipment. The diet's too hard." Do you have something easy? What about when I'm traveling? [\h__\h] Why don't you just go, "I don't want to do this cuz it's too hard. Do you have an easier way? Do you have a shake weight and maybe like a cream I can rub on my forehead? That's what you guys want? Then don't worry about being fit and athletic." So, I went through all of the things that I did. And one of the things that I did was about 6 months in after I came out of the hospital was I would get contacted by people all the time going, "Can you give me some advice?" And I'd be like, "Yeah, just follow my stuff on social media." And finally, I just went, "You know what? All right." And this one guy asked me, he's a CEO of a company. He says, "Hey, listen. Can you come? Can you come speak to my team? This is crazy. I've been watching you for 3 months and you have just never missed and never stopped and I can't. My team is great, but this is they need to see this. I'm watching you with an oxygen machine in the background and next thing you know you're doing pull-ups and squats and all this stuff. I watched you roll out of the hospital. I'm blown away. You're a role model for people and I don't think you realize it. And I said, "I'll gladly come." And I spoke to this guy and his team and 22 people, right? And he paid me for it and I just went, "Wow, this is actually something." And he said it was the best thing he's ever had. He's had speakers come in and he said, "This is the best thing I've ever done. can I hire you to be my consultant? And I said, "Sure." Never done it before. And he says, "How much?" I gave him a price and he goes, "No problem." He goes, "Can I do a wire?" I said, "Absolutely." He wired it by probably 20 minutes later. I gave him the information. Bang. And I was a consultant for him. And it exploded because he told other people and they told other people and then other people call me. But it's not about the money because people go, "How much is it to have you be my consultant?" It shouldn't be about the money. You want to join my mastermind is 1,500 bucks. Start there. If you're worried about the finances, start there because you're not going to want to do the one-on-one with me because the one-on-one with me as of June 1st is $100,000 a year. And so, I'm very transparent about it. People, what do I get? You get somebody who is never going to let you slide and who's actually done it and repeatedly does it. This is how I help people in any space. Either grow from a top performer to an elite version of themselves or help them to stop being slaves to the fads and the manacles that they wear about the psychology that they've picked up around the world and looking at social media and the news thinking that's how they have to be. And I help like I I remove that that slave band that's around them and I get rid of the gimmicks. And honestly, a lot of times their own shame and lack of selfworth, their self-loathing and and disgust that they have and I give them the reason to keep going and they start seeing changes and once they start seeing changes, I don't let them stop. That's the difference. People start seeing changes and they bail. Cool. I got it. I'm going to No, you're with me until the end. Which is why my mastermind is very shortly only going to be a onetime fee. $49.97, $5,000. You get life. You come, you hang with me for life. You want to bail, that's on you, but you never have to pay me again. And I think it's better that way. But at the same time, I'm doing it because I want people to be in my group for life because we're the last frontier for the rest of the world. People are looking at you. You can't be a big fat blob justifying why you have you're not eating the right blood type diet because your kids are going to see that. Adults are going to see that. And they're going to justify it and you're going to work your way down. instead of being the person that everybody goes, "Oh god, those guys are killing it. I don't know how they're doing it." And then telling them how and watch them doubt you and then try it anyway and then lean on them. Next thing you know, you're a leader as well. This is how I've eaten forever now, four years. And this is exactly how I get people to reach the top or further than where they are because I commit to what I'm going to do and I never miss. So when it comes to your diet, this is how you do it. Don't expect this to happen tomorrow, but I promise you this. If you do this for the rest of your life, you will be lean and jacked for the rest of your life. I guarantee it. There's a guarantee for you. But you just got to do it. So go ahead, eat all the crap. Eat the cookies. Eat the Snickers bars. Go to the gym. Pick up heavy things. Put them down. Stack on the muscle. And stop pretending that fat loss is some horrific unsolvable mystery. Math. Calories in, calories out, protein first. By the way, math doesn't give a [\h__\h] about your feelings at all. So, you could just take all this and dismiss it. Or you could take this and go, "Listen, the guy has shown up here every day for almost 150 episodes and has shown up here every day. Actually, I have shown up here every day for 150 episodes. And the guy has shown up here for a decade before that when I was doing Smash Works fixing people for free. He's never missed. I didn't come out of nowhere. He started at 48 years old, me in August of 21, [\h__\h] broken, poor, broke, miserable, fat, flabby, weak, no business, no money, lost the house, lost the money, kept my family alive with just pennies and built all of this. And now I'm in my own private studio that we built. It's not just a little room somewhere. This is an actual studio. big studio everywhere that we built in a beautiful house wearing a $35,000 Rolex coming out. It's not about the money. It's the fact that driving all kinds of crazy cars with more on the way building my wife's forever house because she deserves it. She [\h__\h] deserves it. That she designed that I want to fulfill for her so badly and I need to take care of myself to do that. So, I figured out a way to make the money, build the body, be the father, be the man, be the leader, grow the company, grow the companies, and keep going indefinitely until God says you're done. And lead as many people and help as many people get there as I possibly can because I told you what my mission is. My mission is very simple. To build the biggest, wildest, most intensely successful life ever seen and bring every single one of you and your dreams and goals with me. Because it's so big, I can fit you in it. and just take you there. That's why I come out here. That's why I give you this stuff. So you can get mad. You can go, you triggered me. I'm offended. Or you can just do the damn work. Your move, man. Your move.