The whole rule is stand for something or be good for nothing and fall for anything. State your case and claim your space. That's really important in this world. And I think a lot of people are forgetting that. I I watch people a lot. I went out and I had to do some things with with one of our other companies today and Brandy and I were out and we brought our daughter Hope and took care of some things. But I looked at how people treat each other. I know this world's a [\h__\h] show. It's a total shitow. But you guys are doing it to yourselves, right? Like you teach people how to treat you. I don't think you guys got that. You blame somebody else for how they're treating you. You taught them that. You taught them that. I listen, I've seen it even in business. I've seen people that for three years have had a social media account, Instagram, let's say. They've never once asked them to buy anything. They just keep giving them stuff for free. They get in the DMs and answer every question. Oh yeah, absolutely, bro. I got you. Nothing but they have a business running for those three years. And then they go and ask them for money. Hey, you should buy my stuff so I can support my family and I can put food on my table and pay for my mortgage and my cars and my life because I give you all this stuff for free. Which I think is absolutely fair because on a quick tangent, if you guys are asking your friends for a deal, you're a dick. Your friends, you should pay them full price. Leave them a five, six, seven page or seven paragraph rather review and as many stars as you can fit on whatever review system you're using because that and then refer everybody you know towards your friend. I don't care what it is. That's what friends do. Enemies go, "Bro, can you give me like a homie hookup? We've been friends for a long time. Why you making me pay full price?" They're never going to bring anybody to you. And if they did, they're going to be cheap asses just like them. Those aren't friends. I have never once I like I buy things from people just because they have a business sometimes I've never I have some friends of mine I've never used their product I just bought it. Do you know why? Cuz they're my friends and that's their business. And anyone that goes dude that's stupid. That's why you're broke. Because I it let me go back to social media real quick. Because these people that are going like three, four, five years just never asking for a sale wondering why the click the link in bio isn't making them any money. You train you taught your audience to not buy from you. And then when you ask them for money, you know what they say? Oh, what? Now you're all about the money? Oh, what? You now you expect me to pay? Dude, what an [\h__\h] Unfollow. I expected you to pay before. You were just being cheap, which means you were attracting cheap people and you taught them to disrespect you. Cut those people out. You don't need those people. You teach people how to treat you. So, I've seen people struggle with business with millions of followers and they go, "Why is nobody buying my stuff?" Because you've taught them right from the beginning. Teach them to buy from you right out of the gate in your stories, right? Treat treat your stories like a reality show with like cool commercials. That's the easiest way to do it. Your commercials are all the [\h__\h] that you want them to buy. service, product, whatever, your little widget, your course, whatever it is you're doing. Most of you guys selling courses shouldn't be doing it because your life is in shambles. But that's a whole other conversation. That's not what this vlog is about or this podcast. This is about teaching people how to treat you right. Like most of you guys need your little entitlement jaws broken, just punched right in the mouth. Because if somebody disrespects you, which that is disrespect. If you get mad at somebody because they they tell you to pay for their service and you've been getting it for free, you're lucky that you're getting it for free, first of all, not entitled. Grow up. So for you to get angry at somebody else going, I'm not willing to give this to you for free anymore and you get mad at them. [\h__\h] you. That's like going to a restaurant and your uncle Bob owns drostanolone and so he always hooks you up with the best steak, the best food, all the booze, whatever it is. He just gives you like it's a $400, $600 tab every time you leave. And you go every Friday and Saturday, hang out at Uncle Bob's restaurant and he hooks you up and then Uncle Bob cashes out and sells it for 20 million. And you go there one Friday and they you get presented with a bill and it says 472 bucks and you lose your mind. You didn't go there for any other reason other than the free food and the free alcohol. You're a dick. So, you abuse that person. See, being a good man, you would have paid it anyway. I have friends of mine that go, "Dude, you're not going to pay me. I will put money in their account. I will wire it to cry. I will send it to crypto. I so they can't send it back and then I will make sure they don't know my wallet." Like, I find so many ways to give them money because I think that's fair that the how you buy is how you sell. But that that goes both ways. But if you disrespect somebody or if you're the person on the receiving end of that and you're wondering why you're not making money, cut those people loose. If they keep making promises that they're going to give you money, cut them loose. If they're going to pay you one day, cut them loose. It's like Wimpy from the comics way back. If you guys know who that is, that's how old I am. I'll gladly pay you Tuesday for a hamburger today is what he always said. He never paid. If someone disrespects you and you let it slide, it is not their fault. That's your signature, man. That's your signature at the bottom of that deal. You did it. So if that's your social media, you did it. Change it. Just start working at changing it right now. But I mean it this is you need to start setting real boundaries about what you tolerate from other people. Like boundaries, identity, the it's like a discipline of walking the hell away from anyone who tries to dump water or sand on what the [\h__\h] you're burning for because you guys are allowing it. And then you get mad. You get in the comments of other people all mad about how you're treated. You taught them. You ever wonder why people walk all over you? It's not their fault. It's you. Like your boss talks to you like a bag of [\h__\h] like just a dog. Your wife doesn't respect you and just demand just walks all over you. Treats you doesn't treat you like a leader, which you should be, by the way. Read the Bible. Leave and cleave. You're supposed to be the leader of the house as a man. Enough of this double alpha. I'm a alpha wife and an alpha husband. Get the [\h__\h] out of here. Listen, my wife is as alpha as it gets. She'll put most of the women to shame in the world that are like, "I'm an alpha. I'm a female alpha." And if you know who I'm talking about, dude, you're not. The fact that you have to go around and tell people that is why you're not. But if you're So just stop it. Let the man do his man job. Let the women do the women job. It's okay. Nobody's feelings are getting hurt except you butt hurt little cryb babies that are angry about the fact that you go, "I should be able to do everything a man can." Go ahead. Don't get pissed off when you can't keep up. You guys get mad about that. You're teaching society how to treat you. By the way, all you people going, "I'm a feminist." No, you're an idiot because you're not a feminist. I could get into the whole definition about that, but you guys got it wrong. Another vlog. I'm lit today. But if your girl doesn't respect you, it's because you're tra if you like, do you guys ever ask that? Why? Why does my boss not respect me? Why does my girl not respect me? Why does my wife not respect me? Why don't my kids respect me? Why? Why are my friends always crossing the line with me? Why? Why does my family guilt trip and control and manipulate me and you guys blame them? Oh, they're evil. They're corrupt. No, it's cuz you let them. You didn't. You teach people how to treat you. I'll say it over. I could stop here and just go in the house and hang out with Brandy. Most of you guys have been treating people how to treat you like a doormat. Like, you teach them how to treat you poorly. You give them a course. Like you, you guys actually train people to treat you like you are a door they can just walk through that just happens to have a pulse and a Wi-Fi connection and then can I use your Wi-Fi, bro? I don't care who it is. Listen, your mom, your dad, your girlfriend, your day one friend, right? You guys, your weird Gen Z slang, your boss, your preacher. See what I mean? Like you guys put criteria. Oh, but that's different. Get easy with your preacher. I don't care. your preacher, your pastor, your ex-wife, your [\h__\h] dog. If your dog doesn't respect you, your fault. It's not the dog's fault. I have a dog that doesn't listen. Wrong. You suck at training dogs. If someone treats you with disrespect and you stay or you explain or you justify or you tolerate it, you signed off on it. That was you. You just taught them that your standard is way down here and it's okay for them to do all that stuff. I had somebody in my life like that, Brandy and I. This [\h__\h] would just nonstop promise after promise for months and it's been over a year and just nothing. We just cut him out. I'm out. Done. I don't believe anything you say anymore. And you have to be that way. Cut them out. Don't hang around. Don't allow people to disrespect you like that. That's a lie. But you guys train them to do that. Which we did cuz we tolerated it till we went, "Nah, we're done." Don't act surprised when it keeps happening. You didn't just allow it with them once. You trained them. Like you literally pulled out a blueprint and you went, "This is how you do it. Let me show you how to mistreat the [\h__\h] out of me because this is what you're going to do." Okay, you ready? Start taking notes. Like weak men, that's what it always boils down to, right? I'm not talking about women. I'm talking about men. Weak men are like magnets for disrespect because they throw out this s It's like a bat signal. Hey, it's allowed. Disrespect me. You think standing up for yourself is rude. That's what you guys on social media, you think standing up for yourself is rude. that you tolerate these [\h__\h] that come into your content in your comment section and start laying out hate. Listen, I'm not telling you to get into some kind of war with these people. Don't tolerate it. I will walk all over you if you come into my comments and start shitalking me. If especially if you're not better than me, all of you guys, don't you dare trash talk somebody that has a better life than you. And don't say it's all relative. If they're more athletic than you, shut up. If they make more money than you, shut up. If they have a better marriage than you, shut up. I could do this all day. You have no opinion. If they're living a better life than you, which is why most of you guys have a negative opinion about people because they're living a better life than you, cuz you tolerate crap. You throw up that signal. Disrespect me. You guys really, most of you guys really think that standing up for yourself is rude. You think that saying, "Fuck no, not a chance." is harsh. You guys think that's abrasive. That's being your sociopath. You think setting a boundary makes you a bad guy? Really? Like I think about it. Does it? Good. I'll be the bad guy all day then. Don't you disrespect me. Be the villain in their little useless guiltridden [\h__\h] narrative that they live in. It's not your life. Who gives a [\h__\h] about their life? And if you go, "That's selfish." No, that's not where I'm Don't misrepresent and misconrue what I'm saying. They can have their opinion all they want. I don't have to tolerate it. Just like all of you guys get in the comments pissed off when someone triggers you, which by the way I already covered means it's true because if it doesn't m if you just didn't care, you'd laugh at it or just keep scrolling. Only weak men are triggered, by the way. Because the people who don't cheer when you win, just so you know, the people that they shrink and they get amongst themselves and chirp and gossip when you start to level up. The people that get threatened when you decide to make more of yourself, you decide to say, "I'm done with you. I'm done with your standards. I'm done with you. I'm raising mine." Those were never people that were genuinely in your circle anyway. They just wanted to hang out with you for I don't know credibility maybe. I have no idea. You let someone run their mouth at you once, that's on them. You let them do it twice, that's on you. I just won't. I'm sure you guys would get in the comments and try and test this the theory. I just don't care about your comment if you're not doing better than me. And not if you go, "Oh, dude, I'm totally doing better than you. I'm wearing a $50,000 Rolex and I'm fit at 52 with a kick-ass marriage and connected to God." Unless you have all of that, your finances, your health, your relationship, your spiritual connection to God, if all of that is at 100%. Okay, then let's talk about you being better than me. Until then, no. Take that as egotistical. I don't care. I know who I am and I know what I'm worth. You get in the comments and go, I know what I'm worth. But you don't because you go and pop off when things make you upset. And when people stand up for themselves, they're rude. They're toxic. You don't get what you want in the world. You don't. You get what you demand. Respect. You demand that. You don't get it when you want it, you demand it. And if you're too scared, if you're just too scared to demand respect, you'll keep getting whatever low rent [\h__\h] treatment that they feel like giving you any day of the week. This isn't about being liked. This is about being respected. And it starts with you. Most of you guys tolerating disrespect or tolerating you look in the mirror and you don't respect yourself. And the second you stop enforcing your worth or you think you have none, everybody's going to treat you like you have none. And you guys blame them. It's not them. That's the problem with the world right now is all your worth comes from hearts and the number of followers you have. I don't care if I had five followers. I don't give a [\h__\h] how many followers I have. Half the time I lose followers because they get mad because I tell them the truth. I like you better when you fixed my hips. Now you're mean and you hurt my feelings. Leave. I don't want soft people in my circle. I don't want to be king of the [\h__\h] I'd rather be king of the tough savages. Which is why my mastermind only has tough savages in it. Like if when people go, "You don't understand. This is my I heard this from somebody. That's just how my mom talks to people." Cool. Then she can talk to herself because I'm out of here. Your mom is never going to talk to me like that. [\h__\h] her. And I won't I'll keep personal things out of us. When people go, "You don't understand though. That's my boss. He's just abrasive like that." Yeah. If that's the case, you're his [\h__\h] if you stay without boundaries. Stop ha stop handing out unlimited access to people who just drain your energy. They're just vampires. You're not a charity case, man. You're a machine. So, act like one. And if someone can't show up with loyalty and strong energy and respect, cut their access to zero to you. Forget their number. When they go, "Hey, bro. Do you have time for a call?" No, I don't even have time to breathe the same air as you because you're so disgusting. That's how you need to be. But when are you going to take charge of your own life and tell those people to go pound sand? Tolerating disrespect, it's not compassion. It's cowardice. And a lot of you guys just you have you've labeled it as something else. Oh, I'm just being a good guy. No, you're not. You're getting walked all over and it pisses you off when you go home anyway and you know it. You're not, you guys know, like you're not obligated to accommodate anybody who erodess your identity. You don't have to accommodate them at all. That doesn't make you a good person. It makes you a loser. It makes you an idiot. It makes you soft. Your life is a hierarchy. And if you do not define it, others are going to invade it. Treat it like a country. Sovereign country, and you're defending the borders. People respond to structure, to limits, and ultimately to consequences. You do, everybody else does. If you lack the courage, just look at your own life. If you lack the courage to enforce consequences for others and enforce all of those things that I just rattled off, you invite chaos. You set out bait, but not just in your life, but into your soul, man. You invite the devil in and you just give him the key and go, "Come on in, man." So, listen. Whatever you're not changing, you're choosing. You've heard it before. I'll say it again. Whatever you're not changing in your life, you can add in whoever you're not changing in your life, you're choosing. govern yourself accordingly because every fake friend, [\h__\h] promise, toxic partner, I don't care if it's your wife, guilt tripping family member, boss who just abuses you and their position, low energy loser who mocks and dissuade tries to dissuade you from your ambition and your drive. If they're still around, you're allowing it. You're allowing it. You don't have to. Like you you don't There are billions of people on this damn planet. You don't owe a single damn one of them your peace, your fire, your time, your connection, your energy. If they don't bring any respect to your table, you owe them nothing. Nothing. Because listen, every interaction that you have is a lesson. That's how you have to look at life. Everything you do is a lesson. And you guys are too busy just trying to get to the end of your day so you can sit down with a cylinder filled with alcohol to watch a box with entertainment on it until you can go to bed and dream about the sex you're not having with the wife next to you. That's how you guys treat your life. I just want to get through the day to do what you guys through the day for. You wait five out of seven days for just two and you wonder why your life sucks just to get disrespected normally by the man in the mirror. You need to treat your life like lessons. Granny and I have learned so many lessons observing and interacting with people and that's changed our life monumentally. Sometimes lessons are painful, man. Because every lesson, just so you know, teaches others what's allowed. So if someone walks into your world, into your life, whatever, and starts pushing boundaries and they're not where you want to be, and I'm not talking your fragile little [\h__\h] that you guys start talking about your childhood trauma and going, "That's offensive." It's not offensive. Thicken up your skin a little bit. I'm talking real boundaries. And you let it slide just this once. You just gave them the blueprint. You just handed over access. You showed them what they can get away with. And you taught them your rules, not theirs. They come in neutral. No matter what they are, you taught them your rules. You lowered the bar. Just they just didn't trip over it. That's the best way to look at it. Like they they didn't even bother to stay. They slid under. That's how low they are. And you let them in. You want to be respected, then enforce it. Demand it. You think I give a [\h__\h] about you guys if you guys disrespect me? I don't care. And you guys get mad about that. Oh yeah, listen to this tough guy on the other side of camera. Come to my house. I don't care. My respect and my opinion of myself matters more than anybody else's combined. Until you can hold that and mean it, you're going to struggle and you're going to get walked all over. Because respect doesn't come from being nice. It doesn't. It doesn't come from being understanding. doesn't come from explaining yourself to everyone who crosses you. You don't owe them anything. It comes from your damn standards. And if you have none, or worse, if you have them, you tell everybody else you have them, but you never enforce them. You're not a man. You're just AI don't know, a vessel for other people's chaos and nonsense. That's what you are. And you do it willingly. You think being passive makes you noble, being agreeable makes you liked, puts a target on your ass, man. Because people treat you like [\h__\h] because you taught them that it's fine. You responded with a big old grin and you go, I turned the other cheek. You didn't speak up and you rationalized it. That's what you did. And you think that's okay. And now you're mad. You're mad at them for not respecting you. You didn't lose their respect. You never demanded it in the first place. This is on you, [\h__\h] I don't care who it is. You know what's interesting is that there was a somebody sent me a message like I would listen to more of you if you just didn't cuss so much. But I don't respect you. So I don't care. I am me. I I don't put this out to be liked. I put this out because it's the truth. And if you don't like the truth or you want somebody to take 30 days to tell you something that could take 30 seconds, that's a problem with you. Not with the way they told you. you just don't like it because it was uncomfortable. Good. If it's uncomfortable, that signals change. That's the same thing as this. If it feels disrespectful, knock it off and cut them out of your life. Don't even bother. Once, okay, twice, you chose it. Not a chance. I don't care who it is. If someone steps over the line and you don't knock their ass back behind it, that's on you. You set the bar. You draw the line. You set the damn tone. And if you don't come crying about how they treat you, you're not the victim. You're a Put your hand up. I'm a volunteer. Go ahead, mistreat me. You guys think that's okay? And then you go, that's not exact. It's not that black and white. Yes, it is. Yes, it is. Because at 52 years old, when I was a kid, there was only black and white. There was no gray. Nobody was like, situations are variable. No, they're not. No, they're not. It doesn't matter the label you give it. It's still the same situation. Like you guys and your you don't understand, man. That's just how they are. Yeah. Guess what? That's not how I [\h__\h] roll. You're not obligated to tolerate bad behavior just because someone's been around a long damn time or shares a bloodline with you even. It doesn't matter. Loyalty has nothing to do with DNA. Do you guys understand that, right? People go, "Families, everything." Not if they treat you like [\h__\h] you're gone. I don't care who you are. You're out. It has everything to do with how they conduct themselves. And if they act like you are some disposable asset, treat them the same. throw shade, cut them out, dispose of them, extricate yourself from that circle. Your unwillingness to set boundaries is not kindness. It's the avoidance of your responsibility to yourself. You are not preserving a relationship. You're enabling the dysfunction that you can't stand. You're not maintaining any peace. You're breathing all this resentment and hatred and bitterness inside you. Every time you look at the mirror, you're the source. Stop looking outside of yourself for the disrespect that you tolerate from others. It's from you. Because over time, all those unchecked little violations that you have, every time somebody says something, you come home and you go, "I should have said this. I should have done that. I wish what? Well, it pisses me off. You know what? I wish I had the chops to say this or that." Every one of those unchecked violations, they mutate. They mutate. And they mutate into this disconnected, self-loathing collapse of who you are. Your self-worth disintegrates because of that. Tell me I'm wrong. I'm not. Change my mind. I You can't. You must teach people not through words, but through your damn actions. Everybody's afraid. You'd rather send them an emoji or an LOL at the end. The second you put LOL at the end of something, you are insecure. You teach them. You have to teach them. You have to teach them what's acceptable in your presence. Not what they You do your [\h__\h] on your own. I don't care. But in your presence. And if they can't abide by that code, yours, then remove them from your life. They don't belong in your empire. They don't belong in your kingdom at all. If someone disrespects you once and you say nothing, that's not humility. That's permission. And you guys keep arguing. It's not always that. It is 100% that. And if they keep doing it and you keep justifying it, that's not maturity. That is self- betrayal at its finest. And you again, the person, you are not, you're trying to protect their feelings and protect their ability to disrespect you. Break a promise to me once, that's on me. Break it to me twice, the same one. I am never going to tolerate you again. And people go, "Is it the same for you?" Go ahead. They're your rules. Absolutely. If that's your rule, that's your rule. We've had so many people do that and so have you. We took them as lessons and now we don't have those people in our life anymore. Because if you stay surrounded by those people, listen, you're not loyal. How are you loyal? You're not loyal. You're scared. You're scared to be alone. You're scared to raise your own standards. And you're scared to act like a [\h__\h] king in a world full of jesters and clowns. Raise your standards and become a king or a queen. People go, "Here we go. Another king, another queen." Why would you not want to be? Where what are you tolerating in your relationships that's teaching others that you don't value who you are? Maybe you should ask yourself how you change that. Maybe starting right now. Maybe turn off the podcast and do it right now. Because this is coming from you, not them, from you. If they talk down to you in any way, I'm not talking to you guys. Even then, you guys [\h__\h] talking each other. Bunch of bros. What happens when you stand up for yourself and you say, "I'm not a man." Do they get mad at you? Then you've taught them how to treat you like [\h__\h] That's not bro talk. You taught them to disrespect you and they have no respect for you beyond where their level is. So if they talk down to you, if they ignore your value, if they interrupt your drive, your growth, your level up to become the better version of yourself and you stay, you chose it. You accepted it. You You're the volunteer. You're stupid. You're the volunteer. So, stop acting all hurt and confused and you feel defeated and upset. Stop saying, "I don't know why they keep doing this to me." Yeah, you do. You don't need therapy. You need a spine. Of course, you know why they're doing it to you and they keep doing it because you keep tolerating it. You get in life what you tolerate. If you don't draw a line, you give them permission to step further every single time. Give an inch, take a mile. Everybody knows somebody like that. They will not stop. Why should they? You encourage them to do that. They get all the benefits of you. Listen, they get all of you. Every benefit you provide, your energy, your effort, your loyalty, your kindness, your words, your help, all that stuff with none of the consequences of disrespect. That is not a relationship. That is a hostage negotiation. And you're the one with a gun to your own [\h__\h] head. You guys walk around going, "Oh, I just have to tolerate it." What are you insane? You're not tracked. You are compliant to your own ridiculous victim mindset and it's not you're not a victim. You're optional. You're like a convenience. So if that makes you if that pisses you off or makes I don't know triggers you the way you think you deserve to be triggered, I don't understand. You're disrespecting me. Then turn off the podcast. Don't listen. But don't turn it off if it's the truth and it's upsetting you. Turn it off because it really crosses a line. Interesting question, huh? Cuz if it stings what I'm telling you right now, good. Means it's true. Means I just hit a nerve that you've been protecting with all your lies and excuses and validations and being nice. They don't mean it is what you say. They don't mean it. That's just how they are. Okay. What kind of a prison do you like living in? Cuz that one I wouldn't want to be in. You want to be free? Start walking, man. Just cut the cord. Say, "I'm out. Extricate yourself from those people. Raise your [\h__\h] standards. And when they come crawling back, slam the damn door. In fact, like break their spine when you slam the door. They just shatter. You need to take accountability for yourself. Here. You want some real I'm going to drink some of this before I use my mouth is getting wrecked. Yep. It's Coke Zero. I like him. Told you that before. Like me all you want. Don't care. You want accountability? All right. You let it happen. And I'll say this again and again. This is like a redundancy podcast. You did this. You taught them it was fine. You made all the excuses on their behalf. You kept saying next time. There is no next time. When is the next time that you go, "Nope, I'm out." Because every moment you let somebody in to do that so that they can feel more comfortable where with where you're leveling up, they knock you down and you talk. You just let them in. Come on, keep knocking me down. You're betraying the destiny and the life that you want. All the stuff, whether it's a car or a health or a mindset or a business, it doesn't matter what it is. You are betraying that because you're tolerating what they're doing to keep you where you are. They don't need to change. You do. Stop waiting for someone else to change. Cut him the [\h__\h] out. I'm waiting for you to I'm just I know we're working on them changing. Like a lot of you women, you get married thinking you can fix the guy. How about you just get married to the right guy in the first place? It's novel idea. You guys keep settling for these people going, "I can fix them, though." No, you can't. You're tolerating disrespect. They don't need to change. In fact, they never will. You need to change. You need to raise your standards. Change the environment. Change what you allow. That's how you change your change what you tolerate. Change what you chase. Change who you are. That's how you do all this. You want to change it? Change what you allow, what you tolerate, what you're even focused on, what you're going after, because that all that will change who you are, and people won't like it, and they're going to hate you, and those are the ones that have been using you and disrespecting you. I I don't know how many people I've heard, I'm I just got to give them another chance, man. Cool. How many of those are they going to get before your gross spine? Your spine is made of balsa wood, like soft. You don't know what balsa wood is? I used to fly radio control planes back then. I used to other than my Duroplane that you could just take it like just nose it right into the ground. The only thing that would break were the propellers but which were a pain in the ass but they were made out of balsa wood. Real light, real flimsy. How many chances people get before you get a adamantium spine, vibranium spine, titanium sp even an oak spine, something a little stronger than that soft balloon that you call a spine. like your dignity is on a clearance rack at TJ Maxx and they're racking up points every time they disrespect you. Just bing bing. And you guys still invite these idiots to dinner. You they go, "Hey, we're going to go on a we're going to go see a movie. You want to come?" Yeah. And then they just [\h__\h] talk you the whole time. They bring you on just like along wherever they go. Some of you guys listen to me. They take you along just so they have somebody to trash talk and you tolerate it. Awesome. You're not noble. You're not nice. You're not righteous. You're not above them. You don't You can call them petty. You're naive. You're spineless. You, oh, I'm just a forgiving guy. You're not forgiving. You're spineless. Spineless. When you remain close to these people, you keep proximity is the word, right? When you stay in proximity to non-stop consistent disrespect, you aren't tolerating it. You're absorbing it like you're assimilating to it. You're becoming it and it just becomes something that drips off of you. The longer you sit in an environment that devalues who you are, classroom, marriage, job, gym, the more you start to believe that your worth must be negotiable. You think, "Ah, you know what? I don't know. Maybe I'm not that." That's why you guys doubt yourself because your worth is predicated on what somebody else says about you. And when they [\h__\h] talk you, your worth goes down. I know my worth. If you're going to [\h__\h] talk me and it has no value, I'll [\h__\h] talk back and forth if it's us working out or something goofy and we're having fun with it. But if it the moment it it crosses a line, not a chance. But you allow it. You encourage it. You wonder why your life sucks. Then your worth is negotiable. My worth. I know my worth. I'll never forget my son. He said that. I know who I am. I know my worth. There's a whole conversation that prior to that doesn't really matter, but he said it when he was 12 years old. He's 16. That's pretty badass because he's always known. Because when your worth is negotiable, that is a slow, painful, miserable, and often very quiet death of your own self-respect. Because you don't need more time. You don't I just need a little more time so I can stand up to this guy, this girl, and say this thing or leave, do get the money together, all the dumb things you guys come up with. You don't you need a spine. I go right back to what I said. You need you need courage because the hard boundary is the birthplace of all your psychological order for you. You need that because if you don't, you're going to constantly struggle and come up with reasons why that line blurs for certain occasions and certain people. It never blurs. Let me know if the Ten Commandments blur. When you meet God, let me know if he's blurry on any of those. It's not because w without a hard boundary, you can't build any stability. How can you have a stable life? You can never build anything stable. Not in your mind. Not like your psychology is wrecked. You can't do it in your relationships. you sure as hell can't do it in your life and your fitness and your career and your everything you're doing. You can't because you're negotiable. You don't have a hard line. So, whatever you're not actively changing, you keep going after and going, I just this one more time. So, you're choosing it and then you go, that's not really accurate. Yes, it is. All those interactions, the one-sided friendships that you carry. I I had one of those. I would help this guy with all kinds of health [\h__\h] things nonstop for years. Like I actually have real experience in this where it was non-stop health. You know what I got in return? Nothing. And if you go not everything has to have a reciprocity. Yes, it does. Yes, it does. Otherwise, it is one-sided and you're being abused. And if you argue the weak outliers, so a doctor has reciprocity. Did you pay for your doctor? Yeah, there's your reciprocity, dumbass. You're missing the point. You're trying to justify keeping these people in your life wondering why you feel like [\h__\h] You have them in your life. I fixed it. I gave this guy everything I had non-stop. So many time just everything I could to help this guy with his health. Even psychology. You name it. I got nothing. All he did was make my wife cry a million times because he kept making up lies. I promised this. I promised that. And every day it was just another letdown. I got tired of seeing my wife cry believing this [\h__\h] Yahoo. So I was like, "Nope, I'm out." Why would you tolerate people like that? Draw a hard line. because those things that you endure. This is important for you guys to understand because I've done it. So, it's this isn't coming this isn't anecdotal. This is coming from a place of actual experience where my wife and I have dealt with people like this and it has cost us every time and it will and you won't see it until it's too late and you wonder why you're down at the bottom drowning. All those interactions that you are like wow they're just kind of like that toxic. That is genuine. It's not like toxic masculinity. those one-sided friendships where you are always doing X, Y, and Z and they're always leaning into you but never giving you a damn thing other than the odd word, the manipulative spouse or relative that you enable the business partner, the life partner, the whatever it is that just is like an energy vampire and they minimize, dissuade, and mock you. Keep that in mind because I see that a lot. They mock people all the time. You're breathing oxygen into these people. You're keeping them alive in your life with you being there. In fact, because you're quiet. That's why. Because you don't say anything. You don't stand up for yourself. It's my mom. It's my wife. It's your life. So, how about today that just [\h__\h] stops? Because you guys choose disrespect and dysfunction through inaction. You make your choices by not making a choice. And where are the boundaries, man? Where are the boundaries that you need to enforce in your life? Because how about for once? You understand that respect is earned? Wrong. Respect isn't earned. That's a lie. See, that's exactly it, you guys. That is such a lie. Respect is earned. Respect isn't earned. It's enforced. It's demanded. You don't earn respect by just existing. Oh, I'm here. I just I I earned my respect. You guys hope for respect and wonder why your life sucks. You don't wait around for people to give it to you like it's a [\h__\h] birthday present. Got bow on it. You demand it. That's how respect happens. You demand. If somebody doesn't respect you, go pound sand. I'm out. Peace. Oh, listen to this tough guy. That's what you're saying. Good. You already know I have no respect for you. If you go out and respect you either. Yeah, but that's okay. cuz you would never ever be allowed in my life. Cuz you're 220, 5'11, denting your couch, eating a bag of funions, trying to figure out what the next thing you want to order off of Home Shopping Network's going to be while you drink a beer the size of a Homer's bucket from Home Depot. Respect is enforced. Existence doesn't give you respect. It you don't get it. If you think your existence by merely existing should demand respect. Wow, you're ignorant. You have got to defend your own respect because and it's going to be tested. So when someone tests it, correct it. That's who you are. That's what men do. Correct it like now. Like cut that off immediately. Loud, permanent. Enforce the [\h__\h] out of that. Why would you not? That's what's funny is for a long time people be like, "Oh, I liked you better when Yeah, you liked me better when I wasn't demanding respect." If you don't want to respect me, get the [\h__\h] out of my life. But you need to be like that. That's okay. Who cares? I would rather have five deeply loyal friends than a thousand people that are acquaintances that would never come to my. If someone crosses the line and nothing happens, they don't assume that you're mature. You know that. They assume that you're weak. That's just basic psychology. They assume that they can just keep pushing and keep doing it. And they will. And you guys know people like that because in their mind, silence is approval. we have created. Silence means you are condoning the behavior. Smile is agreement and you sticking around and not going I'm out and walking out the door. That is a green light for them to walk the [\h__\h] all over you. And if you don't correct that and demand respect, you become complicit to your own mistreatment and you get angry. Respect doesn't come from words because I had to talk with him. It doesn't come from words. Respect lives in consequences. You don't get respect by giving some speech or going, "Hey, you got to listen to this podcast about respect, bro, because you don't respect me." You get it by walking the hell away from anyone who thinks that they can clown you without penalty. You guys hand over the nose and the makeup and let them put it on you. Set the standard and then enforce it. It's okay to be a tyrant in this part of your life. Just be a tyrannical [\h__\h] cuz it's your respect. Do you have any idea how important this is? Because if somebody disrespects you and there's no immediate right off the bat consequence, you just handed them the rule book, the pl the blueprint and said, "Do it again. Break me up. Do it. Do it. I can't wait. Do it again." Not me. Not me. If you violate my standard, and my standards are incredibly high, you vanish from my world. No drama, no closure, just distance. I'm out. Peace. I don't want to be around you. And I've made the mistake on the other side of that equation where I've tolerated disrespect. I've even tolerated it from clients. I'll pay you later. I don't know the money. I just don't have that right now. Get out. I'm good. And people go, "Well, that's not a very good way to do business." That's exactly how you should do business. If you aren't paying, you do not belong. Because you're training them to go, I know. I just, bro, I thought I could do this like for free for a little bit while for a little bit longer. Are you insane? How do you think I pay for my life? You have a lot of money already. Yep. How do you think I got this way? By not tolerating disrespect, which is a lesson that everybody should learn as well. You ask for something, you drag it out, you give it to me for free. That's on you. That's your fault. They're going to walk all over you. Do not tolerate that. You cannot negotiate with disrespect. You guys meet disrespect with a damn TED talk and go, "This is all of this. Let me explain everything for an hour." Action. Unapologetic action. By the way, don't sit there and go, "I shouldn't have said that. I feel bad. Maybe I'll text them and say sorry." That's even worse. Every time you let somebody punk you, you lose a piece of yourself. You already know. That's why you're pissed off. Those pieces don't grow back. You got to go out and fight for them because you got to earn them. You got to take them back. So if they cross the line, check them. Even more so, if they do it again and again, and I see you guys do I'm trying to help you, man. They do it again and again, cut them out. I don't know how many times I need to say this. Cut them out. No warnings. No. You do this one more time, I'm going to have to kick you out of my life. You don't get three strikes in my life. What? That's [\h__\h] baseball. One. One strike. Use it wisely. You know who's like that? Hermosy. I respect that guy. And you guys go, "Oh, I can't stand that guy." Why? Cuz you disrespected him and he cut your ass out. You deserved it. You know, I love this one. But listen to this guy. Bro's got no patience. I've heard it all from you guys. The ones who are like, "Yeah, you're right. Good. That means I'm finally reaching you. The ones who are constantly contesting this. Maybe you'll never learn. I'm out here giving you everything I got." You got to be patient with people. No. You know where I'll be patient? Immigration. The DMV. When I'm standing in line, not with grown adults who think it's cute to talk slick to someone feeding their energy with loyalty. You think that's okay? You don't ask for respect. I'm an enforcer, baby. Why aren't you, man, woman, child? You need to enforce respect. And if someone doesn't respond, disappear, man. Like literally David Copperfield the [\h__\h] out of there, man. Bye. Let them try to figure You don't owe them an explain. You guys always going I got to I owe them something. I It's been like 20 years. No, you don't. I'm not telling you to leave your wedding ring on the table and just ghost. But if it's anything other than the responsibilities of being a father or a mother, and even then, if it is an abusive relationship, don't tolerate that [\h__\h] Get the [\h__\h] out of there. Divorce that [\h__\h] right there on the spot. Let them figure out what happened. Well, I just I thought it was going to be okay. You kept beating your wife. You kept doing rails of coke in front of your husband on the coffee table. I'm out. Let them figure it out. They You don't owe them. Let them figure out while you build this empire surrounded by people who actually cheer and clap when you win instead of whisper when you leave the room, which is where most of you guys are right now. People are shit-talking me. Boundaries are not optional. You know that, right? It's ex existential. You have to have boundaries. That is part of life. And you just have them really low. You still have them, but you have more boundaries for yourself than for other people, which is why you constantly get disrespected. You can't build. You can't even expect to build to be honest anything meaningful. We're talking like a job, a business, a career, fitness, a life, a legacy, the kingdom. Everything you want that's at the end of that you just keep looking at it. You're like, I want my life to look like that. You can't do that on a foundation of tolerance for disrespect. It's impossible. Every time you allow somebody to treat you beneath your standards that you have for yourself, you are silently rewriting your identity, not theirs. While hopefully like running a dialogue with hope going, "God, I hope they change." That compounds on you. It makes them stronger against you. Even though you're like, "They're my friends. I've known them for 20 years. They've been [\h__\h] up your life for 20 years. Imagine where you'd be if they were God." You don't just lose relationships. You lose that that internal hierarchy that you've got. Everybody has this. You lose the confidence, your self-worth, your self-respect. You lose your [\h__\h] compass. You don't even know where you're going. And soon you forget all about who you were before you started making excuses for who you are right now. You know, the one that keeps getting walked on, the one that keeps getting disrespected. but fights to be disrespected some more. I'll tell you what. Here, how about this? Stop waiting to be respected. Just do that. Start acting like someone who's not going to tolerate anything less. You just won't. I won't tolerate anything less. My standards are no standards. And the more clear you are about that, the more powerful you become. Be cold as [\h__\h] if you have to. Be immovable. That's what Listen, what do you think your family wants to see? Your sons and your daughters want to see an immovable father who has standards who demands them from everyone because if your kids see you lower your standards for anybody in your life, they'll think that's okay and that's you just train them to do the same thing. No one is coming to save you. Nobody. Nobody. You are saving you. I don't know how many times I've said this, but you have to understand every it's very cliche. Nobody's coming to save you, bro. You got to save yourself. Yeah, but that starts with your standards. And you can't even start that. You're too busy going, "Yeah, I'll get to my standards later after this Netflix special. You save you with your standards. You save you with your actions and consequences for others. You save yourself with a fire that's living inside your belly that you should have because look at where have you failed to enforce your standards. Look at your life where what does it cost you? That's what you should do. What does it cost you?" Because listen, your circle is probably what's causing the issue. I know because we've had a lame circle in it. Even had family in it. Nope. This isn't just about cutting people out. You guys think this is about I better audit my friends. You need to audit your friends with a nuclear bomb. This is about replacing these like you need to look at your circle and replace them with people who who honor the man and the or the woman that you're becoming. Whatever it is, you guys have people in your circle that dishonor you because they [\h__\h] talk when you're winning. Crabs in a bucket, man. If they don't clap when you win, they were never ever on your side. If they go, "We just want, we're just looking out for your well-being." That's not a friend. That's an enemy that you sometimes have drinks with. Unless you want to see who your friends are, start stacking wins, throwing points on the board, and you will see exactly who's in your corner. Those the people that don't clap, that don't share, that don't just go nuts when you start stacking wins. They were with you when you were quiet. They were with your silence and your smallalness and your average. They ain't there for your level up because they don't want to be part of it because it exposes where they are, not where you're going. And the second you break out of that version of you that they're comfortable with. Listen, if people are getting mad at you for changing, that exposes them, not you. Don't go back down to where they are. Go. See you later. There'll be a dot in the rearview mirror long like it's so fast. You'll be surrounded by people that want you to win. Come hang out with us. Come hang out in the unbreakable mastermind. We all will want you to win and we will maintain our standards. You will never bring us down, but we will bring you up if you come in or tick you out. Because listen, the second that you start changing who you are, these people look at your circle. They get cold, passive aggressive all the time. They get envy. Envy is an ugly emotion. jealous or they vanish. Good. Let them. Bye. I don't even want to talk to you. Let them. Hit the [\h__\h] road, man. Your environment is the reinforcement of your standard. Man, that's good. I should write that down. That's true, right? Like your environment reinforces that is the reinforcement of your standard. So, if you built a new standard and keep the old energy around, think that's going to work? They're going to sabotage it. Of course they are. And it's Listen, they're not evil. If you guys, oh yeah, these people aren't evil. No, it's because your growth exposed where they're not willing to go. All that misery and stagnation that they're living in, you just exposed it because you're not willing to stay there. Small minds are always going to attack anything that reminds them of what they've refused to do, what they've refused to become. That's a that's small thinking. I look at people that are doing better than me and I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] I want that." How badass is it that we're in a world right now that somebody can you can look at somebody with a better life than you with all these things that and go, I didn't even experience that before. I didn't even know that existed. I want that. How? And then you look at where you are. You look at where they are and you start making plans. You guys don't do that. You're like, "Oh, I hate them for su being successful." Then you're part of the problem. Like, you want to know who your people are? Watch how they react when you start putting points on the board. I promise you, I've seen this so many times. I I vowed not to say this. I'm trying not biting my tongue in some people that I've known because if they start to distance distance themselves because you're winning, good. Let them get them out. If they get passive, cut them. If they constantly change the subject when you're winning, hey, let me tell you about this. Let me cut them out. If they make jokes when you're serious and belittle and try and dismiss what you're talking about that's important, cut them. If they make promises about what they're going to do or how they're going to help you and they don't, cut them. If they do not level you up or at least elevate you in some way, they are an anchor. And I'd rather walk alone with everything I know about me than sit in a crowd of people who secretly wish, hope, and desire for my failure. Just stick little pins in Spartan dolls all night long when I'm not around. Audit your circle. I promise you, do that before you do anything else. You want to level up, just audit your circle. And like I said, audit your circle with a blowtorrch, like a [\h__\h] flamethrower. Because the second I started changing, people tried to hold me back to and down to who I used to be. Some of you guys, you guys, the second I start to level up and become more of who I am and stronger and a higher version of myself with much higher standards. All you low frequency [\h__\h] started coming back going, "Oh man, I remember when you used to be this silly, goofy, joking guy that fixed elbows and knees." Yeah, but you never did anything. I taught you. I already know that because you asked. I have there's got to be at least a hundred shoulder videos in my archive and they all essentially say almost the same thing. But none of you idiots did it. You kept Oh yeah, I tried that. But what what else do you got? You don't like that it comes with work and time. Bro, you've changed. Damn I did. You think I went through hell just to stay soft? You think I lost a lung, rolled out of the hospital just to stay soft? You think I had all this hell? I had fire burn me to [\h__\h] ash, not to come out of it stronger. You think I was going to stay soft after that? You think I rebuilt who I am so I could keep your lazy fat ass around? Not a chance. I hope that stings. This life demands real men, savages, and savages roll with other savages. This isn't masculine alpha [\h__\h] This is life. Survival of the fittest. If your circle doesn't challenge you, build you, check you, hell, clap for you, cut them off. Like you guys in your Yes, it pisses me off. Y Oh, you're acting different lately, man. Like you're I don't know what's wrong, but you're acting Yeah. I stopped pretending you were an asset. Now I'm acting accordingly. The best weight you will ever cut off is the one with a name and a Wi-Fi password in your life that doesn't belong there. You're not cold. You are singular of focus, crystal clear. And if they can't handle how bright you [\h__\h] burn, tell them to get the [\h__\h] out of your life. Stop. Stop thinking you don't have the power. You don't have the right. You do have the right. People go, "How do you have the audacity to do that?" No, I have the right to do that cuz it's my life, not yours. Surrounding yourself with the right people is not simply a lifestyle hack. I promise you, it's a moral obligation. It'll change your life. Because for you to elevate, for you to level up where you are. Most people, you get recruited by these simpy, wimpy dudes. And they're like, "Yeah, I just got all like this now after my divorce or after I lost my thumb or after my dog died. I was I real I had a revelation. I realized who I was and why it cost me everything." You [\h__\h] hate your life and you're lying to everybody about it and you know it. For you to level up, you have got to cultivate relationships that support structure, aim, and responsibility and massive accountability and challenge you. Anything less than that is erosion. Your friends shape your identity whether you like it or not. Their words become your little inner dialogue that you run and their standards become your ceiling. So if you aren't getting any higher, look at your circle, not at yourself first. Yes, it is 100% your fault. Brian Tracy oneonone 101. It is my fault. However, that ceiling might be coming from other people. Get around people with a higher ceiling or none. Blow your mind just you get around there. The unbreakable mastermind. I said said it again. $25,000 mastermind. I'll let you in for 1,500 bucks. And if you go buy, it's not worth it. I said it on a call yesterday, my Monday Q&A call. Sean, my business partner, he's become one of my best friends. I love him to death. I would take a bullet for this guy. And you know what I He goes, "Wait, how much?" And I said, he goes, "What do they get?" He goes, "They get access to all of this, like the Q&A on Monday, the inner circle business where I do teach real business stuff. Not that some cut and paste business coaching. Most of you coaches should not be coaches. And and Saturday is the mindset call is psychology and I'll fix every problem you've got psychologically and the ones you don't even know you had. Plus the entire archive, 144 live calls a year. And he goes, "Wait, they get all of that? How much?" I go, "$1,500." He went like this. Holy [\h__\h] Yeah, exactly. But you guys are too ignorant to realize that. So then I wouldn't want you. If you're like, "I don't know. Can I test it out? Can I put my toe in the water?" I definitely don't want you. I want committed people. 1,500 or 4,997.49.97. You never pay me again. I have a kid. I have a kid. This guy Jay, I'll just leave it at that. I'm not going to violate his privacy. He's a good guy. This guy was so honest, has so much integrity. He joined the life the lifetime right away. Didn't think twice. And then he was asking e checkek, how am I going to pay? He checked with me and my team every single day and never accessed this group, the unbreakable mastermind, until it was paid for. And I we already sent him access. He didn't even access it until it was paid. He goes, "Nope, I don't feel right. I want to make sure it's paid for. This is a good man. He's going to go far. He's going to go far." He's young. He's I don't know. I don't know exactly. 23. Like he's a kid. But he made sure. He even said, "Let me prove that I have the money." He showed me his bank account. I don't remember. It was damn near 20 grand. And you know what's funny is I know adults that are 50 years old. They don't have two grand in the bank. They're like, "It's not all about money, dude." Yes, it is. At that point in your life, you should have some money. At 50 years old, you should have millions stashed away, doing things for you, making you money, because if not, you blew your time. Don't get offended. If you get offended, you don't belong in the circle either, unless you're willing to change and you're okay with going, "I got to swallow that jagged pill. How do you fix it?" 1,500 bucks. Just send the word savage. We'll see who's actually listening to this and I'll let you in a whole year. And if you go, "I don't know, man." Then don't. Keep bouncing from place to place trying to figure out how to get your life straightened out or join a group of savages that demand more from you. Which is why most people will not because they're like, "Shit, I'm actually going to have to change cuz this guy's legit." Yeah, except we're the fastest growing mastermind in the world right now. Don't take my word for it. Just look. Your friends shape your damn identity. So if your if your friend group is your ceiling, change your friend group. Choose wisely though. Even this, choose wisely. Choose people who push you. Choose people that challenge you. Choose people that are willing to celebrate your wins with integrity, not envy, hoping you fail and they get you all screwed up so you screw up the next day. Because anything else is going to kill you, your mission, and your life in silence. And that's where you guys are making mistakes. I think honestly, just look at your life. Who celebrates your growth when you start stacking wins? Really, who's celebrating your level up for real? who's celebrating your level up and going, "Damn, man. How do we get it even further?" And who do I need to cut the hell out because they fear who I am becoming or they make promises in order to keep me stagnant so I don't stand on the gas because it'll make them feel worse about themselves. Your circle matters. You want to join the unbreakable mastermind, send me the word savage. I will send you a link. Take your pick. 1500 or 4,997. Take your pick. One is lifetime, one is one year. I would say it's a no-brainer. Yep. We take crypto. We take any payment other than chickens and horses and stuff. Hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.