So, I just ripped a video on my phone about the mindset that some of you guys have, most of you guys, and I keep showing up here because I want you to win. What's interesting is I can give you the tool. I could hand you the exact playbook to get to where you want to go, which is exactly what I'm doing every day. I've been doing it since January 1st and you'll still find excuses not to do it. You guys with your anxiety, you're not I don't care how high performing you are. You're not anxious. You're underdisiplined. You're not an imposttor. You're insecure. And they're not the same because both are symptoms of the same root problem. You haven't learned how to lead your inner world. Your psychology, you think you have, and you're great at telling everybody else about it, but you haven't learned how to lead your inner world. So, it keeps revoling against all of the growth that you want. You go a whole year without making any money. You complain about the same problem. You keep bringing up your trauma and making sure everybody else knows all about it. Your situation hasn't changed. You're not broken. You're untrained. You know what? And the truth is, I'm tired of it. You guys have been lied to so many times. So, let me tell you something you're probably not going to hear in any kind of weak couch therapy. Like, you guys are so addicted to your therapy. You cling to them like a security blanket. I got to go talk to my therapist. You need to learn how to conduct yourself like an adult. Because I even made a post about it. If the king ever told back in the Middle Ages anybody that he's depressed or anxious or overwhelmed or defeated or frustrated, the medicus, which is the person that decided the health of the king, would get the trepidating tool and start boring holes in their skull to let the evil spirits out. Listen, it you don't I'll go one step further. You don't have anxiety. You have a lack of preparation. Every time I've ever done anything where I'm hyperprepared, I don't even notice. You could put me on a stage right now in front of 100,000 people, it wouldn't bother me one bit. I could speak for days because I've done this so many times. If you put me on a soccer field, World Cup, I would have no clue what I'm doing. My wife would. She was a pro soccer player, but she's prepared. I'm not. So, the reason that you get anxiety is not because of what's going on. It's that you're not prepared for what's going on. And if you go, how can you be prepared for variable circumstances? Train yourself better usually. And even if it come back a little bit, that lack of preparation, right? You don't have anxiety. You have a lack of preparation. You feel anxious because you haven't done any of the work or you've done the work and now this is even worse and I see a lot of you guys. You've done the work and now you're terrified of what it actually requires to live at that level every single day. That's why when two a couple the spouse one of them starts getting fit, the other one gets mad. So, you are a man that's starting to become more fit, more muscular, more athletic, and your wife is a fat, frumpy mom. What's interesting is the number of comments that are going to come in when because I said that and go, "Why couldn't it be a fat man?" Doesn't matter. Why are you getting so triggered? Because you're a fat, frumpy mom. You got no business being like that. It's not your hormones. It's your decisions. Decisions aren't part of your endocrine system. They're part of your psychology and your conduct. Both are broken. You can't say anything about kids because my wife has two kids. We have two children. She built them both. She's going to be 46. Menopause just like you guys. All of your [\h__\h] maladies and labels and conditions. The reason people get mad when the other person in the relationship starts to become fit or successful or anything is because that means they have to raise their standards as well. My husband's getting fit. That means I have to raise my standards. The hell with that, I'm going to get mad at him so he lowers his and I'm going to make his life a living hell until he goes back to being a dad bod denting the couch screaming at football games. But yet, I promise you this. No matter how much you love your spouse, you would love it better if they were healthier. Yes, being fit means you're healthy. Enough with you guys going, "Well, that doesn't necessarily mean you're healthy." There are fit people that die every day. There are more fat people that die every day. You don't like it because it forces you to look at yourself. You don't like the consequences. So, if you've done the work and you've leveled up, that's why people lose. They've done the work, they level up, and then they start to freak out because they're terrified of what's required to stay there, to live there every single day. It's just the same thing with imposttor syndrome. You don't feel like a fraud because you're not capable. You feel like a fraud because you're waiting for somebody to give you permission to be who you already became. Like imposttor syndrome is such an irritating phrase because it's wrong. Let me tell you what it really is because I think the definition is so skewed and it's incorrect. It's the ghost of who you used to be, right? It's this version of who you used to be that's coming back to sabotage who you become because it was comfortable back there. It was comfortable. It was easier because you knew everything about that. That's the same reason why people don't take risks. They want a better life. It's going to require time, money, and energy. And they don't do it. The worst thing that's going to happen to you is you're going to go right back to the shitty life you're in that you already know how to do. What are you waiting for? One life, man. You ask any person of any significant age, 80, 90, they will tell you with tears in their eyes all the regrets they have and all the things they wish they would have done and how you get one round. I'm 52. I'm nowhere near where I want to be. Not even close. And I promise you, I've been disrupted in my life more times than 99% of you guys out there. I just don't let it stop me. Yeah, it hurts. Yeah, it sucks. Yeah, it's frustrating. Yeah, it makes me cry. Makes me angry. Makes me just want to beat the weights to death, go outside and beat the [\h__\h] out of the bag. I get on the mat and I take it out on people. It doesn't matter. It doesn't change the circumstances unless I do work to change where I am. The work comes from me. It doesn't come from anything around me. So that ghost of who you used to be trying to sabotage who you become, if you feed it, if you give it space, if you give it even any attention, you give it any airtime whatsoever in your on your station, man, it's going to drag you back to the version of you that was safe, weak, and invisible. You want to kill imposttor syndrome, get so damn good that nobody else can ignore you, and you can't ignore yourself. Just get so good that they just can't ignore you. They can't become the best. How become the best? By willing to be the worst. You guys aren't willing to suck first. Like I said the other day, you guys want to you want the trophy, but you never show up for practice. You guys want to start at the finish line, but you've never run the marathon. Dude, most of you guys get tired running to get the mail and the mail is 30 ft away. If you look at anxiety, it's not chemical as much as it's cognitive. It's what happens when order and responsibility are required and you spent too long negotiating with all your chaos. Your mind is screaming because your soul wants to lead, but your habits are still programmed to hide. That's from you. You have trained your neural pathways and your psychology to think that way. Imposter syndrome is not a diagnosis. It's this, I said it before, it's this internal revolt that occurs when the a man or woman refuses to integrate the success that he's already earned. You're not embracing it. You're not accepting it. You're still looking at it as something external. It's what happens to lottery winners. $500 million, 2.3 years later, gone because you think it's something. You haven't accepted it. You haven't elevated your identity. You're not a fraud, man. You're just afraid of becoming undeniable. You guys in your I'm just anxious. No, man. You just keep lying to yourself. Lying about what you're capable of. Lying about what you've overcome. Lying about how much better you are than that voice, that inner [\h__\h] in your head. Better than that voice wants you to believe. And imposttor syndrome. That's just fear wearing a damn tuxedo so it can sneak into rooms it doesn't belong to. You want to stop feeling like a fraud? Stop apologizing for the savage that you've become and start [\h__\h] owning it. You should ask what voice in my head cuz everybody I only have two. Trevor Bachmire and the Spartan. And the Spartan is powered by God. I've said this before. Trevor Bachmire is the one that always reasons and validates and comes up with all the excuses. I can't do one more. Maybe I'll I'm doing better than them. It's too hard. I'm too upset. I'm too frustrated. I'm too tired. The Spartan goes, "Can you do one more?" Yeah, then [\h__\h] do it. Can you do one more rep? So, what voice in my head? Ask, "What voice in my head have I mistaken for truth when it's really just an echo of a version of me that I should have buried just years ago?" I think you need to learn how to separate the truth, not my truth, not your truth, the truth, from all the internal trash because most of what you think is a problem is just noise. Like most of the nonsense in your head is just noise. It's weak, undisiplined, untrained noise. Your mind lies, your feelings lie, your past sure as hell lies, but your execution never lies. So the real question is, can you show up anyway regardless? You're not your thoughts. You're not your fears. You're not your feelings. You are your execution. You can think it all day long. And yes, thoughts preede action. But if you think you are upset, frustrated, overwhelmed, defeated, angry, anxious, you have depression, all the nonsense that you think, and you still execute. Your execution shows who you are. You wake up anxious, fine. Did you still dominate your day? Did you still do everything? You wake up feeling like a fraud? Good. Did you still finish the reps, make the calls, build the empire? Because guess what? The market doesn't care how you feel. The mirror doesn't care either. Only you do. And that's why it owns you. That's why it owns you. I've been holding this cup of coffee this whole time. You think you're anxious. This is what I hear. I don't control my mind. I let it run wild and I let it just punk the hell out of me. Like I had to build a brand new brain because the old one wanted to stay small, scared, weak, lack of selfworth, broke, pure, and invisible. The only reason that I'm here is because I trained my thoughts, my psychology to obey every to my mission, my vision to go, I'm in charge. You want to beat anxiety? Start disrespecting your feelings and honoring your actions. When chaos rises, let me explain because it's going to get messy, right? Your life, things are going to get messy. Things are going to show up. You're going to have circumstances and situations and catastrophes and things are it's going to become turultuous. So what? So when chaa chaos rises within, your task is not to run away. It's not to retreat. It's to respond with the discipline of how you conduct yourself regardless of what's in your way. Why? Because execution reveals structure. It reveals the blueprint. And structure brings order. And order reduces anxiety by reestablishing the sovereignty over the unknown. It doesn't matter if you know what's coming. It knows what matters is that you know what you're going to do regardless of what's showing up. Because a man who acts regardless of fear begins to rewire himself into a person his nervous system can finally trust. The problem is you don't trust yourself. Because once once you have that trust, you know what happens? The chaos inside you no longer drives. It gets in the back seat and it shuts the hell up. You say you feel anxious. Okay, cool. So does everybody else worth a damn. But here's the difference. They don't let their feelings [\h__\h] up their follow through. You think success is built by people who feel ready? I've never felt ready. It's built by people who do it even when their knees are shaking and their stomach is tied in knots and they're not sure if they can take another step. So, how about this? Write this down. Really get out a piece of paper and a pen and write this down. If my mouth ain't dry and my heart ain't racing, I'm probably not doing anything worth a damn anyway. You guys want to feel secure and certain all the time. And that's why you're stuck where you are. That's why you have imposter syndrome. Where have you let a feeling override a responsibility? Especially when you know what needed to be done. When have you walked past something going, I know I should do that? When have you let your feelings drive? Because the myth is that confidence is something that you wait to feel. It's not a vibe. Sure as hell isn't a manifestation where you sit there and you just think about it and talk about it all the time. It's not the result of journaling or self affirmations, yelling at a mirror, writing post-its on your on or writing on post-its and sticking them all over the house. Confidence is evidence. Period. Confidence and self-credibility is evidence. It's from you. Period. You either have the receipts or you have the insecurity. Everything else is just a cover story. Maybe you don't get it. You don't need more confidence. You need more proof. Your mouth is It's like Top Gun, right? Where he says you're writing checks you can't cash, right? Your ego is writing checks your body can't cash. That's like you. Your mouth is writing checks that you can't back up because you don't have the proof. But you talk a big game. You get on here and you're protected by your Wi-Fi signal, your username, but you have no credibility with yourself, which is why you guys get triggered. I said it yesterday. It's why you feel anxious. It's why when you turn on your phone, half of you guys that open up Instagram do it nervous. Yeah, you think I didn't know. You do it nervous. Or you're depressed when you open it up and you see nobody saw your stuff. I have so many posts where nobody's seen my stuff. I don't care. I'll just make another one. You don't need more confidence. You need more proof. You need to do it regardless. Confidence is the side effect of stacking victories when nobody's there, nobody's watching, nobody's applauding. It's not a speech. It's not some dumb TED talk. And it sure as hell isn't your affirmations on a 3x5 card. It's waking up early when nobody tells you. It's staying sharp and doing the work when nobody's applauding. It's executing when your brain goes, "I'm tired. I'm not ready today." And you do it anyway. It's doing it when there was a fight. It's doing it when there was an argument. It's doing it when you're sad. It's doing it when you're sick. It's doing it when you have no money. That's confidence. Somewhere in the last 20 years, you guys have lost that. It's not the way you feel, it's the way you move. I don't get com like compliments. That's where I was going with this. I don't get confidence from compliments. I get it from blood. I earned it every mile, every rep, every dollar, every conversation, every no, every yes, every argument with myself or anybody else. Every time I stood in the arena and I demanded that I was the last one standing. Every lonely [\h__\h] session when I was the only one there still showing up with pain in my chest when I go out into the garage into my gym and work out with an oxygen machine making a bunch of noise keeping me alive knowing I was going to suffocate. I did it anyway. You're anxious. Of course you are. You got no winds to lean on. I have tons. Listen, confidence ain't a pill and it sure as hell ain't magic. It's what happens when pain meets consistency and refuses to quit. You understand confidence is recursive. It's an identity built through evidence. It validates your own internal story. You begin to believe yourself when you behave like someone worth believing in. And most of you guys would never believe you if you saw you from the other side of the equation. Every act of discipline is a vote for the man that you want to be. Every act of cowardice is a vote for the version of you that should have been dead and buried a long time ago. Confidence is not a feeling. It is a consequence. Like you ever listen, you ever meet a guy or girl, doesn't matter, who's always building confidence? They're still journaling all the time. They're still visualizing. They're sitting there for half hour meditating, talking about what they want, still getting in alignment. Yeah, that guy's [\h__\h] broke. He's broke. There's no execution behind that guy. That's why he's broke. You want confidence? Start stacking [\h__\h] wins. Stack results. Stack receipts for yourself. Then walk into every room like you own it because you've done the work that no one else is willing to do. That's why I am the way I am. And you guys get mad. Listen to him. He's arrogant. That's only First of all, you guys use the word incorrectly. It would be egotistical. And it's not narcissistic because most of you guys can't even spell that word. But the only people that say that are the people without any confidence or selfworth or credibility with themselves because they know they're full of [\h__\h] They know they're a fraud. They are the imposters. How about you just ask yourself, what results have I earned that prove that I'm not an imposttor and why have I been ignoring my own damn proof? Most of you guys are looking for the next validation instead of the ones you already have to build on. Like, yeah, I think a lot of you guys need to obliterate the illusion that people are judging you. They're watching. They'll know I'm not legit. I will say this once. The world isn't judging you. You are. The world doesn't give a [\h__\h] about you. It doesn't care. I don't know any of you listening to this right now. I listen. I love that you're here. I respect that you're here. Thank you very much for listening to what I'm telling you. But I don't give a [\h__\h] about your opinions at all. whatsoever more than my own of myself. And that's a problem you have. You guys get angry when somebody says that because you want them to care about your opinions because you care about everybody's opinions. The world is too distracted, too self-absorbed, and too soft to care about you, but you are demanding that they do anyway. It's you have this internal courtroom. Your unhealed shame, your self- betrayals, your quiet insecurities, that's what's screaming at you. It's not anybody else's post or their life or what might happen or what might not happen. You think people are watching. Like you really do. You guys run around going, "What have people seen?" Nobody cares. Nobody cares. I could do this entire podcast naked and it still wouldn't change. Nobody cares. You guys are self-absorbed. I will put on a call, any of my calls, most of the people on the call are looking at the video of themselves. You're not even looking at me. You think people are watching? They're not. They're watching themselves. They're watching their phones. They're watching their drama. They're magnifying and celebrating their failures, demanding acceptance and approval from people that are just as big of a failure. That voice saying you're not enough, it's not coming from them, man. It's coming from you. You built it. You feed it. And now it talks louder than all of your results because it's all you've got. You don't need validation. You need control. You know what? It's funny because I've been you. I used to think people were watching me fail, laughing, whispering, pointing fingers, talking amongst themselves. You know who was really talking? Me. Me. I was the one doubting. I was the one scared. I was the one dragging the old version of myself into every [\h__\h] room. You want freedom? Silence your own voice before you blame anybody else's. The fear of judgment is not about the crowd. It's not about the social media. It's not about your followers. It's about the parts of yourself you've refused to reconcile. The untrained man believes that he's being exposed by the eyes of others. But in truth, he's being exposed by his own conscience. You fear being seen because deep down you know that you've betrayed your own standards. Your psychology is the problem, nobody else's. You want to go to a therapist that's going to make you feel better about your feelings, not solve your problem. You want a coach that's going to be a cheerleader, not get you to where you want to go. I could do this with anything. Most of you guys want to get married because you need another mom. Trust me, your wife doesn't want to be your mom. She wants a man, not the soy boy that she probably married who's all fat trying to explain away his genetics and how his parents were exactly the same way. You learned it from them. You did not get your genetics like that. Fat is not a genetic problem. It's a psychological problem. It's a behavioral problem. So is poverty and anxiety and depression. All of those come from your psychology. They don't come from some condition or some dominant or recessive alil. So, let me help you out. Nobody's thinking about you as much as you think about you. I'll say it again. Nobody's thinking about you as much as you are thinking about you. You want to know narcissistic, self-absorbed. If you're feeling anxious, if you're feeling depressed, you're a selfish prick. Because all you're doing is thinking about yourself. That's why you have problems. You're so focused on you. Like they're not judging you. They are scrolling right past you. And even if they are judging you, who the hell cares? They don't cut your check, man. They don't build your body. They don't wire you money. They don't [\h__\h] you at night. They don't own your name. Grow up. Do the work. And quit giving a damn about people you wouldn't trade places with ever. Not for a billion dollars. You guys are so busy projecting. Maybe ask yourself, what part of me am I projecting onto the world as judgment? That's really just my own shame or insecurity talking. This is what happens. I I get this stuff, this soft advice. I hear this from all of you guys. I see it. You guys are posting this all the time like you're all psychotherapists. Just calm down, man. Just take a break. Breathe through it. You don't need to calm down. You need to level the [\h__\h] up. Your anxiety, I'll say it again, your depression, all of it. It's not a chemical imbalance. It's a competence imbalance. You're not overwhelmed because you're broke. You're overwhelmed because you're underbuilt. You understand that? It's you're not overwhelmed because you got no money. You have no money because you're underbuilt. You're not depressed because you're fat. You're fat because you're undisiplined. You you don't need some meditation playlist on Spotify. You need a mission. You need a vision. I opened my eyes and I had a vision from God. You don't need, I don't know, some app, some counting app, some podcast to manage your anxiety. You just need the courage to outgrow it. If you're overwhelmed, good. It means you're at the threshold of who you've been and who you could become. Because remember, your little lizard brain is trying to keep you exactly where you are. You're in this little cave and you look out. You see the world. The world's incredible. And you want the money, the cars, the health, the relationship, the house, the vacation, the travel, the jet, the watch. It doesn't matter what it is. The health. It doesn't make a difference what it is. You look out and you see it. You look back at your little hollow cave and you hate it. You hate your cave. And so you venture out and you start realizing you don't know what's going on out here. But you've already stepped out of a cave, which means you've already gone further than where you've been before. But the further you step out of that cave, closer towards all the things you want, the more uncertain it becomes because that's what you keep telling yourself because you aren't willing to do the work to upgrade your skill set, your psychology, either one. So you look back at the cave and you go, "Yeah, but it's safe back there." Right back to that cave and then you tell yourself, "Yeah, but the cave's good enough. I'm doing better than the guy with a smaller cave down the street." You do this over and over again until you're 80 years old to hate your life. You're overwhelmed. You're anxious. Good. That means you're getting into a place that you've never been before and it's uncomfortable and your brain is fighting you to keep you comfortable, but not to make you victorious. It's not a signal to slow down. It's a green light to stomp on the skinny pedal. Like you you don't fix anxiety by making life easier. You fix it by making yourself harder to break. You don't make the things around you easier. Toughen up. Like I didn't kill any anxiety or depression or overwhelm or frustration with therapy. I buried it under rep after rep routine blueprint and relentless exposure to limits and busting through them every time. I ex like I exploit my limitations every single day. I push capacity every single day. Three and a half years I have tried to find my ceiling and my capacity. I have never yet found it. You're not anxious. You're not You're undertrained. You're out of reps and you're way low on self-respect. You don't need to regulate your nervous system with some magic breathing. You need to earn peace through power. Like anxiety is not an enemy. And you've been taught that which means of course you're going to believe it because social media tells you that's the enemy. You have to run away from anything that's uncomfortable. But none of that is accurate. You don't run away from it. You solve it. A pill doesn't solve it. Sitting on a couch doesn't solve it. Putting in reps solves it. But all those things, anxiety specifically, not the enemy. It's a signal. And the question is whether or not you're going to answer it with action or drown it with more distractions. You feel small. Okay. Build a bigger order. It's not that hard. Build a bigger character. Build a bigger life. You feel like a fraud. Become too good to doubt. Too big to rig. Right? Uncle G says you feel overwhelmed. Uncle G is Grant Cardone. You feel overwhelmed. Take responsibility. so heavy your collapse would be catastrophic like it would harm so many people around you. Take responsibility that's so massive that you collapse who you used to be under all of the weight that you have to build the strength to carry because you're about to become somebody stronger. That's what you need to do. You're not anxious. You're not. You're unstructured. You're undisiplined. You're overstimulated. And you're addicted to all the soft [\h__\h] everywhere. Put your lavender oil down. Shut the hell up about Mercury retrograde and stop calling what's actually cowardice mental health. It's not. You don't need to calm down. I am never going to calm down. If you meet me in person, I'm exactly the same way as I am on here. You don't need to calm down. You need to rise the hell up because your future depends on whether you do or not. I think like where in your life have you been trying to regulate your emotions instead of just reinforcing your identity? Where you guys are so busy trying to regulate your feelings that you don't go I need to put in more reps because I want to bulletproof my identity. So instead you guys identify with anxiety. You identify with depression. you identify with overwhelm, with frustration, with defeat. Instead of going, I'm going to do more reps when I feel like that. So, I can build somebody, I can build somebody that's too good, too powerful to doubt. And I mean, you guys doubt yourself. You know what it is? Put in so many reps that it becomes boring. The problem is you guys are chasing newness all the time because you want the distraction, not the results. The minute you want results over everything else, you'll just keep doing reps until you get there. And eventually those reps prove to you, who gives a [\h__\h] what anybody else thinks, but those reps prove to you that you're unbreakable. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.