I'm 52 years old. You guys know that. If you don't, now you do. Nobody was a victim when I was a kid. Nobody ever blamed anybody for anything for the most part. If they did, they got called out for it right away. Like you guys need to take a real hard look at why you are where you are and why you don't like it and what's keeping you where you are. This isn't a pep talk. Like this is like an execution. Excuses, your [\h__\h] diagnosis. I'm a doctor. Most of your diagnosis are manufactured. The merc manual doesn't have anything that like it's just manufactured garbage. all your generational trauma, your manufactured personality disorders. You think you're ne you you think you're unique because your life was hard. So was mine. In fact, so is everybody's that I know who's built themselves into something into somebody worth respecting. You you don't you don't deserve any respect if you haven't gone through anything traumatic. None. And you guys are going to get mad about that. You're going to get offended. get in the comments like a bunch of little just ass hats and start running your mouth about how that's not true. I deserve respect because of what I've accomplished. But if you haven't accomplished anything, you don't deserve any respect cuz you haven't had any trials or tribulations in your life. You haven't had any adversities, no struggles, and you think you are you deserve respect. You're not. No, you don't. Here's the difference. I used and anybody else who's accomplished something. You guys are kicking ass and taking names. Every savage I know who's built something respectable never used any of their pain or their struggles as a costume. You guys did. You guys running around on TikTok and Instagram with your little crying videos. You turn your childhood, oh, it was so bad, right? I don't care how bad it was. Are you still there? No. But you turn it into a cape. You turn your anxiety into a social brand and you make brokenness, poverty, choosing to reduce what you're capable of and call that righteous and noble and then you make it into content. You guys, you you parade your dysfunction in front of the world. Not for healing though, for likes and clicks and follows, for validation, for followers to come and go, "Oh, you're so brave." And the internet handed it over to you because nobody else would have listened to you. The internet is a platform. Social media is a platform. 95% of the people I'd probably go hire 98% of the people. It's a platform for the quitters, the mediocre, and the losers to make a bunch of noise and recruit other people into their little gay groups and point fingers at everybody who's done all the hard things and go, "It's not just because it's hard. We've had hard things, too. Your personality disorder isn't hard. Because right now weakness sells, victimhood sells, victim porn sells. But the truth is nobody respects it. You don't even respect yourself if you're like that. Not your boss. No, nobody does. Your boss doesn't. Your wife like your woman doesn't give a [\h__\h] about if you are a victim. Your wife, that's why she left. If you're that simpy dude who's I don't know. I'm trying not to use names cuz one guy comes to mind and it's just almost embarrassing. I'm like, that's why your life your wife left you, bro. And your kids don't respect you. Your audience doesn't respect you. They're coming by just to watch you burn down. And the future version of yourself that you keep claiming you want sure as hell doesn't respect you. Okay. Do you think you're struggling with some mental health? Maybe. I doubt it, but maybe. Most of you guys, you're just suffering from the side effects of having no discipline and way too much screen time. You want a diagnosis? I'll give you the best one ever. doctor to patient. You've got a terminal case of blaming everything and everyone for the life that you built by being soft, scared, and completely spiritually neutered. That's what you did. Like people that win, they didn't care how they felt. They don't they never care what you think. They don't let anybody hide behind emotional noise. Most of them would laugh in your face with one hand on on weights and the other on a stack of money looking at you going, "Who the [\h__\h] do you think you are complaining about the life you had when I started off with less?" I can go right back to it. And some of you guys go, "Oh, I get it. You have one lung." You can't even do what I do with two at half my age. If you're 25 years old listening to this and you feel even slightly triggered, go [\h__\h] yourself because that means I'm calling you out because at 25 you should be smoking everything I do. You should be destroying me financially, physically, everything. You can't keep up with me on my worst day and you have all your faculties about you. You have all your entire physical body should be in exemplary shape. You have more time than me. You have more knowledge, more access. You have a better platform to start on than I did. And yet, I'm still crushing you every day of the week. That shouldn't happen. And yet, here I come every day giving you the information to succeed. You don't like the delivery because you go, "This guy's really harsh and gritty." That's what you need. You guys are so used to people going, "Let me spoon feed you so you don't feel so offended." Dude, your life is all your fault. So, I'm not even going to pretend that your excuses, whatever they are, are valid, because they're not. Instead, you know what I'm going to do for this entire podcast? I'm going to rip them apart one by one until you've got nothing left but the truth. By the way, I'll go back to what the truth is. It's all your fault. Brian Tracy. It's your fault. That's what he says. It's my fault. Whatever it is, it's my fault. If you don't know who Brian Tracy is, look him up. If you don't like who Brian Tracy is, you need to re-evaluate your life because you don't like who he is because of the fact that he's calling you out. But I think Brian Tracy is such a G. I love Brian. He is so intelligent and he always gets right to the root of the problem. Easy. It's your fault. It's my fault. He says it's my fault. I like myself. That's it. And everything else is built on that. But you guys struggle with that. And the fact that it's your fault, just to be very transparent, is the best news you'll [\h__\h] hear all day. Probably all year. Probably for the rest of your life, to be honest. Because if it's your fault, then guess what? It's also your fight. It's your choice. It's your comeback. You can do anything you want. So, buckle up. Get pissed. Get angry. Get triggered. Get exposed. Because if it sets you off, that means I just touched the hot spot and you're pissed. Like you guys and your diagnosis, you got a ADHD. I love this one. I hear so many go. You don't understand, bro. It's hard for me. I have ADHD. Cool. Yeah, you're awesome. Welcome to modern life where everybody's brain is scrambled because you trained your dopamine to spike every 6 to 8 seconds. It's your fault. Get off your damn phone. Stop playing video games all day. How about you go outside and touch grass once in a while? Just a thought. I don't have time. No, you think social media is more important than doing things to get your life started. You guys are some of you guys are 30 years old. You haven't even started your life. You're still debating on whether or not you should leave home. And your dumbass mom is, I'll let you stay for another year. She should have kicked your ass out at 16. You're depressed. You're anxious. You're overwhelmed. You're defeated. You're frustrated. Yeah. So is everybody else working 9 to5 with a microwave dinner and a Netflix addiction. You don't have a disorder. You don't You guys have undisiplined habits, incredibly low standards, no movement, zero sunlight, and a phone that owns your soul. But yeah, you go ahead. Pin it on all your neurochemistry. Again, I've been a doctor for 25 years. Good chance I'm probably smarter than you are. Don't take offense to it. Don't get mad because I spent more time learning while you spent more time entertaining. You ever notice how all of these new diagnosis started popping up right around the time when people stopped getting their asses whooped for being disrespectful? Right around the time people stop getting just a [\h__\h] beat out of him for disrespecting somebody. Like I have executive dysfunction. Let me help you, Darla. You just never had a dad who took your phone away and told you to get a [\h__\h] job. That's the problem you have. Let me tell you, you can either be a man or you can be a medical condition. Pick one. One of them's a winner. The other one is a product. You guys get that, right? If you are a medical condition, you are a product. You are owned by the government, by big pharma, by anything but you. You guys need to read Bible, man. You don't get to run a business, lead your family, and dominate your life like I do while crying on camera about your trauma and posting Tik Toks about high functioning anxiety. You're not high functioning. You're just loud kind. You're loud about your problems and allergic to accountability. It's like a you got to go take a benadryil for it. Listen, modern psychology has weaponized identity against growth, not for it against it. Yet, I'll go back to Brian Tracy, Anthony Robbins, Zigg Ziggler, all of these people. Dennis Weightley, I could do this all day. They're all for growth. That became too much work. We can't have people that are smart and growth oriented. We need people dumb, complacent, and addicted. You think addiction means caffeine. I can't say cigarettes because it's the pyroines and the cigarettes. Tobacco is not addictive. You can argue all you want. I will prove it to you. 2006 Harvard study proved it's the pyroine, not the tobacco. 1994, tobacco was listed as a an addictive substance and dangerous for people. Yet tobacco doesn't cause nicotine doesn't cause cancer. All the other [\h__\h] the 599 chemicals of your cigarettes and your pouches and all the things that vape and everything you do, that causes cancer. Mental cancer, that's for spending too much time staring at a television or phone. But modern psychology has absolutely weaponized a dead end against growth. You get labeled, you adopt the label, you defend it, and then you build your whole life around it. Because if you're a victim of your brain, then you're not responsible for its pay, right? Let me tell you, that's the most dangerous idea on earth. And before somebody spins off, listen, let me be very clear. Yes, there are real disorders. There are real battles. But you, you're using the clinical language of suffering to justify the daily choices of a weak ass man who just doesn't want to change. You're not mentally ill. You're mentally, you're psychologically undisiplined. You don't need pills. You need a purpose. You don't need therapy. You need direction. You don't need safe space. God, one of you simps says that one more time. You need a target. A real one. How about this? Here's your new diagnosis. Terminal [\h__\h] Terminal weakness. Treated with reps, purpose, cold showers, confrontation, clean food. A mission bigger than your stupid feelings. How about that? There you go. You're welcome. I could just stop right now. I just solved all your problems. How about this? Side effects may include restored masculinity, high power body, financial freedom, fewer excuses, and being impossible to manipulate. You're welcome. You're welcome. I'll even leave you with a question. What diagnosis or label have I made part of my damn identity? And how is it protecting me from the responsibility of becoming the man that I'm supposed to be? The man I'm meant to be, the man God built me to designed me to be, rather engineered me to be, which on a planet for a purpose. It wasn't to be a fat [\h__\h] sitting on a couch staring at a television arguing in the comment section of Instagram. How it's not your fault. How being fat is a medical condition. How being broke is a capitalism condition. How being alone is a marriage condition. No, it's not. They're all your fault. You got like a victim permission slip. It's the easiest way to describe it. Why don't you just crumple it up, light it on fire, and brand it on your soft ass [\h__\h] forehead? Weakness is a choice. You want to know why? I'm going to drink some of this coffee. Why you fe feel justified, validated while being weak, emotional, poor, soft, distracted, offended, tired, depressed, anxious, fat, confused, and horny with no discipline because society has given you every [\h__\h] reason to stay that way. You're a girl dad. I made that the other day. Whoa, some of you guys got so triggered. It is no different being a girl dad or a boy dad. You are a mad be one. If you are differentiating between your daughter and your son, you're [\h__\h] up your kids. I'll say that over and over again because I've got both. And if that's what you think, both of my kids could probably kick your ass. So, you're a girl dad? Cool, bro. Good for you. How about you just be a dad? Not a walking tampon in a Target hoodie. Try to earn. How about this? This is like you guys walk around trying to earn clout by bending over for woke culture while your daughters all of your daughters learn to be strong from cartoons because her father sure as hell ain't leading. That's the problem. I That's exactly what you are. You're just a walking tampon in a Target hoodie. You savage. No, you're not. You're not. Here. How about we run this up? Let's run it right from start to finish. Man, you're obese. body positivity. You're broke. Capitalism's fault. You're offended. That's oppression. You're confused. Don't worry. Gender is a spectrum. Feelings are facts. And truth is violent. You're not healing. You're getting weaker, dumber, and more manipulable by the minute. Argue all you want. That proves my point. Do you understand? You used to have to be strong to survive. You wouldn't make it if you weren't strong. Like my grandpa, if he came back from the grave, he would beat the [\h__\h] out of 98% of you guys just because you're soft and you're choosing to be soft and people are actually defending being soft and going, "Here's another guy who's all about being savage and strong and being a man." That's right. Yes. You're welcome for willing to for me being willing to stand here and take the stones and the [\h__\h] arrows and the bullets for you so you don't crumple into nothing for the next generation. But most of you guys are so ignorant and stupid. You don't see that part. You go, "This guy's hurting my feelings. Stop being a fag." You used to have to be strong to survive, and now you just need wifi and a therapist who tells you that your rage eating is ancestral trauma that you've carried with your DNA. Listen, 52 years old. Back in my day, we called it what it was. Being soft. That's it. Now you all turn into a podcast and cry into a $7 I don't know, oat milk latte with a swirl on the top. You were built to be savage. You were built to be strong. You were built to be a warrior. You're built to be tough. Now you're arguing on Twitter about microaggressions. You're built to conquer. And now you're journaling about your intention to rest. Can you guys even explain what that means? I know what it means, but I think you guys don't. You guys just grab it off of some post and go, "Yeah, that's me. That's me. Why? They're an influencer. They have 17 million followers. They have to know that they're popular. They're true. It's like that stupid girl in the Taco Bell commercial. She goes, "Taco Bell. She's like the dumbest human being on Earth. I don't even know who she is, but apparently she probably makes infinitely more money than I do. And you guys probably know who she is. I think she's a [\h__\h] idiot. You should send her this clip. You're stupid. This cup has more brain cells than that lady, but she's making money, right? So, she must know everything. You were built to lead. And now your wife wears the pants. Your kids walk all over you. And your boss, yeah, he's got you by the balls. And you know it. This isn't oppression. This is consent to emasculation. Can you even spell that? Yeah. It pisses me off. Like even my mom, man, she used to make me learn words, spell words, enunciate, and speak properly. And if I didn't, I'd do it again. And you guys think that is a rough childhood. That's the best thing my mom could have done for me. Because you know what? I'm incredibly intelligent and I'm also smart. And they're not the same. Just because I have a string of degrees after my name doesn't mean a damn thing. I know people with all kinds of degrees all over their diplomas and certificates and crap all over their wall that are dumber than a bag of nails. Remember what I said? Smart. how quickly you apply new knowledge to your life and make changes. If it takes you 10 attempts and it takes me two, I'm smarter than you are. Get offended. That proves my point again about everything I'm talking about. Society no longer demands strength. So men no longer cultivate it, but the cost is still do. That hasn't changed. Like the cost is still the same. The storms of life still show up. The wolves still hunt. The lion still hunt. The chaos still comes up and shows you exactly whose boss and you guys are losing. Because when it does, all of your self-care sure as hell isn't going to save you. But keep believing. Competence, discipline, and moral clarity. That's what's going to save you. But you guys fight against that honestly. Like, how about we just get So, you guys just need to get real. I don't care if there was only one person that saw this episode. I really don't because I know what I'm saying is valuable and it's the truth and not valuable because I say so, valuable because the world needs it desperately. I'm put here to be a prophet. I know that for a fact because when I opened my eyes in the hospital after the surgery, I knew God had a missionary. Your job is to be a prophet. Your job is to be a teacher. Your job is to be strong and powerful and lead and guide and be a lion. and save as many people as you can. So that's all I do. I don't care if you don't like the information. It doesn't change the fact that it's the truth and it's what you need. So you want to get real. You brought the lie, not me. You drank that empathy Kool-Aid. You gave up your edge of fire, all your masculinity to blend in with the beige, fat, pudgy, bloated, sensitive herd because it's easier to cry than to fight. And now, yeah, now you hate yourself. And you know it, you look, you look at yourself every day and you look at your pictures on Instagram and you doctor them up on whatever app you can and you can't do that when you look in the mirror. So you avoid mirrors, but you hate yourself. And you know it, you damn well know it. You scroll and rage at the men who, like me, who have never ever once sold our souls for comfort. You resent our muscle, our money, our vision, our mission because it reminds you of what you could have [\h__\h] been if you hadn't sold your damn spine. That's all you have to do is spine the [\h__\h] up. And you guys get mad about it, but you hate where you are. Listen, you pudgy bastard. You're 100 pounds overweight. You hate it. You have $100 in the [\h__\h] bank and you're 41. You should have millions by now. And if you go, not everybody wants to have millions. It's not about the money. It's about the freedom it buys you. It's about the choices and options that it gives you. You should have your marriage so dialed in that all you guys do is operate as a unit. So here, how about this? I'll say it in plain English. Society gave you permission to be weak, and I'm here to rip it away like a band-aid off a grown man who never [\h__\h] healed. How about that? Does that spell it out for you? You want to belong to this world? Cuz none of you do right now. You don't. You haven't even earned a spot on this planet. Just because you were born doesn't mean you earned a place here. It means you have the potential. You want a spot. You want to belong here, earn it. That's how I feel. Maybe you should start asking yourself better questions like where in my life have I been accepting the permission of society to stay weak. What would change? What would change in my life if I revoked all of that [\h__\h] now? I said, "Not again. Never again." Because the most powerful thing you can do is make a decision in the right direction. And the weakest thing you can do is defend a decision in the wrong way. That's that's why I said every damn thing is your fault and that's the most powerful thing that you will ever hear. You're just waiting for going. You have permission to stay wherever you are thinking that's the most powerful but you hate your life. I think you guys wear your victimhood like it's a superhero costume. Do you want a life that that changes? Awesome. Cool. How about this? Here's the most liberating, confrontational, terrifying, and empowering thing that you're ever going to hear. Every [\h__\h] thing is your fault. I've said it a half a dozen times in this podcast and you guys still are going, "No, it's not. You don't understand my circumstances." What about the guy that lives in a dirt yurt in the middle of the Serengeti and has to eat grasshoppers off a leak that he didn't ask for that life? I'll go back to what I said previously. arguing the extremes, the outliers on either side trying to defend the fact that your life is apparently unchangeable. And you claiming that is a victory proves your two things incredibly stupid and unbelievably ignorant. You think it's a victory so you can stay in a place that you hate? [\h__\h] Everything is your fault. Not some things, not the easy things. Every [\h__\h] thing. I'm stopping because I'm giving a chance to write that part down. Your bro cuts on you. You didn't get financially educated. You didn't sell. You didn't scale. You didn't build. That's your fault. You didn't invest. You didn't do anything. You stayed at your $19,000 a year job going, "This is the best I can do." You chose that. You put the ceiling on your life. If you're fat, by the way, it's not a medical condition, doctor. Not a medical condition. Even if I wasn't, doesn't take a genius to figure that out. Who ate the food? You made every plate. You ate every bite. You made every excuse. And you skipped every damn rep at the gym. Or you didn't even do them at all. You never even went to the gym. You never even bought the membership. And when people went, "There's a fat person working out." You should turn at them and go, "Yeah, [\h__\h] That's right. I am here because you know what? Buckle up. I'm about to change all of this shit." Stop worrying about people that are making fun of you. By the way, most people that are winning are never going to make fun of you. Only your loser ass circle of friends, they're going to do that because they don't want you to change because then it makes them look bad. They're selfish. And if you stay where you are, so are you. You're stuck in a dead just trashed relationship with someone who just sucks the life out of your soul. Just drains you. You picked them. You stayed. You tolerated. Divorce that [\h__\h] You're depressed. You're anxious. You're overwhelmed. You're unfocused. You're sad. All the things. You built a schedule. You picked the screen. My phone's over there. You picked the screen. You hit snooze. You skipped the gym. You swallowed the pill. You let it all happen. Nobody else did it for you. You did it. You chose it. You support it. So now you can cry all about that. You could reject it and kick it to the curb. You can get triggered by and try and cancel me in the comments. I don't care. But the second that you realize that you caused this, you unlock the one superpower this entire weak ass world has been trying to take from you. Agency. Agency. Because if it's your fault, then it's your fight. And if it's your fight, then it's your [\h__\h] win. And no one can stop a man who finally owns all of it. Nobody. Like you guys have been throwing pity parties so long you forgot how to build anything. Now you've got a oversized refrigerator just filled with excuses and a pantry stocked with ifs and buts and it's not my fault and it's not my it's my circumstances and a life that smells like a giant [\h__\h] regret. It's not trauma. It's not God's plan to ruin your life. sure as hell isn't the stars in the universe and your zodiac sign or your [\h__\h] cat. It's you and it's fixable. You either choose to win or you choose to stay weak. Choice and you demand choice architecture in your own life. So both choices force you to go to the one direction that you really don't want to be in. But you it allows you to stay weak. So you design and engineer your choices so that the only option you really have is to stay weak. You have a condition. Yeah. So did Tom Hardy when he played Venom. I got a condition. And then he went bit off heads. Cool. The weakest men have the loudest opinions. By the way, the weak men, not just loud opinions. They have no bank account, no discipline, no sex drive, no mission, no vision, and nothing but a collection of reasons why they can't fire the gun, why they can't rise. You want to rise? You want to create everything? You want to build that life? Own the [\h__\h] out of everything. Jo willing extreme ownership. Bend I had so much respect for that too. Responsibility is the only foundation for meaning the only path to freedom and it's the only possible antid antidote to the chaos that you've got. You carry it or you get crushed by it. So you either become stronger or you get buried. The world doesn't care which one you choose. By the way, your soul does. So, here's the hard truth that a lot of you guys put this down. Here's a hard truth that a lot of you guys just you don't like. Doesn't change the fact that it's the truth. Gravity is immutable. You can argue it all you want. Still there. You don't have you can hate it every day. Every time you fall, smash your face. Every time you catch heel side on a snowboard, you can get mad at gravity, yell at it. No [\h__\h] gravity doesn't change it. So, here's our truth. You're not a victim. And I really don't know why it's taking a grown ass man like me to tell you that. Like our son and daughter have known that since they were probably five. But some of you guys are adults. You're adults. You grown ass adults validating why your life sucks and it's somebody else's fault. You're not a victim. You're a volunteer. You're not broken at all. And listen, if I can get to where I am, then so can you. You're undisiplined. You're not stuck. You're just still busy lying to yourself to say that you are and that where you are is unchangeable. And until you stop buying into your own [\h__\h] you're never going to get out of it. You're never going to get free. If everything was your fault right now, really just stop and think. If everything is my fault, just ask. If everything's my fault, just accept it and play a little game. Everything's my fault. What's the first thing I change right now? Today, right now, this second, what would that be? Because that's the question you should ask. because it already is your fault, which means you can change everything, which means it is your fight, which means it's your victory. But the first thing you have to do is go, it's my fault. Until you do that, there is nothing that's going to help you. There are only things that are going to hide it from you, and you'll never get anywhere. It's my fault. Instant success. Like months, months. It takes you six years to accept the fact that it's your fault. And the second you make that decision, four months, and you've got the bank account, the fitness, the health, the marriage, everything, the mindset, you are absolutely unfucking breakable. And you go, it took 6 years. No, it didn't. It took 6 years for you to make the decision to go, yeah, your damn right it's my fault. Once you do, that's the catalyst to everything successful. But you got to make that decision. It takes six years to make the decision. Takes bioners to make the decision. Why don't you speed it the [\h__\h] up and make it right now? What are you going to change today? I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.