Sometimes I just want to sit back a little bit. Honestly, look at the world I've created so far for my wife and my kids and the people that I've had the opportunity, the blessing to help and realize that all of it's come from being nice, from being kind, from having standards. I I think a lot of you guys confuse this. I'm a good person. You're not a good person. You're weak. A good person. If you're like, I'm a good person. No, you're not. You're just weak because you have this fake virtue, this cowardice that's disguised as niceness. And it it's just this societal rot of passive men who call themselves nice while avoiding the truth. leadership, struggle, suffering, discipline, and power. And honestly, most of these podcasts probably don't feel good because I'm telling you the truth. But maybe you should get addicted to that and go, "This is the discomfort I need to change my life." Cuz it's not supposed to feel good. Leveling up isn't supposed to feel good. It's supposed to demand more from you so you get to the next level. You just keep running that on repeat. You think you're a good man, but you're not. You're not. You're a passive one. and passivity, man, that doesn't equal virtue at all. That equals cowardice. You don't speak the truth. You avoid conflict. And you call it being respectful or boundaries. But the reality is you're afraid. You're a coward. You're afraid to lead. You're afraid to be disliked. Most of you guys can't stand it. If you don't get enough hearts on some post you make, you guys freak out and spend your day depressed. You're afraid to be dangerous. So instead, you hide behind politeness. You smile through disrespect. You nod at mediocrity. You call it being a good guy. There's nothing good about a man that won't stand up, speak out, or fight back. Just so we're clear. Just so we're clear. Because I think maybe we get something straight here. Being liked, yeah, that doesn't make you good. It doesn't. Being nice does not make you strong. In fact, it's always the opposite. And staying quiet doesn't make you wise. It all makes you weak. All of that's weak. You keep the peace because you're afraid of war. I'm not afraid of war. I'm built for war. Just like you, you avoid judgment because you're addicted to approval and acceptance. And you bow to comfort. And you call it humility. You're embarrassing. Not to me. You're embarrassing to yourself. The world doesn't need another soft, agreeable doormat of a dude. The world needs men with razor sharp teeth, weapons in their hand, men with fire, men with strength that scares the enemy and secures the household. That's what this world needs. You're not righteous. You're not noble. All you guys running around going, "If I spend my Saturdays at the park throwing a Frisbee with my toddler, you're not righteous. I like the love of my family and I'll sacrifice building an empire for my family while they watch me struggle and lie about how I have no money. And you call that righteous and noble. But when did poverty become righteous and noble? When did being frumpy and soft and flabby become righteous and noble? It's not. You're soft. You got no backbone. You walk into a room and the first thing you think is, "God, I hope they like me." I see a lot of you Insta coaches like that. You wouldn't last 5 seconds in the arena. But you guys are all just nothing but claws and teeth behind a phone screen. [\h__\h] that. Get on the mat with me. Get in the arena with someone that's actually winning and start trying to keep trying and keep up. You guys attack people that are doing better than you. Take their name out of your mouth if you're going to say anything negative. Shut up. Walk into a room and actually own it for real, not hope you own it. You were built to be a warrior. You're man. You're made in God's image, but you've spent your whole life learning how to be liked. In order to get along, you have to go along. So now you wonder why nobody respects you. Why your woman doesn't follow you, doesn't listen to you, has no respect for you. You don't deserve it. You wonder why your life feels off because weakness doesn't earn a [\h__\h] thing. It begs. It begs for everything. And that's what you guys do. There's nothing noble about being harmless. You know that. And a good man isn't harmless. My friend Victor Marks, Dangerous Gentleman, is a book he wrote. It's great. He is a very dangerous man. He's a good man. He and his wife, savage human beings. A good man isn't harmless. A good man is dangerous, but chooses restraint. The man who cannot fight is not virtuous for avoiding violence. He's incapable. Maybe all of you guys that see red when you fight, maybe that's why you keep getting your asses kicked. Just to be clear, incapability, it's not morality. You want to be a good man, then become dangerous first. Don't be good and then dangerous. Become dangerous. Become capable. Learn how to control it. Shape it. Master it. Because until you're capable of decimation and destruction, you're always going to be a slave to anybody and anything that is. So you guys all running around calling yourself a good guy. Cool. Awesome. You're the best. Then why does your life suck then? Why are you always in my comments and anybody else that's winning running hate, running a dialogue, pointing and trying to bring me down to your infinite level, [\h__\h] Your woman doesn't respect you. Your kids sure as hell don't listen to you. Your business is halfbuilt, if that. You're struggling to make two grand a month. I made two grand in the first five minutes of this conversation. And you guys take offense to that instead of going, "How? You need to show me how." You get steamrolled in every room that you walk into. But hey, at least you're polite and you've got manners and you're nice, right? No, man. You're not nice. You're invisible. Nobody even knows who you are, you [\h__\h] wallflower. And you call it virtue. It's because you're too afraid to admit that you never became a man worth remembering. Never. Maybe where in your life have you been calling yourself a good man when you've actually just been afraid to be strong, direct, and dangerous as hell? Because you need to dismantle the biggest lie that you nice guys tell yourselves that passivity is virtue. I said it a minute ago. Passivity is not virtue. Virtue isn't found in silence, by the way. It's found in a Simon and Garfuncle song, and that's about it. Virtue is found in strength, and strength isn't real unless it's earned and tested. And those are interchangeable. You earn it by being tested. You test it by earning it. There's no such thing as a good man who isn't capable of destruction. Because if you can't protect, if you can't confront, if you won't step in the way of danger, no matter what it is, or fight, then you are no good to anybody. You're just safe to ignore because you're not going to hurt a fly. You're a [\h__\h] You think virtue is keeping your mouth shut. That's really what you guys think. You think it's keeping your mouth shut and going, "Sometimes it's better just not to say anything at all. My mommy said no. Virtue is power controlled, directed, disciplined, dangerous, lethal. That's virtue." Listen, you think a lion sits there purring away to prove it's the king of the jungle? He proves it by knowing when not to strike because he could. Most of you aren't good men. You're weak. You're weak, men. And the worst part is you're proud of it. You guys get on here so proud of your safe space and your feelings and your little campfires that you sing songs around, but you guys aren't dangerous. You're fat, sloppy, and weak. You can't protect anybody. You can't lead anybody. You can't stop anybody. You're not virtuous. You're ineffective. And you guys think because you carry a firearm, most of you guys would shoot yourself with it or just give your opponent a weapon. I love you guys that go, "Somebody broke in my house." Q. You guys haven't fired that gun except the three shots you've shot at the range. You don't know how to use a firearm. You shouldn't have one. Virtue. So, you're not dangerous. You're dangerous to yourself and your family. You wind up shooting your wife by accident cuz you're that ignorant. You You assume that cuz you own it, you can use it. That's like assuming that I read a book on jiu-jitsu and now I can take on any Gracie. It's like assuming I have a car in my driveway I've never driven before and I don't know how to drive, but because I own it, I can drive. You guys are ignorant and you get mad when somebody calls you out on your own ignorance instead of going, I need to skill the [\h__\h] up. Virtue is earned when you've built the fire and chosen not to burn others with it. But first, you got to have the [\h__\h] fire. You guys are all smoldering quiet going, "I don't want anyone to see what I do." You guys are closet Christians. I believe in God, but I don't want anyone to know. Dude, I will scream it from the top of the mountain, man. I am team Jesus all the way. God is a gangster and he's all me, man. I am all in on God 100% 24/7, 365. Whatever he says, I'm like, I'm in, man. Whatever you need. You're not a warrior if you're not that. You have to become strong enough to kill the old version of you and build something worth following. That's why people don't listen to you because until then you're just a decoration. The worst part is you're a decoration in your own stupid life. Like in in ancient mythology, follow me on this. The hero is not the harmless man. You ever read anything? And I don't mean read something with uh boobs and a trampoline. Read. Really read. Ancient mythology. The hero is never a harmless man. He's the capable man. He slays the dragon. He defeats chaos. And he stands between danger and all of those that he protects. That's your job as a man. Modern society has inverted that. It rewards compliance. It celebrates fragility. It mocks masculinity as toxic. There's no such thing as toxic masculinity. There is toxic. And it's this [\h__\h] All you guys being compliant and fragile and incapable, that's toxic. So, it mocks masculinity and all of it all the time. Like, you guys all secretly long for it. You guys ache for it. You go to bed going, "God, I wish I was strong." You'd probably sit there and watch He-Man cartoons. A man who can't say no, can't fight, who can't draw a hard line, is not virtuous. He's irrelevant, which is most You think saying yes to everything makes you a good person? Well, I say yes to my wife. I say yes to everything. And if you guys, here's where you guys will screw this up because you'll look for something because if you remember, anything you want, babe, is what I say to my wife. And anything you want, babe, is what my wife says to me. Whatever it is, that's part of why we have such an epic marriage. And my wife is my best friend. God, I will I will die. I would John Q myself even though it doesn't make sense cuz then she'd be without her husband just if she needed a transplant for her heart because I love my wife. I want her to be around for my kids. She is so amazing and [\h__\h] magical to me. She's sent by God. We say yes to each other because we're all in on each other. If you go, I say yes to everybody, it's because you want approval and acceptance. Let me ask you something. When's the last time that your yes actually meant something? That's the difference. My yes to my wife, her yes to me means something. If you say yes out of fear, you say yes out of your people pleasing just impotent myopic [\h__\h] You say yes because you don't want to upset anybody. You're not virtuous. You're spineless. You become so nice that your kids don't fear you. I was terrified of my dad. Oh god, I was terrified of my dad. But I loved my dad and I respected my dad. I never once felt unloved by my dad. I just knew. Don't cross my dad. Listen to what dad says. So your kids don't fear you. Your wife doesn't even respect you. She sure as hell isn't going to follow you. And the world walks all over you. But hey, like I said, you're nice. How about where in your life have you replaced strength with silence thinking that you're winning? And you convinced yourself that made you moral? Maybe you should ask yourself some real questions because the truth that's killing modern man is that you're addicted to approval and acceptance. You're addicted to being liked. It's destroying your life. Like you guys have mistaken approval for peace, validation for value and and attention. You think attention is respect. Make that make sense, man. The reality is being liked is cheap. It costs nothing. It earns nothing. And it builds nothing. Do you even stand for anything, man? Respect that is forged. That's earned. That means you go against people that go against you. That's what dangerous discipline men are built for. If you can't say that's what you do, then you don't. You want to be liked. That's your first mistake. I don't [\h__\h] care if you like me. I don't care if the entire world doesn't like me cuz I do. I like me. God likes me. God loves me. That's what makes me unstoppable. Hate me all you want. I know I'm telling the truth. Just cuz you don't like something doesn't mean it's not the truth. So you want to be liked. That's your first mistake. Liked men are safe. You You spend your life in a friend zone and you hate it. Liked men are forgettable. I'm going to remember your name and nobody else will. Like men are tools used by stronger men to get what they want. That's the easiest way to define it. You want to build something that lasts. Be respected. Be feared. Be a presence. Be a force to be reckoned with. Be immovable. Be solid. Respect means that people will think twice before disrespecting you. Being liked means they'll walk all over you because they know you'll never fight back. So, choose wisely. You say, "You guys, this is what you do. You, well, smart. I just want to be liked, man. That's the mantra of every single weak man out there who's never who's never became anything ever or anybody worth following. You think respect comes from being agreeable? No. Respect comes from doing what others won't. That's what I said. Being willing to have other people go against you and you go, I don't care. I know I'm going the right direction. Suffering when everybody else quits. Speaking the truth when everybody else stays silent. You want people like you. Post a big tit selfie. Post some abs. If you go, "Well, you post abs." No, I don't. I post my workouts. I happen to have abs. You know why? Because how I look like this? Because of how I train. I don't train to look like this. They're not the same. So, you want people to like you, post some stupid selfie with a motivational quote on it that you're not applying to your life because you don't believe it. You want people to respect you, become unbreakable. That's the difference. The pursuit of being liked is the slow suicide of everything about you, your entire identity. Because when you see, look at the entire look at 2021. People wanted to be liked, so they got a jab. They wanted to keep their job, which means they were being liked, so they got a jab. And then they used that going, I was going to lose my job. Then you didn't set your life up right. You spent more than you earn. You did not violate Parkinson's law. You're [\h__\h] stupid. And if it came down to survival, you could have found a way. You just were spineless. Because when you seek external approval, you shapeshift to meet the desires of others, but you lose the form of who you are in the process. You look in the mirror and you hate who you are. You make everybody else happy, but you're disgusted with yourself because eventually, here's what happens. You become so deluded that you no longer know who or what you believe. You don't know what you stand for or where even that line is. I have a hard line in my life. I will never cross it. A man who is always agreeable is a man who stands for nothing and earns nothing lasting. So you're nice, huh? Okay. Everybody likes you. That's what you think? Wow, you're awesome. How's that working out, [\h__\h] Your kids respect you. your woman turned on by you. She just sits there and goes, "Do anything you want. I'm just want to rock your [\h__\h] world and ride it till it breaks off." That's what your woman says to you because she respects you so much because she trusts you so much. Your kids are like, "Dad, you're my hero. I just want to grow up to be just like you. Your bank account is nothing but a one and a bunch of zeros because everybody can't wait to apply what you are offering to sell them because it works. Your business that's following your lead. Yeah, I didn't think so. You're just the guy who makes everybody comfortable while you die inside. But hey, listen, you do you. At least your inbox is full of emojis and passive aggressive compliments. I bet that feels good, huh? Maybe look at where your life you've traded respect for approval and maybe look at all of those compromises and try and figure out what those have cost you because I promise you it's everything that you want, right? Like I'm sitting here trying not to go nuclear. being safe. You guys that go I I have to be very careful because I got to be safe for others. Otherwise, I could abuse this power of using my feelings. [\h__\h] It's just the word of the day. You're a [\h__\h] Safe makes you noble. No, it doesn't. You're not dangerous. You're a liability. You can't protect. You can't confront. You can't lead. And the only people you act tough in front of are other simps just like you. And when chaos comes for your family or your business or your life, when those wolves show up, you will be the first casualty because you were never capable of war in the first place. That should keep you awake at night. You want to feel safe. Safety is an illusion. Strength is real. Should we go deeper down? Cuz it bugs me. The world doesn't need more safe men. It needs more men capable of absolute violence, capable of strategy and tactics, capable of domination, but who have it under iron dis discipline. Be because the man who isn't dangerous can't stop evil. And evil will not stop itself. It must be stopped. I'll say it again. Evil will not stop itself. It must be stopped. Which takes strong men, God-fearing, Godpowered men. The man who isn't dangerous, can't lead a tribe, can't protect anything. He's not noble. He is dead weight being dragged behind the boat. Like, I I don't need you to be sweet, man. Don't be sweet to me. I need you to be razor sharp, dangerous. I don't need you to be safe. I need you to be savage. And if you go, "Oh, here's another guy talking about savage." It's cuz you aren't. You should be. My son would guarantee just ruin all of you. And my son is 15. Why? Because he's dangerous and he's got restraint. You need to be savage with restraint. You think being harmless makes you good? Makes me safe. Go back to high school with that girl that you wanted to date so bad and you kept watching her go through guy after guy and you were always there. Oh, come on, Alice. I got you. in your such a good friend, Tom. Except Tom never got the girl because Tom was nice and harmless and expendable. That's what being harmless makes you. Expendable. So, you're either the last line of defense or the reason that your wife calls another man to fix what you can't. If you don't scare the enemy, you are the enemy because you can't protect your family. Like the reality of all this is weak men invite danger. Like you call it to you. You're a magnet for it because you can't contain it. You can't do anything about it. Think about it. Go back to mythology. In war, in leadership, the protector is never harmless. Never. He is dangerous but calibrated. Just so calibrated and built for war. Tactical like genetically predisposed for combat. That's the hero. The And that you can create at any moment of your life. You can create that. A man who cannot wield power is not virtuous. He's unprepared. He's like a [\h__\h] newspaper. That's how weak he is. An unpreparedness that's not moral. It's fatal. Go out into the bush unprepared. Let me know how that works for you. I live in Texas. Most things here will eat you alive. Become dangerous. Then become extremely precise with that. That's the path of a noble, kingly man. That's the path of a leader. Because who's always bragging about being safe? And I hear you Insta coaches talk about this all the time. I know one in particular. I'm just not giving the air going to give him the air time. And this guy went downhill fast over the last two years who's always bragging about being safe. Men who've never really been tested. It's why you're single now, bro. Men who've never been punched. Most of you guys have never been punched in the mouth. I grew up in the country on a farm. I got into so many scrabs. cuz I've been punched so many times. Most of the time we walked home friends. We were friends the next day. I got punched in the face on a school bus one time. And you know what? I punched him back the next day. So what? We were friends. He lived just down the street from me. I lived in a town of 70 people. Everybody knew each other. So what? My neighbor and I got into fights at least once a week. And he was my best friend for eight years. Welcome to testing who you are. But you guys all bragging about being safe. You've never been punched. You've never been challenged. You've never led. You think you have. You probably lead a bunch of of women that treat you and it's nothing against women. You're all strong. So don't take offense to that. I'm saying, but you're being led by a man who acts like a woman. And you're like, I just feel safe with him cuz he's not dangerous at all. He's weak. Like you're bragging about being safe, you never stood in a room full of chaos and said, "Follow me," or "Get the [\h__\h] out of my way. If you're not dangerous, shut up." Because if you talk a big game, but you can't back it up, you need to be quiet. Because you're the first man to run away from the fight and the last one anybody's going to follow. You're going to ghost and everybody's going to go, "Where did Tom go?" They're not running after you. They're in the fight because you were too much of a coward. So, but maybe you should ask, "Where am I pretending to be good when the truth is I'm just incapable of being lethal and dangerous?" And yes, it's required. Kindness without strength isn't virtue. I'll say it again. It's manipulation. But you're doing it to yourself and you're doing it to everybody else around you, trying to convince them. You're trying to get them to conform to your low standards and your level and you complaining that being masculine and powerful and disciplined is toxic. [\h__\h] you. You're not being kind because you're powerful. You're being kind because you're scared. You're scared to say no. You're scared to be judged. You're scared to take up You're scared to even take up space. So, you smile. You nod. And you go, "Yeah, what a great idea, Mugsy. You guys, that's not in That's not integrity. That's ne weakness." And you guys all wear masks. I bet that feels good, huh? Oh, I'm not even who I say I am. You guys send your representative out into the public all the time. But if you followed me around 24/7, 365, this is me. You know what people do? They ask my wife when they meet me for the first time, "Is he really like this all the time?" She's like, big smile on her face. Yeah, it's awesome. Because my wife loves me for who I am. Because the day I met my wife is this. I'm the same person. You guys keep sending representatives out into the world wondering why you're not liked. And you run a dialogue about, "I wish I was like this, but that's just not in my character, so I'm going to go out and do that." No, you're not willing to be uncomfortable to get there. You're not willing to be tested to see what you're made of. So, when you start to get tested, you go back to being nice. You think people respect you because you're kind. They don't. Nobody does. I don't. No real man or real woman respects you because you're a nice guy. They want strong people in their life, men and women. They tolerate you because you're not a threat. You guys say yes to everybody because you're afraid that somebody's not going to like you. What if they don't like me? Powerful. That's not kindness. That's cowardice. That's people pleasing disguised as some kind of convoluted morality. You want to be truly kind, get strong enough that your kindness actually means something. When you say, "I just want to help, bro." Yeah. Wow. You're the toughest. You're a powerful man. But here's a follow-up to that. Okay. You should help. But do you help because you can? or because you're too scared to say no. Which one? Because most of you nice guys out there, you're not kind. You're [\h__\h] scared. You're scared of rejection. You're scared of confrontation. You're scared of opposition. You're scared to demand respect. So, you give it away like candy. Just a bowl of Skittles you just hand over to everybody hoping that somebody gives it back. They're never going to. Never. If you don't demand respect from me, I'm not going to give you any. Because kindness without strength is not kindness. It's weakness hoping to be rewarded. He goes, "Oh, just please approve me. Approve me. Accept me." There is no morality without choice. And you guys have choice architecture. So you give yourself two choices that always lead to the same place. Being nice, being accepted. But the man who cannot say no is not good. He's not. He's compliant. And you guys think compliant makes you good. But that's because you're compliant. What about the truth? The truth doesn't demand compliance. The truth demands the truth. And the truth demands strength. True kindness is the restraint of power, not the absence of it. You have the capacity to destroy. You don't. If you cannot walk away, you cannot lead. If you can't assert truth, which is what I was just saying, you can never build trust, which is why people don't buy your stuff, your wife doesn't respect you, your kids don't listen to you, and you're still fat sitting on a couch yelling at players on a screen that you don't have anything to do with, but you know all their stats. And if your kindness is a mask for your fear, you're not kind. You are manipulating your own reality to avoid your responsibility. How about I translate to English for you? If you ain't strong, your kindness don't mean [\h__\h] Since most of you guys, my wife and I were talking about this, how when you articulate and enunciate and you use words that honestly show that you have the capacity for communication and comprehension, people laugh at you for how you speak now because if you don't use emojis and slang terms, you're stupid. Which doesn't even make sense. But then I realize the people that are all saying that are nice, not kind, and they're powerless and weak. It's like a It's like a broke man, you guys. Like your kindness, if you have no strength behind you, your kindness doesn't mean anything. It's like a broke guy going to a restaurant and just tipping a couple of pennies and if you go that's all they had, then he shouldn't have been at drostanolone. And let me add and calling himself generous. This isn't the two talents. I'm not talking about that. I'm saying this is you going look at me, I'm so great. Couple of pennies. That's not generous. You're not a saint. You're just scared. You don't deserve any applause or accolades for being nice, especially when you've never had the spine to be anything else. How about this? I like leaving you guys with questions. Maybe you guys answer them, maybe you don't, but you should. Where have you used being kind as a disguise for fear, for avoidance, for weakness, for desire to be accepted and approved? And how is that costing you power and respect? Because it's costing the person in the mirror. It's not costing anybody else around you because nobody else around you even knows you exist. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.