Welcome to the Unbreakable podcast. I am Dr. Trevor Bachmire. Everybody calls me the Spartan. The guy that started that was my son. He said, "I look like God of War." He said, "You look like Kratos dad from God of War." So, hence that name stuck. Why? Because my now 16-year-old son, little does he know, he is my hero. See, he calls me his hero all the time. It's earned because he's never seen his dad quit. He's never seen his dad quit on his sister, on his mom, on him, or himself. That's the version of me that I want my son to always see. So, that's where it comes from. See, listen, I could I'm holding this Rubik's cube like it has some kind of significance. For those listening and not watching, I'm holding a Rubik's Cube from probably 1985. Yes, I can do it. No, I can't do it in 10 seconds. It takes me about 2 minutes. Listen, I started thinking something. Brandy and I were talking and even talking to our kids. Let me ask you something. It should make you upset. So, if you're not okay with being uncomfortable and exposing all the gaps and holes in your life, you're not going to this episode. In fact, you're not going to like me at all because I find all the problems and then I help you solve them. That's my job. When I woke up in the hospital in August of 2021, I knew what my mission was. I knew God spoke to me. I knew God said, "You need to go out and save as many people as you can. That's your job. You are now a prophet and you are mine. And that's all I've been doing. You might say, "God, this guy is gritty. He's edgy. He curses." Yep. And I also tell you the truth. And men are soft. Women are soft. Everybody is soft now. And you guys get mad and get offended about it. But right now, listen, we've had the same amount of time since August of 2021. We've had the same amount of time. Except I guarantee you I started with less. I started already out of the gate missing a lung. I started going through cancer. I started broke, no savings, keeping my family alive, losing my house, losing well over $2 million and broke. Had nothing, no self worth, no value, no strength. I was this sloppy, flabby, skinny, shameful version of myself. I had two choices. accept what they say or listen to what God says. You can do more. And that's what I did. The second one, you can do more. So, I think to myself, if I started so low, and most of you guys in 2021 didn't have a catastrophe happened to you, it's never too late. But I guarantee you everybody listening to this, you started ahead of me. But now I'm ahead of you. And if that's triggering to you, that's a problem with you, not me. I had to build this with my bare hands. I didn't have someone helping me, guiding me. I had to trial and error through scars and bloodied, beaten versions of myself. I had to constantly cycle through while an oxygen tank kept me alive. And I fought to keep my family fed. So, if you think for a second that I had it easier than you, trade places with me, but not now in August of 2021 when you opened your eyes and there are garden hoses coming out of your chest while you're connected to a wall on machines keeping you alive and a doctor taking a knee saying we had to take your love. Trade with that version and see if you can build this version because honestly, what would your life look like? Just follow me with this. This will change your life. What would your life look like if for the last four years you never slept in, never missed a workout, never lied, never validated, never procrastinated, never made excuses, never failed to squeeze the trigger, you never hit snooze, you never escape through Instagram, Tik Tok, social media, the internet, the junk drawer of digital garbage that you drown in every night to avoid the mirror. What would your life look like if every single day you trained your health, your wealth, your mindset, your psychology? You worked, you built, you created, and you stayed so laser focused on a mission of your design. No days off, no detours. You already know the answer what your life would look like. You know exactly what that man looks like. That man's body is carved out of stone from all the discipline that he's had to go through and apply to himself to become that man. His bank account is filled with money overflowing. His woman looks at him with fire in her eyes and adoration and respect and admiration. He drives what he wants. He lives where he wants. He moves how he wants. He does what he wants when he wants, how he wants with. And when he walks into any room, energy bends around this man like gravity. And here's the worst part. That man is you. It's not a fantasy or dream or some kind of delusion. It's you minus all your excuses. It's you minus all your procrastination. It's you minus all your lies. You're not lacking potential or cursed by some family problem or genetic tree or God or the universe. You're not unlucky. You're lazy, distracted, and incredibly undisiplined. And you're loaded with validations and procrastinations. You are everything that man who is winning rejected because you've met the best version of yourself. You've dreamt about it. You've laid in bed at night looking up at the ceiling thinking about it. You've seen that man in the mirror after a workout that just about crippled you, but you pushed through. You've felt him during those short bursts of clarity when your soul goes, "I want more." See, and the problem is I've been you. That's why this is so frustrating to me. Because every time this man shows up, you betray him. You decline the upgrade. You put the discipline on hold. You deny everything that you walk around wishing you had. But that man is still there. He is still waiting. So, I'll tell you what. I'm going to come out here every single damn day and destroy every excuse that's keeping you from becoming that man. Because that's what this is. Your future doesn't belong to you. It belongs to the man that you're too scared to become. And a lot of you guys, you're fighting so hard to stay where you are. But there's a version of you that never misses. I've been saying it since I opened my eyes because I haven't missed a single thing since August of 2021. There is a version of you that never skips, never misses, never makes any kind of excuse, never procrastinates. Procrastination is a [\h__\h] move. There is nothing about you that I have respect for. The world would be a better place if you were a procrastinator. There's nothing more disgusting than making up stories as to why you aren't doing something yet when you have no intention of doing it or you're just kicking it down the line because you're too much of a coward. That's the version of you that is costing you the hero you could be, the man you could be. Because there's a version of you that never misses leg day, never misses a workout, never misses deadlines or keeping promises, keeping his word, never skips reps or rest or responsibility. That he never scrolls Tik Tok or Instagram like some dopamine starved child. He never plays pretend CEO while playing video games for 6 hours validating that's how he connects with his son or daughter. He never wakes up when he feels like it. He gets up, executes, and dominates. And that version of you is watching you right now. He knows who you are. That version of you is looking at you right now and going, "God, please hook me up." The future version of you, that's what he's doing. He's looking at you going, "Just hook me up. Do all the [\h__\h] right now so I can do all the things I want to do later." He knows that you lie to yourself every morning. That you lie to yourself every day. That you bury everything. You ghost people. You ghost your promises. You ghost your word. You hide back in your little turtle shell like you think you have any right to do that. He knows you gaslight your own potential with weak phrases like, "I deserve a break." or "I'm almost there, bro. I got a couple more things to do. I'll start Monday." He knows how often you choose your pillow, your bed, or your television over the purpose that you've got. The problem is every time you see that man, when you're like, "Yeah, I can do this." You flinch when it's time to go again. When your alarm goes off at 2, 3, 4 in the morning. Get up consistently every day. But you flinch. You flinch when it's time to eat discipline instead of the dopamine that you crave like a miserable addiction. You flinch because you're addicted to comfort. You flinch because you're terrified at the cost of becoming exceptional. You're not scared at exceptional. You're flinching at the cost. The problem you should have already been that man. Four years. That's it. Four years. You have everything you want. If you had gone hard for four years, if you had eaten clean, trained ruthlessly, built your kingdom, and you read instead of scrolled, and led your family, and dominated your space just for four years, your entire life would be unrecognizable. You'd walk different, talk different, command rooms like a war general instead of a sea of peasants. Stop denying the life that you want. Stop hating on it, looking at other people. Stop lying. Stop being a procrastinator. Stop avoiding the conversations you know you need to have because you let somebody down because you're a coward. You your woman wouldn't just love you would worship you because that's what happens when you move like a man who never misses but instead you spend your day haunted by who you could have been because you betrayed the man who never missed. Look at this psychology. I guess you'd call it self- fragmentation, right? You've torn yourself into pieces because there's a you that knows what needs to be done and a you that never does it. Every day you betray your own hierarchy of values. You create chaos inside. You have this cognitive dissonance 24/7 365 and it comes from you. Order comes from alignment. Discipline is alignment. Talking about alignment while posting memes, listening to Kenny G is not alignment. When you don't align with the best version, the 10.0 version of yourself, your mind knows it. You can't hide from that because it's already programmed into your subconscious from birth. So, you know what you do? Your subconscious punishes you because it knows you're lying. Your subconscious beats the [\h__\h] out of you. That's why you're anxious and depressed. and you feel so lost even with GPS and a dozen self-help books in your Audible library that you've listened to twice. You don't have a motivation problem. You are a betrayal to yourself. There's only one way to become savage for yourself, the reps. I'm not talking reps in the gym. I'm talking the reps in the dark alone when no one's there. And I've said it before, no one's clapping or even acknowledging you. In fact, they might even be hating you when no one's posting the progress and showing up every all you guys that are like, "I'm going dark for my family. I'm going dark for myself." Yet, you're showing up every day with highly edited pictures and videos. You're not going dark. You want to go dark, disappear for 4 years and then come back and everybody goes, "Who the [\h__\h] is that? Count of Money Cristo. That shit." Edmund Dantes Count of Money Cristo. Which one are you, man? When you're tired, that's when the reps get done. When you're pissed off, when you're sore, when you're way behind, when it's raining and you still get that run in. I don't care what your feelings are. Neither should you. I don't care what your therapist says about rest or overtraining. I don't care what your self soothing YouTube guru says about burnout. You don't need a break. You need to build a damn identity. Like, every single day, just show up for yourself. Just cast a vote for the man who never misses. Just do that. You don't become that guy overnight. You build him every day, one brutal, lonely, thankless rep at a time. But some of you guys listening, you're this soft, impotent, just pillowy modern man. You got a planner with no plan. You got goals with no ambition or grind. And you got some fancy phone or your Apple Watch connected to your iPhone, but you can't do 10 push-ups without wheezing. You post gym selfies, but you skip leg day. You post motivational quotes, but you can't even wake up before noon. And you guys walk around like life owes you something just for existing. Let me tell you something, sweetheart. The universe doesn't reward potential. It rewards performance. Get that through your head. The guy with all the vision boards, sound bowls, incense, candles, non-stop memes, subscribing to every channel that has hype quotes, and all the motivation, but none of the action. That's not a visionary. That's a [\h__\h] on life support. The universe is generous. It gives to those who take. If you haven't built the life you want, it's not because you're cursed. It's not because you have a problem or because of your genetics or your job. It's not because you are too short, too old, too unlucky, too unhappy, too depressed, too much anxiety, or you have too much on your plate. It's because you haven't earned it. You still think desire actually is a currency for success. There's lots of things I desire. I don't have them. I have to work. Earn them. Desire is not a currency. Discipline is the currency. The guy who trained when he didn't want to, that guy earns. Who was grinding when everybody else was sleeping and resting, that man earns. The man who stacked habits instead of all your ambitious hope, that's the one who wins, right? the Lambo, the Ferrari, the penthouse, the respect, the legacy, the watch, the money, it doesn't matter. It all belongs to the man who never missed. It doesn't belong to you. Would you follow yourself? How about you ask? That's a brutal question, isn't it? Would you follow yourself? Would you trust yourself with war? Would you trust yourself with your family survival? Not a chance. Most of you guys couldn't fight your way out of a wet paper bag. And you don't even know how to spell the word hunting. Never mind do it. What? Because you can play a game. That means you're a good hunter. I'm tired of it. You guys can't hunt, fish, survive, and yet you go, I would never need to do that. I made my kids when it was freezing cold outside learn how to start a fire with a ferro rod and [\h__\h] they picked up in my field and they both did it and I videoed the whole thing and I was so proud of my kids and I made them do it on repeat. Could Would you follow yourself? Look at yourself. Would you trust yourself with a war you are inevitably going to have to fight? Would you trust yourself with a real crisis? Or would you just run and pick up the phone to some therapist that charges you $800 an hour? Would you trust yourself with leadership, with purpose, with progress? Or would you look at your current life and go, "Yeah, man. That guy can't even stay off social media for an hour. No chance would I trust that person," which is most of you. But you validate. Here's what the man that never misses has. He has a body built out of steel. Because he's done the battle over and over again. He's got a mind that can't be broken because he's done the reps psychologically. He's gone to the gym and lifted the heavy ugly catastrophes and gone through them. And he's got a vision because he knows where he wants go. That's what that man is that trains when it sucks. Works when he's tired. Why aren't you? Leads when nobody's watching. He never flinches. Never blames. Never procrastinates. Never validates. never explains it away and he's not a fantasy. He's you with the ultimate unlock. You need to stop declining the upgrade. It's presented to you every time something shows up that's difficult. There's your upgrade. Most people stay stuck because becoming great is more terrifying than being average. You don't fear failure. You fear responsibility. You fear power. You fear what happens if you finally become the man you say you want to be. That's what you're afraid of because that man can't hide anymore. He won't. That man doesn't get to make excuses. That's why I said it. When you raise your standards, you don't get to hide. You don't get to procrastinate, explain, make excuses. You don't get to fumble or trip your way to success. That man has to rise every day and carry the cross like a king. No matter what is going on, a lot of you guys think you're a special little snowflake. You're not special. You're also not fragile. You think you're built to be pampered. Hell, you are a walking, talking, growth, healing, unstoppable machine. And somebody convinced you otherwise. You are built to carry weight. You understand that? Real weight, physical weight. You're built to carry weight. You are a monster. a beast of burden. You're designed to bleed with purpose. And the only way you win and create that purpose is through voluntary suffering. I've said this over and over again. And until you accept that, you are never going to meet that man that never misses ever. So you can keep sitting there coming up with your excuses and going through YouTube videos until you watch the one that makes you feel better. Or you can listen to this one and be better. Because that listen, the single defining trait between men who conquer and take over the throne of a kingdom and men who can't even conquer their refrigerator, discipline. It's not motivation or passion. You guys have follow your passion. It's not some weak list of resolutions that you made on one day out of the year with your Spotify playlist and a super green smoothie. Discipline. It's boring. It's boring. It's brutal. You know what else it is? Battle tested. It's the one thing you avoid because you still think life is about feeling good. If you only act when you feel like it, you're not a man. You're a child with a little bit of hair on your face. Feelings are for women and children. Women and children get to cry when they're upset and tired. Men do not. They get to throw tantrums and get angry and get all hormonal. They get to be ruled by moods and hormones. That is a woman and that is a child. They are allowed because our job is to protect them, to provide for them. Your job as a woman is not to be. You guys are the hypnosis of social conditioning, the indoctrination where women should be men is unbelievable. Your job is not to be me. My job is to get in the way of everything that comes to harm you. And your job is to build the home. My job is to protect it. But you men, you're supposed to be a machine. You're the war engine of your life, right? Machines don't care about feelings. Why do you know people say you're not a machine? You got to take days off, man. You can't work seven days a week. You're not a machine. Respect the Sabbath. The Sabbath wasn't Sunday. It was Saturday, which proves how little you know about God and the Bible. A man who has to validate and explain away and cannot control himself has no claim to victory. Has no claim to anything. If you can't stop yourself from eating like an [\h__\h] watching stupid things, pressing snooze, skipping leg day. Why would you skip leg? That's my favorite day. Today was leg day. Every day is leg day. The way I train, but today was like the real leg day. Picking up the damn phone every 5 minutes to scroll. Don't talk about being successful. Don't talk about being a leader. Your kids only listen to you because you're the only person they see. I walk into your home, they're going to listen to me. I promise. Over you. And you go listen to this cocky [\h__\h] That's because I'm a real man. You're a real decoration. Don't talk about power or wealth or success or legacy if you can't control your [\h__\h] self. All of those things demand. All of those things you got to control, right? Eating garbage, watching things, turning on your phone, validating, procrastinating. All of those things demand a man who can command himself before he commands anything else. If you can't command this, you can't command anything else. You think millionaires scroll TikTok during war. I never even post on TikTok anymore just because it pisses me off. You think legends skip training because they're tired? They don't feel like it. You think men who bend the world to their will let cravings and urges and mood swings dictate what they do? Not a chance. Men like me, we make one core decision. I will do what must be done regardless of how I feel. And you decide that's not okay because somebody in your circle said you should concentrate on your feelings. That's toxic. That's why I'm dangerous and you're not. That's why I'm powerful and you're not. And that's what makes me a king. Discipline is forged in suffering pain. It's in the fire. You get in the fire and you get gritty. You don't build it by reading quotes and singing songs with your hands in the air all day. You don't build it by scrolling to-do lists on your phone that just never get done or by constantly pushing the data fruition back. You build the life that you want in everybody else around you by going to war with yourself every single damn day. You know why I run when I'm tired and when I hurt and when I'm cold and when my chest is on fire because I only got one cylinder? Because I hate it. That's why. Cuz I hate it. I lift and I train and I work out when I'm sore because all that pain makes me pay attention. You guys are trying to hide from it. You know why I work 16-hour days? because I have a beautiful woman and two incredible children inside that count on me. And every other [\h__\h] that has said to me that they're going to be there and help has lied. I know I will never lie to myself because I value myself and what I can produce. I wake up early because it sucks. But you know what that does? It builds a man who doesn't flinch. You guys roll over and go just another five minutes. Then you come up with reasons why that's okay. Discipline is, by the way, look, you guys have an illusion about discipline. It's not about getting things done. It's about becoming the kind of man who doesn't stop. There are days where you should stop. You are overtraining and it's not okay to grind all the time and you should at least enjoy life. I do enjoy life doing this. That's the point. Once you know that you can force yourself to do what's hard, right? Once you know you can do the things that suck, that are hard, that are boring, that are painful, that you want to quit, and when nobody's watching, when you're out there all by yourself, you are untouchable. Nobody can stop you because you'll do it regardless of where you are. You know what happens? The world bows to men like that because they built an identity that doesn't crumble under pressure. You don't become savage in comfort. You become one in chaos by refusing to quit. Distill at the psychological level. Discipline is the ordering of chaos. You take all this mess like a massive confilgration and you don't just pour water on it to put it out. You control the fire to create heat, energy, steam. You use it and control it. That's chaos. That's what you do. That's what discipline is. It's not about waking up early or sticking to some routine. It's a spiritual manifestation of voluntary structure that produces results, not feelings. Here, I'll give you something to remember. This is what discipline says. And I've thought this for a long time. Discipline says, "I see the abyss. I see the entropy. I see the decay. I see the temptation. I see the regression. And I choose to stand against it with daily order." That's discipline. You wake up regardless at the same time. You train when it's inconvenient as hell. You eat what makes you powerful and fuels you and generates muscle and horsepower, not the things that sedate you and make you lethargic. Keep your word. Keep your promises. Suffer intentionally, voluntarily. That man brings order to the world and the world is in chaos right now. That is your responsibility because the next generation is counting on you. That's the man who builds nations and creates leaders and warriors, empires. Why would you not want to be? That is the cross that every man has to bear. That is your purpose. And you don't do it. And you insult God when you do that. A man without discipline is a house without a foundation. It might look good and pretty on Instagram, but every storm tears it down. And then you have to edit it again just to make it look good. And make no mistake, whether you think so or not, the storm's coming. I know it took me out at 48. And I didn't expect it. I thought I was invincible. I realized how many holes I had in my life when I woke up missing parts of me and all of what I'd created. So, the storm's coming. And if you guys go, "Wow, that's intense. That's just fact." Like, you ever see a This is what's funny to me. I see you guys in your stupid accountability checklists. You guys post your account. Let me post my accountability checklist in my Instagram stories. You're gay. Day one, I got up early. You post your pictures of your clock, right? That's hilarious to me, dude. You can program Instagram to just post whenever you tell it to. I could take 50 pictures of my clock with varying backgrounds at the same time and then just have it post that. That's all [\h__\h] How does that make you accountable? I'm going to post my accountability checklist. I got up early. I drank my 20 ounces of water. I meditated listening to Enya for 7 minutes. I made my smoothie. I read three lines to my children. I feel so aligned. Shut the hell up. Shut up. You're a grown man celebrating basic survival habits. You're Sir Edmund Hillary. You just climbed Everest. Did you see? I journaled today. Wow. Congrats. What? No, seriously. You want a cookie because you look like you've had about 600 too many. Discipline isn't journaling. You know what I do every night? Here's my journal every night. Seven or eight things that I thank God for. My family, my health, my power, my guidance, my discipline, my wisdom. I thank him for that. I thank him for my strength and my resiliency, my ability to constantly move forward, for his grace, his guidance, his love, his favor. Then I put two to three things from a list that I have created of things that need to be done in order to get me to where I want to go. It is a checklist. That's my journaling. I don't talk about my feelings at all. Discipline isn't journaling. It's not buying a whiteboard and putting doodles on it for the morning. It's not putting it on your fridge and going, "Hi, this is my great quote for the day." Discipline isn't bragging that you didn't eat a donut today. Discipline is doing what you said you would do. It is keeping your word. No applause, no support, no excuses, no explaining away. You keep your word. That is discipline. How about this? I'll even help you out. Give yourself a real checklist. Maybe you guys are like, "This guy is nuts." No, I'm just so tired of it. So, you want the new format of my podcast? Welcome to it. Do you train every day? This is a test for you. I never miss ever. I haven't for years. If you haven't kept your word, you've already missed. I told you I had a pseudo friend. This [\h__\h] never kept his word. Lie after lie with explanation after explanation. You don't know how to keep your word if your life depended on it. But [\h__\h] I help this guy all the time. Clown. Do you train every day even when you're tired? That's test one on your checklist. Do you train every day even when tired? Even when you're sick, even when you have a headache. Do you work on your goals, what you really want, even when you're uninspired and honestly pissed off? Do you protect your time? Do you leverage and protect your time like your life depends on it? Because it does. Do you deny yourself comfort and ease on purpose just to stay frosty? Do you follow through with no emotion, just cold, ice water in your veins, focused, relentless? Do you do that? Because if the answer is no, don't call yourself disciplined. You're dipping your toe in the water. You're dabbling. And dabblers die. You die in the jungle. Disciplined men become legendary. There there's going to be a long stretch of time on your journey in your life to get to the thing you want, whatever that is. And it better be yours, not for somebody else. But there's going to be a real long time where you will hate everything you're doing. You'll hate the process, the boredom, the plateaus, the walls, the obstacles, the things that get in your way. You will question your own psychology every day. I still do. And those are the moments that forge the leaders and the kings. Listen, anybody can grind when it's new. I know people that have spent a million dollars on a car and 6 months later they're bored with a car and it's still dirty. Anybody can do something when it's new. Anyone can show up when it's a new playlist. Caffeine hits just right. What about when the novelty wears off? When you got no spotlight, nobody's even looking at you. When I make this podcast and only two people listen to it, you think I'm not going to show up tomorrow? I've had episodes where I have thousands. I have a shoulder video. So, it's got 2 and a2 million views. I'll bet out of 200 2 and a half million people, which is hilarious cuz out of those 2.5 mil, I'll bet less than a hundred actually did it. They watched it and went, "Is there something easier?" I know cuz I got messages from all of you guys. You going to keep showing up and there's no spotlight when no one's clapping, everything feels like this just gray. The horizon blends into one shade of gray. No sunrise, no sunset, nothing. You going to keep showing up then? because that's when your discipline takes over one step after the other. That's why I like rucking. My buddy Jud Lehard, he's literally one of the coolest dudes I know. I I got to give him so many props. He is one of the coolest, most down to earth dudes. And he is a legit 265 lb athlete. The guy's a gymnast that can zer squat four plates aside for reps. And he's philosophically so grounded and he's so connected to God. He made a good point about working out one day. He brings things to light in a way that most people can't. He's got a gift. And he said, "Doing a workout is not really a life skill or a practical skill, no matter how strong you are." He goes, "What about long drawn out extended periods of cardio like rooking?" There are people, and he's right, that if you put them for a walk at a 17 or 18 minute mile pace, they won't be able to do it or they'll be huffing and puffing. And if you said do another mile, they wouldn't be able to. Most of you are like that. No matter what you think, try it. Today when you stop listening to this 16minute mile, 17-minute tops, walk it and right at the end do another one. Now do it with 80 lbs on your back. That's why rucking is good. It is that endless miserable keep going no matter what for hours up a hill, down a hill, through terrain, over things, under things, whatever it is, and just talk to God the whole time. Are you going to keep showing up when life's like that? when you just have that weight on your back and you just have to keep taking steps because you aren't at your emerald city yet. You're not at your kingdom that you want to reach. You going to keep doing it or you just going to roll over and let that backpack pull you home to the ground? Like when the motivation's gone, the excitement's gone, the dopamine's gone. What's left is your decision. That's all you're left with when all of that that fire and that life is gone. All you're left with is your decision, your code, your morality, your warp. Honestly, this is where discipline destroys the average man because a lot of you average men think you have discipline until you are called upon to show it and prove it because most men are addicted to short-term validation. It's what I was saying. You need likes and comments and you need the out of boys and the good job pat on the head. You're not disciplined. You guys act tough, but your emotional leash is strangling the life out of you. You guys go home and cry to your wife when things get hard. You guys crumble and get crippled by failure when results slow down. You bail. I can't count the number of times where I've had my ass handed to me and actually gone backwards. I still go and I'm going that way. And the reason you guys struggle with that is because you've never built the muscle of doing hard [\h__\h] in silence when nobody's looking. Because that's where the discipline lives. It's not in public. It's not on social media. I am trying to break the mold that you guys have of that discipline needs to be advertised. It sure as hell isn't in your cute Instagram story. It's in the silence. You can force yourself to train and do all the hard things. But if you can't demand of yourself what's required in the moment when you don't want to do it, you're not serious about winning. You're pretending to be a warrior in your mind so you can tell everybody else while living like a fat house cat. If you only go to the gym when you feel like it and only put in effort when you feel like it, you're never going to outlift a guy like me who goes when I hate it. I will distance you. I will gap you all day. I got one lung and I don't care if there is blood coming out of my chest. I'm going to run further than you and I'll get there faster than you if you go. A dude, I would destroy you. You can't because I will never stop. I will die before I stop. If you watch me at all, if you have seen me at all, if you have met me, you'd know I'm serious. You won't take it as far as I will. If you only build your business when you're excited and amped up, you're never going to out earn the guy who builds when he's exhausted and tired. If you only lead and step out in front because you've got conviction, you're never going to outlast the man who leads when he is hated. You're not going to outlast me as a leader because I don't care if you like me or not. I know the right direction. You guys go. Discipline is the kingmaker. Discipline chooses who rules and who doesn't. Imagine success is this treasure buried in a mountain, right? I give you the map, the gear, the shovel, the dynamite. I even give you the crew and I fuel up the jeep and the truck. All you have to do is drive. But somewhere along the way, you get tired. You get tired of sitting. Your legs get sore. Your butt gets sore. You need to take a break. Need to stretch your legs. Sun is glaring. You forgot your sunglasses. Your phone battery dies. You didn't bring your charger. You spill your milkshake or your protein shake on the seat. some new. You don't want to wreck your seeds. So, you're freaking out. And instead of pressing on, you go, "I got too many things to do. I got to turn around." But that is most of you. You had the tools. The blueprint, the plan, the map, the guidance. You have it all. What you didn't have is the discipline to keep going when it got inconvenient. Not even hard, just inconvenient. So, you fail. It's not even because the goal was impossible. There's no such thing as an impossible goal. It's because you're not willing to suffer for it. I have said this so many times. You don't need a new strategy or Google Sheets or a color-coded calendar, you guys, and your stupid apps that keep track of everything. How did you survive before? It's easy to get to where you want to go when that is the only thing you think about. You allow yourself to be distracted, but it is easy to obsess and hit the target when all you do is think about that target. You don't need a new gym or a new coach or a new consultant or some new journal or a new business or a new podcast or a new program. You need a new decision. You need to decide to become the man who never needs to be motivated again ever. You need to go, I don't give a [\h__\h] about motivation. You need to steal yourself against everything that is trying to steal your life. Because once discipline takes over you, you can't be stopped, right? You become a juggernaut. You cannot be stopped once discipline takes over. That's what kings are made of. Because you can't be a man of any capacity. You can be a male, but you can't be a man, let alone a man of exceptional magnitude or greatness without suffering. You can't. No discomfort or inconvenience or no, I hurt my toe. I got a paper cut. It feels like an amputation. All that kind of adversity that you claim is suffering. No, real pain. The pain that's going to rearrange your DNA. That kind of pain. It wakes you up in a cold sweat freaking out. The pain that makes you question everything you thought that you were. That pain. Because I've been there. When I woke up and I was 95% sure before I went into surgery that I was like, I know who I am. I know who I am. But I had 5%. Listen folks, please. 5% wasn't sure. Oh, I could run with most of them. But there was 5% of me that doubted until I opened my eyes and I did my first lap around that room, still anesthetized, holding on to the nurse with a box filled with my blood and tubes coming out of me in an IV stand, wobbling around while my wife filmed the entire thing. And the staff argued because they went, "You just had thoracic surgery. You can't do this." And I said, "Pick me up off the floor or help me walk around. Those are your choices." That was the first day and I've never missed since. That cleared out that 5%. I've been that person and I know what it took of me to change. But now you have no idea how unstoppable I am. You're not missing motivation, you guys. You're missing wounds. You're missing the scars that are required. You're missing the pain, the gashes, the openings, our savior, his scars. Yours should be easy. Let me explain something. The road to everything exceptional that you want does not go around pain ever. It punches a hole right through it. You know what pain is? It's the barrier to entry. It's the price. It's the admission. That's your cover charge. Your cover charge is the pain. And that's the cover charge to the life that you want, the life that's worth living. That's the cover charge to the life that the man you could be is waiting for you to pay. And you guys treat it as optional. It's not optional. It's not optional. It sure it's not the obstacle. That's easy. It's like when people go, "Dude, everybody here should just go, listen, I need to join your mastermind because I need to change my life." You guys look for tiny little changes. I need to join a coaching group so I can make more money. But if you don't have the psychology to stay in the game and have the discipline to do it when it sucks, when you're not making money, when clients or future sales all tell you no, and you spent six months not making a dime. It's your psychology that keeps you in. It's not the training. And you guys will blame this coach. They told me how to post this way. They told me to use this funnel. They said start this business. It's my wife. I got these kids. You guys look for everything. But the problem is your psychology and is [\h__\h] up because you don't have any wounds or scars. You don't have the capacity to stay in the game, be there's your opportunity to do it. That's the price of admission. So, you think that the $1,500 price to enter my unbreakable mastermind for an entire year, all 144 live calls, everything on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, every question answered, every sales tactic I can give you, every psychological skill set you need to get rid of the limiting beliefs and overcome any [\h__\h] thing that gets in your way and become a beast to punch holes in the universe to create the life you want. And you guys go $1,500. That is the problem with you, not the money. If you go, I don't have the money, but you found her for a [\h__\h] iPhone. That's the problem. That is the bouncer standing in your way. And the only way you knock that [\h__\h] down is by paying the price. But it's not optional. You can keep going through all these little Mickey Mouse programs or you can join something real. My mastermind. You want it? The link is in my bio here somewhere. Click it. Pay for it. Don't be cheap. Spend 1,500 bucks. You want to do it for real? spent $4,997. Send me a message on Instagram. I've said this before. Pick one. 1,50049.97. That's five grand, by the way. I have to say it because some of you guys are, I thought you said it was 50 bucks. Get the [\h__\h] out of here. 1,500 or 5 grand. Send me a message. You know what the message is going to say? L I F E. Send me that word. I will send you a link. Welcome to the most badass mastermind you've ever been part of. I'll change your life and I'll convince you. You stick around with me. I promise I'll convince you that you can do anything you want and become anything you want. And by the time that year's up, you'll beg me to join the lifetime and I'll let you. The pain of admission is the price. It's the requirement. You want to be tough, then you better suffer. You better get comfortable with suffering voluntarily, repeatedly, and violently. Your cushy soft routine, your predictable schedule, your feel-good affirmations, they're not making you stronger. They're making you soft. Pain is the original signal that says you're growing. Everything else is noise and distraction. You ever meet a man with real presence? You just feel it. It's palpable when that guy walks in the room. Like you feel the lightning behind his eyes. That's pain, son. That's a man who's been dragged through hell and came back with fire in his fists. Pain isn't something to run from. You want to think just a spin it from a philosophical point of view. It's not something you want to run from it. You integrate pain in myth and story. When is a hero not suffered? Never. The hero always suffers. Think Batman, right? Prometheus, Christ, our savior, Jesus of Nazareth. The pattern is universal. Why? Because suffering is the crucible in which meaning is born. A man who never suffers and who has never suffered is a shallow man. His victories are cheap. They're meaningless. His character is so thin. It's the pain that gives your life depth. It's the pain that gives your mission weight. It's the pain that defines exactly who you are because you were willing to stand in it until the victory, not until it hurt. Without pain, there is no transformation. only stagnation. You ever see one of these new age soy boys talk about healing their inner child or going back through their trauma? Bro, your inner child doesn't need healing. He needs to get [\h__\h] slapped, put through goddamn boot camp. Pardon my language. I don't like saying that. No, I really don't. I think it's blasphemous. But that's what he needs, man. So, boy, I'm so tough wearing your dumbass clothes, looking so gay, you need to get slapped and thrown through the ugliest boot camp and then dragged behind a vehicle for a couple of miles through a field of broken glass with your tongue tied to the tailpipe of a Ford. Like you guys, all you new age guys go through a bad breakup and act like you just fought in a war. Oh, she ghosted me and I'm so traumatized psychologically. No, you're not traumatized. You're weak. You got handed a lesson and tried to turn it into a lifestyle. Like life life just came up and hit you. Just Tyson. And you crumbled. That's conditioning, son. You didn't use the pain to level up. You used it to get sympathy from everybody else and used it to stay stuck. You don't need therapy, man. You need purpose. Like, you need to bleed forward. You need to feel a sting of discipline. It's supposed to hurt. You guys think discipline is supposed to be like a nice hug. Pain is God's gift to men because it shapes who you are. Tate said it right. Batman became Batman because they killed his parents. If he'd have lived, he'd just be another trust fund kid with a butler. It was the pain that forged that symbol. It was the loss that unlocked that legend. And you think you're going to build an empire without taking some hits and scars? You think you're going to become elite without getting broken and rebuilt? Let me tell you the biggest lie society has sold you on. If something hurts, avoid it. How many of you guys are guilty because of that? No. If something hurts, there's purpose. Run right into it. Pain is a path. We're not around it. Not over, not under through it. You hit that switch, become a juggernaut, and go right through it. The most dangerous men in the world are the ones who've suffered the most and turned that suffering into a blueprint. Because the real villain is comfort. Walk with me on this one. The real villain is comfort. The reason you're still average isn't because you didn't have opportunities. It's because you avoided the pain at every single fork in the road. You didn't take the risk because it was scary. You didn't spend the money because you wanted to procrastinate. You skipped the gym because it was hard and you hurt. You stayed in the relationship because leaving felt worse. And you said yes to everybody because saying no felt awkward. And now here you are sad, confused, powerless, and still wondering why nothing in your life feels fulfilled. Because comfort doesn't grow you. Gashes and scars and pain, that's what grows you. Pain is not just inevitable. You can't avoid it. You're going to feel it anyway. You guys just run away from it as long as you can. It's not the boogie, man. It's your savior, man. It's a blessing from God. It's It's useful. You know what pain does? It reveals weakness. It exposes the gaps in your character, in your conduct, and gives you an opportunity to level the [\h__\h] up. It builds focus, singularity of focus, drive, ambition, and purpose. It creates gratitude. You have no idea how grateful I am after everything I've gone through. It sharpens you. It hones you. It fuels that transformation. You keep telling everybody you did and how resilient you are, but you're not resilient if there's any pain and it shuts you down. A man who's never felt heartbreak doesn't know how to protect his tribe. You don't get your education from a college degree and a piece of paper on the wall. You get your education through pain. A man who's never lost doesn't know how to fight for a win because you've never been punched in the mouth. A man who's never been broke doesn't know the hunger to make a bunch of money. Pain is the gift. It always has been. It always will be. The absence of pain is the curse. You guys have it backwards. Pain is the key. It's like a key. And every locked version of you, every stronger, smarter, sharper, more powerful level is behind one of those doors. There are just never- ending doors. You can't pick the lock with your little affirmations and you're dancing around your soundboard. You can't bribe it with good intentions and happy thoughts. You think your positivity is going to smash one of those doors down? You need a key. And the key is pain. You have to go through the loss because you guys have been conditioned so deeply to avoid pain. Except that is what you need that forms the key and gives you the strength to turn it in the lock and open the door and get to the next level. The heartbreak, the betrayal, the lies, the cheating, the sacrifice, the grind, the failure, the ugly parts of your life. Keep going because then only then does the door open. That's how the man who never misses was born. That's how he grew and that's how he earned his crown. That's how I did it. Well, a lot of times I teach you what, when, and why, and I make you pay me for how. I just gave you the secret. Most of you still won't do it. Because here's what separates that man from you. He didn't flinch. He took a hit and he leaned in. When it burned, he smiled and said, "Keep going. Everything that came and tried to break me made me. I got rebuilt stronger because of the pain. That's who you were meant to be. I didn't even know who I was meant to be until I went through that. And then I realized God has a bigger plan for me and here I am. It's not this half-committed soft halfserious version that folds at the first sign of discomfort. You're avoiding the one thing that can make you great. Pain. The longer you run away from it, the longer you run from your own destiny and all the success you wish you had. Do something painful on purpose every single day. That's how you listen. It might sound materialistic, but that's why I'm wearing a $35,000 Rolex. Because I've put myself in pain. That's why we own the studio. That's why I'm fit and athletic. That's why I have a two decade marriage with my best friend. That's why we have powerful children. That's why when things suck, we get up. Listen, you think it doesn't suck for us or that we don't experience pain every day. We just don't quit. So do something painful every single day. Train yourself. You train yourself for comfort. You go in the wrong direction. You realize you're creating all those neural pathways to stay away from it. And you think you're winning. So when you feel questioned, you go on to Instagram or Tik Tok and you look up all the people you can find that are willing to recruit you into their soft little circle about how you should put your phone in a box at 6:00, turn off notifications, stop talking to people, and make sure that on Saturdays and Sundays all you do is play in the park. Do that when you're done. But you're not. So do some painful things every day. Do at least one every day. Do it on purpose every day. Wake up earlier than you want. Make it uncomfortable. Do extra reps when your muscles say, "I'm [\h__\h] you." Do one more fast. Do an 186 fast. Train harder. Cut out all your sugar. Make that call that you are like, "I don't want to make this phone call." Look for whatever's on fire in your life. Walk right into it. Every act of voluntary suffering upgrades your identity. It increases the quality of your character. Every time you do that hard thing, your mind whispers, "We ain't average anymore." That's what you want. The next time something bad happens to you, don't whine. Don't vent. Don't even post. This is the catalyst that I was missing in there. Balancing that chemical equation of greatness. This is the catalyst. This is going to set off that enzyatic reaction and it's just going to go nuclear. Iron needs heat to become steel. Men need pain to become legendary. You think it as punishment. If not, that's the refinery. You walk in jagged, soft, empty, hollow, purposeless into the pain. And you go through the refinery and come out unstoppable. you're unbreakable by doing it. The reason you've been feeling so lost isn't because life's too hard. It's because it's been too easy. Why don't you just get up and welcome the pain? Look for it. And if you say, "This is a terrible advice," then you're not ready to be a leader. If you want to, then it's time to suffer like a king. It's time to become unbreakable. I've been on this for a while now, and I have so many more things to say. You need to kill that fantasy that you're living in. Life is not supposed to be peaceful or balanced. It's not supposed to feel safe or soft or fair. Life is war. From the second your eyes open up to the movie that you are writing every day, you are in conflict against your competitors, your excuses, your procrastination, your validation, your own psychology, against gravity and laziness and mediocrity and weakness in all of its seductive forms. Every minute of peace you get is paid for by war. And the men who forget that get crushed by men like me who didn't. Like you want a signal green 9/11 like mine, an orange revuelto, so does somebody else. You want to marry a knockout beautiful woman like I did, so does somebody else. You want the empire, the body, the freedom, so do millions and billions of other men. And guess what? Most of them are training right now while you are still arguing with yourself about whether you feel up to it. Everything you want is already being hunted by somebody more dangerous than you are. Somebody much more lethal because they've trained when you quit. This world, you treat it like a playground, like it's a vending machine. No, it's a battlefield. While you're meditating and journaling about manifestation and rewiring the universe, real killers, the dangerous [\h__\h] are building and sweating and scaling and grinding and outpacing you and dominating the space. It's dominance hierarchy is the easiest way to explain it. Every system, whether animals or men or corporations or nations, is built on one eternal truth. Limited resources, competition for those resources. And those who rise win, they lead, they become the king. See, now modern men want the spoils, want the victories without the scars and the blood. You want the throne without the fight. You want to step into the end zone without ever getting on the field. olution walk right out of the stands. You want the admiration without any of the chaos and the armor required. But power is not given, it's taken. War, strategy, grit, unrelenting execution in the face of whatever chaotic environment you tend to be in right now. Whatever it is, it doesn't matter what your circumstances or situation is. Unrelenting execution is always the answer. You are not here to find peace. You're here to demand order in chaos by force if necessary. I told you, you don't put the fire out. You organize it, control it, and use it as fuel. You can either train like you're at war or you can train like it's a hobby. You choose. But don't cry when the enemy burns your village to the ground. That's because of you. You could you look at yourself. Could you defend? You can't. Most of you can't. You You guys wake up every day and cherrypick what you want to see instead of seeing the truth. You want to look for things that only make you feel good instead of things that make you better. Life is not your friend. Life doesn't give a [\h__\h] about your goals, your backstory, or that your mommy died or that you lost money or somebody hurt your feelings or your childhood trauma. It's coming for you. Either way, you are going to get attacked. Setbacks, pain, betrayal, lies, distraction, discomfort, all coming for you. If you haven't trained your body, your psychology, your soul, and leaned into God for that and the systems to go into kill mode, you are going to lose. You don't need more mindfulness. You need more battle preparedness. Like you see these peace seeking guys, rainbows and unicorns and hugs and kisses and positive words. That's great. I don't deal with negativity. I don't even allow it in my life. You're negative. You're sticky and you're nasty. Get the hell away from me. I am only going to move forward. But you think you're listening to this podcast going, "This is negative." No, it's not. This is a blueprint for success. The these guys that are these huggy balloon carrying like pillowy beanag shaped potatoes that are walking around going, "I'm all about peace with my multicolored hair looking like a fishing lure." They say things like, "I just want to vibe, man. I'm not into conflict." That's one of my favorites. I like to stay in like my aura is soft energy. What does that even mean? Gen Z's got a weird language. I'm all about love. Why would you want to fight? Who hurt you, bro? You're not peaceful. You're a coward with Spotify premium with a Wi-Fi signal. Conflict. You can't avoid. Where are you going to avoid conflict when you are breathing? Conflict will find you nowadays. It'll find you anywhere. and your family, on your phone, your bank account, your marriage, your self-worth, your credibility. And if you don't show up like a savage, like a warrior, you get run over like a tourist every day. Listen, there are only two kinds of men in this world. Men who train for war because they understand it's always coming, and men who pray for peace and fall apart the second something breaks. Which one are you? Guess which group wins? It's not the ones who meditate their way through adversity. It's not the ones who post inspirational quotes and memes during a crisis. Sure as hell isn't the ones who outsource all of their responsibility to luck, timing, fate, or not the right time. Winners look for war, embrace it, and do damage. They plan for it, expect it, and train for it. Train like you fight, and you fight like you train. That applies to life. That is not just the arena where you're going to war with weapons. Think about your daily life. raising a family. You don't think that's war? That's war on chaos. Building a body, war on comfort. Fixing your mind, your psychology, war on lies and explanations and procrastination. Keeping a relationship, war on ego, scaling a business, war on all distractions that show up. Sitting in traffic, that's war on your patience. You ever do that? I used to commute for an hour and a half to two hours every day each direction. You're built to be a killer. The moment you start treating life like a mission instead of a vacation, that's when it finally starts to bend in the direction that you want it to go. If you are seeking happiness first, you'll never be great. If you are seeking greatness first, you will end up being happy. Being exceptional requires massive investment of yourself. Stress, pressure, pain, discomfort, all of that are required. Neither does Trump. Or you think Genghask Khan waited until he felt emotionally aligned before conquering Persia. He got on his horse and he went because that's what kings do. Kings act. They advance. They suffer intelligently. This isn't senseless suffering. See, I think a lot of you guys go, "Okay, I just got to go suffer." So, you go sit in a cold plunge and you call that being savage. I don't care what somebody says going cold plunges. You try it, bro. I smashed the ice on my pool that was 2 in thick. And I filmed it with a sledgehammer and sat in the water. It sucked, but it wasn't a battle and it wasn't brutal suffering. So all you cold plunging z-lots, that's not changing your mindset. It's good for your body and cranks up your circulation and vasoc constricts and has some other health properties, but that ain't voluntary suffering. Go later layer deeper. How about let's just do that. The man who doesn't understand that life is war. Really, if you don't understand that life is war, you're going to start to find happiness in all of the wrong places. You don't understand that life is a constant battleground. So, you look for happiness in all the places that are the distraction. You scroll through social media, numb yourself with drugs or porn. You validate. You escape. You smoke weed or whatever else it is. You drink countless gallons of alcohol all because you believe the lie. If I just do enough healing, I'm going to finally feel good. You practice escape, but when all of the escape wears off, you're still in the same spot. You're never going to feel good. The reward does not come to healed men. It comes to hardened men. The reward comes to men who fought through hell and didn't fault. They didn't get crippled. They crawled on their hands and knees, bleeding, bloody, and beaten. But they still crawled. Men who didn't wait for peace. They built it inside of the chaos. That's who you must become. Listen, just expect that it's going to be hard. Expect the resistance. Every step forward is going to be challenged. So, just plan for it. If this step is going to be hard, I may as well be ready for it and be stronger than they are. Train every day. Enough of you guys going, I'm on a three-day on, one day off split doing upper body, lower body, legs. If that works for you, that is not what real men do. Real men train every day. You know why? Because show me anywhere in nature where nature takes a day off. You train your body every day. Your body is the weapon of all times. That is the biggest weapon you've got. Keep it sharp. Razor sharp. When it's quiet, in silence, when nobody's around, nobody cares how hard it is. They care if you deliver. Lead through all of the adversity. Your business, your team, your family, all of these people take their cues from you. So, show them how to suffer with a reason, with a purpose. Celebrate the war. Don't just tolerate the pressure. Love it. Embrace it. Look for it. Because that's what's shaping you. The only shape you get out of comfort is a circle. When you embrace life as a battleground, you stop chasing meaningless balance because your meaning comes from action. You don't find meaning when things are easy. It's found in the responsibility you voluntarily pick up even when it feels crushing. The man who walks into a war on purpose becomes the archetype, the myth, the symbol. And not because he was the strongest. I think that's where you're mistaken. Not because he was the strongest, because he refused to bow. He refused to take the knee. You don't need peace. You need purpose. Peace is passive. It makes you soft and it steals your edge. That's what lulls you into complacency. And purpose, it turn it demands focus. It demands singularity of focus and turns every hardship, adversity, and obstacle into fuel. Every wound should be some form of wisdom that you've gained. The goal isn't to be happy in life. The goal is to become formidable, undeniable, capable, unbreakable. When you finally accept that life is war, you don't play defense. Why would you ever want to do that? When you stop playing defense, that's when you build the empire you wish you had. I could come out here and scream my head off. That's not what real power looks like. It's not in the flexing. Whatever I've done, how much I can lift. It's not in broadcasting every win. There's nothing wrong with that. You should show up every day and broadcast all your wins so other people see that it's possible. Not to show how powerful you are. It's not in any of that. It's not in the grind. It's not in every move you make. Real power is built. When it's quiet, nobody's around. That's when it really is the results. When people see the victory, what they don't see is all the [\h__\h] you had to do to get there. Imagine if a camera followed you around. Would people be proud or would they go, "What a liar. What a fraud." Because once you become unignorable, you no longer have to announce everything. But you have to be willing to be ignored until that point. After that point, your results scream louder than anything on earth and your silence becomes the loudest in the room because people know what you did when nobody was watching. The most incredibly powerful thing you can do is to stop giving a [\h__\h] about your feelings. Not because you're numb. You've just outgrown all the noise that you hear from everybody else that's going nowhere and trying to keep you there with them. You don't need to respond to haters. You don't need to validate anything to anybody. You You guys are proving things to people who don't even exist in your world. You don't need to do any of that. when your bank account is loaded with zeros after a one or your crypto or investments has just got nothing but massive wealth. When your woman looks at you with adoration, like I said at the beginning, your body is a weapon and it's highly trained. When your circle is small, tight, and elite, when your mission and your vision never change. When 10 years down the road, they go, "This guy's been saying this for 10 years." You can be silent because real power doesn't beg for attention. And it commands respect without saying a thing. You know what some of you guys need to do? Shut your mouth. You don't need to get in the comments and validate where your position is to somebody who doesn't give a [\h__\h] about you and you don't care about them. You got triggered. You need to shut your mouth. You don't need to broadcast everything you're doing in hopes that somebody gives you a gold star. You don't need to post about your goals. You need to execute on them in silence when it's dark, when you're afraid, when you're sad, when you're angry, when it's incredibly uncomfortable. You want to impress people. How about you get your life so dialed in that people feel it when you walk past them? When you walk into a room, everybody looks at you and goes, "That's a disciplined man." Not because you wore a shirt that says disciplined, but because you don't have to train in the shadows. You know what's interesting is somebody said, "You post it all the time at my worst." I had people make fun of me, hate me, leave, ostracize. I still showed up because I wanted to show that you can do it when people are against you. I told you I had a lady say, "Enjoy your short wind sucking life." Because I made a comment about getting a small cylinder with a pointy end shoved into you filled with noxious toxic chemicals. I showed up every day because I want to make sure that you guys see because social media is filled with highlight reels and liars and frauds. I am not one of them. You can follow me around anytime, day or night. I train like a savage in the shadows. No fanfare, no spotlight. You guys know what that built? The man sitting here right now. Unbreakable identity. Do you have that or do you cave when people point their finger at you? You get in the comments right away. Because when you suffer in silence, you build something inside of you that can't be touched. It can't be taken away. If you have the kind of power that constantly needs to be proclaimed, it's not power. If insecurity wearing a costume, the archetypal strong man doesn't bark. He is strength. His identity is strength. He doesn't need to fight because the presence of that man is the warning. And when it becomes chaotic and there's a catastrophe and circumstances go sideways, the best way to explain it, the man doesn't react. He's already doing calculations and then he holds frame, digs his feet in and stays rooted because physical power is a byproduct of psychological power. That's what real psychological power looks like. It's born from the quiet mastery, selfmastery when there's a struggle. That makes you unbreakable. Like these guys that post about their grind on Instagram all the time. Rise and grind. You never quit, bro. Stacking wins. Late night hustle. Always bet on myself. Bloodline breaker. Congrats, champ. You went to the gym. So did about 400 million other people today. Awesome. You drank water? Oh, dude. Let me get you a [\h__\h] medal. That's not power. That's a cry for attention. You understand? Powerful. Like the reason my wife says, she goes, "Did you post today?" I don't know. I got too much to do. It's a struggle for me to put anything on social media. Even coming out here, I don't know how long. I've been out here forever right now on this one. This is I'm already almost 7:00. But powerful men aren't busy documenting. They're busy dominating. They're too focused to film. They're far too lethal to bother explaining to anybody and they're executing more than anybody else thinks and they don't give a [\h__\h] what anybody else thinks. If you're spending more of your time curating your journey than living it, you don't have a journey and you're not building power. You're building a brand of [\h__\h] The most powerful move that you can make is simply just ignore. Just ignore the ex, the lying friend that broke their promises non-stop. The one who doubted you, the people who troll in the comments, the people who play small and try to pull you down with them or drag you on and on while you burn your life to the ground waiting for them to make a decision. Because when you're truly doing things that are going to make you grow and create the undeniable man, they don't [\h__\h] matter. You want revenge, don't get even. get so far ahead of these people, they have to watch you succeed in silence, knowing they're not even allowed into your world anymore. That's power, man. That's lethal silence, huh? She said you weren't good enough, that you were a loser, you were simp non-stop, send her cards and flowers, and work so hard to try and get her back to prove something, to rage, to flex, all that stuff that you think you're going to do that's going to help. No, it's not. You want to get powerful? Vanish, ghost, and somebody's going to go, "That's not right at all." Only people that'll say that is a simpy man or a woman who is playing the game to get you to come back because they want you. I had a girl one time, she broke up with me every week for 3 weeks. On the third time, I went, "Fuck this." Cuz the first two times I went, "Hey, what happened? What's going on? Why?" Third time I went, "See you." She didn't leave me alone for 6 months. It was for attention. That's all a lot of you guys aren't on social media. The most powerful thing you can do is disappear, build in silence, and become everything she never believed you could be. JK Rawlings, man. Her [\h__\h] ass husband. She crushed it. She crushed it. Let her watch from the sidelines as her window closes forever. You slam the door and move on to something so much better. I don't mean a person. do let her sit in her own decline health, wealth, and relationships while you just build all that because you focused on your purpose. That's what you need to do. Not out of spite. Don't do it because you're doing it to spile. Don't do that. That's juvenile. The moment you stopped reacting, you stopped bleeding and hemorrhaging all your power. Listen, here's what you need to understand. Power doesn't chase anything. It's magnetic. It attracts. doesn't explain. It doesn't rush. It's calm and violent. Because when your roots are so deep, what storm's going to take you down? You need to be so surgical with your focus that you don't react to any noise ever. That's how you become unbreakable. Here, I'll give you another list. I like lists. I got this from Brian Tracy. I'll never forget. I read a book. I know it was an audio program. Feeling listless? Make a list. And then he would just check things off. But I do that all the time. I make a list of exactly what I want and exactly where I am. And then I look at all the steps required to take me to where I want and I distill them down until they're things that can be done in less than a day. And then I just start checking them off. There you go. You're welcome. I just gave you the secret sauce to success. Here's a tactical list for you. Speak only when it builds or commands. A lot of you guys have a hard time with that. Speak only when it is going to build or create or command. Don't explain what you're doing. Don't explain your grind when somebody asks, "What are you doing? Who hurt you? Why are you grinding so hard?" Don't explain your grind. Just do it. Control yourself. And by that I mean control your energy. Don't let small impetent people bait you. Ignore them. I promise. I promise. Silence crushes more than any insults ever will. Win in the dark. That's a good one. Because you want to build what they're never going to see coming. and you become so dangerous that when you move, it's over before it even started. That's how you need to be. Protect your circle as if it's a matter of life or death because it is. Power flows to and from trust and reward loyalty heavily. Extricate yourself from betrayal. Eliminate it. Any betrayal, cut them off immediately. Never talk to them again. Remove them from your life. They don't exist. Stay unbreakable. Don't overreact. No overreaction. No panic. No hyper emotional states. Calm, ruthless execution always. That's the best there. That is probably the most man. I should write that down because I'm not going to remember that. A lot of that is how I conduct myself. You don't need to prove anything to anybody, you guys. You don't you you need to stop trying to convince other people that you're serious. Just be serious. You don't need to tell the world that you're on a mission. Just be on a mission. Just every day be on the [\h__\h] mission. Let the results show what you're doing. The silence should intimidate people. They're going to bait you because it's uncomfortable for them. It doesn't need to be uncomfortable for you. So, let the silence be intimidating to them. Let your transformation be so violent and so aggressively explosive that they can't even recognize you. That's real power. And here's the best part. It was never loud to begin with. I could stay out here all day because I want you guys to win, but it's not about me. I'm trying to give you exactly what I do. This is a recipe for my life. You already know what to do. And in fact, you've known for years. You've chosen comfort and your soft little feelings and your distractions and your escapes and your lies and your justifications and your procrastinations and your dopamines and your denials, your hiding and your safety. and you explain away everything. The man that you were born to become is still waiting, sharper, stronger, and much, much more disciplined than you've ever been. So, this is a truth that should just He's just smack you if you got one. That man is never coming to save you. that man is the target and he's going, "You need to do what it takes to become me or you will never see me." How about this? It's the most simple thing in the world. How about from right now, from the second you turn off this podcast, from this moment forward, no more waiting, no more whining, no more excuses, no more explaining away, no more justification, no more validations, but there's just this one thing. I have one more thing to do, bro. No more procrastination, no more weakness. Get up, go to war, and when it hurts, good. Because that's the proof that you're on the right path. I said at the beginning, you're not stuck. You're not broken. You're scared of who you could become. So instead, listen to this entire episode. Pay attention to what I told you to do, and then go become him. I got to go. That's where we fight.