Saturday is always an interesting day for me because I fast on Friday. Friday night is date night for Brandy and I. And at 8:00 we we stop eating and we don't eat again until 2:00 2 p.m. today, the following day, Saturday. And you know what? I get these people that just Everybody is a research expert now on social media. Apparently, everybody is they got their Google research and their Reddit research and their bro science and all this stuff that really has no basis on anything other than it allows them a plat like they just use it to argue. people will find. I really need you to look at your life because a lot of you guys will find every possible story and slanted research and culmination of data and you will glean as much information as possible from Google and and most of it anecdotal to support why you're right when you're going toe-to-toe with somebody that's doing more work than They're more successful than you. They make more money than you. They're more fit than you. They have a better marriage than you. And then they give you the reasons why. And they give you the blueprint. They give you exactly how to do it. If I come out here and I go, "Listen, if you want to make a million dollars a year, it is $2,900 a day. And there's going to be somebody that gets in the comments and starts chattering away about how it's not possible. And that's more than most people make in a month. And you need to look at the reality, bro. And most people don't have that kind of time. And some of us have responsibilities and jobs and we have children to take care of and we aren't in a position where we can devote 18 hours a day to work on a business from scratch like you because you already have a business and you make millions of dollars a year. But yet none of that those are all to support you. They're not they're not to support they're not to go against me. They're to support you staying where you are. You understand the difference, right? Like you guys are arguing to stay where you can't stand it. You're arguing against people who are doing better than you because they are willing to extend their limit every day because you don't like how it feels when somebody goes, "I'm doing better than you. Let me show you." you quickly get in the ring even though you can't box and you start a fight with somebody who's doing better than you because you don't like how it feels when they blow a hole in all your excuses and lies that you've been telling yourself every time you look in the mirror. And I see this all the time and I got somebody talked to me the other day. They sent me a message about how I was overtraining and they said and I actually feel like I need to address this because you guys will support drinking cans of Celsius and yeah, I just gave them a free shout out. Drinking cans of Celsius and Red Bulls all day and why you need to drink a bottle of wine every night and why eating is more than just food. It's this big giant experience where some of us need to do that and that's how we have our life and you can't just take away food, bro. And not everybody can do what you can and you can't train every day. We don't all have that time. Except you know what? None of that is true. Those are all manufactured excuses and reasons that you are spitting out at an alarming rate because you function at a superficial level because you're unwilling to go slightly deeper and go, "Shit, maybe I'm the one that's responsible for this. Maybe it is 100% my fault because just to be very transparent, it is 100% your fault. Where you are in your life is 100% your fault. And the second you comprehend that, you gain all the control. Not a little bit, all of it. Because then you realize if it's 100% my fault, I can do anything I want. Which means I can rectify the situation or I can stay here and wallow and whine and complain and get on every forum possible and [\h__\h] about how bad my life is, but do nothing about it. But that is the weakest move possible. The most the biggest [\h__\h] move that you can make is to complain about your circumstances and do nothing about it. And I see people do that all the time. They whine. I had a guy I told you the other day. He's I got to get around that group. I got to get in that mastermind. Here's the link. Go ahead and pay. Oh, you know what? I I just I if I don't know any of the men in that group, then I really have a hard time paying that amount of money. Dude, you had a link for 1,500 bucks to get into a mastermind for a year. That's 144 calls a year live with me where I solve problems. And it is the fastest growing mastermind in the world right now. And you pass by an opportunity because you didn't want the solution. You wanted easier and you thought it was going to be cheaper. You thought it was going to be less of a commitment. The only reason anybody will argue against doing more work is because they want to do less, but they want the same results as somebody who is successful. Overtraining is that's what this entire thing was about today is overtraining. I'm going to make this fast cuz I honestly I got [\h__\h] to do and I don't really want to be on here today a whole bunch because I have things to do. I want to go hang out with my wife and I have to go stretch and I have a bunch of things I have to take care of business-wise. I come out here to give you guys solutions. Doesn't always have to be an hour, but what it has to be is valuable. So, I train every day. I don't care if you train every day. There is no such thing as overtraining. None. It is not PO. First of all, all of you guys talking about overtraining need to actually train first. If you train one hour a day with your curls and your chest press and your leg extensions and all the other boring bro gym [\h__\h] that you do, you're not training. I'm sorry. I listen, I have nothing against bodybuilders. Nothing. I think it is an incredibly large amount of work to get to to look like that, to look like a bounce house stuffed in a duffel bag on stage with tiny little shorts on. I I think it takes a shitload of work to get like that and a truckload of chemistry. I don't care. I don't care. But none of that is athletic outside of what's his name? Chris Bumpstead, who is athletic as hell, by the way. Just to be very clear, that guy is athletic. That guy's explosive. He can jump. He can move, but he is not the norm. He's an enigma. And the guy's a machine. I have so much respect for that guy because not only is he a bodybuilder, he is also an athlete, but that's very rare. I have a ton of friends that are bodybuilders and they couldn't run more than 20 yards without being like they get winded going to get the mail at the end of their driveway and their driveway is 20 yards. You know, they're slightly flexible, but not really just because they have all that tissue. It allows them some flexibility. But they're not athletic. They're not explosive. They do everything in a single plane. They don't work in the transverse plane. Transverse plane is life. Just to be very clear. So if you are working in the frontal plane all the time, you're not an athlete. You're not an athlete. Get mad. I don't care. It It's because you guys don't like the truth. And instead of going, "Shit, maybe this guy is right." You guys go, "Oh yeah, screw you." Get in the comments and start beaconing away and complaining and justifying why bodybuilding is an actual sport. It's not. It's about as much of a sport as CrossFit. not a sport. Listen, I've done CrossFit. I still train functional fitness and I do some CrossFit concepts in what I do. None of it is athletic. None of it. All of you CrossFitters going, "We're the fittest on earth and we're athletic." No, you're not. You go toe-to-toe with anybody that's an actual athlete, you are going to get destroyed. If you look at all the elite CrossFitters who are winning things, most of them are also athletes. They just happen to go into CrossFit. The argument, you guys get so mad about the dumbest things and you don't fight for what you should fight for. You want to argue for the sake of arguing because you think some like you get hurt, you get your feelings hurt. If I come out like right now, there is no such thing as overtraining. There is not. You can quote all the research you want. You can give me all the studies. You can come up with all the forums and give me all the links. None of it is accurate. And here is the proof. Nothing on this planet, not an organism on the planet outside of human beings, wakes up every day and makes a decision on whether or not they're going to go all out. They have one speed. Every living organism on Earth has one speed. Whatever the [\h__\h] it takes everything I've got to max out the time I have except human beings. That doesn't even make sense to sit there and go, "You're overtraining, bro. I get it all the time. You cannot overtrain. First of all, you have to train in order to overtrain. If you're training for an hour a day, you are not going to even come close to overtraining. I don't care what you do." What about Rabdo, bro? Okay, let's unpack that real quick because there's this guy, you might have heard of him. His name's David Gogggins. is a badass son of a [\h__\h] I have a lot of respect for that man simply because he is the Terminator. That guy has only one switch. And if people go, "Who hurt you, bro? He's got psychological problems." No, he's not. I think he is such an example of what steeled determination and drive actually looks like. Because your lizard brain is going to tap out far before your body needs to cuz your tiny little lizard brain freaks out and thinks it's going to die. So when you start to hurt, your brain goes, "Danger, danger." We have to run and hide and quickly stop before we incapacitate ourselves. But you're not even close. Like every workout I did for at least 3 months, at least, if I remember correctly, it's probably more, but at least 3 months, every workout I did, I suffocated myself. Not slightly, absolute suffocation, sheer terror and panic. I would work out in my studio connected to an oxygen machine keeping me alive. I was excuse me. I wasn't When you fast and you eat a bunch of food and you gulp it down at 2:1 because you're so hungry, it you burp. You get a little Your food's Oh god, I think I ate at least a dozen cookies. My wife makes chocolate chip cookies every Saturday morning. Like you guys, I like I am lean as hell. You guys aren't getting the concept of training properly. You're looking to do the least and expecting the most. Yes, it pisses me off because I turned 52 on Monday. This is a normal 52y old for all of you guys going, "No, it's not, bro. No, it's not. What about this? What about this? What about this guy? What about that guy? You guys are on 17 different medications going to see your doctor every 3 months because they told you to go. The medical world just on a quick pivot is absolutely useless at health care. They are good at one thing, catastrophic intervention. They'll save your life. But keeping you healthy, making you healthy? No. No. The best way to avoid a trip to the doctor is to make sure your machine is as indestructible as possible. But to come back to David Gogggins real quick, the guy qualified for Blackwater, I think it's called. and he called and they said in order to qualify you have to run this distance and I'm not going to quote it because you guys all you Insta scholars are going to be like that's not exactly true. I don't remember what it was but it was far as hell and he did it on a 400 meter track eating I forget what it was like Ritz crackers and drinking Pepsis and protein drinks like his recovery was crap and then he ran Blackwater on two broken feet. You see the tape flapping out of his shoes. But let me explain something. You think his body didn't want to quit? He collapsed walking up the stairs, went into the bathroom, was in so much pain. His girlfriend at the time called I don't believe I think her sister and said, "What do we do with this guy? He's pissing the color of coke. Oh, he's got Rabdo. You need to take him to the hospital." He's like, "The hell with that." But the point is, yes, Rabdo's real, but none of you guys are doing even. He had never done anything like that before. And if you go, he's a Navy Seal. He did buds three times. Most of you guys wouldn't even come close to trying it. How many times have you gone into your pool in your backyard with your hands and feet tied behind yourself to see if you can keep yourself afloat? Let me know. Nobody. You guys have this concept that you're training so hard because your biceps are burning because a teardrop in your quads is hurting a little bit because you're sore the next day. That's not training. That's just working out. Like I did P90X. Tony Horton actually kicked my ass on Plyio X. I was so blown away that old son of a [\h__\h] I thought I was going to manhandle him so bad I started doing it. He's having a conversation jumping around. I got to check on the kids, right? like that. He is just literally made out of springs and glucose. And I got my ass handed to me for that forward movement, backward movement, lateral movement, up and down. That's what he talks about. And you know what? Pioex, the mother, if you've seen the video, you know what I'm talking about. He kicked my ass. I'm not going to lie about it. And I had two lungs at the time. I did in my living room. And I went, "Holy [\h__\h] this guy humbled the crap out of me." and I realized how out of shape I was in the conditioning that was required there. I don't know a whole lot of powerlifters that are doing pioax. Right? So, you have to look at the sport you're you're playing or that you're training for. But that's beside the point. The point is I wasn't even close to overtraining doing that. And I would work out globo, right? chest, legs, shoulders, back, all in nonsense to look like a cartoon, like a blew myself up in a sweater. I'm sorry. You look like a [\h__\h] cartoon. Great, but you're not athletic. With the exception of what I said, one guy. And I have a lot of respect for him. I have a lot of respect for all of you guys. If you're before you guys get all offended and buttth hurt when you're like, "Ah, I could curl more than you. What's your bench, bro?" I don't care. Yes, you can bench more than me. Great. None of that matters to me. What matters to me is that people are running around going you're overtraining and they expect you to get gains and progress and become healthy in 7 minutes a day and that you should only do it three times a week. And if you listen to my vlog yesterday, I said if you are doing anything less than 4 days a week, follow the math. If you are working less than four days a week, so if you're working only three days a week towards your goal, fitness goal, you are working four days a week against it. You can argue all you want. That's just a fact. But you look at Gogggins laying in a tub, peeing coke, like feeling like crap, in more pain than he said he's ever been in. Listen to him talk about it when he's when he narrates his book. He says the most pain he's ever been in. This is a seal and this is Gogggins. How can you have no respect for that man who turns off the voice and goes, "You got to do more?" That's the problem you guys have when somebody goes, "You guys come." I've never heard anybody that is an actual genuine athlete. I mean, like a savage hardcore athlete who is athletic, not someone who a weekend athlete, a real athlete. I've never heard them use that term overtraining ever. I married a former athlete, like a former pro athlete. I've never heard her say overtraining in 20 years, ever. She did three-hour workouts in college when she was playing D1 soccer. They run for 45 minutes twice. They had kiddie pools at the side of the field filled with ice water to get into because they'd play in College Station, Texas when it was 103° so they could keep playing. She would run track and she ran track and she's fast. Holy crap, my wife is fast. 5'2 and she is so fast. But she would run sometimes pissed off doing repeats, 160 meter repeats, if you know what those are. If you don't, just look it up. It they're brutal. 20 of them, 30 of them. She'd be crying, cursing out her coach, still doing them. The number of times she got rabbo in college, zero. The number of times she's gotten rabdo now at 45 years old, she's turning 46 in August. The number of times she's gotten rabdo, zero. If you've seen us train, you know how hard we train. I have trained every single day since I opened my eyes in the hospital. You cannot overtrain. You have to train first in order to overtrain. And a lot of you guys are confused with training. I see this one guy coming out all the time, this Insta coach, it's just he's it's embarrassing cuz he's just targeting moms. And I'm like, dude, but your mom training for busy mom schedules is lying and convincing these moms that they can do the least amount and just meter their salad dressing and get fit. No, you can't. No, you can't. If you look at the deevolution of training, working out used to be savage. Now working out is trendy. Pick up heavy things, put them down, do it very fast in every possible direction. Here's what I believe about the human body, just to be very clear. And whether you argue with me or not, I don't care. I am a doctor, a real doctor. And I have seen millions of people as patients. And I've helped so many people, CEOs, celebrities, billionaires, actors, athletes, it doesn't matter like everybody because I care. I come out here and I serve the greater good and I try and be of service to humanity. I don't come out here to go, how do I big my build my Instagram channel? How do I build my YouTube channel? Yeah, I want my YouTube channel to be huge. I want it to be millions of people so they actually get something from what I'm telling you. But that's up to you guys. You guys push me out or not. But most people get their tits all tied in a knot because they're offended because I tell them the truth. And apparently the truth right now is like everybody has an allergy to it. You're not working hard enough. You're not. I don't care how hard you're working. You're not. But when you come out and you say you can train two to three days a week, 20 minutes a day, and you are telling people that and you're telling them that they can become fit, you cannot. You can't. You can lose weight. And somebody will be like, "Oh, let me show you. Here's this study." The hell with your studies. The hell with your rabbo? I get this all the time. Bro, you're This is what I got. I get this message. Bro, you're going to get rabb rabdo. No wonder you're injured all the time. I get injured all the time because I push capacity. You guys remember I have one lung, right? Like I'm missing an entire cylinder and I do what I do. And if you don't watch I I used to I don't even bother anymore cuz I don't give a crap about your opinions. All of you guys are like, "Bro's only filming his first set." Dude, I have filmed one and a half hour workouts and posted it on my YouTube and nobody watches past the first 5 minutes just to verify. So, I don't care. Now, I just post snippets of my workout and go, "There, that's what I did for my training. I just did it this many times. You don't believe me? I don't care. Come to my gym. You will need an ambulance to take you out because I promise you I will not quit until you're dead because I'm not going to I will go further than you. I will. Well, I don't care who you are because I will turn off everything inside me that says you need to stop. You're going to die. And I will go until my body shuts down. But that's a mindset thing. But that's also why I train. If that's not why you train, that's okay. But if you train for fitness and you train to lose weight or you train to be jacked or you train for whatever reason you do, and you get into somebody's comments and start talking about how they're overtraining and they need to stop, you need to shut up. You need to shut your mouth because what you're trying to do is validate why you're not doing what they're doing and it bugs you and they shouldn't because you can't because you don't have the follow through. You don't have the in the intestinal fortitude, the wherewithal to actually pull it off and they do and it's bugging you because it's calling you out. Why don't you just be honest with yourself? Because I get like from gur fitness gurus and insta doctors and insta trainers like I get so many messages. So, I will offer some feedback on what overtraining is. First of all, if I hear that one more person go, this one coach, this fitness guru guy, the business guy that goes, "You guys, what are you doing, man? It's the Sabbath. It's God's day, Sunday. You need to take that day off. You shouldn't be train. You shouldn't be working that day." God even says it. He talks about it. Remember the Sabbath and keep it holy. I worked six days on the seventh day. You do not work, lest you be stoned to death. and all the stuff. Listen, cherrypicking the Bible just makes you ignorant. Because if you really want to break it down, the Sabbath ain't Sunday, it's Saturday. Friday night to Saturday night. That's what the Sabbath was. Nowhere does it say it was Sunday in the Bible. Nowhere. So when I hear somebody, the minute I hear somebody's, my dad was a preacher. Do you have any idea how much Bible I know? That's number one. Number two is I actually pay attention to the Bible and I am oneon-one with God 24/7 365 but I pay attention. But when I hear somebody go Sunday remember it keep it holy and then they go play in the park with their kids and they throw a frisbee and they make a barbecue and then they do some woodwork in their garage or whatever it is and then they're lecturing people about how you shouldn't work on a Sunday. What do you count? What do you count as work? Number one. Number two is the Sabbath. was not Sunday, Saturday. So, that alone pisses me off when people go, "You you should remember you're going against God." Cherry-picking the Bible is the weakest thing you can do. It's ignorant. It's ignorant. And telling somebody that what they're doing is wrong just because what you're not going to do it is also ignorant. The world is filled with people that are judging, whiny, just bitter, miserable [\h__\h] that want to tell you what to do with your life because they're not willing to do what you are doing. They can't comprehend the level of commitment and drive that you have to get to wherever it is you want to go. Why are you listening to them? Overtraining was invented by a gym bro. It's not a real thing. It's not. You don't need a rest day. There is not I said it. There's not an organism on the planet that gets up and goes, "Today I'm doing nothing. Nothing. Zero. Except humans." Just listen. When you say that out loud and go, "Only human beings take the day and do nothing and lay around on a couch wearing another man's name on their jersey while they yell at a television at a sports team they don't own, yelling at players that they have no control over that they aren't making money on because their team is losing while they eat milk duds and buckets of sour cream and dip. Dude, you don't need a rest day. You want an excuse to do less. So don't worry, I got you. What you're trying to say instead of overtraining, if you had to unpack this from a physiological point of like standpoint, which is none of you guys are doing it. None of you guys. I don't if you think get in the comments if you think you train harder than me. And it's not an egotistical statement before somebody gets their balls all tied in a knot. It's not an egotistical statement. I just train harder than ever anybody else I've ever met. I wasn't always like that, but I don't train to look like this and move like this. It is a byproduct of how I train. I train to absolutely demolish the demons and the devil trying to get a hold of me. So, am I honoring God by demanding the most from myself to become the best version of myself, the 10.0 version of myself? Absolutely. Why aren't you? Cuz if you're making excuses, you sure as hell are honoring God. So you can spin it all you want, but you're still wrong. To do less under the guise of I'm honoring our creator is borderline blasphemy. It's disgusting to say that. So don't use that. Just say you're lazy because what you're trying to say when you're throwing the word overtraining around is underreovering. And let me explain what that means because none of you guys are even doing that. When you metabolically tax the same tissue at the same capacity repeatedly without allowing any time for tissue repair and it's under constant degradation and it's under constant load and you have to do a lot more than whatever you guys are thinking and I'm sure somebody's going to get in the comments and start talking about how they had rabdo. I want to see the test. Show me you're under recovering. That's what it means. If you're doing all that and you are just beating the [\h__\h] out of the same tissue over and over again, doing the same thing at the same capacity or more, you're underreovering. But there's more. Let me explain all this. Here's where overreaching comes into play, right? Because overreaching and underreovering all go hand in hand. I do thousands of pull-ups every week. You guys have seen them. I had one guy come in and go, "Bro," he didn't even get the math right, which was the funniest part. Bro, you you mean you do 1,200 pull-ups a week? Oh, [\h__\h] I've done 1,200 pull-ups in a workout. I've done almost 600 today. Who cares what I do? That's what's really crazy is people go, I can't do one, therefore you can't do that many. I watched a guy do squats. I think it was on Squat University. I love that guy. Aaron Horche is a stud. He is by far I've watched him go from nothing to who is this guy to honestly I think the go-to guy if you need any kind of he's awesome and I do Smashworks is I did the same stuff. I have so much respect for that guy cuz he actually gives a [\h__\h] and he puts a ton of time and energy into what he does. I have a lot of respect for Aaron. He's a he's incredibly intelligent. He's a genuine soul. He's got a heart that's so big. He seems like one of the nicest dudes I've ever I don't know him at all and he seems like one of the nicest dudes you could ever meet. I have so much. So, if you need information and you can't find it in my old school Smashworks stuff, go see SWAT Squat University. He has an answer for just about everything you could ever do, nobody does it better than him. Nobody. Nobody. And nobody cares genuinely like he does. He just does. So, just keep that in mind. But I watched a guy on his channel, I don't remember, it might have even been today do squat and I don't remember the exact number, but it was well over 400 lb. this Asian dude set of 20. 20. 20. I want you to understand that. 20 reps unbroken. And then he put the bar down and fell on the floor and waved a deuce up at somebody behind him because I think they probably asked him. I didn't listen to the video. I just watched it and went, "That guy's a monster." Now, if you've done 20 rep squats, you know what I'm talking about. I did a 100 rep back squats one time with 135 with my buddy Kevin. This is years ago, probably almost 30 years ago. We just kept the bar on our back and I did it with my buddy Corey now that I think about it too. And then he got mad at me because his legs hurt so bad when he flew back home for Christmas to Buffalo, which was funny. But and I love Corey and Kevin was a great guy. If you guys are listening, you guys are both awesome. But we did it was the 100 rep club. Just stupid things you do in the gym. Did I get rabb 100 times brutal? I wanted to use a disability compliant stall when I went to the bathroom because I wanted those handles on the wall just to get off the toilet. That's how bad it was. I had to put my hand in the center to push myself up off the seat. I kid you not. And I had to just avoid squashing my knob when I got up. Like it was so brutal. My legs hurt for 4 days. And that was when I was younger. You think I'm going to try that now? You high? I train hard but I have no desire to do that. About 100 reps. I've done 50 reps. 50 with 225 unbroken. And that was maybe seven years ago, eight years ago. I've done 20 with 225. I've done 25 with 225 many times. As recent as 3 months ago, it always kicks my ass. So, if you understand 20 at over 400 lb, holy [\h__\h] And if you'd see this guy's legs, they're giant. He's not overtraining. No. And of course, somebody's gonna go, he doesn't do anything else. That's his whole workout. Dude, get out of here. Get out of here. A lot of you guys are overreaching because you go, "I've never run a marathon. I've never run further than to get my dog out of my backyard, my Pomeranian in my little squared yard that I have." And then you go, "I'm going to go sign up for this marathon tomorrow." And then you run a 26.2. You make it 7 miles. You're cramping so bad. You got pancakes blisters all over your body. You've got nipple rub from your shirt cuz you didn't put any glide on. You're so screwed up and you go running is the dumbest thing on earth. I hate it and I'm never going to do anything again. And you sit on the couch for a month. That's ignorance. But that's how you guys think. You guys with your overtraining and your overreaching. That's what that looks like. Sorry, I got something in my eye. I do thousands of pull-ups a week. Not once have I had rabdo from doing pull-ups. Like I said, that guy's like 1,200 in a week [\h__\h] And then I literally posted a workout the next day doing 300 in a workout along with another couple hundred like clean and jerks, squat cleans, presses, like all kinds of stuff. I train like an animal. But I do it for me. I don't do it for any of you guys. I don't give a [\h__\h] if you watch my training. I don't care if you copy my training. If you want my workouts, don't [\h__\h] about it. When people go, "Do you have anything easier? Do you have anything lighter?" No. You're going to do what I do or don't train. Don't train with me. That's okay. I'm not a trainer. I don't want to be your trainer. [\h__\h] no. Most of you guys aren't going to listen. You're just going to whine about it. You want my workouts? Join my mastermind. I post them every day. You want my training? Then do everything I tell you. But I began doing one pull-up. It goes right back to the running. I began with one. Going from one to a,000 in a week in one week is overreaching, underreovering, and ignorant as [\h__\h] And a guaranteed shot at Rabbdomiis. It's guaranteed shot at Rabbdo. Jim bro Rabdo. Just so we're clear with overt training because I need to address this and then I'll come back to the Sabbath thing too because it pisses me off that he said that. I just want to punch him in the face. He's a the anti-alpha male. Anyway, this dude. So Jim Bro Rabdo, it comes from high volume. No, it doesn't. No, it doesn't. real rabbdo, direct trauma, direct impact trauma or severe extended physical exertion. It doesn't come from high volume. Cuz most people's high volume, their lizard brain says, "I have to stop." Which is why most of you guys stop training. Do you know that? That's why most of you guys can't handle doing the average length of time, I said it yesterday, that anybody does anything is about a week. The number of times people try and achieve their goal is less than one because they talk themselves out of it. The average time people spend trying to achieve a goal is a week. A week I'm going to be a millionaire. A week later, [\h__\h] it. I'm going back to my 9 to5 $32,000 a year because it's not for me and I can't do it. That job sucks. That business isn't for me. That's not going to be successful. I tried. That coach sucks. Whatever it is. No, it's not. You aren't willing to stay in the discomfort until you win. The difference between a winner and a loser is always the same. Winners do whatever the hell it takes for as long as it takes to get what they set out to do. nothing nothing else. That's the only difference. But and losers stop when they're uncomfortable. If it doesn't happen fast enough, which is what it is for most of you guys. If I'd have stopped when it wasn't happening fast enough, 3 months into training with an oxygen machine on my body, keeping me alive, making no progress as far as I could see, I would probably be dead. The odds of getting rabdo from overtraining are almost zero. And I will Let me explain why. Get the [\h__\h] out of here with your RCT, by the way. So, in in order to overtrain, you actually have to train first. That's what I said, right? Nobody telling me I'm overtraining can keep up with me. And I'm sure somebody's going to be like, "Listen to this arrogant [\h__\h] I'm not arrogant. I'm 52 years old. I train harder, longer, and more intense than anyone else on the planet for the most part. And I know that. And so do you. And I'm nowhere near at capacity because I keep pushing my limit because I love seeing what I can do. What am I capable of? But that's because I am willing to look at yesterday's wins and make them the standards for today. And I have been doing that for almost four years straight. I'm willing to be uncomfortable because when my lizard brain starts screaming and freaking out and said, "You're going to die. You're in pain. This is going to rip. That's going to tear. You're doing too much. It hurts. It hurts. You're whining. All this stuff. My lungs are burning. My muscles are burning. I want to quit. It doesn't matter. My hands are on fire from the barbell. It doesn't matter. I hope it hurts. I hope it sucks. I hope it's raining. I hope it's cold. I hope it's miserable because that just means when I pick up that barbell or I go outside for a run or I do anything or I sit in front of the computer and I work on my company, whatever it is, I already know that now I'm the 1% of the 1% because nobody else is willing to do it. Good. Good. Like I said, that's no wonder you get injured because of how you train. Most gym injuries come from poor form. Okay, I'll go back and say it again because I just fumbled the words. Most gym injuries come from poor form, terrible form, overzealous lifting, metabolic degradation, or just a fat [\h__\h] ego. You're going to get rabbedo, bro. Not likely, right? Not likely. But I just covered that. You're overtraining. Okay, let's address all these. So, you're going to get rabbo. Not likely. You're overtraining where where training every day is not overtraining. Just to be clear, it's not doing the exact same thing to failure every day is leaning towards overtraining. Still not overtraining cuz most of you guys are going to tap out mentally before your body taps out physically because if you had to, you could keep going like you were suffocating or you like all of these things. If you had to save a life, how do moms pick up cars off of kids? Get them to do it just when they're walking down the street. Never going to happen. Why can they tap in? because they turn off all the protective mechanisms and just go, I have to do this because of life is on the line. I'm 52 years old with one lung. I run a 5K in 22 minutes. I squat 315 for reps. I do hundreds and hundreds if not thousands of pull-ups, push-ups, squats, and bicycles every week. And I do hundreds every day. I sprint. I jump. I climb. I throw. I can throw heat. I fight. I roll. I shoot. And I post full workouts including my screw-ups and my fumbles and all my fails. because I'm real. But I can do more than most 25-year-olds who, by the way, for the most part, are just a bunch of dill weeds. Those are the ones that are talking about overtraining. I don't care what your bench press is. I don't care what your calf raise is. Show me how athletic you are. But even then, I don't care what you do. I care what I do. You guys are so concerned about telling somebody else what they're doing is wrong. I'm not out here telling you that your training is wrong. Train however you want. But don't come into my life or anybody else who is doing more than you and tell them to do less because you're not willing to do what they're doing because you don't have the capacity to maintain that level of discomfort. I don't train for your opinion. I don't train to look jacked. I look at this as AI look like this as a byproduct of training. I train to see how far I can push this machine that God blessed me with, which is what I should I would think. I would expect that every one of you that is born and living is should be doing. But again, it goes back to what I said. All of you guys wake up every morning making a decision. Am I going to do everything I can to max out everything I've got today, or am I going to lay around on the couch and yell at sports teams and validate why I should do a little less? I thank God for his power coursing through these veins, which allows me to get up every morning and [\h__\h] [\h__\h] up. So you can continue to be that window licker on the back of the bus, the overtraining short bus. That's up to you. I'm going to keep doing me because I'm not doing this for you. I'm doing this for him. I'm going to lean into this badass piece of equipment God gave me and that he just allows me to pilot all over this gravity controlled environment. I just want to see how far I can take it and I'm just warming up. But I I think a lot of you guys, you look at what somebody else is doing as a personal attack because it's been tolerated. You guys go, "I hate that they're posting those workouts. What an [\h__\h] Oh, I hate that they have all that money. What a prick. I hate that their marriage is good. It's probably fake. She's cheating on him. You know, he's cheating on her. You know, that's all phony. They don't really have that relationship. Why Why would you say that? Unless yours sucks and you wish you had anything they have. The people that look outwards to be a judgy just ignorant [\h__\h] like that are 100% of the time the people that wish they had a better life because hate hate only comes from the bottom. It never comes from above. And most people are honestly resourceful as hell when it comes to supporting why they can't. And quite honestly, most of the time they're useless. Because this is why if you are so resourceful to spend all this time trying to find all these reasons to support why overtraining I'll use that because that's what we're excuse me. That's what we're talking about. You can't overtrain. Nobody listening to this is overtraining. If you do, message me. I want to see the proof. You're not. If you rip something, it's probably because you had poor form or your just ego was too fattened. You're just too arrogant. You think you don't need help. You think that you can't be harmed. When you get injured, manage it. Keep training. Injury doesn't mean stop. It means work around it and fix it as fast as possible. Just to be very clear, you heal faster when you move 100% of the time. But most people are resourceful. They will find every way to support why they can't. And when that same yet that same resourcefulness would help them hit the target, lose the weight, make the money, build the business, pay for a program, fix their marriage, all that stuff. You could find a way. You're just too addicted to being a victim. Right? Most people glaze over everything, hunting for entertainment or escape, mindlessly scrolling and hating on everything that they've quit on. You're throwing hate at things that you quit on that you wish you had. If you see a car that somebody posts on social media and you're pissed off that you're driving a 79 four-door nolva, that's your fault. Who cares if they have a Lamborghini? It's theirs. Shut up. I get people all the time messaging me, "Oh yeah, you're just one of those [\h__\h] [\h__\h] I used to be a guy like you until I finally grew up and grew up. I've never gone into somebody's comments once to drop hate. Not once. I've never sent a message to somebody wants to drop hate. Not once. Blanket statement. If somebody can show me a message where I have gone in to throw hate at somebody, show me cuz I've never done it. I just don't care. I need to worry about my life and being the most badass human being for me because I want to be the 10.0 version of myself. I don't care if you don't. I have a mastermind, the unbreakable mastermind to build men into and women the 10.0 version of themselves. We cure cancer in my mastermind. Oh yeah, baby. So if you got a problem with that, you need to join right now. Right now. Like [\h__\h] yesterday. You need to message me right now. Cure cancer. Solve depression, anxiety, fitness problems, personal development problems, marriage problems. We scale business on Sundays. Sundays we talk about growing a business from wherever you are. I don't care if you've never had a business and you're just tired of your job and you're like, you know what? [\h__\h] that boss. I'm out. I quit. I'm going to start my own company. Then do it and do it right. Then join the mastermind and let's do it right. I help people solve their life equation. Their life equation is this is the vision. I've said it before. I came up with this a while ago. This is their vision. The kingdom. What they have on the end that on the horizon that they're always walking towards because that's the life that they have put in their soul by God that they want. The one they want. It has everything. The cars, the house, the fitness, the life, the marriage, the dog, the kids, whatever it is. The life you just look at and I can't wait to have my life to look like that. and they're obsessed. Use that obsession. Most people are obsessed with why they shouldn't do it. That is the one side of the life equation. The other side are all the problems and adversities that you have to handle and deal with to get there. I solve that and I'm the best at it because that's what God gave me. Take it however you want. Still fact. But to judge me for the fact that I'm doing more than you or anybody else will tell me everything about you. You look for a reason to do less. You're working hard at not working hard. There's no such thing as overtraining. No creature, I've said it again and I'll say it again and again because you need to hear this because I'm sure somebody is looking through Google facts. There is no creature or organism on the planet that wakes up faced with a decision going, should I do less today? They have one option. Only one. One option. everything I have [\h__\h] got. Listen, you can do you validate the rest of your day. Justify earning your ice cream, which is one of the dumbest things to do. Oh, I worked out so hard. I earned this ice cream. I can't. You can't. Here's your sign. I can't fix stupid. Cherry pick your Google research and your Reddit threads to support a day off. But why don't you be honest for once? It's a struggle. The truth and honesty is a struggle for most of you guys. You want me to admit that you're right, that I'm training too much. You want me to admit. You want people to admit that there is overtraining and they're training too much and they should take rest days. That normal people take rest days, that it's bad for you to train every day. You want approval for what you're doing. That's the fundamental difference between you and I, between winners and losers. You're desperate for approval and acceptance. I just don't give a [\h__\h] about what you think I should do. Neither should anybody else that wins. If you want to win, stop giving a [\h__\h] about what somebody else thinks you should do. If you don't want to train every day, you do you. I want you to do that. If that's what you think, but then you keep that [\h__\h] to yourself. Don't come into someone else's feed and go, "You're training too much." Just because you don't want to doesn't mean a damn thing. You're not helping anybody. You're trying to justify where you are, which means you wish you were doing more. Then get your big butt to the gym and start doing more. So, how about this? you guys that are all complaining about overtraining and going into everybody's comments and feeds and complaining about what they're doing instead of looking in your own mirror and going, "Man, I need to fix my life." You make all of your posts to get as many of people as you can on your side as possible in support of your overtraining. You do that. You cherrypick the Bible and manipulate God's word about Sunday being a day where you should sit on the couch wearing that jersey, wearing another man's name on your back. How about this? you stay the [\h__\h] out of the way of people like me who demand more from our lives than just the bare minimum. By the way, it doesn't say anything about not working on a specific day for God. The whole argument about taking a day off is it's Old Testament. First of all, New Testament, we've we've gone past that. Yes, the Bible still exists, but the ten commandments since they were written in stone. When Jesus came, he said, "We need to update that. I'm going to write them in man, which is what he did. The Sabbath, the Sabbath was made for man, not man for Sabbath." That's Mark Mark 23-28 talks about that. In other words, the rule, just to be address this because somebody's going to say it, the rule was originally made for men who needed to take a break. Jesus worked every day. He said to himself, "God won't punish you for working every day for him in love towards others if you love yourself and you work out every day. Are you taking care of what he gave you?" If you Jesus even said that, he goes, "My father has been working until now and I have been working." Which is why the Jews thought more to kill him. I'm sure that's going to set people off because he not only broke the Sabbath, but he also said God was his father, making himself equal with God. John 5:17 to18, I think. So anyway, the po the point is to think that you come into somebody else's life to [\h__\h] all over what they're doing because you're not willing to do it tells me everything about you. It says nothing about the person. It says nothing about me. You need to look at your life and go, why why do I get so triggered about somebody else succeeding? Why do I get so upset about somebody else who's training every day and I'm not? What? How does it affect you? That's such a weak like characteristic. It's a mindset problem with you. It's not a mindset problem with them. They could train every day and they won't even know you exist. Most of you people, I will never know you exist. And I also don't care. If I'm helping you, holy [\h__\h] That is exactly why I come out here. I come out here every day to help you guys. I've never missed a day. I don't do this for me. I do this for you. But if you are going into somebody else's life and telling them, chastising them, berating them for overtraining because they're doing more work than you are, that's for you, not for them. You want them to slow down because you're getting left behind. And that applies to everything. If they're making more money than you, and you go, "What do you only love money?" That's because you're not making the same money. What do you only love your job? That's because you aren't doing what they're doing. You don't have the level of fulfillment they have. Oh, what? So, you're only about your wife now? You don't have time for the boys? No, they actually prioritize their bride instead of going out for beers with you sitting there getting fatter. Oh, you're overtraining. What? All of a sudden you're this athlete? No, they prioritize the health that they are blessed with by God instead of hanging out with you and smashing beer and pizza and sitting on a couch. You will find 100% of the time that when you are criticizing somebody else and if you go, "Well, aren't you criticizing people?" No, I'm actually defending people who are doing things that they want to do. If you want to sit there and criticize people all day long, do it inside your own home, yell at the television, yell at your spouse, and see how long your marriage lasts. I don't know, but you guys get so bitter and angry and pissed off because you constantly fail, but you set yourself up for constant failure, and you never get back up. That's why it's a failure. There's no such thing as overtraining. Nobody on this call, nobody on this this podcast has overtrained. And the minute you understand that you your opinion of of somebody else's life is not really that important, you your opinion about your child's life. Yeah. Your spouse, yeah, but everybody else shut up. And other people's opinions about you, if you whether you are winning or losing, other people's opinions about you are none of your business. They're none of your business. Social media has given a platform for the weak. It hasn't given a platform for the strong. Legends don't give a [\h__\h] either way. By the way, just so you know, we don't care whether or not you have a good opinion or a bad opinion because the only opinion we need is the one we have of oursel and God. So, you can look at it any way you want. But that's it. I got to go. I love you guys. I hope you got something out of this. Please look at why you get so triggered about things because usually it's because it's something you hate on that you wish you were doing. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.