You know, one of you guys send me a message and give me some feedback on what the sound quality is on these podcasts, on these vlogs. I want to hear it from somebody else's point of view. Let me know if I could do better for you. Best question you can ask is a question that's going to help you improve. Just don't be pissed off if it doesn't come out as all rainbows and unicorns and happy and they go these are all the problems because that's somebody telling you what needs to be fixed. So many people just aren't willing to hear it the truth. They want the answer as long as the answer is a sunny day psychology answer. So anyway, who even this who is on your screen saver? It's my wife and loving on my wife. That's what this is all about. This one's going to be a good podcast. But I was just inside talking to Brandy and you guys know if you followed me for any length of time, you guys know she is my best friend. I adore my wife and she adores me. Like we are oh just 20 over two decades with this woman and it is better by the day by the minute. I wouldn't want to be anywhere else other than walking through life and punching a hole in the universe with my wife just running it up all the time with Brandy. And I want you guys to do something. I want go stand in front of a mirror. Go stand in front of a mirror. Bring the phone with you or whatever you're listening to somewhere. Anywhere. Just go look at yourself. Whether you're in the bathroom or you're at drostanolone or whatever, look at your phone. This is something critical because this is where so many people get tripped up. Do you love yourself? And this isn't a create the man or woman you admire. This is a lot deeper than that. Do you love yourself? Can you look at yourself and can you say I love you to yourself? Most of you can't do it. Oh, you can probably say it. It's a lie. Most people in our current ecosystem are in love with two things. They're in love with an idea that someone else told them who they should be. That personality, that representative they keep sending out into the world. or they're in love with an idea. They think that they're supposed to be according to based on the temperature of whatever room they're in, which means they're always variable. They don't know who the [\h__\h] they are. A lot of you guys listening to this, you guys can't stand who you are. But when people can't stand who they are, they're living in cognitive dissonance because they can't be who they really are, the blueprint, who they really are, who they want to become, because it goes against what they're being told by other people who can't stand themselves as well. So, it comes back to never listen to people whose lives that you'd never exchange yours with. And yet, we see it all the time on social media. The insults come out, the hate comes out, the criticism, the ridicule, the you get ostracized, all of those things. But the audience for most people, for most of you guys, is determining who you become. Listen, standing in the midst of the smoke when people are coming at you from all sides, it's never a fun place to be. And yet there's no place I'd rather be provided. I'm of strong character and it's me. I don't mean some manufactured I need attention. Please make me feel important. This is who I am now. No, I mean in the core of your being. So don't be delusional. I think a lot of people who consider themselves of strong character are in fact a manufactured character molded by the environment that they're in, which comes back to the mirror. They don't like who they are, let alone love who they are, because who they see is a fraud. And they know, listen, they know they shouldn't be overweight, but it's tolerated and celebrated. And even more so, when you're athletic and fit, you're attacked all over the place. You're never attacked by anyone who's fit or athletic or working towards being fit. You're attacked by the people in the same place that you are, which is a place of lies. It's the majority. I think you have to look at yourself and understand who you are and where you are. You have to be willing to look at that. And if either of those, who you are or where you are, if either of those or both of those aren't aligned with who you want to be or what you believe you want to be, independent of the opinions of others, then you need to be willing to go into those dark places and see just how bad it is with the intent to change it versus hiding it. It's hard for a lot of people. To love yourself and actually respect yourself is also to be powerful enough to acknowledge your feelings without allowing them to derail you from the mission. The mission being whatever your purpose is in your life. Most people, men especially, are being told a lie that if you're sad or if you cry, you're not a man. Except I think that the most powerful thing for an individual is to be sad. is cry so hard that you can't see straight and still do what needs to be done in the moment. That's where there's the disconnect right now. I think the big epiphany for me was laying in a hospital bed surrounded by nothing that mattered, nobody that mattered to me. My wife was locked out of the hospital. I hadn't seen my kids for weeks except through a thirdf flooror window out in a parking lot. And on this particular night, I was going down a very bad road health-wise. I'd already been struggling pretty bad. And just to give you some context of what this was, like how bad this all was, a month prior to all of this happening, a month prior to me being in the hospital, I was running miles and squatting 315 for reps, and I was on top of my game physically. And a month later, I'm fighting for my life in a room full of machines without my family anywhere around me, nowhere to be seen because of what was going on, the lockdown. So, I felt like this was it. And a lot of you, a lot of you guys know this part of my story, but I sent Brandy, I sent my wife a text message and I said, "I don't think I'm going to make it until morning, Angel. I'm sorry. There's so much life. It's like that. There's so much life that I wanted to live with you. So much I wanted to share with you, do for you and feel with you. And then I went on to explain all of the things that she's going to need to take care of so she's okay financially, etc. Because if you guys if you all don't know, my wife is the greatest woman alive. I don't just love Brandy. I adore my wife and it's been well over 20 years. It actually feels painful to be away from her and she tells me that all the time. She feels the same way and she can't stand being away from me. Why would I want it any other way? I want to share every second of my life with my wife and just let her in every cell. That after she got my message, I was laying on my stomach because I couldn't breathe on my back at all. I was laying on my stomach to breathe and I was crying. I wasn't ready yet. And I really have so much life that I want to live with Brandy. You guys need to understand that. And she sends me this message back. I still have it and I read it all the time. like a lot because it reminds me how [\h__\h] amazing this all is. She writes back, "He can't die. I need you. I can't do this life without you. I love you, Trevor." Now, this is what I meant or what I mean by the way about crying and waiting for it all to pass versus crying and diving into all of it, experiencing everything and using it to dig, just to dig in, dig deep, and do what you need to do. I really believe that emotions are fuel, and we've been taught to either hide them or minimize them. So, we cut off the fuel to move. Listen, here's why. Because I lay there crying and painful agony crying and I got angry and I was filled with so much rage and so much fury which I f I firmly believe was the entire purpose of her message from God through my wife. I really do because I said to whatever it was that was trying to kill me. I said I'm going to kill you because it's either you or me and it can't be both of us. Only one of us gets to spend the rest of their lives with her, with Brandy. If it's you, it's the pain of my death and the memory of our life. And if it's me, it's the joy of our life together. You're going to [\h__\h] die. And I went to war because all I saw was an enemy. And almost four years later, here I am faster, stronger, more connected to my wife, more connected to my kids. I feel God in and around me all the time. And all of that is because of the action I took in the moment of despair. But imagine had I been afraid to cry or afraid to have feelings or I sat there silently sobbing into a pillow. The message about feelings is extremely convoluted in our current society because it's not about not having feelings. In fact, I like it. It's not about not having feelings. That's not what the problem is. In fact, I believe I really do I believe you're stronger when you actually push into your feelings. It's not about being a victim to those feelings, whatever they are. It's instead using them and connecting with them and understanding the directions that you need to go in those moments. It took me until I was 48 years old connected to life support for me to realize that. Please don't take that long. What happened was in that moment laying there like I I struggling. Very few people will understand what that feels like. It's not the pain of a divorce or the pain of a loss. It is the pain of your life being snatched away from you when you're not ready and you have and before somebody goes nobody's ready. That's not what I mean. When you already are allin and you think you're going somewhere and it just happens because what happened in that moment laying there I got here's why you need to understand this. I got hit hard by doubt and insecurity. Who am I? That's what I asked. Who am I? See I've always worn this shell that I'm going deep on this one. Wow. I don't share any of this stuff, but I've always worn this shell that kept who I really was under this veil of safety that I could let out as as little or as much as I choose. It was all based on me. But in that moment, I realized I didn't know who I was because I had to ask myself, what do I do? What would this character that I'm parading around as do? But the character was a lie. And I didn't know. And it took me almost dying to realize that. So in that moment, I went all in on what I felt and what I wanted. You need to hear that. What I did was I went all in on what I felt. I let it just all [\h__\h] take over. And then I went all in on what I wanted. And the feelings fed the desire, the goal. And it didn't matter how upset I was because the more upset I became, the more fuel I had and the stronger I got, which is exactly what happened. And I believe that's exactly what's supposed to happen. Because had that not happened, I wouldn't be here. Had I chosen to stifle what I felt. That's what I said. Just shove my face in the pillow or just bite my tongue or just like stuff it all down. The agony, the sadness, the anger, the fury, the whole thing, all of it. I wouldn't have had the psychology to demand of myself what was required in that moment. And I'd be dead. See, but if you're constantly being told that feelings make you weak, well, in one respect, honestly, that's true. But it's taking the statement out of context because the rest of the statement is when they're allowed to make the decisions for you. When they're the immovable object versus the unstoppable force. And the determining factor of that is going back to the mirror. Do you love who you are? Do you love everything about yourself? And listen, I don't mean the delusional self-love [\h__\h] on TikTok with morbidly obese men and women who are evangelical about how great it is to be a 100 lb overweight and be a plus-sized man or woman or the new age business coach who says money won't make you happy, coffee wrecked his marriage, and the real wealth is a hug from your kids while he's crying about a divorce that happened years ago. In fact, those are great examples of people who lie to themselves on a daily basis, just on the daily. so much and so often that the lies become their lives, but yet they all have these deeprooted insecurities because their subconscious knows they're lying. You guys understand you can't hide who you want to become from yourself because you know where all of your secrets are hidden. Who are you is really do I love myself? Because you can't answer the question if you're not honest and transparent with yourself. Which means you need to be you need to love yourself first. So who are you is really do I love myself? Which even that is a conditional question for most people because they love themselves when they're winning and they hide themselves when they're failing because the ultimate fear for any human being is being seen to fail and then labeled as a failure. Except the issue right now is that a lot of people label themselves as a failure and instead of changing the label by changing their beliefs, their conduct, their habits, their actions, all of that, they support and live in delusion. I failed. I'm obese. Accept me and all of my poor decisions so I feel happy and feel like I'm winning because I can't bear the accountability of my own irresponsible psychology and subsequent behavior. Yet, the feeling inside that you're fat, that you're not healthy, you're the one that's responsible for all of it. Those feelings are required for you to change because they get stronger until you do. hiding from what's calling you out, whatever it is, that's the disease. It's like a mind virus. But now it's all about being happy and demanding happiness above all and that others support it. Right? Others have to support this, which means expecting others to lie on your behalf in order to protect your feelings, which are there to make you aware and change everything, but they're not being used. YOLO, you only live once. Never cry, never be upset, never be angry, never be sad, especially men. All of those are weak. Social media says strong men are emotionless and savage. Now listen, if I'll say it again, if you followed me for any amount of time, I don't need to tell you how savage I am. And it's not to impress, it's to give you the truth. I know, but I've been so angry, like enraged. I've cried so hard that it was difficult to see. I've been beyond sick. I've wanted to quit and give the finger to everything and everybody instantly. We are what we do, right? In each one of those instances, I do the same thing. I go back to what do I want my life to look like and what is required of me right now in this specific moment is what I'm about to do or not to do going to continue to get the results towards the life I want not movement results most people think movement and achievement are the same and yet they're nowhere near one another you know a great way I find to look at my life question right question my life and truly is and What I truly want to achieve is my reality right now, right? Is my reality right now in alignment with my definition of success? My definition, not some nebulous vacuous definition. Is my reality right now in alignment with my definition of success? And if it's not, for example, if my training is lacking or I'm having conversations with people that you like I'm not having conversations rather with people that have purpose, right? there's no purpose in the conversation or I'm sliding into victimization or self-pity or wallowing in the past. All of those things are so easily validated not just by our own internal dialogue but also by our environment. It's a victim's world right now where instead of striving to be the best, it's go ahead and call in sad today. It's it's pseudo experts coming out and telling you how you should live your life who you would never trade lives with. You would never trade your life with these people. And a lot of times these people are so superficial with themselves. And by that I mean they're not asking themselves real questions in order to question their beliefs. They're just searching social media, scanning that social horizon for the answer that makes them feel the best. Except that answer, whatever it is, will be based on the emotions they're having in that moment. Again, back to the mirror. Who are you? People have a lot of trouble with that. They wait for the answers to be given to them instead of looking inside themselves and demanding that they figure it out. Feelings, feelings, and success or winning have nothing to do with one another. I said it already. My wife is a former pro alete and she is an animal in all respects. Like some of the stories that she's told me about training where she'd be running repeats, right? I remember this one she told me. She'd be running repeats, 160 m repeats. If you know what they are, you do. If you don't, it just you just keep running and then walk the same distance or jog. She had to run full throttle 160 m with all she had and then jog to recover the same distance and then do it again. That's how her repeats were. 30 to 40 of them in a row in pain, angry, crying because a coach was pushing her and she did every single [\h__\h] one. She'd use the emotion to drive the action necessary to hit the target. And my wife would play, she'd get on the field and she would [\h__\h] [\h__\h] up because that's how she's wired. I have so much respect for that because that is a mindset of a champion. 99% of people don't do that and they don't even know how to do that because they've been told so often that feelings make you weak. Except what did I say? That's a statement taken out of context because the entire statement is feelings make you weak if they're in control of you. Basically, if they're used to control the direction, people struggle with love on either side of this equation because they feel they're not worthy of love, the other person isn't worthy of love, or they're not worthy to give love. All based on love being a weakness. That's how this all looks. Love being a weakness. I'll tell you this. I said it at the beginning. I love my wife so much that I cannot even just saying it. I just want to go inside. I just want to go inside and squeeze the [\h__\h] out of her and just love on her. so much 20 years of marriage and it's even more powerful. I love I feel all the energy and all the connection every time I'm even close to her and it's intoxicating. I love being around my wife and I can't stand being away from her. But she's the same way with me. And because of that, listen to me, that's love. And because of that, the amount of horsepower that we generate in the face of any adversity is frightening. We are so powerful together because we run at 100% with each other at all times. The weakness comes when you're using bandwidth to keep your feelings hidden while trying to move through the obstacles in your life. You're using up resources, precious, valuable resources in your mind under a lie told to you by nobody in particular. It's just the consensus. Feelings and winning have nothing to do with each other. I'll say it again. You need to understand that the world is pushing the narrative that in order to be strong. You must never feel. And that if you cry, you're weak. And if you have any feelings, you're weak. And in order to get along, you have to go along. Listen, I'm going to tell you something. You can protect. You can provide. You can put points on the board. You can win wars. You can destroy enemies. You can overcome the most brutal of adversities and adversaries with tears in your eyes, provided they are not clouding your judgment and obscuring the target. The power behind the bonds created when feelings are genuine and given freely is what allows growth to happen. Because listen, if you took a second to look at yourself, your own life, and you went through circumstances scattered throughout the years, you're more likely to remember how something felt than the points on the board. Feelings demand connection and connection creates power and power overcomes an adversary. Listen, having a lot of acquaintances, a lot of followers, a lot of likes and comments has become the definition of value and success. I don't give a [\h__\h] how many likes or follows or comments I get. None of that defines my value. I define my value based on one thing, results. Listen to that again. Results determine value. If you can't get results, you don't have value. And people get real mad about that. It is fact. A lot of people have, God, it drives me crazy because a lot of people have no idea how to make their own lunch and they still live with their parents at 40 years old. And these are the ones giving the most advice. Second only to the ones whose lives are sheer chaos. We're talking broken business. They've re-evaluated their goals, but not because of what they want, but because they're allowing their feelings to drive. They're divorced and still talking about it. They're sloppy, scrawny, or overweight. And you'd never want to trade lives with this person, but you want to heart from them on your post. And it's vital that you get it. Listen, if your life is a train wreck and you leave a negative comment, the issue is with you, not with me. But those are the people that you guys want to listen to. How many of the people in your social media, how many How many of those people could you call who would without hesitation go to war beside you? Who are willing to get bloody with you and take on whatever giant is in front of you? How many of those people are willing to take on Goliath with you? How many would drop it all in order to get to you to help you? It'll be the ones, these are the ones, just so you know, the ones with whom you've got the deepest connection, which is the result of sharing genuine feelings and being intentional about it instead of using them as a means to get something or do something. These people, the ones who are immediately your best friend, they're like, "We're besties for life [\h__\h] until they've got what they wanted and then they ghost." All of you know who I'm talking about cuz you all have somebody like that in your life. [\h__\h] those people. Listen, stop expending energy on people that do nothing for your life. They're in the same category as people who make promises for months and years on end. And every time the moment comes to bring it to fruition where they're supposed to do what they've said they'd do, it's another valid reason to them why they can't. And it's never their fault. I want you to remember something. If someone makes a promise to you, this will change the way you look at everything. If someone makes a promise to you and breaks it, regardless of the circumstances, their word has no value. Because a promise made with endless excuses or endless procrastination isn't a promise. It's a lie. And if it's done once, it might be unintentional once. If it's done twice, it's a habit and a [\h__\h] decision. As far as winning in your feelings go, we'll come back to that. It's not about whether or not you cry or get sad or get happy or giddy or whatever it is. It's whether those motion those emotions. It's whether those emotions are an immovable object because you're being held down and using them as validation for defeat to stay where you are or the emotions are the unstoppable force because they are the fuel to rip the [\h__\h] out of whatever is in between you and where you must go. Same emotions, different actions. Hope you guys got something out of that. Never miss. I got to go. This is where we fight. This is where they die.