That's wild. First of all, thanks for coming by and listening. I really appreciate that. I know you guys got tons of things you could be doing. So, if you give me your time, I really appreciate it. Thank you very much. I love you guys for that. And everything I come out here and give you is to help you have a better life, to give you the tools, the strategies, the tactics, everything that's worked for me. So I always tell people look at the results of what whoever you like whoever you're listening to look at the results that they have because if you want everything that they have then listen to what they say. If there are a bunch of holes in their life why are you listening to those people because if you don't want what they have the only thing they can give you no matter how educated they are the only thing they can give you is what they have. So you guys out there that go they're fat, but they're a doctor. They went to med school, so they know more. I know personal trainers know more than that. And if you're a fat doctor, by the way, you disgust me. I have nothing for you. I hope that offends you. I hope it offends you so much that you get so pissed off and get in the comments and lose your [\h__\h] Because if you are a doctor, you are in charge of people's health, in charge of their life, in charge of the quality that they spend their time for the next 70, 80, 90, 100 years here on this planet. And you are an example of what not to do. You are a disgusting human being and you spend all your time trying to validate why being fat is okay. It is not okay. You spend your life in a lie. So if you are a doctor and you are fat, you shouldn't be a doctor. There is no excuse. None. And now we are in a time when most personal trainers know more than most doctors as far as healthcare. I don't care who you are. I don't care if you can tell me how many but ATP come out of the KB cycle or you can trace a drop of blood through the entire cardiovascular system or you can recite all the stuff in the nervous system go through the whole spinal cord. I don't care the microbiology, the pharmacology, the toxicology, all the things that you know have provided precisely nothing because you're too busy prescribing drugs and telling people what's wrong with them instead of telling people what's right with them and helping them stay there. You're too busy justifying and validating why it's okay that you have a big gulp on your desk and you're 80 lbs overweight and that it's okay. You're too busy trying to get them to go on a N subscription so they can take a GLP-1 not understanding that it causes muscle wasting and all GI paralysis for the most part and Zepbound which is even worse has a blackbox warning. But all you knucklehead doctors go out there and tell people it's okay. That's what they're going to do. And I hear all these people running around on their commercials. I lost 8 lbs thanks to N. No, you lost 8 lb because you took a drug that allowed you to lose 8 lbs that's actually causing you to waste away into nothing because you don't have [\h__\h] self-control because you're a [\h__\h] I have no sympathy for you. How did people do it before? You guys spend so much of your time blaming and then you go, "I'm so burnt out. I don't have the time. I just I can't handle it, Spartan. You don't understand. I'm a mom. I'm burnt out. I work 10our days. I'm burnt out." You're not burnt out. I promise I'll help you out. I will vaporize that [\h__\h] lie. I'm going to cover you in napalon, baby. This is going to be an ugly one because I am tired of hearing all of you people with your fake fatigue. I'm going to cremate the [\h__\h] out of that today because you're not burned out. You're not You don't have too much on your plate. Listen, how about you just tear that mask off the lie, the [\h__\h] that you've been spoon feeding yourself just for once. Just for once, get honest with yourself instead of demanding honesty from everybody else. Look in the mirror and demand it from yourself. Because most of you guys are so caught up in demanding from others that you forget to look in the mirror and demand from that person while you blow up like a blimp and your health degrades into just the sewer and your family life is a disaster. You have no money and you blame your circumstances while trying desperately to hold other people accountable for their actions when you haven't even looked at your own. You're not burned out. You're unchallenged. You're bored. I'll tell you this. You're under stimulated. You're undisiplined. and you're spiritually underfucking whelmed. You haven't even connected to God, man. You're not doing too much. Nobody is doing too much. When I see these Insta gurus and insta coaches coming out going, "Dude, I just realized I was doing too much. I need to spend more time with my kids at the park." You aren't doing too much. You're doing too much of what doesn't cause value. You're on a hamster wheel forgetting that you're stuck in a cage. I've said it before. You don't need rest. You need a goddamn mission that sets your damn soul on fire and makes your excuses tap out. That's what you need. So, I promise you, I'm going to burn down every excuse you've got on this episode because every soft, emotionally pampered man loves this word, burnout. I hear it all the time. Oh, bro, I'm just so burned out. No, you're not. No, you're not. I run around with one lung working 16-hour days. I haven't missed a day since I opened my eyes in the hospital. Savior [\h__\h] for someone that actually gives a [\h__\h] and isn't going to call you on your own lies. You're not burned out. You're bored. You're bored. You've been scrolling for 6 hours on this thing. You hit snooze every single morning thinking you just had a rough night. You're working a job that I guarantee you doesn't challenge you that you hate your boss. You hate your job. You hate the commute. You hate everything about it. But you keep doing it because you say, "I have to cuz somebody has to pay the bills." That's your tap out. You don't like your job, quit. If you don't have enough money in your bank account to keep yourself afloat for two to three months, that's your fault. Figure it the [\h__\h] out. I can't stand you guys lying to yourselves, demanding from others while you never look in the mirror. You're working a job that doesn't challenge you, that you hate because you think you need to stay there because it's your only option. That's why you stay. You created a self-imposed limitation. You're living inside a routine that's built for comfort, not conquest, because it's tolerated. And now your brain feels like a sponge. A soft, shitty ass overused sponge. It's [\h__\h] marshmallow. Of course it does. Because listen, you've sedated that savage drive inside of you for so long, he's forgotten what it meant to hunt. Honestly, like I love giving you guys questions. So if you answer them, great. If you don't, dude, piss off. I got I come out here and I'm real. I'm not here to be your best buddy. I'm not here to go I need more likes and follows. I'm here to tell you the damn truth because nobody else is going to do it. Ask yourself this. Am I burned out? Am I really burned out or am I just too scared to chase the life that would actually demand me being exceptional? Which one? Because honestly, real talk, you're not exhausted from effort. You're exhausted from doing nothing, from doing busy work, from spending three weeks making a PDF to send your potential clients for a freebie. Dude, you're a loser. You're exhausted from existing below your potential because you're afraid of being disappointed. So, you don't set goals. You don't set high margins. You don't keep high standards except in the things that you know damn well that you can succeed in. What about all the [\h__\h] that you don't know? What about all the things that you want, but you don't know if they're going to work out? Well, you don't want to be disappointed, so you're a [\h__\h] so you don't do anything about it. You don't need another weekend in the mountains. You don't need another trip to Bora. You don't need another vacation on some ski hill. You don't need to go off the grid and touch grass. You need bigger problems. You need heavier weights. And you need much more violent, audacious goals. Because listen, I've been you. That's why I'm saying this. Most of what you guys call burnout, it's your nervous system begging, crying for challenge and your cowardice to go. It just keeps going, "Shut the hell up. Shh. Quiet. This is tolerated. I don't have to do anything." You guys are microwaving your time and wondering why your soul tastes like a piece of plastic. Of course it does. You're probably still living in your sister's basement. You're not tired. You're not tired. You're underfed, underchallenged, and underfucking welmed. I said it before. It is not your environment. It is not your job. It is not your workout. You guys are doing the same boring workout and wondering why you look the same. You're wandering around the gym for four hours telling your buddies how hard you train, but you're still fat, but you got a dad bod. So, you go, "My wife loves my dad bod." No, she loves your dad bod because it allows her to stay fat as well. That's why. Because if you don't raise your standards, neither does she. She doesn't have to. You're not leading your family. You're drowning your family. You're burying your family. When was the last time that you did something so hard that it scared the [\h__\h] the weakness right out of you? I'll bet you this. You can't remember. And if you can't, congratulations. You're not burned out. You're boring. You're boring. You've got a boring life. You come home. Listen. You wake up in the morning. You drink out of a box. You eat out of a box. You live in a box. You go out to a box. You sit down in a box. You turn the key in a box. You drive in a box. All the way to the box that you work in. You sit in front of a box. You work in front of the box. Then you leave the box. You get back in the box. You come home to the box. You sit down in front of a box while eating out of a box, drinking out of a box, complaining that you're in a box. You disgust me. You're not burned out. You're just boring and you're tolerating it because you're too afraid of taking a risk. You're too afraid of spending the money. You're too afraid of putting in the effort, the time, the energy. You're too afraid to bleed for what you want. So, you mute what you want. You bury what you want. Tell everybody else that where you're at is really what you want to do. Even though inside that fire keeps you awake every night staring at the ceiling fan wondering why you're not there. You're not there because you're a [\h__\h] How about we talk about your low energy? I love that, bro. I got low energy. Tired all the time, huh? I'm a real doctor. Let me help you out. I've worked minimum 12-hour days my entire life. For as long as I can remember. As long as I can remember. Farms, horses, cows, cutting lawn. It doesn't matter whatever it is. I have always worked. So, let me get this. Let me get this straight. You're tired all the time, right? That's what you say. You if this is you and you feel this, good. So, you're tired. You're drained. You're exhausted. You're all foggy. You look for all these supplements, these neurotropics. But let me take a stab at this. You've got 6 to8 hours of screen time every day. You think caffeine substitutes sleep. Oh, I love caffeine, but doesn't take their place of rest. You don't drink any water. You eat shitty food. You have porn before purpose. You have no plan, no direction, no drive, fear of disappointment, fear of failure, while you complain to the people that also have feeler, fear of failure, are afraid to be disappointed and tell you that you should stay where you are because your life is pretty damn good. And then you have a diet that's full of [\h__\h] and you have the sleep schedule of a damn raccoon. But somehow you blame burnout. Mhm. You're not burned out. You're undisiplined. You have been pouring. Listen, Geigo. Garbage in, garbage out. Good in, good out. It works both ways. So, you've been pouring garbage just non-stop into your brain, your body, your life, your day, your business, your mindset, your bank account. Now you're confused why you feel like a zombie. You don't have a burnout problem. You have a trash routine problem. Your whole life is trash. And you guys get upset about it. You go, "Oh, listen to this guy. He's angry. He's pissed off. He's calling me out and telling me the truth. That's what he's doing." How about you ask yourself this? If someone copied my daily habits for a year, would they become powerful or pathetic? Oh, I'll say that again because most of you, 90% of you listening to this are pathetic as [\h__\h] If someone copied, and you should be offended by that, triggered by that to the point where it pisses you off so bad you go, you look right at the screen, you look right at me, and you go, "Fuck you, Spartan. I'll show you how powerful I am. Buckle up, baby. And then go do something about it. Because ask again, if somebody copied my daily habits for an entire year, would they become powerful or pathetic? Because I know damn well if you copy my daily habits for an entire year, you will be unrecognizable. You will be a millionaire. You will have the body you want, the marriage you want, the life you want, the kids you want, the discipline you want, you will have everything. You know why? Because I've done it. Because your routine is your destiny. Your routine is your future. And right now you're designing a future powered by Oreos and avoidance. Sometimes I try not to get too deep in these things because I really I'm so disappointed in mankind. And I really believe this isn't a tribe like the unbreakable mastermind. It is it's not a tribe. It's not a men's group. I I honestly believe it. It hit me today in the garage to the point where it got me choked up and it's it was in my heart and my soul from God. It is a crusade to save mankind because I demand high standards. So, if people get pissed off and they're not willing to spend 1,500 bucks a year to show up or just shy of five grand once and never have to pay again and get access to everything, like I said, 144 live calls a year, all with me where I yesterday in my webinar, let's see, we solved two two different types of cancer. We went over $100,000 in a business and showed them how to do it and now they're going to do it. We educated them on trainer eyes, got rid of personal development issues, went through some OB/GYN issues. I could do this all day. And this was all on only one call. And there were dozens and dozens of solutions up about sneeze. Allergies are bad here in Texas for me right now. But you guys are too cheap to come up with 15 and 100 bucks. I don't want you. I had this I told you I had this one guy. What? What? What else is this? I don't want you. You know why? Because if you want what someone else has, you have to do what someone else does. When I see something and I go, "All right, let's rock and roll." I squeeze the trigger. I don't think about it for the next week. So, if you went in the barrier to entry, it's not 25 grand, which is what the mastermind normally is. It's $1,500. So, do it. It's $4,997 if you never want to pay again. you want. It's not one-on-one with me, but you have access to it online, offline, you name what's in this program, it's there. Sales training, mindset training, personal development, over a,000 videos, injury rehab, you name it, it is all in there. Plus a community of people that all want you to win and hold the standard so that you do, but you go ahead and join your $20 a month school group thinking that's going to make you rich because you talk to some billionaire. I have a friend that's a billionaire. Don't don't don't take my word for it. Don't be a skeptic. Be a cynic. You people all put new cars in everybody's garages because you're so [\h__\h] weak you can't stay with a program long enough. So you spend the rest of your life shelling out 40 50 bucks a month on all these programs forgetting to cancel them because you're stupid. My buddy Payne, he's a cool cat, man. This guy's a cool cat. 600 grand in debt. Sold Logic Eig for just shy of three billion with a B. I have another friend of mine. He's got to be scraping a billion. Bedros Coulian. He's one of the coolest cats I know, man. This guy's smooth. He's the guy that I look at and I go, "What would Bedros do?" Everybody needs somebody like that. And I get a lot of messages from you guys going, "What would the Spartan do?" Perfect. Thank you. And I'm really humbled by that. But I do that with Bedros a lot. What would Bedros do? Because I admire how he he designed his life from where he came from and what he's built. Why would I not look at that? Sometimes I look at my wife and I go, "What would Brandy do?" Because she's smart. See, the smartest people on earth look for people that are playing in areas at a higher level than they are. And these are the areas they want to get into. And they go, "What would they do? How would that person conduct themselves in this situation right now if it were theirs?" That's the secret. But you guys live with these impotent little wind socks that you call friends that you've been hanging out with since the third grade. You all look like bowling pins and you eat poutine. And if you don't know what that is, look it up. It's disgusting. You think alcohol is good. You think weed is harmless. You do lines of coke that would make Whitney Houston look like a boring human being. Charlie Sheen would look like nothing. Tell you what, if you can come up with $1,500 a year, which you already do for your coffee, your porn, your Netflix, your Prime Video, you all the stuff that you buy. The problem isn't the money. I have a guy, I'll give him a shout out. His name's Cory Troop. The guy's a stud. I have a so much respect for this guy. He was dropping bombs in our call yesterday. Love this guy. Just a kid. He came to my webinar. It's got to be at least four times. I wasn't keeping track, but every time he came to get in, I let him in right away over and over again. And he said, "I don't have the money." And I just said, "You just keep showing up." I got a message from him. And he goes, I scraped together the 1,500 bucks, man. He's in. He doesn't have a lot of money, but I have more faith in him being successful than almost anybody else because he found a way. you figure it the [\h__\h] out. You want to join the crusade to save mankind, then you get in the unbreakable mastermind because that's how serious this is. Or keep going hoping that your day is going to work out, that your life is going to work out because you're not tired. Listen, this is the Let's get deep. You're not tired of life. You're tired of a life that no longer fits the man that you could be. You understand that? You're tired of a life that just doesn't fit the exceptional man that you could be. And you're wasting time. You got the same dumbass friends that are just partying, going to clubs, smoking, drinking, chasing hoes, doing all kinds of stupid things. They got the same job. You're in the same city. You got the same pornstained, mutilated habits. You're playing a game that you've already beaten, but you keep respawning in a level and it's always level one because it's familiar. It's safe. You won't get disappointed. You know how to beat level one. That's like staying on the bunny hill and wondering why everybody else is having a good time, but you're bored, but you're watching a rocket by you, but you're just too scared. And you know what you guys say? Bro, I'm overwhelmed. You don't know what I'm going through. Everybody's going through something. You're not overwhelmed. You're underinvolved. and under evolved. You're still living like the 20-year-old version of you in a 35year-old body built for war. You think underneath all that fat, all that corrupt, screwed up, convoluted mindset isn't just a an arsenal of weapons that you're just not tapping into because you're acting like too much of a [\h__\h] It's not burnout. It's betrayal. It's betrayal. That's what it is. Ask yourself, what parts of my life would I walk away from today? if I wasn't afraid of what would happen to the soft, pathetic version of me that I've been protecting. Listen, because the pain that you feel, it's the pressure of potential fighting for air underwater in a cage that you're just not going to leave. It has nothing to do with the world around you. It has nothing to do with anybody else. That has nothing to do with your boss, your job, your spouse, your dog, your car, your genetics, your mom, your dad, your trauma, your uncle that molested you. It has nothing to do with any of that. It has to do with you committing to being the worst, lowest version of yourself because you're scared because you go, "What if it doesn't work? I've been burned before. Everybody's been burned before. I've lost almost $2 million to a con man that [\h__\h] me over and is still trying to. Has it slowed me down? Not a chance. Because every time I let something like that slow me down, I'm giving them the victory. [\h__\h] that. You guys need to resurrect some fire, man. You need to kill that overwhelm and that burnout cuz it's a lie. Listen here, I'll help you out. This is what you do. I try to give you tactics and strategies that I these are all the things that I do or that I have done. You need to slit the throat of every weak sad, pathetic excuse. That's what you need to do. No more burnout. None. Struggle ends where the commitment begins. So, no more burnout. Call it what it is. Laziness, fear, boredom, emotional jerking off, avoidance in disguise. That's what it is. I think maybe the second thing you got to do is build a savage routine that kills chaos. You need to murder it early. Rise. Get cold. Get uncomfortable. I don't care if you cold plunge. Just get cold. A cold start. Pick up some iron. Do it in silence. Have the discipline to do it no matter what. No matter where you are, no matter who you're with, no matter what is going on in your life the same time every day. And you damn well know that I do because I've never missed posting a day. Not one day have I missed posting my morning routine. The only thing that has ever changed on my morning routine are the number of reps that I do because I started with one. One pull-up, one squat, one push-up, one bicycle. And now I do 100 pull-ups, 100 squats, 100 push-ups, and 100 bicycles every single day. And that's not my workout. That's my discipline reminding me of just how much of a [\h__\h] nightmare I am for anything getting in the way, trying to stop me, including me. You guys, third thing you guys should do is set a goal that's so terrifying. It's so big. It's so big that it scares the [\h__\h] out of you. It is so terrifying that you don't even want to tell people because you're so scared. The kind of goal that gives you anxiety, makes you nervous and freaked out. The kind that makes you sleep optional. You know what it is? That's the kind of goal that murders burn out on site. Red dot. Pow. Gone. That's the kind of goal you need. You know what you need to do, too? Fourth thing, audit your damn life for energy leaks. You guys have all these energy leaks for your excuses. Cut out toxic people, toxic habits, toxic patterns. Get rid of them. Why are they there? You know what they are. I'm not telling you something you don't know. Because burnout dies when momentum takes over. You need to become, this is the fifth thing I would think, you need to become the architect of a life that demands a leader that demands a savage. Because when your life requires strength, when it demands it of you, when your life requires it no matter what, you stop making room for weakness because you don't have a choice. Because now it becomes a matter of survival. How about this? I'll leave you with this. I'll leave you a question. If my level of exhaustion is a symptom of living a life too small, you guys have it backwards. Flip the script. If my level of exhaustion is a symptom of living life too small, because I promise you, let me pause for a second. On a day where you've done nothing and it's been the longest day ever where you've literally just drugg on in front of something, front of a computer, dragging it on, not busy. You come home and you're exhausted. But you have a day where it is non-stop fire. You come home and you're ready to take on the world. Strange. Why is that? Because that second day you weren't bored. You were on a mission. So, if my level of exhaustion is a symptom of living a life that's too small, what would it look like to finally expand into the [\h__\h] empire that I was born to build? You guys don't think that you're born to build an empire. And if you go, I don't really want an empire. Yes, you do. That's why you're bored. That's why you say you're overwhelmed. That's why you're exhausted. That's why you're seeking escape every day. That's why you don't love yourself. because you've been talking yourself out of the empire that you know damn you're built for. Answer it. Answer it. Answer it. If my level of exhaustion was a symptom of living a just a tiny infinite little life, what would it look like to finally expand and blow out into the [\h__\h] empire that I was born to build? What would it look like? Answer it in a burn and torch the old life. This is up to you. I could do this all day. It doesn't matter what I tell you to do. It matters what you do. Burnout's not the enemy, man. It's not. Comfort is fear, disappointment, softness, playing small, saying maybe later. That all of that is your enemy. Excuses, distractions, validations, justification, weak friends, weak habits, negative thoughts. I could do this all day. It's all the [\h__\h] that you guys are carrying with you every day. You weren't meant to coast. You know that. You are mankind. You weren't meant to coast. You were meant to conquer. That is what men do. Listen, no matter what you say, everybody loves to fight. And until you rise to the war that your soul has been begging you to fight, you will keep dying piece by piece, blaming burnout while your fire gasps for oxygen while it just smothers. If this is anything, it's a wakeup call. Instead of going, I just need a little nap. I just need a little rest. Stop calling for rest. Stop calling for rest. Like, look at this as a resurrection. Start fighting for a [\h__\h] resurrection. Because everything you want, you keep validating to everybody around you that you don't and that you're happy where you are. But your soul knows you're lying. Get up and fight. Seriously, let's just [\h__\h] go. I got to go. Never miss. This is where they die.