Most of you guys aren't even stuck. You're scared. You're not scared of pain or discomfort or failure or investment or loss. You're scared of what some loser is going to say. I just had my Monday campfire call. It's my Q&A call. it. Hands down the most popular call of the week, but also the most fun call. I had some wild questions that had one about a pit viper bite. And man, I' I've fielded a lot of questions. It's by far the most wild question I've ever had. Pit viper bite, neurotoxin, heotoxin, all kinds of stuff. Anyway, that's not what this is about. Listen, I watch people, so I'm 52 years old. I've lived a lot of life and I watch people who are so scared to live the life that they want to live because of what other people are going to say about them. And I think the problem with that is it's not costing them, it's costing you. Like you guys are scared of the losers at the bottom of the barrel wondering why your life sucks but blaming everything around you. But it's because you're listening to the people that already have no value to their life. There's so many validation traps in the world right now, especially on social media. And you guys are stuck. You're stuck because you're scared of losers. You have this pathetic need for approval from people that you would never trade spaces with. You would never trade lives with them no matter what. And then you guys to start to to justify that and try and come up with reasons why it wouldn't I might trade lives. No, you wouldn't. You have an image. You have a picture of the life you want and you're not living it because of somebody else's opinion. You need to get some balls. I'll just hit you with a shot right to the face right out of the gate. You're scared. You're not scared of pain or discomfort or failure or investment or loss. You're scared of what some loser is going to say, right? Earl with a neck beard and the bag of funions. That's what you're scared of. Let that really thinking you're not building your dream because you're afraid of being made fun of by people who don't even like their own lives. You might want to distill that down just a little bit because you're holding yourself back. You're blaming them because of what they say on social media. I don't give a [\h__\h] what any of you guys say about me on social media. I don't value your opinions at all over my own. And you guys value everybody else's opinions over your own. You don't understand what it's like to be me. You don't understand what it's like to be me. You have a big ego. No, I'm confident. I have self-worth, self-credibility, self- value. I'm cocky because I got a stack of receipts behind me of everything I've done. I fail all the time. But the more I fail and the more I overcome the failure and I do something again and I go, I could do that and I could do this and I keep doing it and I fail forward and I do it over and over again, I am just stacking nothing but receipts and the opinions of other people shrink until there's there's a zero value rate. You're watering down your own potential so the chick who peaked in high school doesn't look at you and go, "Yeah, you're a little too intense, Trevor." Really? That's what's got you stopped. That's what's got you paralyzed. Like just stuck where you are. Come on, man. Your life is so important. And you're turning it over to people who don't think their life is important. Imagine you're standing on the precipice of a better life. Everything you want. Listen, please hear me. You're standing at the edge of this life. This better life. We're talking the money, the business, the girl, the body, the investments, the children, the neighborhood, the house, everything you want, the health, the power, the self-worth, the strength within yourself, the relationship with God, all of that. You're standing there like your legacy. But you won't take that step because Kyle might think you're trying too hard and you're too intense. If you're still afraid of what the clowns are going to think, you belong in the circus. you don't belong here because you're associating with people that never would associate with you. They're just trying to keep you down. This is what weak men do. You call ambition ego because you gave up on yours. I like when people call me egotistical because I'm not. I'm confident. Yeah, maybe I do have an ego because I do what I say and I keep my word. At that point, it's not ego, it's a resume. People at the bottom call discipline toxic because it makes them feel guilty for quitting. If you listen to them in any capacity, you're one of them. Listen, you guys have to pay attention to me, please. You ever see this fat drunk talk trash about someone trying to get in shape? You ever see a broke dude mock a man learning how to sell, how to lead, how to create, how to build value, how to own, how to dominate. Bet your ass you have. because it makes their little tiny impotent mediocrity feel safer when you quit cuz then they go, "Thank God I don't feel so bad about where I am because I got them to quit." They don't want you to fail. They want you to quit. You have to get that. They don't give a [\h__\h] if you fail. They want you to stop cuz it makes them feel better about where they are. And some of you guys, you just literally hand you just write the check. Absolutely. I will turn over my soul in my life to you. So, I don't want you to make fun of me. So, please don't bother me. Don't yell at me. Don't make me feel bad. Don't give me thumbs down and hate on me and create negative fan pages and all the other stuff. Who [\h__\h] cares? This is your life. Do you really think that matters? Because you're sabotaging your own life and everything that you want to make some coward feel comfortable. It's just like you going, I'm not going to be fit because I'm shaming them because I'm fit and athletic. You shamed yourself by stuffing carrot cake in your mouth every day. And you wonder why you look in the mirror and you fil you're filled with nothing but loathing and despising yourself just hate for yourself because you're listening to the people that already hate themselves. You become what you think about and talk about and who you spend your time with. And here's the devastating irony about all of this. The people that you fear being judged by are the ones that you'd never want to become, but you're worried about their judgment. Why? You're building your entire O operating system based on the feedback from users who've never built a thing of value in their entire life. These people are not your rivals. They're not even on the same path as you. These are spectators complaining and heckling from the bleachers because they were too scared to lace up their own skates and get on the ice and play the game. And then here you are tuning your identity to their projected shame on you. That's not noble. That's embarrassing. That's tragic. But the tragedy is for you and you're choosing writing the script every day. You're scared of being laughed at by a dude who still lives in his mom's basement and borrows Wi-Fi from the neighbors. And that's what you're concerned about. Like you're worried about some girl who posts stupid quotes about healing and hustle and grind and my inner truth while eating spicy Cheetos in bed. and ghosting her therapist. If you're going to sacrifice your own greatness in becoming exceptional, at least do it for someone who's actually ahead of you. If you're going to attack me, I already know you're not even near me. I'm so far above you, people get mad. If you're hating on me, I am way better than you. This is like skipping the gym because a drunk guy in the Wendy's parking lot called you too healthy or you're fat shaming me while the mayonnaise drips off his beard that still has breakfast in it. You're not stuck. You're scared. And you're not even scared of hard work or discomfort or pain. You're scared of being judged by people who you secretly pity. If you are throwing hate on anybody and you're not doing better than that person, I pity you. I feel so bad for you in your life cuz your life is miserable. You'd b you guys would rather be one of the boys, one of the girls than be the guy they whisper whisper about in envy, jealousy. And envy and jealousy are ugly emotions. But I'll make damn sure you're envious and jealous of me cuz I'm not stopping because of your opinion. Why are you stopping? You would rather blend in with all the idiots and losers and the bums on the street than break the ranks. Just do something with your life. You wait until the time is right because you want to be where nobody is around so you don't get judged by people you would never care to become. Whether they can see you or you can see them, they're still going to talk. Whether you win or lose, they're still going to run their mouth. You may as well give them something to talk about that's real. May as well just start stacking victories and throwing points up on the board. Let them talk. They're talking while you're doing, right? I mean, imagine what would your life look like if you just stopped running a filter based on the fear of people you don't even respect. You actually respect punk man 497 that [\h__\h] talks to you in your Instagram. You actually respect that person? Of course you don't. Then why are you listening? You put yourself in a cage of opinions. But it's your cowardice that's building the cage bar by bar. Like they're just words, sticks and stones, man. Their words have no weight. Their words have nothing. You give them the weight. You give them the power. Nobody can make you feel anything without your permission. And you just hand over permission all day long. So every time you stop yourself from posting, from building, from training, from leading, from becoming, from growing because of what will they think, you hand over your future to people who aren't even qualified to manage their own damn lives. Think about that. You let soft, loud, obnoxious, pudgy ass nobodies dictate the size of your ambition because you don't want to be the topic of a group chat full of weak men and bitter women. It's not fear. That is psychological and emotional suicide. You guys running around talking about how serious you are about winning. You're not serious about winning. If you flinch at the noise from other people you wouldn't even take advice from or trade lives from you. You're you're not serious about winning because if you are you don't care. You only have one direction towards the target that you set. All other options fail to exist. All other opinions fail to exist. All other actions fails to exist. No options just that. That's what being serious about winning is. That's the difference between a winner and everybody else. So ask yourself, next time somebody runs their mouth about your life or what you're doing or the ambitions or goals or visions that you have, ask yourself, would you trade lives with them? If the answer is no, why are you letting them shape your behavior? Their opinion shouldn't slow you down. It should fuel you like rocket fuel going, "Oh yeah, bet against me. I'll show you just how badass I can be." Every time they open their mouth, they reveal exactly the kind of person that you swore you would never become, and you're listening to them. Let them hate. Let them run their mouth. Then bury the [\h__\h] out of these people in your victories and your progress. Stop worrying about these people. You've got goals. You've got dreams. You've got vision. You've got a purpose. But you're not going to act on them because you're afraid of what? Some nobody who's laughing at you. [\h__\h] that. Do you know what it takes to earn self-respect? It takes the pain. It takes the pressure. It takes being ostracized and humiliated and hated and loathed and trashtalked and it takes the reps when all of that weight is on you. That's what it takes. You can't lift a new life while carrying all of their opinions from yesterday or even today cuz you're too worried about what they're saying instead of looking at what you're doing. Drop their weights or don't complain when you never do anything with your life because it's your fault. It's not somebody else's fault. It's not Suzie online who's trash talkinging you and your mom. It's you. Here's the best part. They don't even care about you. They're trying to escape themselves, their own failure, their own life. You're scared of nothing but shadows. You know what you do? Shine. Become so bright that they can't stand it. My energy, I want it to be so intense all the time, 24/7, 365. And I succeed. that either you can't wait to be around me and join and do and become part of my vision so I can help you get to the top and you absorb and feel that for me or you can't stand being around me because it exposes how much of a [\h__\h] loser you are. When you orient aim, right, your actions in a way that avoids the opinions and disapproval of others rather than aim at exactly what you want. You become a slave to perception. You're a puppet when you do that. They got the strings. You're this puppet controlled and manipulated by the the imaginary criticisms of people whose own moral compasses are disgustingly skewed or shattered altogether over time. This is going to erode and destroy your soul. It never is. It's going to be this slow corrosive erosion of your life of every single failed vision, failed talked yourself out of attempt, unpursued goal, every silenced truth that you have rolling around in your skull and every procrastination to prevent your own greatness. It is a big deal. If you listen to this and go, "What does this have to do?" You are missing the point. That's hell. You have created your own personal hell. The devil is keeping you from becoming who you were designed to become. That's hell. To know who you could have been but chose not to because of a laugh track from all of the idiots around you. And that's the life you choose. So you're out here trying to build this empire. I'm building a kingdom. Yeah. You're trying to build this empire, this kingdom, whatever, but you're stuck in the mud because your ex's cousin's roommate might say you're doing too much and you're offending them. You really think any legacy or empire is built on silently tiptoeing past people's opinions? That's a hobo ballet. You guys allow people to take up real estate in your head and they're paying with nothing. They don't have any results. You are handing them the deed to real estate in your mind. You need to evict these people. You do know that you don't need permission to be successful, right? You just need a spine. When are you going to make the decision to go, I'm all in. Whatever it costs, whatever it takes, however much I bleed, whatever words they say, I am doing this. When you do, that's when you become unbreakable. That's when you become a juggernaut. That's when you become the unstoppable force. And there is no immovable object because all those chains you're wearing right now are from you. You forg those in the fire of all your complaints and victim mindset even built out of anything strong. They're built out of your silence, hesitation, procrastination, mental masturbation, and the fear of being misunderstood and judged by these idiots. But get this, they don't need to understand you. They don't even need to like you. They just need to watch as you keep climbing one step after the other up that mountain. They can't even comprehend. They just need to sit there and watch and complain and throw stones as you build a life that makes their gossip completely irrelevant. You don't even have to fight them. You sure as hell don't shrink for those people. You just need to win. And you know how you do it? Stop listening to them. I had somebody go, "Dude, you just come out here and yell at people and make people feel bad about themselves." I don't make anybody feel bad about themselves. You do that to yourself by my words exposing how much of a [\h__\h] you are. If you completely stopped caring what small, weak, impotent minds thought, what would you do? Because that answer, that's your future. And I'm just warming up, baby. Because this is something that's so serious right now because social media has created cyber bullying. But cyber bullies only have power when you give them power. I can't stand bullies. I will smash you in the mouth if you're a bully. I don't care who you are. You were taught to be ashamed of your own strength. By whom? Listen. You're taught to be ashamed of how powerful you are. Not because it's wrong, but because it threatens every single thing that weak people use to feel safe. You're shaming me. All you care about is money. No, I like the freedom that money gives me and the fact that I'm doing a lot of good with it and teaching other people how to get more of it. But you only teach people that have money. Correct. If that's how you see it. I teach people that have a small amount of money to make a large amount of money. I teach people with a large amount of money to make an even larger amount of money. If we're just talking about money, but I also talk about their health, their emotional wealth, their spiritual wealth, their relationships, their life, everything, that's a win. You have all that strength inside you, but you're taught to be ashamed of that because it's threatening all the weak. You weren't born to be ashamed of making strides towards victory, right? You're trained by the system to feel guilty for it. The losers needed you to stay close enough to not expose how far behind they really were. It's programming. They couldn't rise with you, so they make it look selfish. They can't be fit. Body positive. I'm a big-bodied woman. You're a fat [\h__\h] You're just fat. Let's just leave it at that. You're just fat. Women like pot bellies. Women like dad bods. Not a chance. There is no woman out there that inside fantasizes about her man having a dad bod. The only woman that says that is a woman who goes, I don't want to have to do any work. So if I keep him simpy and soft and weak and small and scrawny with a bulgy belly, that means I don't have to raise my standards either. And it goes the same on the other side of that equation, too. You keep people at the bottom so you don't have to raise your standards. They couldn't beat you, so they tried to convince you that the game is bad. You're wealthy. You're money shaming me. You're fit. You're fat shaming me. You're giving me body dysmorphia. Body dysmorphia works on the other side, too. You could be body dysmorphic if you're fit. The byproduct of doing everything to make myself more powerful happens to make me also look more powerful. The byproduct of you eating everything possible makes you look like everything you've eaten. Not a chance. That's wild. Both take work. You want to know what shame actually is? It's a weapon the weak use to make you apologize for being great, for being driven, for being ambitious, for being powerful, for being undeniable and unbreakable. That's what it is. That's what shame is. They're going to say, "Oh, like I get this from you guys. Oh, you think you're better than us now? You bet your ass." When someone says, "Oh, he thinks he's better than us now." Yeah, you are. You just haven't said it out loud yet. Go ahead, say it. You are. Instead of the people that go, "Nobody's better than anybody." I respectfully disagree. The people that earn a better position are better. It's all relative said by a weak person trying to shame others. Absolutely. You didn't come out of your mother soft and scared and weak and impotent and fearful. You are born completely fearless and utterly unstoppable and disciplined in the right direction. I've said this for years. Most of the time your parents are the ones that screwed that up after that. It's the indoctrination and the hypnosis of social conditioning that just poison your mind. You're carved into this by people who quit on themselves. That's what you are. You are carved into this soft, weak, fragile version. You're not. You just believe it. Respectful of the opinions of others when they're negative about you. Go [\h__\h] yourself. Not a chance. You are molded into this by these people who have decimated their own lives and quit on themselves and needed somebody else to hide with. They just need a crowd. You get recruited by these weird self-help groups on Facebook that talk about we're a anti-fat shaming group. We're a blue-haired gender confused group. We're a we think we're cats and 400 lb group. You guys are being recruited by people who have no selfworth. The people that say you're fat shaming, you're money shaming, you're relationship shaming, you're toxic, you're causing body image issues, all that stuff. Those are the they try and shame you into being quiet. Like they're shaming you into average and shrinking and being silent about your own greatness. And you believe it. You believe it. You got to murder that. Kill it. I can't stand it. It drives me crazy cuz I've seen it firsthand. I've seen it in one of my own children and I'm like, "Not a chance. You are a Bachmer. You've got Spartan blood in you. Don't you dare think less of yourself. You are both of my kids. You are a man. You are a woman. Nobody is going to stand against you cuz God is on your side and I'm on your side and your father's a king. That's in your blood. Don't you ever doubt yourself. You have everything inside you to hit any level you ever want. Anyone tells you otherwise, they'll answer to me. Why would you not train your kids to think that way? You need to murder that shrinking average mediocre [\h__\h] that you keep trying to swallow. You want to be unbreakable, then the shame dies now. Now, you don't need to fit in. You don't. You need to smash that and get out and let everybody look at you and try and hate you while they can't even keep up with you. The only time shame becomes toxic is when it's tied to virtue. You understand that? If you tie shame to virtue, then it becomes toxic. When you feel bad for desiring strength, power, impact, status, like becoming undeniable, becoming formidable, discipline, you've been hijacked by this false immorality. You weren't designed to hide your power. You were designed to harness it and aim it in the right direction and become more unstoppable than you are right now. But if your model of morality is built around never making others uncomfortable, you can never stand in truth because you live a lie 24/7 365. You're going to drown in your own what's they try and tell you you're being polite. You're going to drown in your own politeness and die in potential. Listen, let me be very blunt. If you're worried about offending the guy with three baby mamas in a DUI in a podcast recorded on a stolen burner phone in his grandma's garage, you're not stuck. You're stupid. What are you protecting their feelings? They wouldn't cross the street to support your dream if it were on fire. So why are you acting like these people matter? They're worthless. And if that's you're worthless, like you act like they matter. They don't. Real talk, you're not ashamed of growing. You're ashamed of leaving all these cowards behind, but you have to because if they wanted to do what you want to do, they'd be doing it. You need to aim up and go, they have everything I want. How do I pay them with my time, money, and energy to learn everything that they're doing so I can become everything they are and more. When you find somebody living a life that you would gladly trade, you need to start expressing it. Their ceiling becomes your foundation, which means you can go higher because you don't have to learn all the painful lessons they did. You just have to have them teach you. But most of you guys would rather spend 150 grand on a useless Mesopotamian pottery degree from whatever dumb university you go to instead of spending 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 100 grand on a mentor who has every single thing you want. Why? Because you're like, it's not the same. You've been indoctrinated to think that school matters. By the way, school's the most idiotic invention in the world now. It's an indoctrination machine. And if you follow the money and you follow where it came from, you know exactly the fact that I am right. However, I'm not saying like yesterday doctors, engineers, lawyers. If you need a degree, because that degree is required and the knowledge is required from school, do it. Outside of that, stop it. You're going because you don't want to offend your mommy, your daddy, or your neighbor who's going to college. Again though, if these people wanted to really have ambition and not be a professional student, they'd be doing it. And just so you know, if you allow them to do that, you don't rise. If they don't elevate themselves and climb the mountain, you're deciding to stay small doesn't help them at all. It just kills you slower. You drink their poison willingly. It's time for you. You cut these people off or you just become another casualty of this stupid mindset that's going on in the world right now. Like what? Where? Look in your life. Where are you hiding or silencing things just to avoid making somebody else uncomfortable? Who cares? I hope I make you uncomfortable. I want to be offensively offensive and you guys go, "Oh, listen to this guy." Yeah, but I'm winning. And the people that go, "Winning's relative." No, it's not. Winning is winning and there's everything else. People that are winning don't say winning is relative. The only people that say that are the losers. That's it. You're not stuck, man. You're scared of these losers. Yeah. It bothers me because you are making a decision to stay here and it's costing you the very life that you wish you had that you're angry about that you keep sliding into my comments or anybody else's throwing hate because you think that's going to make you feel better. But it doesn't. There are only two ways to build the biggest building in town. Either rip everybody else's down so yours is left standing or build the biggest building in town. Except when you rip everybody else's down, you still have a small tiny building and you know it. Did you ever notice the moment you start to become more and change and evolve, people that you thought were close to you and your friends and in your corner disappear. They ghost you. They start pulling away. They start throwing shade. They give these weird backhanded screwed up compliments. They have weird silence and ignored texts and they take jabs which is looking out for your well-being. But I don't think what you're doing is a good idea like that. They just like little jabs, jabs, jabs. You know what all that is? That's a proof that you're actually climbing the mountain and they're staring at you from the bottom looking up going, "Fuck, they're doing it." Because no one throws stones at [\h__\h] that isn't moving ever. You get that? Nobody throws stones at anybody. They only throw stones at winners. You are not the bad guy. Burn this into your head. You are not the bad guy for working harder, for doing more, becoming more, and leveling up, and evolving into a new version of yourself, the 10.0 version. If they go, I miss when you were this way, that's because they still are that way. And they go, I like who I am. No, you don't. Otherwise, you would shut up. You wouldn't be saying anything about who I'm becoming. Remember that when people chastise you and ostracize you, you are not the bad person for becoming more based on the work that you are doing every day. Eating cleaner, earning more money, driving a nicer car, evolving, making investments, building a business, employing people, leading, moving, growing, wanting more. That does not make you a bad person. They are uncomfortable because your actions make their excuses look ridiculous. You're not too intense. I've dude, you are so intense. You're not too intense. I am not too intense. You're too comfortable. I'm not trying too hard. You guys have already quit. That's what you need to tell people when someone goes, "You're trying too hard. You're not trying too hard. I'll help you out." They've quit and it bothers them. So, don't you dare lower your standards to make some quitter feel better about themselves and make them feel brave. Like, I don't give a [\h__\h] what you used to be. fat, weak, broken, lost, divorced, filled with bitterness, anger, depressed. I don't care what you used to be. And neither should you. When you start climbing, really climbing, all the clowns come out. They are going to mock your workouts, joke about your sobriety, and try and shame you for being wealthy and having success, showing your victories, your trophies, the car, the money, the relationship, the abs, the ability to run, jump, and climb, the great family, the business, the success, the sales, whatever. The growth you have, the mindset, the resiliency that you actually have, not the false resiliency that you put out, but behind closed doors, you're actually a scared little [\h__\h] They're going to whisper when you leave early to build and grow instead of staying there and drink and party and gossip. Why? Because your commitment makes their weakness impossible to ignore. So what do they do? They try and bring you back. Pedros calls it crabs in a bucket, right? They try and bring you back. Try and bring you back to the couch, the addictions, the bottle, the excuses, the validations, the justifications, the well, you don't understand my situation. They try and bring you back to all that. You know what that is? That's the life you already buried. You climbed out of hell once. You don't owe anyone a tour of the hell you climbed out of. They need to climb out. And they think the same thing. If they can't, it's okay to leave them behind. Your growth confronts them with their stagnation. Your progress ruins their illusion of average of fine. I'm okay. So they project because your mind is this projection distortion lying validation machine. So they tap into that ability. They project and they distort and then they try and redefine your virtue yours as selfish as selfish that your discipline is now arrogance that your ambition is being egotistical or you're cocky. They can't process your evolution without admitting their own apathy. That's the problem. So, they make you the villain. They make your success, your victory, and your evolution the villain. But you're not. Stop thinking it. You're not. You're proof that it's possible. And you have systematically dismantled every excuse they have in real time. And that's what terrifies them. If someone says you're too focused or you're too intense, what they really mean is that you've stopped tolerating [\h__\h] If they say, "Oh, you've changed." You know what you say? Thank God cuz I used to be like you. When people go, "Wait, do you think you're better than me? Maybe you are." Instead of going, "I want people to think that I think I'm better than them." Maybe you are. It's okay. You have been fooled into thinking that nobody's better than anyone else. [\h__\h] If you can't do what I can do, I'm better than you. Period. Vice versa. If you can do something I can't do, you are better than me. Welcome to the world and being an adult. Maybe it's time to stop apologizing for you being better than other people. You don't have to explain your grind or your success to anybody who's not even awake for it. You're not stuck. And if you're thinking you're stuck, you need to listen to this episode over and over again. You're not stuck. You're scared that you're stepping into your potential. And by stepping into that potential, it means stepping out of all their acceptance and approval. What has their approval ever gotten you? Really, I'm being serious. What What has their approval ever brought to the table? What has their approval has ever bought you a damn thing? It's never paid for anything. It's never gotten you anything. It's never created anything. It's not bought your dream, your legacy, your evolution, your strength, your power, your capability, your capacity, your legendary life, your vision, or your even your peace. Stop bowing to these losers like their opinions. Pay your bills. And even then become self-reliant. Where are you playing small in your life? Because I think you guys want this big life. And if you say not everybody wants a big life, yes, you do. You've been shamed into thinking that wanting a big life is selfish. Anybody says that you are being selfish or you are cheating to get there by working every seven days a week, look them in the eye and say, "Go [\h__\h] yourself. I want more than you. So, I'm willing to do more than you. You want to play small, that's on you. Don't you dare judge me for it. And if you do, I'll never listen to you anyway because you're going to be a speck in my rearview mirror. Where are you playing small just to avoid being judged by people that you don't respect? You need to cut that the [\h__\h] loose. Go build something epic. Stop listening to anybody ever that has an opinion about your life that's negative because their life is so far below you. Don't listen to peasants. You're [\h__\h] king, so act like one. I got to go. Never miss. Is where they die.