Thanks for being here, you guys. Whoever's watching this, thank you. You know what's interesting is every day I show up here, I've showed up here for 116 days. I missed one. I was unconscious in the hospital. And even then, I thought about doing it, but there's a reason. Hear me out. Listen to you guys. Like, I I want to completely destroy the soft man's mindset. And some of you guys get offended by that. And this isn't for you then. This isn't some raw macho podcast. This is to help you evolve into a better version of yourself and give you the tools because I've had to do it. And I think a lot of those insta coaches out there with their sermons and you need to be more in touch with your feelings and softer, the problem is you keep putting yourself in a box because somebody else wants you to be in that box, but you don't want to. It's like yesterday I talked about how everybody's born with a savage inside them. That's how you're born and somebody tells you don't. In order to get along, you have to go along. And a lot of you guys have put yourselves in such terrible situations and you fight to stay there. But you, some of you guys, you're still broke and you've been working on this business for 4 years, 3 years, and you're blaming your coach. You're blaming the market. You're blaming Instagram, the algorithm, your neighbor, the business, the credit card company. It doesn't matter. You're blaming everything but the person in the mirror. You're still fat and you're blaming the food, the the pharmaceutical companies, your doctor, the environment, the water, the gym, everything. You're not looking in the mirror and you're overthinking everything because you're looking for an explanation to validate why you are where you are instead of the truth. And the truth is look in the mirror. And honestly, you're all of these things because you don't have enough skin in the game. You don't. You want someone else to put their skin in the game so you can go back to doing all of the things you continue to do while reaping the benefits of somebody that does the work. Like honestly, let me make this perfectly clear clear before we start. You're not confused. You're not overwhelmed. You're not frustrated. You're not unlucky. You're not defeated. None of that. You're soft. You're soft. You're broke because you have no skin in the game. You're fat because you haven't bet anything that hurts when you lose. There's no consequence. You're overthinking because you're [\h__\h] bored, not busy. Like when you I have people, they tell me, "I'm so overwhelmed. I'm just I feel so defeated. I have so many things to do." It's because you nit nitpick everything you're doing to perfection. But you're never going to get perfection because you're looking for reasons to keep nitpicking because you're afraid of the consequence of what you're doing just in case it doesn't work. Listen, princess. It might not work. Learn from it. But you keep creating busy work. So you have 12 hours of work that gets you nowhere. You're on a hamster wheel forgetting that you're in a cage. So you're bored, but you call it overwhelm. You call it overthinking. You call it frustration. None of that is accurate. It's because you're not really busy. You're doing empty work until you start bleeding for something. until you start putting yourself in situations where losing actually costs you. You'll keep masturbating to the fantasy of a life you don't deserve. You'll keep rubbing one out all day for that fantasy life that you wish you had. And you'll tell everybody that you're headed towards and you're working towards, except it's been four years and you're still in the same spot. Oh, I'm sure that's going to hurt some feelings. Good. Like, how many times have you heard somebody say, "I'm trying to lose weight. I'm just I'm trying so hard. I've been trying for years. I'm trying to make some more money. I just can't get this business to take off. I'm trying to start my business. Trying is the language of people who never succeed because they don't expect to succeed. I always expect to win. And the only people that will say that's cocky and egotistical are the people at the bottom who expect to fail. Trying is built for soft people who want the credit of the effort without the burden of the results. They want a trophy for trying. That's something that's foreign to me. Like I said, I'm 52 years old. When I was growing up, it was first place and everybody else. And nobody got upset about it. People got pissed off if they weren't first place and went, "I'm coming for you next round. I'm coming for you next year. I'm going to win next." It doesn't matter. Nobody went, "I didn't get a trophy. Where's my mom?" You guys want trophies for trying. You want ribbons for being in the game, not for winning the game. You're not trying. You're avoiding commitment. Because listen, when you actually commit, you bleed for it with everything you've got. You bleed for it. You sacrifice for it. You get scarred and beat up chasing it. And you realize real quick, there's no trying in the jungle, sweetheart. There's hunting and there's starving. That's it. So ask yourself, don't take my word for it. Ask yourself, where in my life am I using I'm trying to justify why I'm a coward? because you're either hunting or you're lying about why you're starving. I'll say that again. Where in your life, ask, just look in the mirror and go, where in my life am I using I'm trying to justify my cowardice? Because you're either hunting or you're lying about why you're starving. You should probably run that on repeat over and over again because I'm poking a hot spot on you that you don't like. How about we talk about your bank account? the one with no zeros in it or just one zero and nothing else. Like you think you're broke because you're unlucky, because you can't get your big business off the ground, because you had a bad coach, because you have a bad business idea, because the algorithm hates you. Is that's really why most of you guys think you're broke. You're broke because you're playing with house money. You treat your future like this casual hobby, not like your [\h__\h] life depends on it. When you have no skin in the game, there's no urgency. None. You invest a hundred bucks, whatever, maybe less, in some halfass course and expect it to change your entire life. You try a business for 3 months and then quit because it didn't just pop off and make you a million dollars in month four. You apply for jobs like you're filling out a damn Christmas wish list. You haven't bled for anything real yet. You haven't You've never You guys, if that's you, I hope this stings. I hope it feels like you're getting slapped with a brick because you haven't gone all in. You haven't burned the boats. You haven't forced yourself to succeed because the alternative is [\h__\h] starvation. You haven't forced yourself to succeed because if you did, you know that if you didn't, you die. But you don't treat it like that. You don't take your life serious enough. And people go, "That's pretty intense." That's what winning does. It demands your intensity. It demands commitment 100%. Not 99, not 98. All in or nothing. You have to be prepared to zero out your bank account, your time account, and your energy account. If you're not, don't play the game. And if you don't complain when you keep losing because men like me, I am prepared to lose everything every day. And I leave nothing in the tank at the end of my day. which is why I win. Listen, wealthy, rich men aren't lucky. They're survivors. They're killers. They have scars from betting everything they had when everybody else was still saving coupons. How about you ask yourself, when was the last time I made a move so bold it scared the [\h__\h] out of me? It just terrified me. Because if you can't remember, you're still playing at the kids table, baby boy. And you guys get upset about that, but I'm the only one out here telling you the truth. You think your body is some mystery, some NASA level series of calculations to lose weight. You're fat because you treat your health like it's optional. You're fat because you do fat person stuff. It has nothing to do with what supplements you're taking or whether you're in menopause or not. Calories in, calories out. It is the law of thermodynamics. I don't care what research you try and throw at me. I don't care how many times you get in my comments and go, "It doesn't work like that for everybody." Avitz, Survivor, name it. I could find anywhere where you are deprived of food and you will lose weight. The only reason you don't is because you don't like being uncomfortable. How about you think of the discomfort of being hungry as fat leaving your body? Why not try that? You think if I feel motivated, then I'll train. I wasn't motivated today. I trained right before this with Brandy. If I have time, then I'll meal prep. You know what's interesting? I eat the same boring things every day. And people go, "I can never eat like that. That's so boring." Food for me is a relationship. It's how I have conversation and fellowship with my family. That's why you're fat. If I'm not too tired, I'll walk today. Brandy and I walk one mile every day at about a 16-minute pace. Why? It has nothing to do with getting lean. We're already lean, jacked, and athletic. And we earned it, by the way. It's because the skeletal muscle pump aids my heart in pumping blood throughout my system through the 63,000 miles of vessels in my body and my wife's body. So every time we walk, there's these little valves that are one way that only allow blood to go back to the heart, not pooling or tissues. Yeah, remember I'm a real doctor. I actually know this stuff. And the muscles contract and squeeze blood back to the heart. Because the heart, which is the size of your fist on an average human being, is pumping something with the consistency of syrup through vessels that some are only one cell, one red blood cell thick, wide in diameter. So, I'm going to give it all the help it can. So, I go for a walk with my wife. Besides, I love going for a walk with Brandy, but you guys, I'm not motivated. I guess I'll get around to meal prepping, but those cookies are better. That's just one Oreo. You have one Oreo every hour. If I'm not too tired, I'll walk. Have kids. We're always tired. So what? Do it anyway. That is soft person logic. soft mound logic that you're going to do it if you do realize that most likely your grandparents definitely your great-grandparents your ancestors didn't need a [\h__\h] motivational speech to chase down a deer barefoot for 19 hours. They didn't need self-love affirmations to pick up a spear and a shield and fight for survival. They were lean, lethal, and disciplined because there was no alternative. And you guys go, "Yeah, but it's not like that anymore." That's the problem. You have Uber Eats and Amazon Video and Netflix and Wi-Fi and somehow you're still exhausted. You're not tired, you're entitled. You don't respect your body because you haven't made it cost you anything when you disrespect it. I know what it feels like when you disrespect your body. I think everybody should have news that they are going to die in a certain number of days short. We're talking four, five, maybe 10. and have whoever says that just a stonefaced serious human being that you respect and trust and watch your face go, "Holy shit." The problem is 90% of you guys would go, "I guess I'm just going to You only live once and you would go nuts." I know because I did and I have more discipline than most of you guys combined. Discipline on the right direction. I blew a million dollars in less than 3 months and I had a lot of friends because I was spending money on them. Let me be very clear about that. People come out of the woodwork when you're rich. Next thing they want to borrow money. You haven't even talked to them for 10 years. Next thing you know, everybody knows who you are. They want to hang out with you. They want to go to dinner with you. I want to go trips with you. As long as you're paying. Except the problem was I went broke doing that because I thought if I'm going to go, I'm going to go out with a bang. And what I ended up with was an attempt at ending my life because I was angry at everybody. God, my parents, everybody. Because I thought God was trying to kill me. And you know the story I said my dad, the preacher, went, "That's not how this works, son." He goes, "That's not how God works. He's on your side. He's not trying to hurt you." And I went, "God, you give me a reason or I'm going to do it myself." And I chambered around and started balling my eyes out with a gun breast up to my head. And I fell asleep on my floor in an apartment that I was being evicted from with furniture that I wouldn't give to my enemy. It was so cheap and crappy and I had nothing. And two days later, I met Brandy and she believed in me when I didn't believe in me. And when I told her that I had cancer, she knew before I told her because she'd seen towels soaked in blood at the gym for me coughing. And people told her he's not doing well. And I said, "I'm really not doing well." And she said, "I don't care. I'm your angel. I'm supposed to save you, Trevor. Two days, two years, two weeks, two months, I don't care. I want all of your time. All of it. And within 6 months, we were married. She's my best friend. And it's been over years. I'm not just in love with my wife, Brandy. I adore her. She is every single thing that's beautiful in this world and in this universe to me. But every time I've disrespected my body, I'm made painfully aware of how much it's going to cost me. See, I look at my wife and I look at our two children. Even when I was in the hospital looking down from a third floor window four years ago shortly before they took out my left lung, I thought they're my responsibility. They're counting on me. They're counting on the man to take care of them. Listen, I you guys need to understand this. You guys don't take your life seriously enough. You justify and fight and defend making $35,000 a year, but you hate it. And if you were put in an adverse situation where you couldn't write the check, you're screwed. Because if you were rich and rich, stop talking about it in terms of wealth. My family loves me, so I'm wealthy. Stop being such a [\h__\h] Your family will love you with a ton of money, too. My wife adores me. My children call me their hero. And that's earned, by the way. Every day I wake up, I get a white sheet of paper with nothing on it. That's how my day starts metaphorically. And I have to earn their respect along with my own every day. And that comes from doing all the things I don't want to do when they need to be done. Not just for myself, but for them, for the world. Because I am the standard. I'm not a standard. I'm the standard. That's how I look at myself. I'm the standard that everybody strives for. And I had somebody say, "That's really arrogant." God's not arrogant. If it's true, it's a resume. If it's true, it's fact. You should strive to have my standard. I strive every day to have the standard of God. I I'm not making it. Cuz he's God. But I give all I've got. I don't make up excuses and go, "I didn't. Here's why." But I woke up missing parts, a liability, and then burned through every dollar I had, along with some business tycoon trying to rip us off, who actually stole $2 million from us, wiped us out financially, and I lived off of savings just to keep my family alive. While the house that the contractor built, same guy, fell apart underneath us, while he tried to sue us for his mistakes, gaslighting at its finest, and then filed what's called a slap lawsuit. basically because we were telling the truth and he didn't like it and it was costing him money. He's a bad man. Bad men need to know they can be punished. I'm absolutely clear on that. I will go to my grave punishing this man. I'm not going to go out of my way to do it. I'll let his actions speak for himself. But my job is to defend and protect my family. How could I do that if I have no money, I have no fitness, and I have no self-confidence? How can I do that? And you guys are okay with that. You sit at home relying on your boss to write you a check going on. They haven't laid off anybody in 6 years, 20 years. All of a sudden, they wipe out. Ever hear of Enron? All of a sudden, they wipe out everybody. And you're going, I can't believe it. What just happened? And then you blame the company instead of your lack of preparation. If you don't respect your life, it's because there has yet to be a cost when you disrespect it. But it's coming. So why don't you just listen? Just shut up and listen to someone who's been through hell, who wants you to win, who genuinely wants you to win, and holds you to the same standard he holds himself to. Because you guys are too busy defending the life you're in going, I have to defend this because you're attacking me. I'm not attacking you. You attack yourself every day when you stuff the ninth bowl of cereal into your bark hole, light up a cigarette, sit on the couch, and go, "I need some time off because I'm having a stress day." You need a drill instructor to live with you, dragging your ass out of bed at 4 in the morning, making you run, and demanding that you stay on task and schedule, and when you go to bed, you won't need a sleep aid cuz you'll be exhausted. The only reason you can't sleep is because your brain goes, "Dude, we did nothing today. We were just busy. Every time you skip the gym, you should lose money. You should lose time. You should lose [\h__\h] pride. That's what should happen. Every time you skip the gym, it should cost you. Your bank account should go to zero every time you do it. You should have a little indicator that you live to be 110 years old and you just lost a year. Bing. But you don't. So, you keep getting fatter while posting motivational quotes on Instagram. Ask yourself, if my body my body was the outward scorecard of my inner discipline, what story would it be screaming to the world? Because it's already telling your story. Your body can't lie about your discipline. You're just too coddled to hear it because when someone goes, "You're fat." You get mad and triggered and offended, but you are. And it's not because of hormonal problem. It's not because of your lack of zepound or ozone peak or whatever else there is. Because all the big-bodied people out there are now mysteriously all choosing to be skinny, which means they always wanted to be skinny. And listen, let me let me touch on cuz I could do this all day. Let me touch on the overthinking because you guys are like, "Oh, I just can't stop overthinking." You're not a deep thinker. You're not. You're a damn coward who dresses up fear as intelligence. I am a deep thinker because I come out here and I do this. Idiots come and criticize this. You sit around debating movies in your head. Why did this character do that? Why did that character do that? You sit around debate your own moves in your head for years. Not because you're smart, but because you're terrified of commitment. You debate the moves that you should be making because you're afraid of committing because you don't know what the consequences are going to be and you're afraid it's not going to work because you doubt your own follow-through. Overthinking is the drug of a man with no scars. I'm covered in scars. My scars are the lessons you guys don't have to take. You guys don't have to go through the pain. You don't have to struggle with. That's why I come out here cuz I genuinely [\h__\h] care. The man with no scars, that's the man that overthinks. No investments that could ruin him, no missions that could break him, no wars. He's actually [\h__\h] fighting because if you were in the real fight, you wouldn't have time to overthink. You wouldn't I don't have time to sit and overthink. You wouldn't have the time if you were actually committed into it. If you were committed to the fight to demand more from yourself, to become the 10.0 version of you. It's not hustle culture. It's what you're supposed to do. If that was you'd move, you'd bleed. You'd adapt. Overthinking is the luxury of the uncommitted. I come out here and I have an idea of what I want to talk about and then I just let God take the conversation. Somebody asked me, "Dude, you come up with some pretty intense deep subjects in your podcast." I said, "Something, it's God. I get connected and God talks to you through me. So when you question what I'm telling you, you're questioning God. I I'm just the vessel. And you know what's interesting is people only want to listen to that when it allows them to stay where they are. Do you really think God wants you to stay broke, fat, overthink, uncommitted? Do you really believe that? You don't. And you know that. And the only reason some of you myopic impetent wind socks sit there and try and discount God and replace him with your pseudo science is because it takes away it absolves you from following the commitments that God demands from you. That's the only reason you do it because then you can explain it away even though your soul knows different. Your soul knows you're lying. And you guys go, "Boy, I'm going to have a lot of questions for God. He's going to have one for you. Did you do everything you were supposed to do? Did you lead your best life? Most of you will say, you'll be compelled for to tr to tell the truth and you'll say no. Ask yourself really just ask what decision am I pretending is complex when deep down I already know the answer, but I'm just too scared to face the consequences because the clock's ticking. Whether you move or not, the clock doesn't stop. And every second you hesitate, someone else, someone smarter, hungrier, and much more brave, is moving. Just blowing right past you, slam dancing you into the next zip code. I tell you what, I'll even help you out. Like honestly, my unbreakable mastermind, everybody should be in it because this is the kind of stuff we do along with every Monday. It's one of my clients, Brian. and he's an FBI guy and he's been my client. He's one of my OG guys. Started with me when I first started doing this. Brian and his wife, great man and all my great family. Son just got a full ride football. It's a great family, God-fearing, great guy. And he said it, he called, he said, Monday, you know what? He goes, it's the doctor on demand. He goes, we can ask you anything and you have the answer that guides us and helps us. He goes, "Whether it's business or relationship or our fitness or health or medical or injury." Goes, "You just have the answer." He goes, "This is awesome." He goes, "I tell everybody they should join this just for that alone." Why would you not spend Listen to me, you guys. Why would you not spend? It is a $25,000 a year mastermind and when you come in off of my vlog, this or this podcast, and you send me the keyword, that's the trick. See, you send me the keyword. I'll give it to you right now. You send me the keyword savage, I'll send you a link. I'll send you two of them. One for 1500 bucks, which is well over 90% off, and one for $4,997, which is what, like 80% off, which is not true because I'll tell you why. It's actually 90%. $1,500. That's one year. Everything. You get everything. The entire community, all online, offline content, everything. The three calls, 144 live calls a year. Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. Saturday at 10:00, Sunday at 10, Monday at 5, Texas time. Why? Because Texas matters. I don't know about the rest of you as I don't care. But you get all that plus the library of well over a thousand recorded calls of real calls, not some fluffy raw business. Sunday is business. I teach you how to really make money, not fluffy insta coach [\h__\h] If you guys have been scammed, I'm sorry because I have too. I've lost so much money on coaches that I've been burned by, which is part of the reason why I started doing all of this. Some hype people that tell me, "I'm going to blow up your business for you, bro." And you know, 50 grand later, I'm still where I was. I know. I've been you. 1,500 bucks, you get the business call, you get the Spartan Live call, which is giving you bulletproof psychology and stuff like this. So, if you don't like this, don't join. And Monday is any possible question you have. It is the Q&A. 1,500 bucks for a year. The lifetime, it's 25 grand. Look it up. Don't take my word for it. The lifetime is $50,000. or send the word savage. I said two links,500 or $4,997 and you get lifetime for $4,997. You get lifetime no matter how much my prices go up and they've gone up a lot since I started this and they're going to continue going up. But you choose you I get it if you've been scammed. I get it if you've been ripped off. But you can see any of my testimonials. I got guys making a ton of money, guys who've solved their marriage, people that have gone through cancer and gotten out of it because of what I told them to do. But I'm 52 and I've been doing this a long time. You can keep justifying the money you're waiting to spend. And every time that clock is going and you're wasting time and somebody else who's taken initiative blows by you and you call them lucky, you can keep buying your little cheap courses and wonder and but expecting a rich life. Do you have a discount, but you want a rich life? Do you have an easier workout, but you want a fit life? Do you have a hack for a marriage, but you want an incredible home life? You're not willing to commit. So, if you're willing to commit, send me the word savage. You'll get two links. I'm not going to get into explanations with you. I'm not going to have a conversation with you. It really will be me. I will say it won't be many chats. I will send you the link. Two of them. One for one year, one for lifetime. Pick one. They both work for you. I think honestly the second option is better because you'll never have to pay again. And I promise you, you'll see how just radical this gets. But here, I'll even give you the blueprint on how to handle your life, how to resurrect the savage that you are, the life, the person, the man, the money, all of it, and how to put some skin in the game, cuz that's what you need. So, here is the most brutal blueprint I can give you. Bet bigger than you're comfortable losing. That's one. If it doesn't make your stomach drop, make you feel like you're going to puke, make you upset, make you question everything, it's not a real bet. Stop investing $49 in your future and calling it a sacrifice. So that's step one. Bet bigger than you're comfortable losing all of it. Second one, make quitting more painful than suffering. When failure humiliates you more than discomfort does, that's when you'll finally move. Tie your identity to execution, not to feelings. That's the third one. Your mood doesn't mean a damn thing. Your output is everything. So the third one, tie your identity to execution, not to feelings. If you feel good, build. If you feel bad, build harder and faster. Here, number four, surround yourself with men who would laugh at your excuses. That's what we have, by the way, in the unbreakable mastermind. Everybody has high standards. We demand them of everybody that comes in because they all now have my standards. I told you I won't be the king of the [\h__\h] and the [\h__\h] If that's what you are, I won't even let you in. I don't want your money. I don't need your money. I need your commitment. And the barrier to entry is your commitment to pay the money before you go. Then just give it to me for free, bro. I wouldn't want you because you want it for free. In fact, you should go, how do I pay more? How do I give more time, more effort, more money? The harder you commit, the better the results. So surround yourself, that's the fourth one, with people, men and women, who would just absolutely laugh at your excuses. Weakness thrives in soft circles, which is where most of you are. Kill it with a savage tribe or die choking on your own compromise. I don't care. It's up to you. Look at consequences like like it's Satan coming for your soul, man. like you're going to be crucified. That's how you need to look at consequences. That's number five. Because I look at consequences like they're going to put me in hell because they are. You don't take life seriously enough. Every soft decision you make today is a bullet to put you in tomorrow's [\h__\h] coffin. Listen, if the stakes of Ask yourself, listen, just hear me out. If the stakes of my life tripled tomorrow, would I rise or would I finally be exposed for the soft cowardly version that I've been protecting? Because that's what you guys have been doing. Because one way or another, you're about to find out. See the rent for exceptional that payment right everybody talks about rent is due every day for life. The payment for greatness for exceptional. Oh, it's due every day just like anybody else. Nobody has it easier. In fact, the exceptional play the game harder with more serious consequences because they play life or death. It's due daily at rent payments every day. You know that in blood, in sweat, in public humiliation, in skin, in [\h__\h] scars. And if you're still trying to manage your emotions instead of betting your [\h__\h] soul on something worthy, congratulations. You're exactly where you deserve to be. So you decide. You commit. Don't put some skin in the game. Put it all in the game and give yourself no option but success. Or keep trying to tell yourself that you're going to keep on looking a little bit and shop around and a year will go by and everybody else that committed will have left your circle and you'll still be there with the same [\h__\h] losers at the bottom. I don't know what to tell you. I just literally gave you the answer. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.