I'm sure this one's going to get under somebody's skin because they need to validate justify why they do it and defend their position. But let's have a conversation about alcohol. It's and not as some social lubricant or some kind of reward or your one vice that you have. And I get these messages from you guys all the time. How about for what it is? Alcohol is a government approved, socially celebrated, legally sold slow motion suicide. That's what booze is. And a lot of you guys call it balance. Listen, let me explain something really quick before you guys go off the rails and get all pissed off. My dad died at 67 years old of endstage liver disease. He was taking 16 to 18 Tylenol a day. Yes, that destroyed his liver and his kidneys and his gastrointestinal lining, but he also drank a ton of alcohol. Let me explain something. I've been a doctor for well over 20 years, and I've seen all kinds of things. One of the most preventable things I've seen, the most preventable causes of health decline, death, is just don't drink. You don't need alcohol. There's nothing beneficial about alcohol. nothing. My dad died incoherent, morbidly obese, in pain at 67 years old. And when I was a kid, my dad was like a lumberjack. He was so powerful and so strong. He could run, fish, swim, hunt. There was nothing he couldn't do. He could build anything with his hands. Whether it was inside a house, the house, he could there was nothing my dad couldn't do. My dad was the most badass hero a kid could have. And I remember 12 years ago standing at the funeral home after he was cremated and pouring his ashes into the dirt. So you go ahead and validate why you need to drink and it's socially acceptable and it doesn't hurt you and it has more benefits than anything. No, it doesn't. And you can come at me with anything you want, any research you want. You're wrong. Alcohol is a poison. Period. There's nothing about it. If I would rather have my dad back. How about that? See, you know what's wild is alcohol doesn't just kill you by drinking it. It kills other people when you drink it. Cuz they see your decline. They see your life go to hell. You go home and you beat up your dog, your wife, your kids. You lose control over your emotions. You make stupid decisions wherever you are. You lose cognitive ability. You drive like a [\h__\h] and kill a family of seven. Save your [\h__\h] Nah, I don't want to be nice. I don't give a crap if you like this or not. I'm right. You're not drinking because you enjoy the taste. You're drinking because you hate how you feel sober. And rather than fix your problems, you drown the symptom. Understand, every sip you take is a shortcut away from discipline. Every pour is a vote against your potential. Every time you drink to unwind, you are chemically confirming that you can't handle the life you're in as it is. Yeah. Okay. You want to talk power? Everybody wants it. You have zero when your mindset is chemically dependent on poison to function socially. Poison to function socially, relax emotionally, or celebrate wins. Men who build empires, just to be very clear, don't unwind with ethanol. They sharpen their blade. And I'm here's where people are going to go hard, right? You guys are going to go out on the fringe and find all the examples of people that drink and are still successful, but I guarantee you the people that don't drink that are successful outnumbers whatever you come at me with. It's just like the people that go, "You don't have to be fit to be successful." No, you're correct. There are plenty of people that are fat and sloppy and disgusting that are successful, worth billions of dollars, but fit people do it faster, better, and last longer with it, and have been more successful. So you can keep finding the extremes, but you're not finding the extremes to say what you're trying to do when you go Warren Buffett is fat. Great. Are you Warren Buffett? Warren Buffett drinks. I don't know if he does. I'm just saying that's what you'd say. Great. Are you Warren Buffett? Do you have his stock portfolio? Wow. That he's stepping down from Berkshire Hathaway now, huh? Putting somebody in place, by the way. Bet some of you guys didn't even know that. But are you him? Are you Warren Buffett? You're not. So why are you saying he drinks, he's overweight, and he's worth billions of dollars. There's a flaw in your theory. Yeah, except you're still making $35,000 a year living with your sister who's desperate to kick your ass out. She just feels bad about doing it. What are you justifying exactly? What are you justifying? That it's possible for you to succeed even being fat and sloppy and drunk like you are. Absolutely. It's going to take you 10 times longer and you don't have the willpower, the stones, the chops, or the discipline to even do it. You're too busy looking up validation on Reddit and Tik Tok to say, "These people are successful and they drink." Yeah, but you're not them. You're not them. So, you're still a loser at the bottom. Like, honestly, do you think billionaires unwind with IPAs? Do Do you really think so? You think that you're not having fun? You're off duty. You're sedating. You're retreating. And the truth, you're weak. And then you call it a lifestyle. It's not a life like you guys that go, I only drink on weekends. Cool. Good for you. So, you only burn your potential down to the ground on Fridays all the way through to Sunday. That did I hear that right? Cuz you go, I only drink on the weekends. That's when you should be building a life that you desperately wish you had instead of validating validating the [\h__\h] pile you're in. When you go, I don't have a problem. That's funny because every time life kicks you guys in the ass, you run straight to the bottle like it's going to hug you back. But hey, listen. As long, this is where you guys go, though. As long as it's whiskey or scotch or wine, you guys, you wine drinkers are a bunch of idiots. As long as it's wine in a glass and it's not something in a syringe, you get to pretend you're still in control. That's what you do. Even that, if you drink bottles of wine with your friends so much, you guys are slurp sli slurping it like a bunch of idiots. Make your teeth all purple, trying to taste the tannins or whatever queer [\h__\h] you guys do with wine. You guys think you're all a bunch of penophiles, right? Like you're just experts in wine. Great. But you polish off a couple of bottles, you're three sheets to the wind, all screwed up, and your neighbor pounds out shots of tequila. You call your neighbor an alcoholic, but not you cuz you're drinking wine. You're both drunk. Let me explain something. You want to know? Yeah, this irritates me because I miss my dad. My dad was awesome when he wasn't awesome when he quit. Quit being a man. You know why your goals are halfassed? Because your recovery sucks. You're chasing high performance on a nervous system soaked in booze and denial. Like you say you want clarity, but you black out your weekends. You say you want growth, but you reset your mind with a [\h__\h] hangover. You want strength, but you can't go 30 days without a damn drink? Try that. Just try going 30 days with nothing. No alcohol. You're soft. And alcohol is your little warm fuzzy blanket. Let me ask you a question. What does it say about your self-concept that you need an altered state of consciousness to enjoy your life? What does it say about your self-concept? What identity are you trying to suppress? What reality are you refusing to confront? What part of you is so intolerable that you'd rather numb it than fix it? It's not celebration, by the way, buddy. It's resignation. And the scariest part, you guys have normalized it. You've intellectualized it. You've built a lifestyle around it like you're just some esoteric incredible person. And by the way, this isn't about alcoholism. This isn't some vlog or podcast about alcohol alcoholism. It's not about addiction. It's about accountability. It's about confronting the part of your life that you've been defending because quitting would mean taking full responsibility for how powerful you are not. You want real power, stay sober, go to the gym, eat better, train better, respect your spouse and face the version of you that you've been trying to drown. How about that? Maybe just do that. How about this? It comes down to a mask. That's what alcohol is. It's a mask. You don't drink because you're in control. You drink because you've created a psychological ecosystem where alcohol is the key coping mechanism for the life that you refuse to change. And now you tell yourself stories. I earned it. It's just one glass. Bro, I like to have a glass of wine, but I know when to stop. I'm not like those other people. But here's what's actually true. You're chemically enslaved to a ritual that reinforces your inability to regulate emotion, face discomfort, or sit in silence without needing to run away and hide. You don't drink because you're social. Man, you drink because you're weak. Really, be real. You You drink to relax because your day wrecked you. You drink to connect because you have zero confidence without it. You drink to celebrate because you can't feel accomplished unless you're buzzed out. Alcohol is your [\h__\h] blanket. It's just a big hug. And you wrap yourself up in this thing every time life gets a little too real. You're not tough. You're not free. You're hooked and too scared to face the man that you are when the bottle's gone. Disgusts me. Listen, let me tell you something. I'm sure this is going to piss somebody off. I really don't care. I got the microphone. This is my show. Get in the comments and get all chattery and [\h__\h] about it. All you do is expose how weak you are. So, let me tell you something. Real men don't need a drink to take the edge off. Real men sharpen the edge until the whole [\h__\h] room cuts themselves on their presence. That's how real man works. You're not classy with your little pinky up. You're not sophisticated. You're not living life. You're sedated. You're dulling. You're chemically castrated. That's what you are. Alcohol is the most socially acceptable excuse for mediocrity in human history. You understand that, right? And you think that overpriced tequila with a lime wedge makes you elite. Please, it makes you predictable. It makes you soft. It makes you easy to manage by society, by your job, and by your own fear. You're controlled. You're easily controlled. Like, I used to tell myself I drank for the taste. Hell, I told other people I drank to take the edge off. That's what you guys say. Let me tell you something. The only thing alcohol ever took the edge off was drive, clarity, and the ability to face [\h__\h] head on. Like, I've worked in bars. I've been a DJ in a bar. I've been bartender. I've done all I've seen the most disgusting attributes of alcohol. And the one that took the cake was my dad. The edge that you need, it disappears every time you pour another drink and convince yourself that you're unwinding. Not unwinding, you're unraveling slowly, privately, and everybody's clapping. Oh, your friends are all clapping because it looks normal. You How about we just break this down completely? If I told you that your confidence, your sex life, your social competence, your ability to feel joy was chemically dependent on a drink, would you call that freedom or would you call that an addiction? Yeah, I thought so. Because that's where most of you are. Trapped in a pattern you no longer have authority over. Not because you're an alcoholic, but because your standard for internal power is so low that you've delegated it to a liquid. It's not a leap. That's pathetic. You want to talk about strength? Try going to dinner sober. Try walking into a party and commanding the [\h__\h] room without needing a glass of courage in your hand. Try dating without drinking. Try handling stress without numbing it. Try celebrating your wins with silence, stillness, and strategy instead of lining up shots. That's what strength looks like. The real test of a man, what does he do when he has no escape hatch? Because when alcohol isn't an option, you are forced to meet the real version of yourself. And most of you, you are too terrified to meet that person. You're not drinking because you're in control, man. You're drinking because you just gave it away. And until you take it back, you're not leading your life. You're just, I don't know, chemically managing it, running it through a filter of alcohol. And there's a reason alcohol is so embedded in culture because it's the only vice that society will not only ignore but actively celebrate. You don't just drink, right? Listen, you don't just drink. You earn it. You toast to it. You laugh with it. You photograph it. You share it as if self- sabotage dressed in a highball glass is somehow sophisticated. Cool. But here's the problem. When your self-destruction looks like success, you never stop to question it. Never thought about that, did you? You drink because you deserve it. Because you worked hard. Because it's your birthday. Because it's Friday. Because it's, I don't know, a wedding. You're stressed. You're bored. Life is hard. You always have a [\h__\h] reason, don't you? How about, let me break it to you. Losers earn drinks. Winners earn results. You don't need tequila. You need testosterone. You need a pair of balls. You don't need a toast. You need a [\h__\h] target. You need a target. Your little rituals are just high-end ways to stay broke, tired, slow, foggy, and emotionally out of control. That's what that is. And when you wonder why your life won't scale, that's why, man. I've seen people go harder for beer. For a beer. First of all, beer tastes like [\h__\h] But I've seen people go harder for a beer than they've ever gone for their own goals. You'll cancel a workout for drinks with friends. You'll skip morning routine because your head's pounding. You got a hangover. and you'll spend 150 bucks on cocktails, but cry about investing in a mentor. That's not lifestyle. That's self-sabotage with a receipt. And every time you drink, every time you grab your booze, you widen the gap between who you are and who the [\h__\h] you could be. You're not trying to grow. You're trying to survive the week. You try to survive the week with just enough buzz to keep pretending you're not wasting your damn potential. That's what you're doing. I'll tell you this. People drink. They call it celebration. What are you actually doing? What are you actually doing? You're killing the pain of knowing you're not the man that you said you would be. That you told yourself you would be. That you told everybody else you would be. And that's what most of you guys are doing. And you know it. You know it. And I know it. But hey, listen. As long as it's in a little crystal glass and you've got a cigar in the other hand, you get to call it living, right? It's water in here, by the way. Yeah. You'll never know. For all you know, it's just straight shot tequila, right? a big giant rogue thermal flask. I'm not judging, by the way. I save that for God. I don't judge people. But I give you all the answers and I give you the real truth. If you don't like the truth, you're not going to like me. But apparently, the truth has become offensive. Offensive or not, it's still the truth. Alcohol is escapism in a nice package and a suit. You dress it up. You dress it up to hide the fact that your life is still missing something. And the bottle is the only place you feel like you're enough. I give if I could ask you one thing and you were honest. Listen, if I could ask you one thing and you were honest and it was you and I sitting across from each other, what would happen to your identity if alcohol disappeared from your life for the next months? If you and I are sitting there and I'm asking you face to face looking in your eyes, would you feel empowered or would you feel panic? Because that right there is the question that reveals everything. The truth is most people don't drink for the experience, man. They drink to forget their lack of one. You're not celebrating life. You guys are buffering the discomfort of not having a life that matters. Like you're not you're not tired. You're not exhausted. You're not you're toxic. You're not anxious. You're chemically compromised. You're not unmotivated. You're just too fogged up from last night's poison even hear your own [\h__\h] potential calling you. You say people, you guys say you want discipline. Okay, then stop rewarding yourself for being average. Stop celebrating it. Call yourself out. Get away from all the people that demand that you're average. Get away from the people that celebrate average with another beer in their hand. Stop celebrating and rewarding being mediocre. That that comes from you. Nobody else can do that. I can't put you in that position. You have to choose that. So, drop the booze. But you say you want to go allin. Okay. Then why are you negotiating with the one substance that destroys your focus, your energy, your clarity, and your recovery? Why? You're a fraud, and your habits prove it. Real men, just to be very clear, do not they do not need to drink to prove that they're living. Real men, yeah, like me, we don't run from pressure. Dude, I chase it. I look for it. We don't escape reality. We build one that's worth staying sober in. Why would I want to forget the life I'm in? I love my life. I love my wife. I love my kids. I love everything about this life. Why would I want to escape it? And if your good time involves impairing your judgment, slowing your mind, and damaging your body, don't call it a lifestyle, then call it for what it is. It's a polished form of self-destruction. It's a turd, and you're too cowardly to let it go. Listen, alcohol is the most glorified excuse for staying small. You understand that, right? As long as you keep clinging to it, you're never going to become the man who doesn't need it or the woman. It comes down to the fact you don't have a an alcohol problem, man. That's what it is, right? Like you don't have an alcohol problem. You have a discipline problem. You have a self-respect problem. You got no structure, no code, no spine, so you drink. And not even maybe because you're addicted because but it's probably because the pain of showing up every day without discipline makes you feel like a loser, like a fraud. You feel like a peasant. And it's easier to sedate it and hide from it than fix it. You ever notice this? Men who are losing always want to drink. Men who are winning don't need to. You're not drinking to celebrate. You're drinking to cope. Let's f just follow this for a second. Listen to me before you guys go off in the comments and go listen to this guy. What an [\h__\h] I might be, but I'm the [\h__\h] you need. Because I'm going to hold your feet to the fire until you change. Why? Because I care more about you than you care about you right now. And you're so busy justifying where you're at and defending your life at the bottom. So you're not wrong. Instead of going, "Fuck, he's right. I need to level up because I'm fat, sloppy, broken, alone, and I hate it." Damn right you do. But instead of validating and fighting to defend it, do something about it and build something worthwhile out of yourself. Your money's low, your body's soft, your mind is cloudy, and your sex drive is dead. And instead of building the machine, you numb it. You don't need rehab. You need reminders of who the hell you said you were going to be. How about we break this down a little bit? What is alcohol psychologically? What is alcohol? Just think about it for yourself. What is it? It's a mechanism of dissociation, right? Dissoc disassociation. It it allows you to separate yourself from the version of you that you're too ashamed to face sober. It gives you this brief synthetic permission to forget the consequences of the standards that you refuse to enforce. They're yours. You somebody gave me a hard time about my when I said my standards. I am the standard. I said I am the standard. They go the guy went you need God. I go I get my standards from God. My standards can't get any higher. They're God's. Where are yours from that you think you can judge me on my standards? I hold myself to the highest standard ever created since the dawn of man. Wh why would you not do that? The only reason you attack my standards is because you have none. That's why I said alcohol offers this minute tiny little lie, synthetic, this permission to forget the consequences of the standards that you refuse to enforce. You want higher standards. You just don't enforce them. You understand that, right? You have them because they're you're born with them. God made you. You have the standards. You don't enforce them. So, it becomes your replacement for inner order. So, you don't have this chaos inside you and this cognitive dissonance because in the absence of discipline, you're overwhelmed by chaos and chemically numbing that chaos. That becomes your false sense of stability. That's why you drink. That's what it is psychologically. All of you guys, I can quit anytime I want. I don't need alcohol to do it. I don't drink that much. how much I drink on Sundays with my wife. It's just my way of way to relax, bro. I could stop. I still train. I still work out. I still do this. Doesn't matter. Quit then. It's not affecting my work. I'll bet it is because you guys wake up fat, foggy, fragile, coming up with all these validations. If you are where you are and it's badass with alcohol, imagine where you'd be without it. You wake up apologizing for [\h__\h] you don't even remember doing and you're trying to rebuild the version of you that d you destroyed the night before. You're always in recovery mode. That's not discipline. That's denial with a tequila chaser. You should just be honest. You can't go 30 days without alcohol because you have no damn control over your own mind. You've outsourced your willpower to a bottle. That's what you've done. Yes, this pisses me off. You've trained yourself to actually need a chemical to feel brave, confident, social, or relaxed. You call that's like saying you need hearts and follows to feel personal value. In this case, you've trained yourself to need a chemical substance to feel it. You call that normal? That's slavery. Tell me that's not slavery. That is exactly what it is. Whether it is this phone or it is booze, it is slavery. Discipline is doing what you said you do, even when your entire nervous system is begging you to break and you won't even put up a fight. How about this? I'll destroy this myth real fast. The people that go, I could totally handle my liquor. Congrats. You know what that means? You can poison yourself better than other people. And you think that's a win. You think that's strength. Real strength is being fully sober in a room full of distractions, temptations, pressure, and still staying dangerous. You're not strong because you can drink and keep going. That's not strength. I don't know what idiot thought that up. You're weak because you need a drink to get it started. How about you ask yourself this? What would my life look like? Ask, pause this, write it down. What would my life look like if I enforced discipline as religiously as I enforced my drinking habits? Because right there, that's where you dug the grave for your potential. That's where it's buried. Under every excuse, every just one, every you guys in your start Monday is the version of you that you've been avoiding your entire life. And he don't need a drink. He doesn't need a drink. He needs standards. You don't have a drinking problem. You really don't. People, you guys label it as a problem. You don't have a drinking problem. You have a excuse me, you have a pattern of escape. You have a pattern of escape. You have a tolerance for self- betrayal. You have a comfort zone disguised as culture and a discipline threshold that's set at whatever I feel like. You don't need a detox. You need dominance for yourself. That's what you need. The world doesn't need you powerful. Just so you know, right? That's the brutal facts about this. So why wouldn't alcohol be promoted? The world doesn't need you powerful, man. Doesn't want you like that. It needs you emotionally volatile. It needs you compliant. All you little haters swinging your tiny dicks in the comments getting all pissed off because I poke a hot button and you get mad I triggered you. But if I triggered you, you're more concerned about your feelings than your character. The world doesn't need you powerful. It doesn't want you powerful. Like I said, it wants you financially broke. It wants you incredibly volatile emotionally. It wants you compliant. It needs you compliant. It needs you physically dull, mentally foggy. And guess what? Alcohol is the perfect tool for that agenda. Why? Because it makes you predictable. You're all predictable. Not just chemically, but psychologically. It convinces you. Listen, it convinces you that numbing yourself is normal. And that the parts of life that feel heavy, just the burden, the stress, all of all the stuff that you have to carry, the cross you have to bear, that needs to be offset through sedation. You celebrate it through sedation. That's what you do. Here's the truth nobody wants to admit. The party guy isn't an alpha. He's a clown. Court jester. The king wasn't the party guy. The court jester was. And he was the idiot that danced around like a fool. And if he didn't do it right, he was well, he'd chop off his head and just replace him. You're not a king at the bar. You're the [\h__\h] entertainment. You're the guy that makes everybody laugh. You buy too many rounds. You smell like regret by about 1:30 in the morning. And you wonder why nobody takes you seriously when you try and build something on Monday. Because they remember what you did on Friday. You're not celebrated. You're used. Listen, society loves drunk men because they don't build kingdoms. They build bar tabs. And bar tabs never change the world. Man, you want to stay average, then drink. Do it, man. I could go on and on here because that's how much it bothers me because I watched my dad slide into death. I remember one time at my house when we lived in California. It really bothered me. It was heartbreaking because you see somebody that you just admired so much and he would go outside to the rental car they had like we owned the whole court so there was a rental car sitting right there and he'd go outside and he'd take a couple of swigs or whatever he want whatever he had. I just I never followed him out there. I remember sitting there and Brandy and I she came it really bothered me to the point that it got me really upset and Brandy just came and sat. I was sitting on my piano bench at the time. She sat beside me and she says, "Talk to him." And I said, "I have plenty of times." And I did. I talked to him hundreds of times, but I was his son and that's it. I wasn't the doctor, so he didn't listen to me about the Tylenol. I wasn't the doctor, so he didn't listen to me about the alcohol. I wasn't the psychologist, psychiatrist, help, personal development. It didn't matter what it was. I was just his son. And he would come in, he'd rinse his mouth out with mouthwatch wash and think nobody noticed. I mean year and a half, two years after that he passed away. If you understand that's why this bothers me so much cuz I lost somebody I love. And until you see that, imagine you are driving and somebody swerves into your lane and kills your spouse and your kids, but you survive and you have to carry that cross and they walk away unscathed because their body was all loose from alcohol. Yes, that's how it works most of the time, by the way. And you go, "Yeah, but I'm in control. I would never do that." Says the guy with the drink in his hand, with the wine in his glass. [\h__\h] you. You're destroying your own life and you're doing it voluntarily. I have no sympathy for you. You want to stay average, then drink. You're a coward. Because alcohol does exactly what the comfort class wants it to do. It slows your recovery. It kills your testosterone. It weakens your decision making. It delays your morning. It weakens your life, your resolve. It blunts your urgency. And it lowers your [\h__\h] standards. You're not off duty. You're off purpose. And you think that's no big deal. How many days on this planet do you think you have? Cuz you do all that. You think it's not a big deal. That's what you do. You I just I know how to stop then stop. I don't have to drink. Then don't. I like to have a glass of wine with my wife. Do you like your wife or the glass of wine? We share it together. How about you just be together? You don't need the booze to do it. Cuz if you think it's no big deal, then you're already one of the millions and millions of men who handed in their edge in exchange for a buzz. I know people they, you know, life of the party when they drink. Turns out you're not the life of the party. You're just another weak man trying to make noise loud enough so nobody would notice that you don't feel strong when it's quiet. Listen, here's what alcohol does. You hear the term, right? Beer goggles, right? Here's what alcohol does. gives you fake charisma and real consequences. You think you're being free by drinking. You're just easier to manage and control. You think you're celebrating. You're just postponing that collapse. And the worst of all, you start believing it's who you are. You're the funny guy. You're the wild one. You're the just one drink man. That's not identity. That's a prison sentence. What if How about this? What if what if the version of you that current society applauds is actually the version that keeps you from becoming dangerous? What if they cheer when you drink, not because they like you, cuz it's not, but because they feel safer knowing that you'll never pass them. You're not being you're not being celebrated, man. You're being contained. You want to be free, then get clear. Get sober. Get violent with your damn standards. You cannot be the king of your domain when you're chemically neutering your edge every [\h__\h] weekend. You want to dominate life, then you better treat alcohol like the en enemy of every single future that you say you're going to build. Cuz that's what it is, an enemy. You going to hang out with your enemy? Alcohol doesn't slow you down, man. It makes you easy to dismiss, dude. You're easy to dismiss, to mock, easy to replace. You're easy to own. That's not manhood. That's not masculine. That sure as hell ain't alpha. That's manipulation. I gather my thoughts because I could just go on a rant and there's just no point. I want to give you something that you can actually use. And a lot of times like I get frustrated. I'm really disappointed in mankind and people take offense to that instead of going maybe we should level up. So I don't know what to tell you but I don't know. How about we stop playing? You don't drink because you're free. You don't. You're drinking because you're trying to escape the reality that you've built. You built it. A reality that that at its nucleus, at the core, is out of alignment with who you know you're capable of becoming. If you truly loved yourself, listen to me. If you truly loved yourself, you wouldn't need to numb yourself ever. You would never reach for sedation when life gets uncomfortable or painful. You'd demand a solution. And if you didn't have one, you'd make one. Listen, there's lots of times when I and I hated who I was. You guys know the stories. I [\h__\h] hated who I was. Even when I came out of the hospital, man, I hated who I was so bad. But I hated who But I knew what to do because I'd been I'd been through that. And I hated who I was so much that I demanded such high standards of myself. Even when it hurt, even when I suffocated, even when I was angry, even when I was in tears, even when it hurt, I didn't care. I was not going to stay there because I'd been through this before. Not at this level. Not even close. I never lost a lung before. But when I was first diagnosed, right before I met Brandy, I hated who I was. I didn't drink, but I escaped in other ways, right? Quitting, blaming. Oh, I blamed everybody. I blamed God, my parents. You guys know the story. I hated everything. I tried to end my life. And I gave God an ultimatum, right? I'd escape by avoiding anything I could to distract me from the truth, from the man that I was. So instead, I let this imposttor show up and I gave him all my fuel. So the man that I was in the moments like that, that man wasn't even close to who I could be at all. The problem was until I faced that fact and it took a gun, man. You guys understand this, right? Like it took a gun and me laying there broken and broke and God going, "I'm not done with you." Sent me an angel, Brandy. Give me a [\h__\h] reason, God. Two days later, I met Brandy. She had a list pages long of all the things she wanted in a man. I checked every box. She's my best friend. I would never do anything to disrespect the life I have with her by creating a soft, weak, flabby, broke version of myself with no selfrespect. Why are you? But until I faced that, until I sat in the dark, no music, no Netflix, no [\h__\h] drink, no escape, nothing, I couldn't change. Most of you drink because you've never spent an hour sober with your real thoughts. because they scare the hell out of you. And instead of facing them, you hit the bar, you grab the bottle, you do something to escape, whether it's a phone or social media, and then you wonder why nothing in your life changes. Really, let's keep it at 100. If you loved yourself, you would train and you would never miss. I've never missed a day. And people go, "You're overtraining." But the only people that say I'm overtraining are people that aren't training. You have to train first to overtrain. I do not overtrain. And I train harder than any of you guys listening. And you take offense to that, too. But it's the truth. Why are you getting mad about it? Train harder than me then. Outdo me. Good luck. But really, keep it at 100. If you loved yourself, you would train. You'd eat like a machine, fueling yourself. You'd keep your word above all. You would never break your word. You'd build something worth dying for out of yourself and out of your life. And you'd wake up with fire in your [\h__\h] soul. But you don't. So, you drink. So, you you drink because you can't stand the contradiction between who you say you are and how you actually live. Alcohol is, I said, it's your comfort blanket, but you soaked it in self-loathing and self-hate. You laugh with it, toast with it, brag about it because you're afraid of what happens the day you stop. That's not freedom. That's fear dressed up with a bunch of ice in there. That's what it is. Like, you're the guy who who's got the drink in his hand in every photo. Embarrassing. Yeah. You think people love it? Yeah. Here's what nobody sees. Even if that's your job, people, oh, look at there's Tony with that drink in his hand. He's the funniest guy. We love Tony. What about all the nights that if that was you sat there because I know damn what you're doing. Cuz I handle people that call me and go, "I need help. Get me off the alcohol. Get me off the drugs. Get me off this psychological roller coaster that I'm on. Help my personal development. Fix my limiting beliefs. Save my marriage. Fix my business." I solve problems every damn day in my mastermind and one-on-one. Hell, even in my messages. Why? Because I actually give a [\h__\h] about you. The problem is you guys don't. Yeah, it pisses me off because you get to do this once and most of you guys throw the [\h__\h] away and you don't have half the adversities that I've had to deal with and you have all your parts. What they don't see when you're that dude with a drink in his hand all the time partying it up on Friday nights are the nights you sit there alone wondering who you'd be if you didn't need that damn glass in your hand just to feel like a man worth listening to. You drink because you don't love yourself enough to stop. And if you're honest, you know damn right. Ask yourself if you truly loved and respected the man that you're becoming, would you poison your mind, your body, and your soul with alcohol? Would you numb your ambition? Would you blur all that legacy you keep talking about? Would you risk your children, your wife seeing you dull, fogged, and slow? No. The hardest thing I ever saw was my dad drunk. I hated it. 52 years old, I still remember it. You going to risk all that? You going to risk the life that you desperately talk about but do nothing for? Or would you protect that future with everything you have? The man you damn well should be. How do you treat your mind like a temple? Your discipline like a weapon. Your word is like the Ten Commandments. It's written in stone. It's written in blood on your soul. But you don't. So the bottle stays because it's easier to feel good for 3 hours or 2 hours or whatever it is than to become someone who doesn't need it anymore. You want to change your life here. Again, I'll say it one more time. Put down the damn bottle. And I don't mean cut back. I don't mean moderate. I mean, end the negotiation because you're not built for moderation. You're built for war. You just forgot what the battlefield feels like because you've been drunk on comfort and softness and that stupid blanket you have wrapped around you. You wouldn't need alcohol if you respected your potential. If you love the life that you are building, if you had pride in your discipline, you wouldn't need the alcohol. But you don't. So now the question's simple. Will you become the man who doesn't need it or the woman or stay the one who's mastered hiding his pain with a smile and a shot glass of wine? Who you going to be? Like you don't need a podcast. You don't need this. You don't need a podcast or a vlog or a meme is some 12step program. You don't. You need a [\h__\h] reckoning. So here, I'll help you. I'll give it to you. This is a solution. You're the one that's got to decide whether or not to apply it. Alcohol is not harmless. It's not earned. It's not balanced and it's not fun. It is a chemical permission slip to stay the same man you keep saying you want to outgrow. You want help here. Go 90 days without it. 90 days zero. Go 90 days without it or just shut the [\h__\h] up. Shut the [\h__\h] up about your change. That's where I'm at with this. Go 90 days without any alcohol or just shut the hell up about your change. Don't cut back. Don't slow down. Don't only on weekends cold hard 90 days sober. If you can't do that, you've got no edge and no right to talk about leveling up. Two, audit your triggers. Everything that sets you off. You don't drink for fun. You drink when you're tired, when you're insecure, when you're lonely, when you're bored, when you're stressed, when you're pretending to be somebody you're not. You imposter. Find the [\h__\h] trigger. Fill the hole. And don't drink to fill it. Fix it. Three, replace all those rituals that you've got where you're going to relapse right back into that lie again. Humans crave ritual. So, kill the fake one. Build a real one. Replace drinks with the boys, drinks with the girls, weekends at the bar, whatever it is, with training, deep conversations, with execution nights. It build [\h__\h] empires. Get around people that only talk about building success. The ritual wasn't the problem. The poison was. Here's the one you're going to struggle with. What do we got for? Own the fallout. This is the one where people fail on. Own the fallout. Because you'll lose people. The ones who mock your sobriety. They were never your allies. They were just comrades in weakness. You're not losing anything. You're leveling up and exposing who can't follow. They can't keep up. Let them fail. Let them struggle behind you until they're dots behind you and you're so far ahead. So own the fallout and burn the excuses for the love of God. That's the fifth one. Burn the excuses every single time. Burn it the next time. Here's why. This is what I mean. The next time that your mind says just one, I've had a hard week. It's a special occasion. I'm going to celebrate. Answer with this. That version of me died. He had his chance and he [\h__\h] wasted it. This is, and by the way, this isn't about alcohol. This is about your own power. You want power, then take back control. All of it. Every single bit of it. Take it all back. You want discipline, then kill the [\h__\h] crutch. You want respect, then walk through hell with your head clear and your purpose sharper than a [\h__\h] razor. No buzz, no blur, just blood, sweat, effort, truth. Cuz you don't need a drink. You don't. You need to become a man who doesn't run from the life that he keeps talking about building. Because the one who needs alcohol to feel alive is already dead. You feel me? I got to go. Never miss.