Could a hundred men take down one silverback gorilla? Let me save you all of the suspense and research. No, I don't care how tough you are. Not even close. Not even in your dreams. Most of you guys can't even take down a treadmill. I'm laughing right out of the gate because of what I I want to talk about. It's hilarious. I'm pretty intense and gritty and that's just who I am. Once in a while things come across my path and I go really like a hundred of you guys think you can take out a gorilla. I don't even know where to go with that. Have you guys seen a gorilla? That thing would rip off your thigh, your leg, and beat you to death with a wet end. And I see all these people running physiology and they're designed for short sprints, though. All you have to do is wear it out and then you could kill it. It's a gorilla, man. I I think honestly this isn't about gorillas. There's some of it that's about gorillas because it's funny as hell to me. This is probably the funniest podcast I've ever done. This is more about calling out honestly you soft delusional fantasy life men that have built garbage to escape your own irrelevance. That's what this is. And maybe you just don't comprehend that. Maybe you think, "No, bro. I would totally go toe-to-toe with the gorilla." You're the same idiot that's going to get in the ring and go, "Hey, you know what? I'll go toe-to-toe with Tyson for a million dollars. He will kill you." Like I said, that follow-up interview is going to be great. Six months later, I can eat solid food and I can squeeze the ball. Like, you're he will murder you. It's Mike [\h__\h] Tyson. I don't care how tough you are. I don't care how many belts and stripes and all the stuff you've got. I don't care what kind of UFC fighter you are. That's a dangerous human being. Like this debate online. And I know somebody's going to get in my comments go, "Bro, if it's not that important, listen to you talk about it like crazy." I'm actually here. I'll tell you exactly why I'm talking. Full transparency. I want the engagement because it's this incredibly ridiculous. And two, it's funny to talk about. It doesn't bother me. It's hilarious. I want the engagement. Like, this is the debate online. Could a hundred men take down one silverback gorilla? Let me save you all of the suspense and research. No. I don't care how tough you are. Not even close. Not even in your dreams. Most of you guys can't even take down a treadmill. You wrestle with a refrigerator door. You can't even take down a bowl of Lucky Charms without crying about carb addiction and carb sensitivity. But sure, you go ahead. You got a combat strategy for a 500 lb predator built by nature to be genetically engineered for combat. If you put the agility, athleticism, and power of a gorilla into a trained human, you're [\h__\h] Here's the difference between man and animal. You guys are going to say free will and all that stuff, they only have one switch, all or nothing. If you corner a squirrel, a 200lb man, a squirrel doesn't pose a challenge to any 200lb man. You corner it, piss it off, and you scare it. It's going to fight until it dies. It doesn't have a switch where it just goes, "Oh my god, please don't hurt me." And taps out. That's the difference between men and the animal kingdom. Men tap out. Oh, there you guys are all big talkers on social media. I have my phone on right here. You know why? Because my wife takes priority over every one of you guys. I love you guys very much, but my wife takes priority over everything. And she's out running an errand that has to be taken care of. She might need to get a hold of me. So, my phone is face up so I can see if she calls. And if she calls, y'all are either going to listen to the phone call or I'm going to pause this podcast because that's how important she is to me. She is the most She trumps everybody. But let me back up to the gorilla. Most of you guys probably couldn't even tolerate or survive eye contact with a gorilla. Your posture screams, "Please don't hurt me." Your psychology is always about being offended. And your body composition literally says, "Crispy Cream." But go ahead, tell me how of you guys would work together to outsmart and beat this gorilla. I want to hear this. I want all the debate. Go give me all of your logistics and all of your strategy, all of your Call of Duty headsetwearing, pimplefaced at 35 years old, still living at home, heating up hot pockets, working at the general store. You go ahead, tell me. Like, you really think the gorilla is worried about your teamwork? He's going to look at your tribe of of wi-fi social media warriors and he's just going to go, "Fuck this. I'm out of here." He's just going to have pity on you and leave. We can get funny about this all day long, but it's not about gorillas. This is about the absolute death of the meaning of modern man. Listen, my grandpa at 67 threw me around like a rag doll. I was a 15-year-old snap-nose attitude punk ass kid. He manhandled the [\h__\h] out of me like I was nothing. Grew up on a farm, just power in his hands. and yet the kindest, most incredible guy. But he also took no [\h__\h] I can assure you that he wasn't debating with his buddies when he was out in the woods going, "I think a hunter could we could take a grizzly. We could take a blackberry." He didn't care. Never mind a gorilla. I think honestly you guys are empty and you sure as hell aren't built for danger. So now you fantasize about fantasy violence so you feel like you matter. I've said this so many times. Most of you guys aren't dangerous. You're decorative. You're pretty to look at. And that's where it stops. I had some dude go, "What if their physique was better than yours?" I don't give a [\h__\h] about your physique. You know what a physique gives you? Your physique means absolutely nothing. I don't care how you look. You guys at the gym staring at your arms when you're doing curls, doing pull-ups, looking at your biceps when you're doing it. You train to look a certain way. I train to be a certain way. The byproduct is I look like a superhero. We are not the same. Because when it hurts, I pour on the gas. When it hurts for you, you go, "Oh, I got to take a rest." I train for function. You train to look pretty, maybe. I I really don't know. Listen, I got nothing against you. Bodybuilding takes a ton of dedication. It is so ridiculously difficult. But you are not an athlete. With the exception of Bumstead, who is athletic as [\h__\h] I watched this guy doing jumps. First of all, his legs are like my waist. and I watched him doing jumps on a pad. This son of a [\h__\h] is badass. That's very rare. Most of you 5 foot6 bodybuilders are not athletic. It's okay. You aren't going to toe with a tight end or a running back. Not a chance. You're decorative. So what? Be happy. You know what? That's right. I train to be decorative. But you guys tap out to sugar and screen time and your girlfriend's attitude when she gets on your case. And you guys are out here talking about silverback battle tactics while you get winded tying your shoes. I said it in my post and most of you guys are built like a complaint box covered in unearthed confidence and self-help slogans that you pulled off the internet. Like you think your cold plunge gives you grit. It's a cold plunge. I grew up in Winnipeg. It was 40 below. Every day was a damn cold plunge. There was no such thing as too cold. You can't go to school today. I walked to school from kindergarten on. I was a latch key kid. I had a gray shoelace and a bronze colored key. And my parents were gone when I left in the morning. And when I came home from school, Donwood was the school. Mrs. Wheeler was my kindergarten teacher. I remember walking over a hill to the Quaker's house and waiting there for my parents to come and get me to drive me home. And that was snow. I I can't remember a time when I'd ride my bike to school. You guys, the gorilla would mistake your warrior mindset hoodie for some kind of clearance rat pity prize at Target. Lululemon, guys. Lululemon, you don't need to fight a gorilla, man. You need to fight that reflection that you see every day. Fight your addictions. Fight your softness. Fight your irrelevance, your self-generated irrelevance. Because your real enemy isn't some jungle beast. It's not even these people online. Stop thinking the enemy is outside of you. The enemy is your beige half- deadad life that you've created. Nobody is your enemy but you. I really wish you guys would understand that instead of always getting so pissed off at what somebody shows is the truth. Most of you guys, you're not a threat. You're not a weapon. You sure as hell aren't a warrior. Most of you guys couldn't fight your way out of a [\h__\h] line. And yet you go on and on about how tough you are. The people I know that are the toughest and the most dangerous aren't the ones that go around telling people how tough they are because they're also the ones not looking for trouble. They're just ready for it. Most of you guys are threads. Thread one pull. Your whole life unravels. That's what I mean. Like that comment on Instagram that didn't get enough likes, the post, the story, whatever. You spiraled and the girl that ghosts you after your first date. So what? You downloaded three, four, five dating apps and started journaling about selfworth and you guys lose your [\h__\h] Like you ate a salad for three days and when the scale didn't move, you get pissed off. You quit and saying, "Your metabolism is different. It must be my genetics." But you want to take on a gorilla. You guys are looking for noise to cover up your own inadequacies. I think like your 5:00 a.m. That's you guys and your early morning dude. I get up at 4:30 every day. Why does your life suck so bad then? Alex Herozi gets him whenever the hell he gets up and he never makes his bed. And I guarantee he's worth more than most people will ever accomplish. And somebody's going to go, "Well, yeah, but he's lucky." He's not lucky. The guy works his balls off. Like you think your 5 a.m. routine and your two reps of incline press at Planet Fitness makes you savage. Gorillas don't lift weights. They lift trees. They climb. You lift trauma and he lifts anything he wants. You lost your cool over a delayed Amazon package. But you want to fight a gorilla. A gorilla would snap your spine if you blink too loud. And I'm sure some of you go, "That's not how they are. They're gentle." Piss one off. Let me know how it works. You're not a challenge in your life. You're a chew toy to whatever has more fight in it than you, which is probably your Pomeranian. The most hilarious thing right now about modern men is you guys have convinced yourselves that you're a beast because you read David Gogggins quote and took a cold shower. You guys running around going, "Stay hard." But you're built like a beanag. Like most of you guys, maybe this is going to get somebody mad. I really don't care. Most of you guys are scared of confrontation, criticism, your scale, making sales calls, sending emails, sending DMs, telling your wife that you're not happy, and doing any actual work. But yeah, you go ahead and tell me about how you'd flank the gorilla with your Call of Duty skills. You know what's really scary is how little it takes to break, most of you guys. One bad day and it's over. One mean comment and you guys are, we got to cancel them. I got to report them. That is how soft you are. But you think you're being, "No, I'm just doing my job, my duty." That what they said was offensive. You're a [\h__\h] One missed workout and you quit. One client refund and it's over. You guys fall apart like a wet paper towel and you still think you're battle ready. Let me know how that works. I think the problem is you guys run around convinced because you read things. Listen, I love that you read things. Be a lifelong learner. But you guys run around convinced that because you read something, that's who you are. You read some comment, some quote about how savage this person is and you go, "Yeah, that's me." But you're not ready for war. You're not even ready for the weekend. Today's Thursday, and you're not ready for anything. This is not about gorillas. It's about the distractions that you fill your life with. The real question is, why are you even entertaining the fantasy? And I'm sure some of you go, "Why are you, bro?" Because it's funny to me. You guys got in the I watched I looked at some of your comments when I made the post about it. Holy [\h__\h] You guys went off the rails about it. Either justifying it, trying to attack me. That's how soft you guys are. It's because your life is so empty. You've got no mission, no purpose. So, you invent some fantasy warfare to feel something. Like, you guys simulate masculinity through imaginary combat because actual purpose would require something none of you have, which is discipline. And discipline would mean you have to give up all of your favorite distractions that you buy into and defend with everything you've got. You guys would rather debate hypothetical jungle fights and face the fact that your life has become so safe, so soft, so boring, so synthetic that a gorilla is the first exciting thing that's crossed your mind in years. Listen, you're not preparing for battle, man. You're coping with boredom and you know it. You think you're strategizing to kill some crazy gorilla, some jungle beast? How about a capuchin? You guys wouldn't last against that either. You're trying to resurrect your masculinity through memes and posts and writing things on a post-it and sticking it on your mirror. It's going to taste like a cookie or you're going to be a mouth breather. And you do it because deep down you know something's missing in your own life. Here I am telling you the truth, pointing at anything that's going wrong in your life, going, "Here's the solution." And you argue. Give me a bunch of thumbs down on my YouTube video. I love when you guys do that. I've never gone and given somebody a thumbs down or anything. But you guys have to make sure, oh, this is stupid. What an [\h__\h] Yeah, but all you do is demonstrate your weakness when you do that because it set you off. Nobody cares about your rating. Clearly, you care about it. No, I'm pointing out a fact that you're that weak. You've lost your edge. You've got no edge. You're not dangerous and you probably never were. Like you're that kid that decided that when he was a kid he was dangerous online and he gave himself a really cool name online but he's an idiot in real life. Listen I think most men today I don't know man starving for meaning for purpose and because of that you look for something to do. So, you argue. You escape life into fantasy, whether it's here or Reddit or a video game or binge watching. And then you meme yourself into feeling like you have any worth and strength. But you don't because your day-to-day reality is filled with lies, procrastination, processed food, canned emotions, safe emotions, pseudo masculinity. You guys aren't real. weight isn't working out. Doing three push-ups a day is not working out. If you go better than most, why are you comparing yourself to the bottom? Could you do more? Yeah, shut up. Do more. Stop getting mad about things. You don't lift. You sure as hell don't lead cuz you can't protect your home because you don't even learn how. You don't push. You don't bleed. You don't build. You don't do anything other than point at everybody else and all their flaws. But you guys will argue for three hours in a Reddit thread about how many untrained men it would take to choke out King Kong. Listen, I know this. The men who argue about gorilla fights are the same ones who haven't looked in the mirror and said, "What the [\h__\h] happened to me? You fat bastard. You disgustingly sloppy person." You guys haven't had to fight for your family. You haven't had to go broke and rebuild a version of yourself to become something that just killed it, buried it, put it in a box and threw it in the garbage. That version of yourself that's costing you. You've never done that just so you could build something better. You've done nothing that makes you dangerous. So, you look for reasons to make yourself feel dangerous, but you're not. Because if you did any of that stuff I just said, that would mean waking up and admitting that you've wasted years being entertained instead of becoming qualified, equipped, capable, and it bugs you. It hurts. So instead, fantasy lies, [\h__\h] Because in fantasy, you're strong. You're strong. You matter. Oh man, you're a unit, right? Just tell me. By the way, see, you guys live in this fantasy where you're part of the tribe that thinks they can take down a monster, but in order to do that, you have to become a monster, right? There's a movie, what was it? Demolition Man, right? Send a monster to kill a monster. Something like that. Wesley Snipes, Blonde Hair, Sly. Good movie. Sander Bulock, I think, was in it. The real world, you're not fighting gorillas, man. You're losing to that monster that's in your head. That's the one that needs to be taken out. You need to take that one out right now. That's the beast. That's the problem. That's the demon you're wrestling with. That's the one that hits snooze, that validates, that gets in Reddit threads and just argues for days, that gets in the comments and gets their butt hurt and goes on and on, creates these flame wars online. You're the one that says, "Oh, it's not that bad. My life's not that bad." And you hide in the comments instead of, "Yeah, just some [\h__\h] action." and the one who blames everything around them, including circumstances and situations. Men and women, you guys both do it instead of creating and building every damn thing you want to have. If you spent as much time building strength, power, capability, discipline, focus, all of that in the real world right here, tangible real world, as you do, chasing all the entertainment in fantasy lies and debates, who the [\h__\h] would you become in one year? Maybe ask that because you're costing yourself everything. You're not bored because the world is slow. You're bored because you're not doing anything that matters. You have no purpose. You think making posts on Instagram is a purpose, but it's not. Everybody lives the Truman Show now, but everybody's jockeying for position because the currency is attention, but you guys are posting nonsense for attention, realizing that it's destroying your own credibility and worth. Your soul isn't starving for content. It needs conflict because there's right and wrong. Your mission and everything else. Real conflict. Like the purpose, the drive, what you need to have to make it challenge. I need challenge. Every man needs challenge. You guys keep running away from it. And because your life lacks all of that stuff, you guys go and manufacture a fantasy where you throw hands with wildlife just to feel a pulse. You know what? You're not. You're I don't know. Unused. This is a fun podcast because I really This is the most off the cuff I've ever done. You're unused. You guys do know your body was built to carry weight, heavy weight, and go long distances and walk for days and run. But you guys are too scared to pick anything up. Your body was built to carry a burden. It's how God built you. Your psychology, your mind, your brain is constructed to solve problems. And all you do right now is consume distractions and escapes. Your spirit, your soul was is something that's built to face the purposeless void and you're still crying about your ex and burying your life in 10step morning routine ebooks to gain your confidence back. Give up coffee, how to get rich without actually doing anything. You seek out so much. You do so much work to avoid work and you wonder why your life is non-stop, mundane, terrible, boring, unproductive work because you're doing it to yourself. Here's the truth. You don't feel useless because of your job. You feel useless because you're not being used for your purpose. And that's what you're here. I don't know. Like you're not maxed out, right? Ed Milelette, right? Max out. But he's right. Why wouldn't you max out your day? There's not any other creature in the world that doesn't max out their day except mankind. Mankind goes, "How many days can I avoid maxing out?" So when someone like me shows up or Gogggins or Tate or Watson or anybody that you guys want to hate on, I really don't care. people that just go to the max non-stop. You attack them and ostracize them because they're reminding you of who you could be and you refuse to do the work to become. You're not maxed. You're not tested. You're definitely not building anything. You're not bleeding or suffering for anything. You're not pushing yourself into anything that threatens to break you. And it should always threaten to break you. That's how you become stronger. And that's how you get further. Be willing to break things. Because without that resistance, there can't be growth. Without growth, no meaning, no purpose. You're stagnant. There's nothing beneficial about that in life. Without meaning, your brain becomes this fantasy creating escape distraction machine just so it can feel alive. Now you can't even differentiate between reality and fantasy. You become delusional with your own life and get into comments and argue a fantasy scenario. Like a man who lacks responsibility will invent distraction. That's a frightening thought because it's not that you don't have a burden. There's plenty. They're all around you. It's that you haven't accepted one. Look around your life. You are not occupied with meaning. Some people hear this and go, "What is this?" But that's what gives your life everything. that zeal, right? You're not occupied with meaning, so you become occupied with distractions and escapes and all your memes and posts. But you haven't structured your life in a way that demands effort and investment and sacrifice and direction, like actual focus, direction, aim, right? So, you fall back into this entertainment loop. Honestly, fury and rage and imaginary conflict that you guys create because at least then you feel something. It's like the person that gets attention because they get into a fight. The relationship where it's nothing but battles, but at least it's attention. Negative attention is better than no attention. So, they constantly start fights. And you wonder why that's what you guys are doing, but you're doing it with everybody online except the person in the mirror where you should have a fight with that person until you aren't fighting with that person because you are actually who you want to be. You look in the mirror and go, "That's the badass that I want to be." Because if you look in the mirror and you're like, "Everything about that person I can't stand. Run away." You don't need more hobbies and [\h__\h] You guys need to take things away from your life, not add more things. You need a mission. You need a purpose. You really do. I told you four years ago, I woke up and I knew exactly what my vision was. And I got it from God. You don't need self-care. That even sounds ridiculous. Nobody 50 years ago was going, "We need to take a self-care day." You need credibility with yourself. You need accountability. You need self-respect. Self-respect comes from receipts. Doing the work. Doing the work. That boring, repetitive, uncomfortable work over time in silence alone. No applause, no accolades, no fanfare, nothing. just you until it pays you in respect, power, and the peace of knowing what you're capable of. You guys run around going, "Dude, I'm so burnt out." That's not possible. You can't get burned out. You're just soft. It's because nobody has demanded more from you. That person should be you, but you guys aren't doing it. So, when somebody goes, "Here's a workout. Oh, I only train for 20 minutes. That's 60. That's far too long. I'm just trying to do like you guys come up with the dumbest reasons to avoid work. You're just soft men need chaos and fantasy because they've avoided responsibility in reality. It's on you. We don't get mad about it. Changing like most of you guys don't know what tired is. You don't know what broken is. You sure as hell don't know what pressure is because a second life gets a little bit difficult. You guys pivot or you hit the pause button or you make a post about it and stop. The reason you guys fantasize about this gorilla violence is because your soul knows that you've never actually fought even for anything for real. You think you have, but you haven't. You've never bled for your future. You never given all you've got. You've never gone dark for your family. And really dark. not posting how dark you are and how you've just literally gutted it out. I have a buddy of mine, Tim. He's a great guy. I really love him to death. I have a lot of respect for this guy. He had an exit on a company for millions. And he told me he used to come home and his wife, he would be stressed out. He worked 12, 14, 16 hour days building this company. and his wife would be standing there and AI forget what he said, glass of scotch or something, big smile, basically just nothing but paint. I know how hard you're working. And all the time he put in, I don't remember how long exactly, I'd have to ask him, so I don't quote me on this, but 8 10 years at least, building this company with not a whole lot of return. Sold it very massive wire transfer. 80, 90 million, something like that. He gave all he had so he wouldn't have to do that for the rest of his life. Now he chooses to. This guy's a man of God. He's an amazing dude. He's a leader. He's a strong person. He's got an incredible family, an incredible wife. He's a great man. They've been married like 40, 30, 38 years. A long time, man. They're good people. But he fought for everything to get there. That's what I mean. And he's still fit. She's still fit. They have great kids. They have it all. You just have to be willing to go dark. He didn't post about it. He didn't tell his friends about it. All of a sudden, one day he's just got a jet and almost $100 million in. It's like he put this together on his own because it was him and two other people, three other people. But most of you guys haven't You're not willing to bleed for your future. You've never held a line when everything inside of you said, "Quit." Instead of doing that, you guys debate gorillas. You think you're a beast, but you're more like a well-fed, plump ass house cat with a Bluetooth connection to something in a victim complex that you have to tell everybody about. You're not fierce. You're this pampered [\h__\h] soft baby every day. And here's what it comes down to. Men without a mission invent madness that comes from no mission because you have no purpose. So your brain goes, it's like you want to have the devil appear, have white space on your calendar. 100% guaranteed. You don't need a gorilla fight. you need to rebuild the fire that's inside you that you were born with. How about you start waking up with a list, a list of all the [\h__\h] like you go, this is all the stuff in my life that makes me want to vomit and this is all the stuff I want my life to look like. And that's your list. And you do nothing but what drives you towards that list. Instead of going, "Hold on, I got to check my gorilla post. Let me debate all these [\h__\h] that think they wouldn't be able to take a gorilla." How about you start attacking your own fat ass body? Maybe you dominate your time and organize it and leverage your time to do something with your life and you start executing on a business, a real business that puts millions of dollars in your pocket, which is so possible. You realize 52 years old, I guarantee you I have the best business program on the planet outside of Bedros Coulian and Dan Martell. Both of those have kick-ass programs. I would trust both of those guys with any business I've got because they're [\h__\h] good at it. I have a lot of respect for those two guys. But I'll tell you, I'm number three on that list. I'm good at what I do. And yet, I tell people, join my mastermind. 1,500 bucks. Yeah, you want me one-on-one, you're going to pay a lot more money for that, but you can ask me one-on-one questions every single Monday. You got a 2-hour window where I solve everything from cancer to business to leads to how to go from zero to 100 grand a month inside of three months. It doesn't matter as long as you apply what I tell you to do. But that's what I do. And you guys go, I don't know if I can come up with 1,500 bucks. Get the way from me then because I don't want someone that's looking for the deal. I want legends who want to build other legends. I don't build on price. I build on results that I demand from you by following the blueprint that I give you. I realize people have been burned on these [\h__\h] coaches and gurus. You could sit in on any webinar and go, "Holy [\h__\h] this guy [\h__\h] listen to 140 episodes of my vlog and you'll see down I know what I'm talking about." It was basically how to set up affiliates and make a bunch of money and you be the affiliate as well as a business owner and you collect 10% from yourself. There's so many ways to do this. Literally write a script, chat GPT, write the script for your product selling something, put it into 11 Labs, give it a voice, make sure it's a British voice because people tend to resonate with that. Make sure it's no longer than 45 seconds. go over to midjourney or use your own post of products and cycle them through every two seconds on Cap Cut. Put your voice in there. Make sure it sounds smooth and awesome and it's not too hyperproduced. Make sure there are captions on your video unless the video is busy with instructions and put a spot at the bottom with captions. Put an affiliate link on that post. Set up a 100 Tik Tok and Instagram accounts promoting your link with a many chat flow for each one of them. That mini chat flow sends you to whatever funnel, whatever landing page, whatever payment page you've got for whatever product, PDF, widget, anything you've got to sell and run. That's free. That's free. I just gave you and put an affiliate link in there so people look at that and go, that's an affiliate. You put your bank account on there and collect the 10, 15, 20% affiliate promotion for selling the product because it's yours, but it's also you that owns that. All of that is free. What do I sell? Pick something. I just gave you $10 million idea. Most of you guys won't even do it. I can't understand that. Join my mastermind. I do this all day. But you guys don't you guys need to wake up with a damn list and go, I am not going to settle until I fulfill everything on this list. But you keep finding people that go, it's okay that you don't have a list. have a soft, flabby, bean bagged body and a wife that doesn't want to do anything with you because she's just as gross as you are psychologically and physically and your finances look like they're on life support and you're 40. What are you doing? Every single person listening to this should go, "How do I join this mastermind right now?" I honestly think every one of you guys should go $4,997 and not go, "Holy [\h__\h] that's a lot of money." Max out two credit cards, five credit cards, get a lifetime membership and never worry about it again and have access to everything that I put out forever. Or spend 1,500 bucks and test it out for a year, but I'm not giving you credit for it afterwards. If you go, I paid $1,500. Can I get a credit? Stop being so [\h__\h] cheap. How you buy is how you sell. That's why you struggle. Wake up with a list. Like, attack your body and attack your time. Leverage your damn time. Work on a business. Any business. I don't care if I don't have time, dude. I work 16 hour days and I still figure out the way to have time. Hold your word to yourself. Hold your word. All you ass hats that can't keep your word and keep kicking it down the line and coming up with reasons why you can't do it yet. I got a couple more things I got to take care of. We're almost there. We're so close, man. We're so close. You're not there at all. You need to hold your word to yourself the same way Jesus did for you. What gives you the right? Or don't do any of that. keep coping with your fantasy life and wondering why you still hate that man every day when you look in the mirror. You guys avoid what if you just carried the weight every day? What weight that if you just carried it every damn day would make all the fantasy irrelevant in your life and make your real life worth living? Because it's not. It's not. Stop getting upset about it. You Oh, I want you guys imaginary. You want imaginary danger and fire and you want to feel more like a man again. Then stop talking about gorillas and build the life that demands that you become dangerous. How about that? because you don't feel weak because you lack confidence. You feel weak because you're living a life that doesn't require any output, no power from you, nothing. You just coast through it. You're like a glider hoping that you can go a little further. You don't need to be strong to to do nonwork. You don't need to be strong to get in and argue about comments. You guys hit snooze five times. You drink an oat milk latte because you think it's healthy and then comment on gorilla memes. All right. See, I'm going to leave that in there because I just don't care. Like even that little grammatical screw up where I said gorilla means instead of gorilla memes. Somebody's going to be like, "Oh, see you can't say that, right?" I just don't care. I'm a real human being. But here really, you need to be strong. You need to be strong because if your family depended on you, if your wife looked to you for protection, for safety, if your kids saw you as a superhero, my son and my daughter actually call me their superhero. If your business only grew when you would grow, if your name actually had meaning in the real world, if you know what that's from, you want to feel alive, you want all that, build a life. Don't even try. I was going to say try, but don't even try. Build a life that will absolutely collapse if you start bullshitting yourself again. Put it all on you. My life will destroy itself. It'll implode if I start bullshitting. There's your danger. Right. There's your pressure. You guys don't want to do that, though. Oh, that's too risky. It's not risky. You're a coward. The fantasy fights with jungle animals. Listen, you want to be a man, just do this. Wake up and build something that would just die without you. Somebody's going to hear that, well, that's not very smart, and that's why you still live with your mom asking her for hot dog money. Wake up and build something that would die without you. like your name, your empire, your discipline, your financial security, your legacy. You don't need adventure. You need responsibility that it cracks your excuses. It just buries them. It obliterates your excuses and makes your life require strength just to function. It won't even function if you're not strong enough. That's how you kill all the fantasies you guys are living in. How about this? People like, "Oh, dude, I could totally handle pain." Can you? When I hear you guys go, "Oh, I would totally do what you did when you went through everything and you lost your long cancer. I would totally do the same thing, bro." No, you won't. You know how I know? Because I look at your life. You're shaped like grimace from McDonald's. You want pain. You want struggle. Try waking up every day knowing that your family's future is built off of your actions. Yours. There's your pressure. And if you slip just once, you lose everything. And so do they. That's pressure. That's responsibility. How about you, you do this. You guys see me train and some of you guys just bust my balls about how I train, but you couldn't keep up with me on my worst day. Try training your body to a level so hard that you break yourself and come back stronger with no audience. Just alone, quiet, nobody clapping, nobody pointing at you going, "Nice job." Try staying in that fire so long. That's where you want to be because comfort is what causes your pain. That's what makes a man dangerous. your ability to take that. Not debate, not fantasy, not memes, not inspirational quotes, not sitting there with your hand up. In church, every one of you idiots that makes a post when you're in church with your kids and you number one, who's taking the picture? You getting your kids to take pictures of you like this with your hand up praising God. Listen, I love that. I put my hand up, too. I always do. But I'm not filming it. I filmed one thing in church and it was our baptism. Why? because I actually wanted that memory because it was really amazing. But that's it. You guys in your stupid motivational wallpaper, how about you just work and invest of yourself? Sacrifice whatever. Zero out your balance every day. Time, money, and energy. Have a purpose. Go to war with all the weakness in the world. Everything around you, including yourself. You're wired for meaning. That's a gift from God. Except meaning only shows up when you volunteered to carry the cross. When you go, "All right, I'll shoulder the burden. Throw it on me. I got it." But it's the burden of something that would destroy a lesser man. That's how you have to look at it. Would this [\h__\h] someone else? Yeah. Put it on my back. I got it. In order to be alive, it's required that you build a world that's demanding of you. It extracts your highest self, your highest capability because that's the only way you can be alive. That's how you live. And to do that, you have to confront what is weak in you and slay that. No mercy, no conversation. That includes all the people in your circle that are lying to you, procrastinating, dragging their heels because all of those people are keeping you prisoner in the life that you're in right now. Like I had somebody say, "Oh, you don't get it, man. I got a lot going on in my life." Oh, okay. So does my refrigerator. So does septic tanks. There's a lot going on in there. Your calendar isn't full, buddy. your standards don't exist. If you've got time to argue online but not enough time to go hit the gym for an hour workout or to build a business, build millions, build wealth, build generational wealth so your family's taken care of for the next five, six, seven generations or to have that hard honest conversation with your wife so you can rebuild your marriage and have a great life with her. Maybe to start that thing that you just keep lying about that you keep waiting for some [\h__\h] to save you and isn't going to because he just keeps lying. She just keeps lying. What are you doing? You're not out of time. You need to stoke that fire inside you. The bottom line is you don't need danger from the outside. You need to weave some danger into your life. You need it built in every day. Like the [\h__\h] that wakes you up where you're freaking out. You're stressed out. You're sweating. You have massive urgency and it forces you to train that I I live my life in with some variation of danger 24/7 365 because it demands that I level up every day. That's what you need to do. And until your discipline makes gorilla fights, I don't know, look like watching a Bugs Money cartoon, until you're you're so locked in and focused, you have that singularity of focus that people look at you like you're a little twitchy and ask if you're for real, you're going to struggle. I mean, what if you just rebuilt your life? So, it actually demanded of you that you show up strong and powerful and with discipline and focused every day in a way that if you didn't put yourself on the line, everything you love would disappear, collapse, get destroyed. Why not? Cuz you guys are afraid of your own lack of accountability because now it takes away all your excuses because it's all on you. And you guys like being able to put it on somebody else. It's like when you buy something and you go, "But if I don't like it, I'll just dispute the charges." I've never disputed a charge unless I didn't buy it at all. didn't show up. I didn't like it wasn't me. But if I hit the buy button, it's on me. You dispute charges, you're a coward. You guys don't get it. You're not a warrior because you read some book. That's like reading about jiu-jitsu and going, "Now I have a black belt." Your cold plunge doesn't make you dangerous. That doesn't help you. You sure as hell aren't dangerous because you're putting LFG with a bunch of exclamation points after everybody's comment. I put flame emojis and never miss on everything because that's my motto for life. I never miss. But that's not what makes me a savage. My conduct, my character, my standards, and my receipts behind me, my results. You have to understand you're only a warrior and like you should be. You're only a savage. All of those things that make up a man if your reality that you live in proves it. It has nothing to do with how high you spend more time leveling up your character on a video game than you you spend leveling up your character in life. You will spend 10 hours a day leveling up a character. Freak out if it gets wiped out or you get some your Xbox collapses or PlayStation and you'll lose your [\h__\h] You'll spend days, weeks, months with customer service trying to get your data back, but you won't do the same thing for your real life. You have a problem. Your reality has to prove that you are a savage, that you are worth success, that you are the beast that you keep getting in the comments and talking to everybody about how badass you are. Your bank account proves it, your body proves it, your discipline proves it, cuz your results can't lie about your discipline. Your marriage proves it, your business proves it, your calendar proves it. Everything else is just noise. It's all delusion. You guys in your digital chest puffing in a world where talk is cheap and likes are now the currency and it has no value in anything because they won't give you anything. You want to be a weapon, start showing receipts. The real ones aren't going to be arguing about gorillas. They're going to be too busy becoming something that the gorilla probably just wouldn't [\h__\h] with in the first place. They don't debate fantasy because they're too deep in reality to even bother. You can become one. You can become whatever you want. You become as dangerous as you can possibly imagine, financially, physically, emotionally, spiritually. But not until you kill that little fantasy version of yourself and start showing up like a man who's been given one life. Please get it. One life. You get one spin on this. And your biggest regret will be all the [\h__\h] that you will take to the grave that you wish you would have done, but you didn't because you were too afraid of the opinions of other people or the amount of work required. You're given one life and you need to refuse to piss it away for amusement. You're not put here for amusement. You're put here for a purpose. You got to think your life is either an advertisement for your excuses or highlight reel of your execution. Which one? Your move. Which one? You don't need somebody else's opinion. You don't need to do more research. You need results. You're just afraid to commit to what's required of you to get them in your debates. Get some discipline. Just reach into your pants if you're a man. Make sure your balls are still there and then do something about it. You guys are I just got to get some feedback. The only feedback you should be checking is if somebody doesn't buy your stuff, send them a message and go, "Why? What? What happened? Why didn't you buy what I had? And if they go, oh, it just wasn't what I needed. Perfect. But if they're like, because of this, fix those things. There's business advice number two. Those are the holes. Why would I ask everybody, if you don't buy, I'm going to ask you, hey, why did why didn't you buy? Not to guilt you, so I know. So I can fix it. Like you need a mirror to everything in your life that isn't working, including yourself, and enough selfrespect to look at what you've become and say, "Never again. Not a chance." That's the only way this is going to work. People, you should be dangerous. Wake up. Train when it hurts. Do it when nobody's around, nobody's watching, when your friends quit. When they tell you to quit, when they lie, when they procrastinate. Do it when your wife doubts you. Your kids doubt you. Do it when you doubt you. Do it when you're broke, when you're rich. Do it when your body screams, "Stop." And never [\h__\h] flinch. That's what separates the real ones and everybody else. Not who could beat a imaginary gorilla. Some of you think every one of you guys that says, "Dude, it would take a hundred of us, we could totally do it." And get some crazy ass gorilla just lock you in a box and see who's left. You guys are going to get shoved through the bars of that cage by that gorilla and he's going to sit there and eat a banana after he's done beating your ass. Who has the scars to prove they've gone to war with themselves? I know I have. But you guys go, "It's all relative." I know it's not scars. Real scars. If you really want that transformation, if you really desire that, you wouldn't argue. You wouldn't tweet. You would embody it. There would be no excuse on your plate that would ever be valid because you truly desire the transformation. You wouldn't be hesitant to kill off the soft man or the soft woman who depends on excuses and lies and validations and stories and fantasy to feel strong and powerful. You'd replace that person with someone who wakes up every day and builds something so real that the world is forced to take notice. That's what you're made for. That right there. That is what you're made for. Listen, you can memorize every Gogggins quote. You can shave your head like Tate, like me, like anybody else. And you can walk around quoting anybody. You can quote Peterson, Musk, Rogan. But your life doesn't show it. If your life doesn't show it, you're a word I'm looking [\h__\h] parody. That's what you are. You're [\h__\h] parody. You're a cosplay character with no muscle. Nothing. Nothing. No bank balance. Just a bunch of zeros. No spine and no legacy. How about today you just knock that off? How about today you just knock that off? So listen, how about this? Stop with gorilla fantasy or any others. That's a metaphor for everything you guys keep coming up with to battle. You look for people on social media that make you feel triggered, but if they make you feel triggered what they said was true and you don't like it, it makes you uncomfortable. Because if you didn't care because you already successful in that area, you would have glazed right over it. The only people that have an opinion that is negative about anything are people that are coming into the comments because what was said is true about their life and they hate it. So, how about you kill all that? Call it a gorilla fantasy, but it embodies everything. Kill the gorilla fantasy, the soft excuses, the delusion you guys live in. Kill a part of you that argues in every comment because they're too scared to confront the life that you're actually living. The beanag chair-shaped life that you've got right now. Change it. Stop getting mad about it. Change it. How about you resurrect the man who's ready to burn his weaknesses down to the ground to ash and rebuild himself in whatever is required. Pain, pressure, struggle, adversity, obstacles, fire, purpose, all of it. That's what you need to do. My favorite question is this, and I ask this about coaching clients all the time. So, here's a $100,000 coaching question. And if you don't see the value in this question, you have some work to do. Ask yourself this. If someone followed me around for 30 days, would they see a man dangerous enough to be respected? That means your health, your wealth, your relationships are all level 10. So would they see a man dangerous enough to be respected or just a man delusional enough to debate gerillas online? I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.