Welcome to the Unbreakable podcast. I am Dr. Trevor Bachamire. Everybody calls me the Spartan. That name came from my son because he says I look like Kratos from God of War and little does my son know he's my hero even though he calls me his hero all the time. He's 16 and he's awesome. I have a daughter and an amazing wife with two decades. Today I was thinking because my wife and I move very fast. My wife has always been that way and I learned to be that way. It has stacked so many wins and I realized how many losses I had because I wasn't moving fast enough. It's like this decision paradox, right? The problem isn't how you move. I don't mean physically in general. The problem isn't how you move. It's how fast you move. Because this is the truth that nobody wants to hear. The heaviest things that you carry around. They're not your emotions, your sadness, your invented depression or your labeled anxiety or your childhood traumas or your bills or your boss. It's your indecision. Listen, you need to hear me on this because indecision right now is being pressed into society as the safe option and the least emotionally taxing option when in fact it's the opposite. If it doesn't tax you, why are there so many people that are depressed and anxious? Why are there so many people that can't get out of the hamster wheel that they're stuck in? Why are there so many people stuck in the matrix because of their indecisions? That's what it is. It is your damn indecisions. Think about it. You want to know why you're anxious and why you have such terrible insomnia and why you feel like your life is just stuck in a tarpit and everybody in the world is just sprinting past you. It's because you've got decisions to make and you're not making them. You have real conversations that you need to have. You've got emails to send, messages to send, phone calls to make, conversations to have. You've got chapters to close, chapters to open. You've got jumps and leaps and courageous, bold moves to take. And instead of doing any of that, you're sitting there staring at it. Maybe it'll heal itself. Maybe it'll repair itself. Maybe it'll solve itself if you just wait long enough. And waiting is encouraged. Let me be very clear. It goes right back to what I say often. You're not stuck. You're scared. Here's the wild part. It's not even You're not afraid of failing. You're afraid of the judgment of one person. Not even a bunch of people. One, you've built this entire paralysis around a single imaginary reaction from someone who doesn't even pay your bills or do anything in your life. That's not courage. That is slavery. and you sign up for that voluntarily the second you procrastinate. The longer you delay, the more of your soul it drains. Every loop that you run your head around going, "What if I hope perhaps maybe later?" and thinking that it could have been solved if you've just done the thing. You call that being like that's the anxiety cost and that's killing your speed, killing your entire life, right? You run this loop in your mind about what if I need to drill down on this because I hear people all the time in my mastermind, what if and I have to stop them right away. What if could have been solved if you would have just done the thing. If you just did the thing, whatever that thing is, the what if would have been solved and you would have solved it yourself. This isn't a pep talk. This is strategies for life. As I'm done watching men destroy their entire future with this hesitation they think that is keeping them safe when in fact it's actually costing them everything they want. You don't need more time. You need more conviction with what you're doing. I have people sending me messages asking, "How do you handle being overwhelmed?" I never get overwhelmed. You're overwhelmed because you won't make a decision. I don't get overwhelmed because I make decisions and then I deal with the consequences and then make a new decision. You're not even making the decision which makes you frustrated and overwhelmed and then you do busy work because every single unresolved decision is this open app in your brain and it's draining your battery and it's slowing the processing speed that you've got while you run around and tell everybody how hard you're working and how fine you are. Except if you hit a button on this, I have a computer keyboard right here. And if you open up the task manager, there was nothing but things running in the background. You do that for most of you guys in your mind and it looks like a war zone. You have unanswered texts. You have that tough conversation you need to have with your wife. Like I talk about all the time, you have the job that you hate, that you know you should quit, then just quit. You have the business that you want to start, the friend that you need to cut out of your life because all they're doing is lying and draining you. And you have a new standard that you need to create to rise to, and all of it is just sitting there. It's just chewing away like termites on a support beam in a house, eroding the structure. You understand why this is so psychologically destructive? Because unmade decisions create the same thing. It's this internal chaos that you've got in the mind, especially a man's mind. Yes, there is a difference between a man's and a woman's mind, but a man's mind craves order. When there's no clarity, there's no structure, no orientation towards meaning, your subconscious enters this state of it's almost hypervigilance. It's always scanning like constantly scanning it. It just loops endlessly searching for some kind of closure. There is no closure because the decision remains in limbo. Limbo is just another word for healing. It's costing you everything. This is why the concept of decision fatigue exists. Every decision left open in your head increases the cognitive load that your brain has to bear which makes even the simplest choices like what to eat, what to drink, what to wear, when to train, all of those things. It makes them feel incredibly exhausting. And here's the savage truth that most men won't admit. It's not that you can't decide, it's that you won't commit. They're different. And a lot of you guys mix those two up. You love the illusion of having all these options. You love the dopamine of fantasizing about these potential paths. It's like writing down a goal list. That's easy and fun. You love pretending that you're being strategic, but what you're really doing is you're just scared and making noise because making the decision means eliminating the fallback, right? You have to burn the boats. There's no safety net when you do that because now it's like I said, when I make a decision, I just make the decision and then I own the consequences. That's what you have to do. That's what's called being a grown ass man. Maybe this, right? Maybe this direction. Maybe that. I got to give it one more day. I need another 24 hours. I got to put it off. Commitment is the death of all other options. That's the easiest way to look at it. And if you're still flirting with alternatives, don't call it commitment. You're not weighing your options. You're looking at your fear. Call it what it is. It is cowardice in disguise. Because I know a guy who has been leaving his job for four years. He's had the conversation in his head. He's even rehearsed it with his dog in his steering wheel. But when Monday hits, guess where that guy is? He's back in his cubicle cursing his life under those ugly fluorescent lights eating some passive aggressive Slack messages for breakfast. Why? because his balls are still in a box. Look, if you've been deciding for six, seven months, a year, you're not deciding, you're daydreaming and you're calling it progress. And if you can daydream for that long without acting, it wasn't that important to begin with, which makes you either a liar or a loser or both. But if you're a liar or a loser, pick one because you're only one of those two things. You'll come up with reasons to validate why that's not it and it doesn't apply to you. But yes, it does. That's why it bothers you. The reason you feel stuck isn't because you're weak. It's because you've trained yourself to delay. It's a reflex now. And neurologically that kicks in. And every time you delay, you reinforce that weakness. That little voice inside your head, that one whispering, just wait. I got a couple more tigers to by the tail I got to take care of. And all the other dumb things that you use to explain it away. Let me give it just another week. That voice is the enemy. And every time you listen to it, you're feeding the wolf that wants to keep you mediocre, wants to keep you average. I will say this very slowly. You are building the muscles of hesitation. Every time you pause, you make the next decision even more difficult. And every time you put it off, that cross that you have on your shoulders gets even heavier. Until one day, here's what happens. I've done this. I'm not speaking with this is my life. So I'm just sharing this because I'm looking at myself going these are all the things I wish somebody would have told me. When I'm coming out here doing these videos and podcasts I'm telling myself from 20 years ago all the things that I should have done. So don't think this is directed towards you. This is directed towards the 32year-old version of me. Every time you pause and make that decision harder, you fail to do the things you want to do. You fail to become the man you want to become. You fail to build the life that you want to build. You just create more anxiety and depression. Every time you put it off, that cross gets so heavy and then you start blaming other people. One day, you're just under this pile of unmade moves and you're suffocating in your own in action. You're going to call it burnout and overwhelm, frustration, and defeat when in reality it's just cowardice with a label that you wanted to stick on it because you don't like the way it sounds when somebody calls you a coward. The root cause is not in it's the root cause is not the decision in doing this. Go a little deeper and listen to me. The real reason that decisions feel heavy, because some of you guys have such a difficult time making a decision. The reason it feels heavy, it's not the decision itself. It's the fear that you anchor to it without even looking at the decision. You just look at the fear of hurting yourself, hurting someone, disappointing your dad, being judged by some imaginary clown somewhere on the internet. Most unmade decisions are powered by the judgment of one person that you've never named, never met, doesn't actually exist. You will stall for an entire year because you're afraid of what somebody might think. And when you finally stop and ask yourself, okay, who are they? Ask right now, who are they? It's going to be Tom down the street. It's going to be your aunt Karen. It's going to be your old coach from high school who peaked at 17 and now stocks shelves at Tom Thumb. That's who's running your life. You're allowing somebody else to take up real estate in your own mind. And you're stuck in limbo because you're afraid of Tom's opinion. Tom doesn't pay your bills. He doesn't build your dream. He doesn't even have the balls to chase his own purpose. But you're letting Tom's imaginary judgment determine whether you live or die with regret. You want to break free of all this indecision. I'll help you. This is it. Name the fear. That's what you do. Name the fear. Name the person. Because right now it's abstract. Stop allowing it to be abstract. You can't just say, "I'm afraid." No, just say it clearly. I am afraid of what Tom will think if I break up with him. I am afraid of what my dad will say if I quit this job. I'm afraid that I'll fail and people will label me as a failure. Good. At least you have a definition. Now you know what demon you're fighting that has its claws in your mind. And if you name it, you can kill it because you're going to realize that you've already survived worse than their opinions. It's an opinion. Nobody has ever died from an opinion. People go, "Dude, how are you confident?" And then other people go, "You have such a big ego." Yeah, because I'm confident. When you have a big ego and you can back it, it's called a resume. It's based on the receipts behind you that you have used or that you have that you were using to prove that you've built things. Because once that realization hits that you've survived so much worse than anybody's opinion, you're going to make the decision for the first time in months, maybe even years. You could breathe. What's one decision that you've been putting off that's stealing from you? Whose judgment are you secretly afraid of? You need to rip the band-aid off your life, not replace it with a new one. You're not paralyzed by options. You're paralyzed by that imagined reaction of someone who doesn't have their [\h__\h] together. Most men are building their entire life around acceptance and approval, not vision purpose. You're not aiming for the life you want. You're trying to not offend anybody. The moment you realize how much of your life has been choreographed by the applause and criticism of irrelevant nobodies in their basement throwing hate and negativity at you in a comment section on social media, would you guys build a house on a piece of real estate you don't even own? No, you wouldn't. So why are you building your decisions on the emotional real estate of people who don't even live with the damn consequences? You're living with their consequence. They're not living with yours. Which means you're falling apart based on something that hasn't even happened yet. They don't go to bed with your regrets. They don't carry your fatigue or your cross or your weight or any of your future victories either. They don't get those, but you're preventing all of those because you're listening to Tom. They don't walk through your front door and see your kids watching your every move, not listening to a damn thing. You don't have a spy in that. Psychologically, this is the root of identity diffusion. Failed decisions and apprehension based on judgment is the root of identity diffusion. When a man lacks a sovereign sense of of self, he becomes defined by the mirror of everybody else. The self is reactive. So the issue becomes he checks the room before he checks his own conviction. Which means you don't have any conviction. You scan for danger in the eyes of the crowd, right? Before executing on the mission that's actually in your soul, in your heart. That's the psychological equivalent of being a chameleon. Chameleons survive. They don't dominate. This fractured self is never going to achieve becoming exceptional. You can't. And yet deep down inside you want to be because greatness requires moral independence. If you don't have that, you cannot be great because to lead you have to be able to walk in the direction even if the world is screaming at you to stop. Can you? And let me be very clear, like this is early for me because yesterday I was up till well after midnight throwing an edit together because it was just failing miserably for 3 hours. But it's 12:30. But I came on here because this is really in my heart. No notes, nothing. Just sitting here talking. Sometimes I have a piece of paper here with some notes just to keep me on track because otherwise I'll sit out here for six hours. But you need to be very clear. This fear, it's so debilitating because you give it the ability to debilitate you. But this fear of judgment doesn't come from a place of logic. It's impossible to explain. It comes from the most primal part of your brain. It's the lyic system, right? It's primal. It's tribal. You're afraid of exile from the tribe, of banishment, of being an outcast, an outsider. You're fighting how you are designed because being cast out used to mean certain death. One of my favorite movies is the original Judge Dread with Sylvester Stallone. And they they get sentenced to the long walk when they either stop becoming a judge or his bunny takes the long walk to keep him from prison. And it means certain death. They give you a gun and you bring justice to the cursed earth. And yet it was always a death sentence. If you haven't seen that, it's good. If you go, "It's a stupid movie." That's okay. I don't worry about your judgment. I still like the movie, but if it's in your DNA, being cast out, being an outlier and ostracized like that, which is why you guys get so upset when you get ostracized by people on social media if it means death, but it's somewhat death of social media. But here's the twist. You're already exiled. Listen to me. You're already exiled. You exiled yourself from the life that you want just to stay accepted by people who don't even respect themselves. You're still trying to earn the approval of your mom or your ex from 10 years ago. You're so desperate not to be called too aggressive, too intense, too ambitious. You curse too much or you're just too loud. You've watered yourself down into a domesticated version of who you were meant to be and who you want to be. Stop neutering yourself to fit in with cowards. Let me ask you this. If the men you were worried about judging you were actually kings, would they waste one second mocking somebody chasing greatness? Hell no. Not a chance. Only weak men judge ambitious ones. Only men who quit. They're the only ones pointing fingers at everybody that's climbing. They are the only ones. Men that quit are the only ones who point fingers at people who are growing and climbing and becoming more. Start making decisions that would make you proud. Don't worry about other people. Not the version of you from 10 years ago when you were still trying to fit in with your coach or trying to impress your dad or your mom. Not the version your ex wanted. None of that. And especially not the version that your beta friends are tolerating of you right now. Kick them to the curb. It's okay. Start at zero. It's your zero because you think you have credit when these soft people approve you, but they're cowards. They don't approve themselves. So, you don't have credit. You're in debt already hanging out with those people and they recruited you to join. Make decisions that would make you proud. Right? Make the decision that God put in you before the world and all those cowards got their claws on your spine. that man, make decisions for that man. That's what you need to do. Because listen, I'll never forget this guy. I had a buddy and I he wouldn't break up with his girlfriend. He wouldn't. And you know what he said? I'll never forget this. He goes, "Yeah, but her mom would be just pissed, man. Her mom would be it would probably hurt her mom more than her." And I'm like, "Really, dude?" I almost said his name. I try and protect some privacy for people. I'm 52. I still respect people's names. I don't blast people on social media or Instagram or this podcast, but I was like, really? Her mom? Her mom? That's who's running your life now? You're sacrificing your life, your future, your peace, sleepless nights, anxiety, oppression, aggravation, frustration, and misery. You're sacrificing your kingdom because Susan might cry over brunch because you broke up with her daughter. You need a helmet. That's what you need. You need a helmet, dude. Anytime you let other people's comfort dictate your decisions, you're saying their feelings matter more than your future. You wouldn't let a drunk drive your car. If you do, you're stupid, ignorant, careless, and irresponsible. You're saying that their feelings matter more than your future. You're going to let some emotionally unstable people steer your life. Wake up. Wake up. Listen, if somebody's disappointed in your decision to do what's right for you, they were never on your team to begin with. If someone's reaction is the reason you're not taking your action, that means they own you. You want to be unbreakable, then stop outsourcing your confidence to people that don't have any. You're never going to be elite if your sense of identity is built on the validation of men who aren't even in the arena. My buddy Garrett White, he's a good dude. Intense, god-fearing. He's a good man. And he has this man in the arena tour that he's doing. And I'm just impressed. But he's in the arena doing something and a 100 days before that he said this is exactly what's going to happen and he's doing it. I respect a man that does that. You think he gives a [\h__\h] about anybody's opinion? He doesn't. I get judgment and hate from plenty of you guys. You think I give a crap about your opinion that you're ever going to sway me? You're not. I'm in the arena. You're in the seats. I'm earning elite. I'm earning exceptional. And I'll never do that if I listen to the people and I seek out the validation from people who aren't even in the fight. You're not even in the war. Every great man has had to walk through a phase of their life being completely misunderstood. We're talking everything. Made fun of, humiliated, ostracized, hated, mocked, ridiculed, laughed at, labeled. So what? I don't know what episode I said it in, but it just kept me. You don't get greatness. You don't get exceptional and comfort in the same box. Just stop fearing what they're going to say. You know what people like, you're worried about? What's going to happen if I make that decision? I'm more concerned about what happens if I don't. That's how I make my decisions. You want to know my hack? I immediately think of what's going to happen if I don't do this. How terrible is it going to be? I'll zero out my bank account to make sure that I can advance further for myself to become a better version of myself because then my family benefits and my children benefit. My team, my tribe, all of my members, all of you that apply what I tell you benefit because regret is the loudest voice in the cemetery. Stop fearing what they're going to say. Please stop. Start fearing what happens if you don't move. Because one of the many truths that people think that they will never tell you is the ones who judge you today, they'll forget in a week. They don't even know you exist anymore. If someone trolls you endlessly, you live right in their brain. Why are you letting them live rentree in your life? The ones who judge you and troll you today, they're going to forget all about you in 7 10 days. They're too busy scrolling Instagram and Tik Tok and fighting their own demons. You're going to carry the cost of your hesitation for your lifetime. Listen, my buddy Pedro, another great man. I've had the opportunity to become friends with some incredible people and he is another one. I sent him a text. He sends a gratitude text every morning to somebody and three people I think he sends it to. Actually, when he told me that I went, "Wow, that is a great idea." So, I started doing it. Let people know that they're great. Don't send people messages about why they're not because that's based on you, not them. Lift people up. But he says something, flip the script. It's such a great phrase because it's the truth. Because most of your scripts are running a negative dialogue. So here's how you flip it. Flip the switch. Flip the script. Whatever you want to call it. You have to identify the decision that you've been avoiding. Singularity of focus is absolute power. Identify the one decision that you've been avoiding. Not the 12 of them. The biggest one, the biggest, ugliest, most uncomfortable. Don't start at the bottom and work your way up. Look at the top and go that ugly decision. I need to make that one. Ask yourself whose opinion is stopping you. Say their name. Don't Don't sit there and keep calling it they. Who. Say their name. And then ask yourself if they were removed, use their name from that equation, the life equation. Would you move? And if the answer is yes, move. Move now. Right now. Because your fear isn't about logic. It's about emotional permission. And people talk about visualization. Visualize the regret. Visualize all that regret. Play the tape forward. Imagine 5 10 years from now and nothing has changed. Anthony Robbins calls it the rocking chair test. He's 65 years old on his porch on his rocking chair thinking about the decision that he has to make right now and what he would be thinking in that moment 30 40 years down the road sitting in his rocking chair on his front porch. Would he regret not making that decision? If the answer is yes, he makes that decision. Your fear isn't about logic, you guys. It's you guys want emotional permission. So visualize that regret. Move forward. Go 10 years, 20 years. Think of the cost of that. Imagine the regret of your decision. If some of you guys at 2009, somebody says there's this crazy thing called Bitcoin. You're like, "Dude, I don't believe in any of that. That is some goofy stuff. I'm not even going to give you a dollar." Yet, a dollar worth of Bitcoin in 2009 is worth over hund00 million today. I know people that have regret because of those things and yet they won't buy it at 10 grand and now it is 110 grand. You guys have to think of the regret. Play the tape forward. Could it always get worse? Absolutely. So make it better right now. Imagine you're 10 years down the road and nothing's changed. You're still stuck. You're still validating. You're still trying to make the same decision. You're still planning and going through the blueprint and jumping from coaching program and video and book to book. You're still stuck. You're still explaining it away and procrastinating. You're still waiting. Are you proud of that? Visualize that move, that conversation, that leap, that jump, that investment, that zeroing it out. The moment that you cut the rope and you went, "Fuck this. I'm jumping." You feel that your belly, that fire, cuz I had to do this. That's why I'm saying this is pure experience. That's not fear you feel in your belly. That's your engine waking up. That's the motor starting that you've been sitting there trying to crank over and you finally went, "Fuck, I'm turning this on and I'm going to stomp on the skinny pedal. I'm going to hold it to the floor till it blows. If you made this one decision today, what would your future like? What future would become possible that right now doesn't even exist? Why? Why aren't you building it? There's something that very few people understand. There is a tax. Every day that you delay, this is the problem because you keep delaying. Every day you're making a decision or you're not making the decision is a day that your life stays stuck. You have the most amount of time today. You will never have more time than you have right now. If you have a decision to make and you're like, "Shit, I got to go do this right now." Turn this off. Go make the decision because even the end of the day is less time than you had. And if you go, "It's not that big of a deal." Tell that to somebody that only has 24 hours to live. They will do everything and anything they can to extend it. Do the most with that 10 hours. What are you doing? So every day that you delay, your life stays frozen. It's worse than that because it's not just that you don't move forward. Your energy decays and there's something called the anxiety cost. It's like opportunity cost, but it's for your soul. Let me explain. You have a decision to make. Maybe it's breaking up with somebody, quitting your job, ending a toxic relationship, cutting off a friend that has just been leading you down a bad path. Remember, bad friends will cheer all the way down that road to hell. Keep that in mind. Maybe it's the decision to watch that business that you've just been kicking down the road fixing your marriage or getting your body back. Maybe you're looking at your body and stop going, I'm going to validate this frumpy dad bod, this fat mommy body. Whatever it is, but instead of making the decision, you think about it. Worst phrase ever. I need to think about it. That's a lie. I need to cower and be afraid about it. So, when you say, "I need to think about it," you loop that in your head. You rehearse the conversations. You consider all the angles. You over analyze. You overthink. And you postpone. And every single one of those loops burns your mental fuel. And every time you think, "I should probably do XYZ." And you don't. You just paid a tax. And the tax isn't a dollar. It's your life. It's your energy. It's your soul. It's your clarity. It's your ability to take action somewhere else that's predicated on that decision. Now, multiply that across 10, 20, 30, 50, 100 decisions. No wonder why you are mentally exhausted by noon. Your brain isn't overwhelmed. It's constipated, right? And it's the laxative execution. How's that for a visual? The reason that the most successful men on social media, I don't understand. They're just they seem faster because you've seen them. They're just moving. You next thing you know, they have the car, they have the house, they built the business, they have this empire, and they started what seems like last year with nothing. and now they own a billion-dollar company or they lost all the weight. It is the reason you see that and it seems faster, lighter, and more free is because they make decisions faster. A delay in decision and the wrong decision is just as dangerous. Because if you go, then I'm making the decision to not do it. That's just as bad as an indecision. That's just as bad as delay. Because now you're going to go to work with your broken logic based on your little beta friends that what you did was the right thing. Even though inside your soul it's killing you. You wait 6 months to make a move. Listen, the people that win, the people that have everything you want, they made that decision in 2 minutes. And because they've already made the decision, they've now stacked 20 more on top of it. That's what I'm saying. The longer you take to make one decision, the longer you're pushing every other decision back. That's what separates winners from everybody else. While you're thinking, we're building. You're hesitating. You're hoping. We're executing and hiring and scaling and adjusting and growing and losing the weight, fixing the marriage and buying and building and repeating it all over again, getting faster and faster. It becomes this perpetual motion machine of success and escalation and evolution in our life. These people don't get special results because they're smarter. They get the results because they're untethered from indecision. There's no anchor. Here's how it shows up practically. Listen, you keep saying, "I need to email that guy." But you've said that for a month. You keep saying, "I'm going to fire that toxic employee." But you don't because you don't want to be left with the responsibility of doing the work yourself. It's easier to have them even though you hate it. They're costing you everything. You say, "I'm going to talk to my wife about XYZ." But then you wait another month. you haven't had sex and you're not close and you guys sleep in separate rooms and you just ghost each other and you are a thousand miles apart in the same house. Every repetition of that is another slice of your soul that's being siphoned out of you. You are hemorrhaging energy and the dam finally breaks. And when it breaks, you don't have the strength to act anymore. But you don't have the strength to act anymore because you burn the fuel thinking about the fire. Instead of just putting it out or controlling it, you have to control it and use it as fuel to do something with. Listen to me. Speed wins. It is not simple speed wins. I think a lot of you guys confuse speed with recklessness. No, I'm not talking about recklessness. I'm talking about calculated, deliberate, immediate decision making. You don't get to complain about where you are if you won't move when the opportunity arises. You get an opportunity and then you say, "I need to think about it. You just screwed up." You don't get to be mentally tough if you're scared of the hard conversations and the brand new actions that take you into a new realm. You don't get to talk about your growth. If you're still flirting with the old life that you keep talking about wanting to leave, but you keep looking back, they're going, "I'll do it when one more thing, another year." I know what another year does. It costs you that year that you could have grown. You want to know what mental toughness is? A lot of people go, "Dude, your mind is made out of titanium." I'll tell you why. It's making the hard decisions faster than your fear can talk you out of it. That's all it is. Mental toughness has nothing to do with anything that you think. It is making the decisions so fast that your fear can't talk you out of it at all. Do you ever wonder why certain men look like they're aging in reverse? Right? Like they're stacking men's in business and their life. They're building empires. They're married the most incredible woman. They built this family and their life is just expanding and growing while you're trying to figure out your morning routine for 3 hours. It's because they don't negotiate with hesitation. They don't. You do. You're still stuck in committee meetings with yourself. I've done more by 8 in the morning than most of you have done in a month. You say that's because you have more to do and you have more opportunity. No, I create the opportunity by making my decisions faster. I open up gaps in my schedule by executing as fast as possible than stacking more decisions. Momentum isn't magic. It is a muscle that you build with reps. You don't wait to feel ready. You make the call and then you adapt. You throw it in the air and fix it on the way down. This guy, I met him a long time ago. Los Hustle is his name on social media. Sharp dude. And I'll never forget when he said that. He goes, "Yep, we throw things up in the air and fix it on the way down." That stuck with me because I do that now every day. Order comes from a decisive will, not from hesitation or thinking about it. There is no path forward until the will to act becomes stronger than the fear of judgment. Listen, every man listening to this needs to tattoo that on their forehead. If I delay, I die. I decay. I rot. If I make the decision, I accelerate. The faster I make decisions, the faster I accelerate. The goal is to hit light speed and never stop. One of my favorite quotes is most men don't lack ambition. They lack the courage to move without consensus. That's the prison. You're waiting for enough reassurance, encouragement, approval, acceptance, or hiding in the shadows where people don't even see your decision. That's common now, too. You're waiting for the sign, but you're using that waiting as your identity. That's who you are. You're slow. It's not that you can't succeed. It's that you don't believe you can survive the cost of making the mistake. But when does that change? Because the more you hesitate, the more you fail. You think that by not doing anything, you're safe. That's actually costing you more. I'll give you a tactical fix every morning. List the top three things that you've been avoiding. I actually had to do this. Make it five. What are the top five things you've been avoiding? Go over to your phone. Turn on your timer. Set it for 15 minutes. You really want to mess with it, set it for five. Execute on one of those before the timer stops. No matter what it is, whatever your execution is, you commit to train your nervous system to work faster and respect action more than comfort. Your entire CNS is built around comfort and safety. And all of that is an illusion. Repeat what I just told you every day for a 100 days. I promise you if you do that and execute on one of those hard decisions, make it a five minute timer and you do that every day, you're going to have more money. You're going to have less overwhelm, less frustration, you have no depression, no anxiety. You're going to be so focused, so clear. You will be mentally in unstoppable, and you'll be about 20 years ahead of who you used to be 100 days prior to that. or keep repeating the same thing looking at a book written by somebody that's going to help you time manage. There's no such thing. It's time leverage and this is leveraging your time. You don't need more ideas. You don't need another app. You don't need more organization. You need a set of balls. You need to throw some torque into your engine and hit the gas. And if this offends you, that's fine. I don't care because then I would be a victim as well. I'd be waiting for your approval. I don't care. The truth is supposed to offend the part of you that's keeping you small. How about you just decide, make a decision, take some action, and if you need to reccalibrate. None of this is complicated. You guys are afraid of the recalibration. And so you don't even bother to try because every day you fail to execute is another day closer to your death. And you think that's okay. Listen, if you guys in your plan B, it's the same thing. If you guys are still clinging to plan B, I have a fallback plan. If you got no commitment, you're negotiating. I just I got to have this other thing planned out too just to make sure there's everything all my tees are crossed and my eyes are dotted. I didn't even write anything down. I just made the decision half the things I do I could fit on a napkin. And you wonder why your results are slow. It's because your indecision is is friction. It's got so much drag and it's so heavy that it doesn't matter how strong you are. You're carrying 100 anvils behind you out of Looney Tunes and you're dragging them across the pavement. You just can't move. How about this? The highest performers on the planet don't decide, they eliminate. They do less. They make decisions in the right direction, but they eliminate things. They eliminate all the options. That's the biggest thing I've said and it's saved me so much time and it's made me so much success. No options. Take them all. Remember what I said? You have a road, your kingdom, that ultimate goal you were building is at the end. And the options that you see are the exits on this road. And all of those exits are from other people. They're not from you. Because when you eliminate all the options, they can't even put an exit on your road. It doesn't exist. The most successful people eliminate excuses and distractions and burn the boats and throw the matches in the ocean. It's not motivational fluff. This is operational. Commitment is not optional. It's mandatory. That's how you do it. You want to go faster, take away the option, make it mandatory. Get clear. When you're unclear, that's when you hesitate. And every single hesitation you have is what kills your speed and you move slowly, you lose momentum. This is biochemical. This is how your system, your physiology is designed. Every time you hesitate, your nervous system associates change with danger and you're reinforcing that. So now what happens? You freeze and then you circle back to where you were and you talk yourself out of what you know you need to do. You call it being responsible or cautious when it's really just fear dressed up. The number of times people try to achieve their goal is less than one because of that very thing. Execution looks a lot different. You identify your target. You kill every alternative and you act before the voice of fear has time to even throw a develop. That's what you need to do. You don't need more thinking. You need no escape routes. None. Take them all away. Most people want to win. They do. But they don't want to close the door behind them. So it's like that cave analogy I gave probably 2, three weeks ago. They want to keep that door open behind them. So they keep it open just enough to turn around and go back in when things become uncomfortable or scary. That's why they never grow. They never level up because the pain exposes the fake commitments. And so they go back and the moment that it hurts, they slide back into the room, the life, the cave that they were in, back to average and mediocre Netflix and comfort food and rationalizations and drugs and porn and alcohol. And they all sound like the timing isn't right. I have one more thing to take care of. One more step, bro. Or I'm waiting for a sign. You're not waiting. You're hiding. You're a coward. Let me make this simple. The most powerful thing, the most incredible shift you can make in your life is to stop using comfort as your compass. Use commitment first, then build the scaffolding to sustain it. Just commit and then start building underneath it. You guys do it backwards. Burn the bridge to your old identity. Throw out all the junk food. Cancel all the alcohol. Dump it all down the drain. Don't give it to a friend. Oh, that's a lot of money. Get rid of everything that comes in a package picture in all its glory in a pair of underwear where you look like crap and then hire the coach. Sign the contract with them and every single thing they tell you to do, no matter how uncomfortable it is, you replicate. The only time I'll put a caveat in there is if you hire a coach that doesn't look fit. Stop hiring fat trainers. They don't know what they're talking about because they can't even imagine their life. It's just like hiring somebody who doesn't have any financial background. They have no money. They've never made more than $19,000 a year, but they're trying to manage your finances. Get the hell away from me. You want to fix your marriage? Talk to your spouse. Give them every single weapon in the arsenal to absolutely obliterate you, your life, and everything you ever will become. If you've done stupid things, change your phone number. Get rid of the friends who keep you anchored to that old story and commit to becoming someone worth being married to. This stuff isn't hard. It's the commitment. You want to build a business, then burn the clock. Stop sitting there thinking that you deserve balance or a break. You guys going, I want to have weekends off and you should have balance. Come on, man. You're disrespecting God and all the nonsense that you try and feed yourself. You're treating the business that you're trying to grow. All of you guys going, I could do this at 3 hours a day. You can imagine if you could do this at 3 hours a day, what could you create? You guys are looking at the least amount of work to get the most amount of benefit instead of going, "What can I do with all the time I have and create the biggest monster I want to wrangle and throw a chain around in a saddle and ride for the rest of this life." Fire that side hustle mindset. Cancel all your safety nets and go to war with a part of you that wants to play like a tiny impotent little dick. Acceleration doesn't come from energy. It comes from eliminating options. Every great leader that you look at, it doesn't matter if they are on social media or a genuine leader out in the world, they move fast because they refuse to entertain 20 different options. They already decided what they're doing. Now they're doing it at full speed. That's power. That's what discipline does. That's what separates killers from quitters. The average man makes decisions based on how they feel. The elite, the unbreakable man makes decisions on what he's becoming. your move. You want your life to change, then lock the door behind you. Get rid of the exit. Get rid of the options. Speak the hard words. Make the big ask. Quit the thing that you know is killing you. Say goodbye to everything that you've been avoiding. Peace out. And then tell the truth. All of it. Your next level isn't waiting for the perfect plan. It's waiting just for a move. Accelerate. Hit the gas. You're unwilling to make a decision that ends the delay. That's what this all boils down to. I probably could have just said that at the beginning and I just gotten off this podcast, but sometimes I just think you guys need a little more substance. I'm talking about these nuclear cyclron bomb like atomic decisions, the kind that they slam the door shut and obliterate the building behind you filled with all the alternatives and the options and kill who you used to be. That's what you need to do. The real reason you're exhausted isn't your job. It's not your job. It's not your schedule. It's not all your responsibilities. It's not your kids, your sleep schedule, the fact that you're trying to quit coffee, that you haven't had a vacation in 6 years. It's the open loops that you're running in your brain non-stop taking up bandwidth and not allowing you to do the things. Every time that you delay a decision, you pay a psychological tax. It drains your attention. It sucks your time. It robs your energy. You're getting taxed for a life that you haven't even made. You haven't even committed to it yet. It's unrealized gains. That's basically what this is, right? Most of your decisions are stuck because of fear. Every single time it comes back to the same thing, fear. False evidence appearing real. No matter how much of a goofy acronym it is, it's a fact. Fear at its root. At its absolute root is death. It's not just literal death. It's social death, reputation death, financial death, marital death, physical death, identity death. And just so you stall, you spin and you justify and you come up with weird convoluted logic. The whole time your life is hemorrhaging out in the background. You're bleeding out and you won't even let somebody rescue you because you keep hiding that you're bleeding. Let me tell you the truth about people running high performance. It's frustrating because they don't talk about this on social media at all. The best in the world, they're not fearless. They're not. In fact, they're plenty afraid. They're just more afraid of something different than you. They're more afraid of wasting potential than looking stupid. They don't care about looking stupid. They're more afraid of dying with with all of their unsung music and unwritten books in them. They've anchored their fear. Tony Robbins, right? He you create these anchors and they've anchored their fear to the right thing. I don't look at what's going to happen if I do this. I look at what's going to happen if I don't. You're still worried about what Tom or Karen or your ex or your mom or your dad or your internet followers are going to think. You've taken your control and handed it over to people that aren't even in the arena. They're not even in the same town and you're calling it wisdom. If your next move can be derailed by one person's opinion, you aren't in charge. And if that person is someone that you resent, you've handed over your entire destiny to somebody that you hate. Nice work, man. This is war. I've said this over and over. This is war. It's the internal war of reclaiming decision-making power from you handing over a locust of control to the external world. Name your fears. Put faces on your fears and then ask yourself one savage question. So, my internet crapped out. So, I had to come back and button this up. So, hopefully the rest of this episode is there cuz I really don't want to film this whole thing again because I'll have to come up with everything I was talking about because this was just me sitting down here in a chair. But I was talking about war, right? This is what I was going to say. This is and now I got and now I remember it was a savage question. You got to ask yourself this deep savage like this is a very personal question. Do I really want to live a life this small because I am scared of them? And put the name and the face on them. Don't just say them. Who is it? Because of Tom, because of Karen, because of some jackass on the internet. Because what most people call discipline is just the resolution of their fear. They're okay being afraid and still making the decision. That's the best way to look at it. I'm comfortable being afraid. I'm still going to do it. They stopped letting their insecurities run the show and they got tired of the cost of their delay. They did the one thing that weak men never do, which is they decided. You're not confused. You're just afraid. You know exactly what to do. I said this yesterday. You do. You just haven't chosen who you're going to be. So who Right. So, choose. Listen, I I remain pretty calm on this episode. Historically, I've been pretty animated, but you you need to cut the cord, man. Burn the backup plan. All the noise in the background, just kill it. Get into a quiet room and just eliminate every option and ask yourself, set a timer on your phone. Put your ugliest, most uncomfortable decisions on a list. Look at the one that's the hardest. Make that execute on that decision within 5 minutes. Do that again tomorrow. Do that for 100 days. It'll change your life. Just make the damn decision now. That's all you got to do. Because your future isn't waiting. It's not. And people go, "Your future's waiting." No, it's not. It's dying. Your future is dying and your opportunity to create it is becoming shorter every time you delay the decision and you procrastinate. Procrastination is the most embarrassing, disgusting thing you can ever do or allow somebody to do to you. So make the decision. Choose. All right, I got to go. Never miss.