Listen for God, for Brandy, it's feather from an angel wing. And that that's our Lord. Has nothing to do with this vlog or podcast, whatever you're listening to it on. I'm going to move my chair. I got a message from somebody. It came last night and I read it this morning, a DM that said, "Bro, I don't always put a lot of faith into a message that begins that way, but I listened." And the short, I guess the cliffnotes version of the message was, "I've tried everything. Nothing's working. I've tried everything. I've tried it all, man." Yeah. No, you haven't. And I hear that all the time. No, you tried what you wanted to try. You're not doing what you know you should be doing or you're not doing all the difficult things that are in front of the outcome that you want. And it comes down to I think a deeper question because I thought about that and a lot of people say it. A lot of you guys go, "Dude, I tried everything." You can't. You cannot have possibly tried everything. Do you know why? Because if you came to me and you said that, I would think of at least 50 things that you haven't tried. And my response was, "No, you haven't." By the way, to the message from this guy said, "No, you haven't tried everything." "Yes, I have. You don't understand what I've been through and how long I've been working at this." And I said, "Then you've been doing a lot of the wrong things or not paying attention to the outcomes you're getting so you make the right decisions afterwards. You're not treating everything like a lesson. You're treat every treating everything as just an obstacle in front of you. And where's the next one?" And you're not paying attention to the results you're getting. And pardon me, my nose is stuffed up. It's allergies here in Texas for me. But I said, "You haven't tried everything." You haven't. Yes, I have. You don't understand. You're not me. I go, "No, because if I was you, I would keep going. I would keep looking for solution after solution." I said it yesterday. I said, "You're always solving for X, right? X is the variable that you want, the outcome that you want, the vision, the dream, the it can be short-term. Like if my X was to get this water. Now I solve for X. What did I have to do? I had to reach over and get the Hydro Flask, right? Or whatever the hell this thing is called. And then I open it up. I drink water. I solve for X. A lot of you guys aren't looking at life like that. And you're just bouncing through life, not looking at action solution, task solution, right? And so you just go, "Well, I can't get the water. What if I can't reach that water? or if the water's sitting over there on my coffee table or it's sitting over beside the couch or it's sitting in one of those two big ass chairs over there and I go, I can't get to the water. I tried everything. I tried to reach. I tried calling to the water. I tried yelling at the water. I tried ignoring the water. I tried giving it the silent treatment. I tried shunning the water. I tried willing, manifesting the water to come to my hand. All of those things to somebody listening right now sound ridiculous. Why? Because they are. That's how a lot of you guys function. You go, I tried everything. No, you tried all of the easy things. Go to the hard things. In fact, if you start with the hard things, two things happen. Number one, the devil can't win. If you start with the hard things, it requires a discipline to do the hard things. The devil can't win because the devil is in the easy, the vices, the distractions. I said it yesterday in a post. But number two is you'll get there faster if you do the hard things. Just start with that. You guys start with easy. You dip your toe in the water and wonder why you never get there. And then you start telling everybody I tried everything. And you keep saying that to people until somebody goes, "I totally feel you, bro. I've been that. I tried everything, too. Let's just sit here and tell everybody how we tried everything and complain about our circumstances and whine about where we are and then seek validation and approval from people that don't even validate or approve themselves. Let's do that." That's what a lot of you guys are doing. And I think the deeper question is, do you feel in control of your life or do you feel controlled? And I I think a lot of people double down on escape and distraction because all that noise gives the illusion of control, right? You just you double and triple down on all of the distractions, all of the escape, all of the things, all of the noise that you can look at that takes your it's go back to the water. It takes my mind off of the water and the fact that I'm thirsty that I still need water to survive, but I'm looking over here because that's where all my distractions are. But at the end of the day, I'm in the same place. People do that with money. They do that with their marriage. They do that with their health, their fitness, their mindset. They do that with their business. They do that with their home, their car. What do you do when your brakes squeak? And don't be a like if you're going to be that ass. So, I don't know, bro. I just take it to the mechanic or I lease my car. Whatever stupid answer you have, what do you do when there's something making noise that needs help? You just turn up the radio, turn up the volume, put your AirPods in, and crank up something on Spotify. Brakes are still screwed. Like, God, I pray I pray some of you guys just never reproduce. Because those are the same people that would go, "Well, I hear my baby crying." And I'm not going to listen to it. I'm not just going to peek in and see what's wrong. If it's nap time, if they had an accident, they need their diaper changed, they're trapped somewhere or something, their arm is caught, or you don't know. Maybe they're just scared. But that's what you guys do. I tried everything. Baby won't stop crying. I tried everything. I can't get to the water. I could do this all day. I've tried everything. No, you haven't. It actually, the more I think about it, the more it pisses me off. You're looking at what you've done poorly. That's what you're doing. You're looking at what you've done poorly, which hasn't worked. Of course, it hasn't worked. You did it poorly. What did you expect? at I did this. I tried it. First of all, you did it poorly. It didn't work cuz you did it poorly. What did you expect? It's like the people that go, I'm struggling to lose weight. You're not struggling to lose weight. You're struggling with a commitment to what's required to lose the weight. I'm struggling to fix my marriage. No, you're not. You're struggling to adhere to the commitment required to make your marriage better. I can't get my business working. I got no clients. I have no leads. I can't make any money. No, you're not. You're not struggling with your business. You're struggling with committing to all of the things required to make the money in your business. Because any one of you guys could send me a business that you have where you're struggling and I can either find an example of or I can do it myself and make a bunch of money or show you somebody that's making a bunch of money in the exact same business as you. If you do it poorly, don't expect the results, but don't walk around saying you tried everything. What did you expect? I think a lot of you guys, people in general, right, do things to check the boxes versus getting the actual results, right? We confuse movement for achievement. We confuse movement for results. Go to the gym, check. Right? Send the email, check. Post on social media, check. Eat an apple, check. Have sex with my spouse, check. But you just know you're checking boxes because you don't have any of the results you wanted. Listen, you could use this for anything. Did you want the apple? Is that what you were looking for to eat? Or did you just grab it because it was convenient and you just did it because you wanted to check a box? Did you go to the gym and wander around bumping into machines telling everybody how hard you work out? Or did you actually work out for an hour straight? I told you before, take take your gym time, however long you're there, and add up how much time you're actually moving versus sitting on a bench. You're going to be very unpleasantly surprised. You know, when you go have sex with your spouse, is it going through the motions? Okay, get on top of me. Do your thing. Get off. Not leave me the [\h__\h] alone. Is that what it is? Or do you guys just demolish the bed and it's wet and loud and messy and amazing? You checking a box? Are you actually enjoying it with each other? You guys, a lot of you guys just you just you know you're checking boxes because you don't have the results you wanted. That's how you can tell if you don't if you're going, I don't know. I don't think that's what I'm doing. I tried everything. No, you didn't. And wanted. If you keep trying something every day, eventually you're going to hit it. You're going to reach that outcome. You just keep doing the same thing harder and wondering why you're not getting it. So, here's what you do, too. Instead of going back and doing it properly, you move on to the next box to check. And soon, what you're left with is you've started this pile of things behind you. This trail of bones and carcasses of things that you've convinced yourself that you've done, and then you're mad that you still don't have the results. So, you blame the thing that you did poorly for the outcome that you're not getting and tell yourself and anybody listening how bad the thing is. That's like saying the gym doesn't work for me. So, you blame the gym or you blame the trainer. But neither one of those are accurate. You just didn't do them. You didn't do them to the best of your ability. And if we're in a weird world right now, some of you guys go, "What if that is the best of their ability?" It's not. And you know that because if your life was on the line, you would do more. It's because people are paid now for attempts, not for done. Not in my world. You don't get any credit for trying. Oh, that's not fair, Spartan. They tried. They did their best. Did they get the results? No. You're out. I'll pay you when you're done. Oh, I'd hate to work for that guy. Don't. I wouldn't hire you. If you are, that's what you guys go to your job and go, I've been here for 10 years. I haven't gotten a raise. But if you're doing the same thing for the last 10 years and you haven't improved how you do it, why would I give you a raise? You haven't done anything new. You have to match inflation. Screw you. You have to do better at your job and become more efficient. Earn your place. Anyone that's an entrepreneur knows damn what I'm talking about. But that's what happens is you end up blaming the thing you did poorly for the outcome that you're not getting. And then you tell everybody, including the person in the mirror that it's the thing's fault, how bad that thing is. Except the thing, just to be clear, is you. The thing is you. Every miss takes you away. It not even you. It takes away your control, right? It takes away your control of the situation and replaces it with validation. I've tried everything. This doesn't work. It's their fault. That's the most popular one right now. It's their fault. You go on social media, it's their fault. The quality of life is built on a foundation of control. The more control, the more confidence. The more belief which comes from confidence, the better the results. What we do is offload control to external sources. It's them, it's that, it's this, it's my phone, it's the people, it's my followers, it's my gym, it's my weights. It's like when I hear people that go, "Crossfit got me injured." No, it didn't. A guy with a level one got you injured because he's an idiot as a coach. Nobody taking a weekend class, I'm sorry if it offends you. I'm still right. Knows anything about being a real trainer and understanding the fundamentals of training a human being. That's like reading a muscle and fitness magazine and going, "Now I know everything about bodybuilding." No, you don't. Not even close. And you guys get pissed off about I took my level one. So what? First of all, when I took a level one with Brandy, I was blown away at how many people failed because the next day I looked at all these chairs come out, these folding chairs. We were at Ben Alderman's place and all these folding chairs came out and I said, "What are those for?" Oh, those are for the retests for the people that didn't pass the first time. What? I don't care. If you can't pass your level one CrossFit first time, you're stupid. You shouldn't be a trainer. I don't care if that makes you mad. That's ridiculous. You shouldn't get any subsequent attempts. You didn't pass. You're out. You didn't put the time in. You don't deserve it. People get mad. I'm sure somebody's going to get in the comments. It doesn't matter. You didn't do what was required. So, if you go that CrossFit didn't work for me, CrossFit injured my shoulders. The number of people that I used to have coming into my clinic going, "I used to do CrossFit, but it got me injured." Crossfit didn't get you injured. Your crappy training, your shitty coach, or your ego got you injured, but CrossFit didn't get you injured. But we offload control to external sources. and you relinquish your control to anything other than the face in the mirror or you use an external locus of control which I've said before. You hand it over to your environment except your environment is created by you. Listen, the reason we hand over control is because it's perceived as easier in the moment. I'm just going to hand it off to something else. It's easier. What's easier though? Really think about what's easier being broke or being rich? Being broke is very difficult. Being rich is easier. You have freedom. You have safety. You have protection. You have options. Being broke, you have no options. You can't put your kids in the right school or put them in private school or get a tutor. You can't go first class. You have to fly at the back of the plane near the bathroom, smell that weird blue water they got in there. You can't move out of the neighborhood that's now dangerous for you and your family. You can't drive a reliable car. You can't get the right healthcare. I could do this all day and you guys get angry with it, but there's no reason to be angry. You should actually look at yourself and go, I need to take control of my life. Because I had somebody join my mastermind. It was one of the coolest things I'd ever seen. He joined my mastermind. He sent me a message said, "I'm in. I'm all in. I need to change my life. I'm in." And it was one of the coolest messages because I actually I didn't see it come across and my CFO didn't see it come across the transaction report. And I said, "Did you join?" He goes, "Yeah, you bet. I did it last night because you said in your vlog, make a way. If you don't have a way, find one. Make it. And he goes, "I did." I have another guy, this guy Corey, he sent me a message last night. He goes, "Hey, listen. I know I've been trying to get the money together." He goes, "I finally scraped up enough to join your mastermind." And he comes to my webinar every time. And I keep telling him, "Keep showing up, man. I got you. When you get into that position to join the mastermind," and he did yesterday. He's I did. I scraped it together. I'm in. and then he's just having some issues with his credit card. But I have so much respect for that guy cuz he did whatever the [\h__\h] it takes. He didn't blame anything outside of him. Those are the people that always win. Eventually, you will win if that's how you think. It is impossible to lose. You cannot beat somebody like that because they're willing to do whatever it takes for as long as it takes to get the results that they want. But a lot of you guys, you hand over control to something outside of you because it's it feels easier in the moment. But is it easier to be broke or rich? And if you go, not everybody wants to be rich. Rich is yes, everybody wants to be rich because they want the freedom associated with it. So save your explanations. I can't even go down that road. What's easier? Being fat and tired and stuck on a bunch of meds or being strong and fit? Because the argument is going to come from the people that go, "You don't understand all the work required to be strong and fit. Are you kidding? Look at me. I put in work all the time. And if you watch me train, you know, damn, I'm as gritty as it gets. I don't stop and I never miss because I'm an example for people. I don't do it because I want to brag. I don't do it because I'm like, "Look at me. Look at all the things I can do." I don't give a [\h__\h] what your opinion is. But I do care that I'm an example. I set the standard that I am the standard that everybody tries to reach or reaches because I demand that of myself because God demands that of me. So for you to sit there and go, "It's not my fault. at somebody else's. It just pisses me off, man. So, what's easier? Being broke or being rich? Being broke is devastating, just to be clear. Absolutely devastating because you can't do anything and you're [\h__\h] Being fat, tired, and stuck on a bunch of meds, which you don't need. I'm a doctor, a real doctor. You don't need most of the meds you're on. You should just be strong and fit. Yes, it takes work to get there. Is it easier in the beginning? I don't know. I still think so. What's easier? being in a terrible relationship where you guys ignore each other. You're in the same room but you're 100 miles apart or are you in this loving passionate relationship? Which one's easier? I promise you I'm in a loving passionate relationship with my wife Brandy and it is amazing. Way easier than being at each other's throats or arguing or never talking to each other or having these like just nothing but conflict. We've had that as well. Most people have. This is way easier because we love the hell out of each other. We went all in on each other. Not 80%, not 90, 100. Everything that's better in your mind, I'll make it easy. Everything that's better in your mind comes from control. Everything that you don't want is a product of a lack of control by you. If we believe, follow me. If we believe that our environment controls us, it takes away the heavy lifting, right? Because then you're like, "It's not my fault, it's their fault." We can just point and go, "It's because of that." But if that's how you think, then that's how you're going to conduct yourself, which means you're going to look for things to support blame and justify why it really isn't your fault. Totally incorrect. It's always your fault cuz then you can change it. Stop sitting there arguing about that. Why would you want to turn the control over to anything else? Then you are controlled. Oh, I'm about to blow your mind on this vlog. How about this? If you trust someone and they lie to you, this is a litmus test. Whose fault is it? Yours. Oh, I'm going to get all kinds of hate. Get in the comments. Just get all pissed off. Argue with me. I don't care. This is my show, not yours. And I'm still right. You just don't like it. If you trust someone and they lie to you, this is, like I said, this is the litmus test. Whose fault is it? It's yours. Oh, you're wondering why? Because number one, you listened. Still yours. It doesn't matter if you were they were very convincing. Still your fault. They conned me. I had almost $2 million taken from my wife and I by a shitty builder. You could even look the guy up. Lucian Tujac Jr. T U J A G U Jr. Bad man. He ripped off so many people and that's not what this is vlog about, but he's a bad dude. And the truth started to come out and he tried to bury you non-stop freaking out. But here's what I want you to know about people. By the way, the only people that threaten you are the people that are threatened by you. Stand on the gas when people are like that with you. But it's my fault for giving him the money, for subscribing to his ideas, for going through all of the things, not doing enough due diligence, not talking. We had neighbors come up to us the day the house was finished and go, "You should never have had that guy do that. He's an evil man. He's a bad guy. And then they went through this laundry list of [\h__\h] that he did sideways and crooked. Foundation cracked. This is a multi-million dollar home. Foundation cracked. Sewage leaking under the hardwood, the white oak hardwood floors. You know, the walls filling with cracks. This is the house where the rattlesnakes fell on my son in his bunk bed cuz it got in the house. Like it just one thing after the other. Black mold everywhere. Wonder why I had lung problems. My fault. He lied from start to finish. Like pathological liar. That's never going to change. I'm not trying to change him, but my fault for believing it. See, the weakest people, and this is where people get really mad because they go, "But you're taking away my blame. You're taking away something that I can point at to and you're putting the onus back on me." Yes. Cuz then you can do something about it because the worst thing you can do is carry a cross with you wherever you go. That is a grudge against somebody else constantly blaming them. You have got to cut them the hell loose and want everybody to win and then you start winning. Don't even worry about people like that anymore. You think I care any about my haters? No. The only thing that I and I love haters. If you're a hater, oh god, you guys make me laugh cuz I live in your head rentree all day, baby. I don't even know your name. But not even that. And you talk about me for free. You guys make me money. because you lead me to people that need my message and need my help and then they just sign up and I help them. But it's funny for me because every time I think I'm about to quit, couple of things go through my head. But one is I'm never going to let my haters be right ever. I don't care how much I have to suffer. You're never going to be right. But the weakest people are going to be the cynics and the skeptics and they're going to tell you that it's everybody else's fault. and to trust nobody. These are the people. These are the blamers, right? And they do that by lying to themselves, saying, "This is my favorite. I've heard people say this in my group. I had somebody say this. They're not with me anymore because I'm like, "No, this way I'm not disappointed. I'm not I'm just going to expect the bad things to happen. That way I'm never disappointed." Except living in cynicism, just to be very transparent, is disappointing 24/7. If you are worried and you're not doing things because you think you're going to be disappointed, so you just don't bother doing them, you are the disappointment. The skeptic, you guys have to get this because you're handing over control to things in your life that you can change. The skeptic, the skeptic and cynic talks about how much control they have. Oh, they'll talk about, oh, that's what that way I'm in control. That way I'm never disappointed. So they talk about how much control they have. Except how much control can you have thinking everybody out there is going to burn you sooner or later? That none of your goals are going to work out? None. None. You're under the control of your environment. Delusional that it's safe and controlled and you live in avoidance versus abundance. I told you I have a guy in my group right now. He said risk avoidance is the biggest thing that screwed him. He wishes he would have taken every risk and failed a ton more financially, physically, everything. He goes, "It's the biggest thing that screwed him and he's never going to do it again. He loves being in our group. His name's Ryan." If you lie to me, for me, I will say this. If you lie to me, if you give me an excuse, if you blame, if you come up with validation, I'll listen once and then I'll watch it. If you lie to me repeatedly, it's not an accident. It's a happen habit and it's a decision and it's a pattern. You give me that stuff on repeat, you're out. My time is too important for losers like that in my life. I just won't be around them. I told you I will never be the king of the [\h__\h] I don't want them in my group. I don't want them around me. Neither does my wife. We don't even associate with people like that. Why would you want to be somebody like that? Cuz that's who you attract. So follow me. If your life is a result of circumstances and situations and you wish your life were better, it can't get better because you're the result, not the cause. in your mind. Except that's not wrong or that's not right. The only way for your life, anything for that matter, the only way for anything in your world to change is to change your focus from environmental to internal. Doesn't matter what happens, it matters what you do with it. Are you kidding me? Think about it. I woke up missing a lung and I had to burn through every dollar I had while losing $2 million on a custom home built for my wife, her forever home. And it rocked our world financially, physically, emotionally. It shook my faith. It shook everything. It was the worst experience I've had in 52 years now. But I never stopped. And I wanted to blame. And believe me, there were times where I really did. I wanted to I didn't want to leave the house. I told you guys that for about the first two months, I didn't want to leave the house. I was embarrassed of myself. I was paranoid. I thought everything was going to go wrong. I held a grudge against this guy non-stop. Then I realized, what am I doing, man? I watched my life just crumble when I did that. Forget it. I'm not dragging around a stone that it's a bunch of someone else's sins, someone else's problems. I'm not dragging that around cuz I'm choosing to do that. I take the load off of them if I do that. I nuts. In order to change anything in your life, you're going to have to do things you've never done before, which means you're not going to be good at them initially. That's what you have to do. And people, a lot of you guys go out, but I'm going to suck. Everybody's going to see me. They'll see you suck at it. They'll see you be mediocre at it. And then they're going to see your tail lights as you drive away in the distance because they laughed at you. And now they're not even in your rear view anymore because you're so far ahead of them. Why are you listening to these people? Who cares? You create control by running. This is how you get control. You create control by running a program on repeat. You create chaos by constantly introducing a new program thinking it's going to be the next thing. A lot of you guys do that. Every time you pivot and do something new, you begin at zero. If you do that and let me put a caveat in there, unless you're an expert, but you had to stay at something to become the expert, even when it sucked, even when you hated it, even when you were terrible at it, even when it was long, even when you saw no results, go to the gym for 2 weeks, tell me the results. I don't care who you are, you're not going to see a lot of results. You got to put in your time. So, every time you pivot to something new because you, that's what you guys do. This isn't working. I tried everything. You weren't even in the That's like you guys going out. We were married for 3 months. didn't work. Dude, you guys don't even know each other 3 months in. This stuff makes me laugh. The reason it feels like you're being productive when you pivot like that is because it's a distraction from what you're doing and from what you're doing poorly, by the way, and you know it. You want the secret? Do it until it's boring. Do it until it's so boring and so dull. And once that happens, that's when you start that's when you start to gain control. Do it until you're like, "This is so boring. I don't even need to think about it." You run on unconscious competence. So, do it until it's boring because that's when you start to have control. I went snowboarding. I learned how to snowboard a long time ago. And I still remember my first day. I fell down about every 5t and I caught heelside, toeside, heelside, toeside, heelside more. And I thought I had whiplash. I felt so bad. And I thought, "This is the stupidest thing." Cuz nobody told me to ride an edge. They just I So, I was riding flat catch catch the whole way down. This is up in Tahoe. It was a disaster. And I was so pissed off and I just I wanted to never do it again. I'm like, "This is the dumbest sport I've ever seen in my life." And one person said, "You got to get back on it tomorrow or you're never going to learn and it or the next time you go, you're going to start right back here again and you're going to hate it." He said, "The learning curve is super steep, but once you get it, you never miss again." So I got on it. I got on it again the next day. I didn't want to. I was sore, beat up, cold. I just didn't want to do it. By the end of the day, I'm shredding all over the mountain. And now I snowboard all the time. The reason I say that is because you have to be willing to suffer and go through the pain and just keep falling down and getting back up and falling down and getting back up. I could have said, "I tried that. It doesn't work for me." God, I see I hear people say that all the time. Oh, I tried that, bro. It might work for you, but it doesn't work for me. It works for everybody. You just don't have the stones to stay in the game until it works. You want something entertaining. You don't want the results. That's where a lot of you guys are screwing up. I just want to be entertained. But you want the results. You remember solving that the life equation. Struggles, adversity, obstacles on this side. The outcome you want on this side. That's your X, right? The variable. You hit some of these struggles and obstacles and adversities a little bit, but you never overcome anything. You just keep pivoting through them. So you keep starting at zero every time. You start at the beginning every time. Dude, you're never going to get anywhere. If you spend 40, 50 years always starting at the beginning. The guy, it's Bruce Lee, right? Master a thousand kicks or just master one kick. Just do it a thousand times. That's a far more dangerous person. But you guys are so busy pivoting all over the place, bouncing from task to task without ever actually doing it to to the best of your ability and making sure it's perfect. Not again, not back to this [\h__\h] you guys tell everybody. Maybe that's their best. Maybe that's all they have. No, it's not. Cuz if your life was on the line, you would do better. So here, I'll leave you with some questions because I want to go inside and hang out with Brandy and I have a bunch of things to do. So what are you doing poorly? Ask yourself, what are you doing poorly? You already know. I don't need to tell you, but what are you doing poorly? And where do you feel out of control? Because they're probably the same spot. Ask yourself why. Why are you doing it poorly? Why do you feel out of control? So, how many times, this is the follow-up. How many times have you gone back to it? You're doing it poorly. You feel out of control. How many times have you gone back to it? How many did you go back to it until you're not out of control anymore? Till you're not doing it poorly anymore? No. because you're doing it poorly and you feel out of control. But you need to audit and investigate your own life. Challenge your own life. Stop challenging everybody else's. So, how many times have you gone back to all the things you're doing poorly and all the places you feel out of control? It's where you're playing safe, by the way. And then ask yourself this, who's lying in your life? Who's lying in your life? You or them? Because it might be you in the mirror. I tried everything. It's their fault. Liar. or people telling you, "Oh, just another day, bro. I just need another day. Give me another week and then I'll get it together. Give me another month. I'm just putting some things together. I had this weird thing come up, but I'll get out. I'll get to it next week." Liar. Them. Your choice to stay. Eradicate those people. Extricate yourself from every circle that has people like that in it because they're just going to bring you down. If it's them, like I said, if they're lying, remove them. That's how binary this is. But you have to be that vigilant like that observant about your life going where am I failing where am I winning where am I doing things poorly where do I feel out of control and where am I doing things just with excellence where do I feel in control you're going to see that where you're doing things the best those are also the areas you feel you have control but you only want to live on one side of the equation you have to look at both where do I suck and where am I winning and then go how does my life look like right now? Does it look the way I want it to? No. Okay. I have to do all these things that suck in order to make my life look like this. But you have to be willing to do it instead of pointing Tell me how many times it's worked out in your life where you blame somebody and you felt like you were in control and it made the situation better. Neither it did neither. You just think it absolves you of all the heavy lifting when you blame somebody else. It still never Listen, if something is in your way and you blame somebody else because they're not picking it up, it still needs to be moved. Get off your ass. So, do you want to be controlled or do you want to control? You already know what to do. Now, I just told you. I got to go. That's what they do.