I'm 52. My wife is 45. She's going to be turning 46 in a couple of months. And we were talking about that. It was actually an influencer who was she would go out, she would try on clothes and she would pick the size that she is and she'd get the from get this the clothing from a bunch of different manufacturers and try them on and they would be all kinds of varying sizes yet it was the same size that she had ordered according to whatever size church she had. And she was a big-bodied woman. Let's just say she was big, really big. And she was funny and she got lots of attention and she built herself into this huge influencer and she was making a bunch of money and then she went on Oz Peak and got skinny and I don't mean slim, skinny. And so Brandy and I were talking about it and we realized that nobody wants to be fat. Nobody wants to be big-bodied. You guys understand that, right? And I think the problem is that people go, "I love being a big-bodied woman." No, you love being a big-bodied woman or man or whatever because you don't want to do the work. So this way you can demand acceptance and approval from other people while creating a little movement and a little special group. So you don't have to change because you have the support of this group because these are all a bunch of other people that don't want to do the work. The same thing could be said about money. It could be said about being divorced, being married, being it doesn't matter. You can do this in any group. And the problem with that is it's a very dangerous road to go down because you're still not right. There's nothing healthy about being overweight. Nothing. Zero. The the physiological and neurological effects, never mind the psychological effects, all of this combined is a train wreck. And yet now it's tolerated. However, when we were talking about this influencer, we realized she still wanted to be skinny. How about Rebel Wilson, Fat Amy from that movie? I Pitch Perfect, I think it was. And she was huge. She was funny. She still maybe is funny. I don't know. I don't know her at all either. She's a character. Realize all of Hollywood is built on I go on screen and lie, right? So, just keep that in mind. But now she's skinny. So, she always wanted to be skinny. Otherwise, she wouldn't have done it. Which means she never wanted to be fat Amy. She never wanted to be fat. She never wanted to be big. None of you guys do. And that's what's so frustrating. It's I saw one influencer come out. This is why it pisses me off because I saw one influencer come out and you fitness influencers are just a bunch of idiots. I have no tolerance for about 99% of you guys because you guys come up with these complicated programs and these convoluted nutrition protocols and these dogmatic viewpoints about how this is the only way to do it. And none of them make sense. They're based on you selling a program to a client because you make them feel like they can't do it without you. I'm going to help you out. If you actually want somebody to succeed and you want them to win, you make sure that they understand every damn thing you tell them how to do and you don't confuse them along the way to make them feel desperate to buy your product. If someone actually cares about you and wants you to win, they point you in the direction, give you all the tools to get there, and if you need their support, then you buy their product or service. If they make it incredibly complicated and make you feel like you can't survive without them, they want your money, not your results. And there's a lot of you influencers are like that. A lot of you gurus and you business influencers and you Oh, I just you I can't stomach you guys because you guys are liars. That's why I built my unbreakable mastermind cuz I just I'm going to expose all of this cuz I just keep giving stuff away. My mastermind is incredibly inexpensive and I have all the stuff that you guys hypercharge everybody for. So enough. But the point I'm trying to make is if you still want to be skinny. You don't want to be fat. You don't want to be broke. You don't want to be alone. You don't want all the things that you keep running around with your flag waving it to everybody saying that this is what I really want. You had your goals and now all of the sudden you're like, "No, these weren't my goals. I want to have less. I want to have a small tiny house even though I lived in a mansion and I want to have all of these things that are less than what I originally wanted." Which are the goals and visions that God put in your soul and I don't want to become the highest level of myself. I don't want to be the 10.0 version of myself. In fact, I'm okay being where I am. which is you telling the world and God that you want to be lazy until something comes along and says you don't you don't have to do any of the work, but you get all the results. I'll tell you why that's dangerous in a minute. Listen, I want you all to get the results. And if there's the shortest distance between two points is a straight line. So, if it doesn't have to be all convoluted and ridiculous, then it doesn't have to be. However, for the most part, it's going to be. And I had I saw this fitness influencer come on with a massive following who went if you criticize Oz Peak and Tzepide then you should criticize TRT and I went not even close to the same not even close to the same. So I thought I'm going to do a vlog on this. I'll do a podcast on this. I'll explain it because a lot of I think a lot of people are just confused and they have no idea. You guys have internet information and influencer facts. Neither one are accurate and so it's not subjective. So, let's talk about TRT. Let's not cheat code. Like a lot of you guys think that you just shove a needle in your ass and you're jacked and athletic and you just turn into Captain America overnight. You could sit on your couch and eat potato chips and grilled cheese sandwiches all day and drink a bunch of alcohol. That's the fastest way you can get to the grave is just to do that cuz you're just going to do a bunch of stupid things. But a lot of you guys keep thinking that's not how it works. I promise you this. If you took the top 10, use any sport. Use CrossFit. That's cuz it's easy cuz the everybody knows CrossFit. There's so much hate for CrossFit, which is weird. I am not a big fan of the politics behind CrossFit at all, by the way. So, I'm not going to condone them because I think most of the people there are a bunch of [\h__\h] and they eat their own. And they have no loyalty. None. They're loyal as long as you playing their game. If you're not playing their game, they have no loyalty to their people. I've watched them destroy their own people. So, there's no no loyalty there. That's ridiculous. But if you took the same if you took one to 10 the best crossfitters of all time, and you gave them all the same peeds, I don't care what it is. Give them gallons of testosterone. I don't care. The hierarchy is going to be exactly the same. A winner is always a winner. It doesn't make somebody a loser into a winner if everybody else is doing the same thing. That's the problem. You guys are so skewed with your viewpoint going, "Of course they're winning. They're on juice." But that's not what it is. They're still doing the work. It's not a cheat code. It's not. I heard one social media business guru go he that's exactly what he said. You cheated. You didn't earn the results. You cheated. I I don't know anyone that is taking TRT and who is not slaughtering themselves in the gym and eating right and doing things unless they're an idiot. And by the way, things like Tribulus and all the weird Smileax, if you're from 1985, none of those do anything. I'm tired of you guys believing the supplement [\h__\h] out there that goes, "This will increase your testosterone." No, it won't. No, it won't. You can take a little pouch of whatever the hell it is that comes out of some supplement bottle that you buy at a supplement store and shove it behind your ball bag and you can keep it there all day thinking it gives you more testosterone. It's going to be a placebo effect. Rock on. Except the problem is you're still going to get injured and all screwed up because you're 71 years old. So keep that in mind. Now, do I think training and nutrition are the catalyst for improved psychology and physiology? Without question. My grandparents lived well into their 90s. Both of them tough and gritty as nails. I promise you, the only thing they put in their body was maybe an aspirin once in a while. They ate farm fresh food off of their own farm and they worked all the time. That's the problem. Too many people sitting around staring at this kind of a screen going, "Why am I not fit?" Cuz you're not doing anything. And you're eating everything filled with ingredients that you can't even pronounce. It looks like an organic chemistry experiment. That's the issue. But TRT, testosterone, it's not some magic pill. It's not this magic bullet that cures everything. Is it good for you? Yeah. In the right doses. Absolutely. Absolutely. They've done so many studies. It is back I It doesn't cause hypertension. It doesn't cause cardiac problems. It doesn't cause cancer at all. It's the most ridiculous thing. They're finally start like they can't hide the results anymore. There are so many studies out there proving the benefits of testosterone. So many. The problem is there's more commercial. When's the last time you saw a commercial that's showing touting the benefits of TRT? You probably haven't. What you'll see is something approving the next drug for losing some of your for alopecia or for seriatic arthritis or for irritable bowel or Crohn's or celiac. All of which can be cured. Cured cured by changing what you eat and slapping a nicotine patch on you for six, seven days. 7 milligram nicotine patch. I've gone over this before. Some of you guys forget that I'm actually a real doctor and I know what I'm talking about. But TRT, it's not a cheat code. It's not. You guys got to stop thinking that way because that's the problem that make you're ignorant. If that's what you're thinking, you're ignorant because is it? You guys think it's the holy grail that you would just inject it and suddenly you're jacked and shredded and you're this unstoppable juggernaut. Wrong. Wrong. It's not a shortcut at all. You still have to do the work. It's a catalyst. You have to earn every single pound of muscle. You have to lose the weight. It doesn't make you lean. I don't care if some of you guys start running around going, "What about this one? What about this one?" All you guys running around talking about trend. Are you insane? That's the most that's the most catastrophic powerful testosterone like steroid on the planet, dude. Like, I can't even go through that. And then orals. Listen, you guys are so screwed up with oral. I'm just going to take an oral. I'm gonna take a whatever it is. An no anavar, not anadrol. God, I remember the guys in the 80s were taking these things called anadrol 50. All they did was demolish your liver. Oh, you'd probably get strong as [\h__\h] and it'll probably make you incredibly powerful. You do have to remember, too, by the way, if you are doing it at a level that some of these guys that got on stage at 320 lbs of just solid muscle, your heart's still only this big. I want everybody to look at the size of my fist. That's the size of your heart. It is trying to pump blood through miles and miles and thousands of miles of vessels in your system. Some of those one cell thick, some of those capillaries, some of those venules, the arterials, all these tiny little vessels in your body. They're reaching the tips of your fingers. And this heart has to push through all of that. You're going to add tissue to that. You're increasing oxidative stress on a massive scale. That's a great way to have a problem. So, if you want to go, "Yeah, testosterone causes heart problems." Yeah. when you're design. I'm 510 and a half on a good day. Maybe 5'11 if I'm wearing a set of Chucks. I'm 195 now, give or take. I could probably stand to be maybe 180, but I like having a little more mass on me because I can move more weight and it feels good. It's comfortable for me. But I've been 230. When I met Brandy, I was 230 lbs. This big no- neck bodybuilder. And listen, God bless all of you bodybuilders. It's a discipline. It absolutely is. And it is hard as hell to stay just so focused and eat like I did a bodybuilding show and I didn't drink water for 2 days and I drank I ate dry oatmeal the day of it was and this is back in early early 90s. It was a mess. It was horrible. I cramped up on stage. I felt like [\h__\h] But I looked like I was made out of plastic. But I had no there was nothing about me that was healthy. Nothing. I mean there were guys taking Lasix to get lean. That is a loop diuretic. it you it forces you ferosomide for those guys that don't understand it forces you to excrete 50% of the filtered load of the kidney half of the water that passes no way man no way and then you have to take a potassium supplement slow K just to mitigate that problem there's so many issues and I think to my like people go well how are you so lean cuz I train my balls off every day I train at such high volume and of course people go yeah but you're that's not healthy that's not smart you're overtraining Oh, you know how I mitigate all my injuries? I get injured all the time. So does anyone else that's athletic. BPC-157, thyosin beta 4, GHK-Cu, copper. That's it. And none of those cause any catastrophic problems. I'm not some giant freaky human being. I'm a muscular 52-year-old. This is normal. This is what happens when you beat the [\h__\h] out of yourself in the gym all the time demanding more from yourself every day. But you guys go, I just want to work out 20, 30 minutes a day. Come back to orals for a second because I think you guys need to understand, you're better off taking a needle and using that. I don't care if you're scared of needles, grow the hell up because they are all orals are what are called an alpha alkalated 17 molecule. They are hepotoxic at an astronomical level. Your liver doesn't My dad died 67 years old of endstage liver disease. Don't you dare screw with your liver. Don't. Because when it's gone, you got nothing. And you cannot live without it. There's no machine. There's no magic pill. There's no drug. There's no injection. There's nothing you can do. Don't screw with your liver, man. Now, before somebody runs off the rails and goes injectables are subject to they damage your liver, too. Not even close to the same. You're not even playing in the same arena. So, don't even start trying to argue. And that's what this influencer, let me come back to that, was arguing. Well, ozamp peak turepazide. They're different. They one hits two receptors, the other hits one. Tzepide, by the way. I I forget what the chem the name brand is. Is that bound? I think. Anyway, it doesn't really matter what it's called. They just like TRT. For all you people out there taking TRT, it's the same thing. Not even close. They're not even in the same arena. That is like that. That's comparing a baseball to a [\h__\h] shotgun as a weapon. Not even close to the same. That is the most ignorant statement I've ever seen. And that is exactly why influencers bother me because most of you guys are going to buy into that and go, "See, it's the same. Where's my OMI? Where's my Tzepite?" Listen, if you're going to do it, you're going to do it. I can't stop you from doing it. I'm giving you information. That's why I come out here every day. Once in a while I drop a value bomb that says I'm a doctor and I actually know what the hell I'm talking about. I'm trying to give you the facts. You're going to make the decisions you're going to make. That's on you. I I'm fine with that. I can't stop you and neither can anybody else. Only you can look in the mirror and stop yourself. However, for all of you people on Oz Peak or Tzepide going, first of all, you didn't like being fat no matter how many times you told your friends, I like being a big-bodied woman. No, you don't. No, you don't. Because if you did, you wouldn't have gone on the Oz Peak train and gotten all skinny. You didn't. So, stop lying. Stop it. It's embarrassing and you just look like an idiot. And TRT is not a shortcut at all. Not at all. You still have to suffer in the gym. You still have to suffer working out. You still have to eat with somewhat some kind of precision. And if you go, "Well, you don't." Dude, my bread has four ingredients. My wife makes a loaf every day. I eat real butter, real honey, real meat. Nothing in my diet comes from anything in a package. It is made. My wife is an exceptional chef and we eat real food. Me, Brandy, our son, and our daughter all eat real food. That's the difference. You guys are eating [\h__\h] that comes from a gas station and calling it food. You still have to eat with precision. You still have to sleep like it matters. And whatever your sleep regimen is, I sleep four to five hours a night and I run like this 24/7, 365. I've had this conversation with you guys before. And you still have to show up when it's boring, when it's painful, when it's inconvenient. Testosterone doesn't take that away. It's not magic. But if you guys are going to go and use it, you may as well do it right. If it's used responsibly and paired with some really hard training, it's one of the most powerful things you can ever do for men and women. There's a problem though. How many times have you seen a TRT protocol for a woman? You haven't. When they give you HRT, HRT is estrogen and progesterone. If you take if they take your if you have a hyctomy, they don't even bother giving you progesterone because they go, you don't need to mitigate and take care of the uterine lining. So it's not there. Your body still responds to progesterone just because you don't have a uterus. Stop listening to these guys. HRT is absolutely linked to causing breast cancer, ovarian cancer, womb cancer, to somewhat a lesser extent, colorectal cancer. Like you guys got to stop putting this stuff in your body. The one thing that actually worked, they took off the market. It was called Estratest. It was a mix, a blend between testosterone and estrogen. was designed for women and it turned women, all of you women if you're listening to this, it turned you guys into 22year-old, you know what, like bouncy, savage, athletic women cuz it put the exact amount back into you that you weren't that you weren't producing except they took it off the market because it didn't have any detrimental effects. And before you guys go, what are the side effects? There's no such thing as a side effect. There are only effects. The reason they label it as side effects is because it's easier to just sweep those under the rug. Well, they're side effects. They don't happen to many people. They happen to plenty of people. One of the top causes of death is medical idiocy. Medical doctors and pharmaceuticals companies. So, I don't care. You can get mad, get pissed off. I don't care if you they've saved so many people. Listen, there's no no medicine and no doctor has ever cured anybody of anything. With the outside of the invention of antibiotics, no medication has cured somebody. You did. It got in the way of what was trying to kill you. The doctor does the surgery, removes something, the surgeon removes something. You still have to put yourself back together. And you guys need to understand how the body works. You do the work. They get all the stuff out that's causing the problems or they stick you back together. so you can heal, but they don't fix the broken bone. You do. They just line it up so you don't have a weird quasy bump on your back or your arm is all screwed up. But if you want to look at TRT, listen, like talk facts. There's a study in JAMA. It's a it's not the most trusted peer-reviewed research article, but or journal, but it showed that men on testosterone who trained saw massive increases in lean muscle mass strength compared to those people on placeos. Okay, that's fine. It's also, but here's the other part. In the European Journal of Endocrinology, this is a long time ago. This is probably 1015 years ago. TRT is proven to improve cognitive function, mood, and cardiovascular health. But what have they been telling you? Roid rage, heart problems, cardiovascular problems. [\h__\h] [\h__\h] Not even close. But they don't want you taking something because it's going to make you healthy. Why would you Look at the testosterone numbers of grown men right now that are in their 30s. They're frighteningly low and they're trying to convince you that's normal. It's not. Just like cholesterol levels. But I don't I'm probably going to get pinched on this video anyway, so I don't really care. But if you're doing TRT, you're actually you're doing it. If that's what you're going to do, and you're sitting around on your couch waiting to get lean and strong, good luck. All you're doing is doing a bunch of dumb things, causing more problems, making your body work even harder to do nothing. But if you're training your balls off, you're going to win physically, mentally, and neurologically, but not because of the TRT, because you're going and you're doing something. If you take it and you sit on your So many of you guys, that's what you do. You're so ignorant that you go, "Of course they're jacked. Of course they're fit. They're taking juice." You're the one that thinks you can sit on your ass and do nothing. And if you did that and you took TRT and you're still wondering why you're not making any progress, you're not doing the work. And you're just another guy pretending to be elite. That's the problem. So if it's like you cannot compare TRT and OMI interpepatide. You can't like Ozeki. Let me expose some of this. These drugs, they've they've exploded because people are desperate for results without the work. That the last two words, without work. So, you can lose weight while watching Netflix. But here's what they don't post in their transformation selfies. It's got an FDA blackbox warning. So, increased risk of thyroid sea cell tumors. What are you doing, man? Like in 2023 there was a study metabolism and obesity I think if if and I'd have to look it up just to make sure it's the right one. It showed significant 50% gastrointestinal side effects of people that are taking these things. Nausea, vomiting, gastroparesis, just so you know what that is. That is delayed stomach emptying which is which becomes chronic. So now your system doesn't even know how to work but you are a tube within a tube. That's how a human being is designed. And you take in gas, which is your food, and you run it through your engine to produce horsepower so you can function through the world. And you can't do that because your stomach isn't doing what it's the parastoaltic contractions aren't happening. All of that stuff. Are you high? And here's even worse. There's insurmountable evidence that shows that these drugs cause muscle loss, not fat loss. Clinical endocrinology and metabolism in 2023 showed that, proved it. So yeah, you might lose the weight. Absolutely. But at what cost? What are you going to do? You lose muscle, you lose resilience, you don't earn a transformation. Listen, and if that's the least of your worries, it should be a concern because psychologically, you don't have the resilience to take on hard things. And that matters. You don't you lose the psychological growth that comes with just grinding your way to success. Do you do I think there should be all kinds of things that will help you along the way? Why not? I'm fine with that. What difference does it make? But you're not doing any work. You can sit there and watch Amazon Prime or Prime Video all day and you'll just lose weight. This is why the shortcut culture is so damn dangerous. Whether it's for money or like the, "Oh, you just follow me and my This is why my mastermind matters because I tell you the truth. I'm I'm probably the only real guy out here now telling you the truth anymore. Everybody's lying just to get clicks and likes and get you to buy their stupid course or their dumb coaching program where they're not even successful and they're not doing what they say they should. They're lying. I'm tired of seeing it. That's why I come out here every day for you guys. I don't come out here for me. None of you guys are paying me for this. I actually have to sit down and put this together in my studio. But this shortcut culture is so damn dangerous because it gives people results without reinforcement. They don't become confident. They become dependent. So you want to look at the psychology of struggle versus the psychology of escape because that's the problem right now. Because here's where it gets real. The psychology TRT guys, girls, it doesn't matter. Women, if you are going through menopause, just to help you out, you should have testosterone in your system as well. Women have testosterone. It doesn't give you a giant Adam's apple in a clitoris that looks like a penis. That's not what happens. Maybe if you take gallons of it or you take some stupid amount. The issue is it's a lot more finicky for a woman than a man. And nobody is out there telling you guys how to do it. So, you guys just go find somebody on YouTube or Instagram and go, I don't know. I'm just going to do what they do cuz I like their body. When in reality, they might not even be taking a damn thing or they might be doing something completely different than what they're telling you. So, you got to be careful. I'm just saying do your due diligence. Buyer beware for what you do. But the psychology, the TR, anyone that trains hard, it doesn't have to be on TRT. They're not just building a more muscular body and a more healthier system. They're building a bigger, better identity. They're building a bigger belief system. When you get up, I don't care what time, you don't have to get up at 4 am to train, by the way. But if you get up at 4 am or 6 am, but if you're consistent, let's just say that you're consistent every day, regardless, you meal, you show up and you work out regardless. Doesn't matter how you feel, doesn't matter if somebody's there or not, you meal prep or you cook your food or you eat properly when nobody's watching. It doesn't matter. When you hit that last brutal set, when your body gives you the finger and says the hell with you, you are rewiring your mind to believe I follow through. I don't break. I'm savage. That's what you are doing. You're not doing that with Ozan Peak and Tzepide. I It doesn't matter what you want to argue. I'm right. That belief system, it's more powerful than any TRT, more powerful than Ozan Peak, more powerful than any drug or therapy or hack. Because belief precedes action. If you believe you're soft, you act soft. If you believe you're relentless, you act like a [\h__\h] machine. And when you build that belief through struggle, adversity, suffering, work, you create this feedback loop of domination for yourself, for your psychology. Compare that to an OMPQ user. They're outsourcing discipline. They're not building a new identity. They're chasing a new pant size. And they might lose the weight, but they don't gain the edge, the mindset, or the fire required. Which one do you think wins in the long run? That's the problem. Which one wins in the long run? And unpack the health aspect of this. If you look at TRT dosed intelligently before you guys think, I'm giving you this information so you at least have something to fall back on and look at it and go, "Okay, this is what's right. This is what's wrong." Do what you want. But TRT, when dosed intelligently, not like a myopic idiot that thinks more is better, because that's not how it works. You get improved insulin sensitivity. Better lipid profiles. I'll say it again. Better lipid profiles, lower visceral fat, stronger bones, sharper cognitive performance. Ozamp peak. Let's compare. Let's compare. This is fun for me. It reduces body weight. Absolutely. But at the risk of lean muscle mass, appetite dysregulation, and long-term use is going to impact the gut brain signaling system, which is real. And it potentially affects all your mood and brain function because of that. You're [\h__\h] with the system. So, I'll ask again. What kind of human do you want to be? One who builds their psychology and their physiology through earned discomfort which creates the guarantee of long-term success because you can fall back on that because it can't be taken away from you. It's always there for you. Or the one who loses 30 lbs and still wakes up weak inside. Look, I I don't care. TRT can help. OMP can help you drop weight. But if you want the real transformation, all you transformation coaches, most of you guys, I just want to punch you right in the throat because you guys are liars and you know it. You want the I'll help you. All of you guys listening, you don't need a transformation coach. Tell all of your transformation coaches you quit. Just listen to what I tell you right now. It's free. You don't even you can take them ask them, "Well, I quit your program. I don't like you." Why? Because you're lying to me. Do hard [\h__\h] every day. There you go. You're welcome. Is it that simple? Yes. make yourself struggle and suffer and bleed in the gym. Because when you do that, you tear down the excuses in your mind. You hold yourself accountable to what you said you were going to do. And you don't let comfort make your decisions anymore. It's comfortable sitting on the couch taking something that just makes you skinny, but you're losing your health. You know what health is? It's a deficiency need. When you have it, you never think about it. When you don't have it, you obsess about it and you can't think of anything else. And everything in your life is predicated on your health. Try me. Go against me. Try me. I'm missing a lung. I stayed in a hospital and watched my wife get escorted out of a hospital. Locked her out during a lockdown because of all those knuckleheads that said it was real. My wife was outside hysterically balling her eyes out talking to one of her best friends, thinking she was never going to see me again because I was going to die. because I was dying and then subsequently I ended up having a lung removed. Yeah, you go ahead and keep talking about your oz peak and oh, it only happens to a few people. I've been through cancer. I'm really trying not to swear, but [\h__\h] you if that's what you think. I got no sympathy for you. You're making bad decisions because you want immediate immediate results without doing any of the work. I suffered and struggled. But you know what? I have the psychology. You guys don't need my You don't need my life. You need my psychology because I had to earn this. It doesn't come out of a pill bottle. It doesn't come out of a needle. It comes out of doing the work and sucking at it at first and struggling and crying and being upset and like I said, bleeding in the gym and tearing down every excuse in my mind because you can't take that away from me. No matter what happens in my life, you cannot take away the experiences I've had and the struggles and adversities I've had to go through to get to this point. Which means I can do this again and again. If you've never done that, you have nothing to fall back on. Which means when the pill, the potion, the lotion, the drug is gone, so is everything that you've done and you have no idea how to build it back. Discipline beats drugs. Ask anyone. I have a guy in my group right now who is a heroin addict and quit. Discipline beats drugs. I promise you, he'll tell you that. Mental toughness outlives all quick fixes in the man who earns his transformation or the woman. They become unbreakable. So think about this. Just today, right now, make a choice. Raise your standard and walk down that path that nobody else wants to walk down. Or stay where you are and go, "Nah, I'm going to do this thing instead." And wonder why you keep stacking problem after problem in your life. Because the greatest skill transfer in the world is going through hard things and coming out the other side a winner because you absolutely had the relentless ability to never quit. That's what it is. I don't care is I'm not judging anybody on TRT or OMP or Appetite. Do what you got to do. But you have a decision to make on what you're going to do with where you're going to go. But I think you need to have the facts. If you are 100 pounds overweight, I'm going to help you right now. I said it yesterday. Did you wake up fat? If you're 100 pounds overweight, you bet your ass you did. Your fault. Did you wake up and change what you ate? Did you wake up at the same time now? Did you drink water? Did you go work out? Did you go for a walk at least? Did you change your mindset? Did you bring less food? Did you go, I'm going to endure the discomfort of being hungry because I built this fat body. I'm going to build a better one. Did you do all that? Or did you choose to get in your car and stop at Starbucks and get a fat-ree bagel and a large white chocolate mocha with fat-ree cream in it thinking that it's 500 calories instead of 900 and then go to work and pick a donut out of the box, have another like you you guys are making decisions that are reinforcing staying where you are and you don't you don't want to admit it. You get mad. You get pissed off when somebody points their finger and going you and goes your fault. Did you wake up with less money than you wish you had in your bank account? The choice is yours. You get up and prospect and create a business and side hustle and join somewhere like my mastermind for example and go I want to get around people that are winning and I want to have somebody give me all the tools so I can just replicate what they're doing and get the psychology that they have so I am relentless and resourceful. Did you do that or did you get up and go to the job that you can't stand in the car that's all busted and rickety and spend your whole day doing a bunch of things you just hate just to come home to be in a life that you hate? You got to make the choice, man. But it's very frustrating because when someone hands an opportunity to you, most of you guys go, I don't want that opportunity. It's too hard. I want an easier one. So, you don't want the opportunity. You want someone to do the work for you, but you want to take you want to claim the results. That's ignorance. If you want the results, be prepared to do whatever is required to get to wherever it is you want to go because that can never be taken away from you. That's how you stay dangerous. That's how you stay sharp. That's how you stay savage as hell. But that's how you're supposed to be. This isn't a raw be savage and beastly [\h__\h] This is how a human being is designed to be. Just to be very clear, there's not an animal out there in nature outside of mankind that's going to roll over and let you take them out without a damn good [\h__\h] scrap. They're going to go all out. Claws and teeth. It doesn't matter what it is. Could be a beaver. It's going to fight you with everything it's got if you're going to try and kill it. Human beings. Some of you guys just roll over. Just turtle. Okay, I guess I'm just going to die. Or you choose it. Yeah, but I'm going to go over there because it's easier. It's better. It tastes better. It looks better. Feels better. Yeah, but you're worse. Whatever it takes, that matters. Some of you guys are so cheap you won't even spend the money to change your life. Like I I said it before. I have three people in my mastermind. All three of them owe me money. None of them have approached me to pay me and they've owed me money for months. Is it my fault for letting them in there? Yep. That's going to last about another week and then I'm going to just punt them out because they're not paying. But when I leave the accountability, see what I mean? That's what being accountable to your actions gives you. The responsibility to go back and go, "Hey, I owe you something." Why? Because I'm dipping into your product or service and I'm not paying for it. I have three people and they all have excuses why they can't pay. I don't care. If you did that with your house or you did that with your car or you did that with walk out with groceries without paying for it. Let me know what happens. These are the problems is it's tolerated on one area and not on the other. Why are you doing that with your health? Why are you doing that with your health? If you want better then demand demand better from yourself and better will show up. Don't demand better out of a bottle or a box because when the bottle or the box is gone all your better you're renting credibility. It's all gone. It's like getting your self-worth from a watch or a car or a big bank account. When that's gone, your self-worth is gone. You can't take away selfworth and credibility that you earned for yourself. Anyway, I got to go. Hope that you got something out of this. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.