I was thinking about you guys and I can't I really I can't get my head around how many people are willing to live the next 30, 40, 50 years miserable and unhappy because of the decisions they make on a daily basis. Like they put themselves in a financial prison. They put themselves in a physical prison with their health. They've put themselves in a psychological prison with their corrupt, angry, entitled mindset that other people should be doing the work for them, but they should get the benefit and they're mad when they get nothing for doing nothing because they believe they're doing everything. It's appalling because money is such a driving force for people and yet only a fraction of people are willing to do whatever it takes to put themselves in a position they cry about not being in every day. Let's say you let's say you go allin on a business because you're just tired of working for some company, right? You feel trapped by the job. You hate the job. You come home miserable from the job. You feel like a slave to the job and the income attached to it because it's not enough. You act like a jerk at home because of the job. You're limited in what you can do because of the job. So, you go all in on an idea. Just listen to me. go all in on an idea on an idea you have or a desire that you've got, but just this burning hole that you've got in the pit of your gut. And so you borrow the money, you max out your cards, you sell everything, you leverage your house, whatever you need to do it. And if it all burns to the ground and you fail and you just don't have the intestinal fortitude to recover, the loss that you're going to experience because of trying to climb that mountain, to just climb out of that bucket, and now you're being forced to go back to that job that you hated, is a fraction of the pain that you're going to feel when you're 75, 80 years old, and you've been doing the same thing for 30, 40 years, hating everything about your life, lying about it to everyone, including yourself, and being this baggage that everyone has to carry with them because you're such a miserable prick. The regret you'll feel looking at your life is so [\h__\h] massive. You'll think all I had to do was try and all of this and all of this entire world I'm living in might have been different. All you got to do is try and you didn't. It It's unreal. People choose to be miserable and unhappy for 40, 50 more years because of all the excuses and I'll do it next year, I'll do it next Monday, whatever. Could you imagine 90 years old and you've been just fighting the clock and you're just this piece of shoe leather who's known for being a grumpy, miserable, smelly, obnoxious person who's never been happy all because you didn't jump. All because you didn't jump. All because you wanted to save a couple of minutes. All because you wanted to save a couple thousand dollars. All because you didn't want to learn something new. All because you were too arrogant to hire someone to teach you, to support you, to push you, to demand more from you because you thought you were good enough to just do it without help. So you spend you you spent years in denial until you look around at the life that you've spent the last 30, 40, 50 years in and you realize the life you're in has been comprised of just decades and decades of validations, right? 30 years of saying, "I'll get there next year. I'll handle it next year. I'll figure it out next week. I'll figure it out next month. I just have to work at this a little harder. I just have to do this a little longer and then I'll do it. I've got more time. I'm almost there. Yet, you're just that hamster, right? You're just that hamster wheel just running and running and oblivious to the fact that you're in a [\h__\h] cage the whole time. The regret you're going to feel trading in all of the things, all of the things that you had deep in your soul that you just wanted to do. You have these fears of just going, I may never accomplish this. All those things that you think about that you're like, "God, I just I might not never do this. I want to do this." All of that stuff, all of the regret because you didn't do it is more pain because you didn't jump. It's more pain than anything else you'll ever feel because you'll be out of time. I turned 52 yesterday. Like, my time is limited. Like, you guys understand this, right? Your time is limited, people. I think a lot of you, a lot of you guys just believe you're going to live forever and you're in for a just a big [\h__\h] surprise. But you keep deferring everything that scares you or costs you money, time, and energy in favor of the security of right now. Yet, you're not happy. You're willing to trade in your future for your present and run it on repeat while convinced that something is eventually going to change. Nothing changes until you make changes. Listen, I bootstrapped our entire life when we started this four years ago, just under four years ago. I had no guarantee if this would work. None. I just I wanted it so badly and I still do. I wanted to create a mastermind and I just created the unbreakable mastermind a little while ago. It's been a program for a long time and I've done all these things, but the unbreakable mastermind I I just came up with that maybe half a year ago and I wanted to create a mastermind that is so good and so connected and so filled with high standards and resources that it became the standard by which everything else is judged. And I've done it. I've actually done it and now I realize I'm just getting started. I I have people who message me who've left the program that I had before before I created Unbreakable and they're never going to come back because their ego won't allow them to. They won't allow themselves to say, "Hey, Spartan, how do I join? Man, I realize I left, but I see that you've created just something epic, and I want to be part of that." They will sacrifice their future success for their present arrogance. I invite everyone to apply to the mastermind. The worst thing that can happen is you get denied entry. But you get denied because your standards aren't high enough for yourself. See, that's the problem. When you have high standards, you jump because you and a lot of people, they talk about how high their standards are, but they're imposters. Like imposttor syndrome is just another way of explaining I'm insecure as hell. I just don't want to admit it. Just and it's fine. It's okay. A lot of people are insecure. That doesn't mean anything bad. It means you have something that you need to overcome and figure out what's poking that button. But imposter syndrome are these people that go, I'm super confident. I'm a hyper alpha person, male, female. I'm resilient and I'm powerful and I'm strong, but they never jump. Which means you are not resilient, not powerful, and not strong. And you have all kinds of stories to back up why you really are. and you not jumping and not doing the things that you should do to change your life and get there as fast as possible to get to that kingdom at the end of the on the horizon. Why your decision why your decisions that are slowing you down are actually powerful decisions. They're not. Those are imposters. The world is filled with 90 90% of the people are imposters. When you have high standards, you jump because you know that the regret of a future that looks just like your life right now, just like your life does right now, is terrifying. People choose the illusion of safety for two reasons. They're arrogant and they think they don't need anyone's help. And they've been told their entire life, "Don't rely on anybody. Don't trust anyone. Everyone's going to let you down. Do it yourself. You don't need any help. You're strong enough to do it on your own." Remember that which is the stupidest thing that you can do and say. Nobody who's winning says that. By the way, arrogant people who are imposters and insecure say that because mommy and daddy said it because people around them said it because people in their circle and their husband, their wife, whatever told them that's what they should do. That's reason number one, the illusion of safety. The second one is they're worried that it's not going to work and they're going to be disappointed. So they choose to live within this prison of disappointment anyway because where they are is a disappointment because but it's familiar disappointment. It just gets more dumb when I realize what people are actively choosing to do. Like when I say this out loud I realize how dumb those the conduct is. Jump. Just jump. If your life is anywhere anywhere but what you have burning inside of you. If you jump and just torch it all and you have to come back to this life, you already know you can do this because you're doing it right now. So what? If you have to come back to this life, because you already know how to do this, so you already know this life works. You just don't like it. So if you have to come back to this life, you didn't lose a single [\h__\h] shred of anything. You didn't lose any ground. You just didn't get anywhere. Like why the hell aren't you why why aren't you doing whatever it takes to do whatever it is you need to do to get wherever you want to be in your life? Why? Why aren't you doing whatever it takes? People, you guys listen, the agony of regret is undeniable. Just ask anyone who's old, who's on their deathbed. They might not, it might be somebody that's 30 and they just don't they're in ICU or something happened. God forbid. Most of them are going to say the same thing. I wish I would have done XYZ. I'm going to drink some coffee first. black coffee. Oh, it's almost done. There you go. As I spill it all over my keyboard. I have a guy in Unbreakable. His name is Ryan and he's a great man, successful, great family, great kids, all of it. And he said something in a Spartan Live call just a few weeks ago and he just it burned itself into my brain. He said, "Risk aversion has been the biggest mistake I've ever made in my life. I wish that I would have gone allin on more things and failed." so much more because I'd be so much further. This is a middle-aged man with a family who's saying this. He's not 90 and he's saying this. So why aren't you doing it? What are you afraid of? What? Maxing out all your credit cards? Spending all your money, using up what? Some of your time, becoming too busy to watch television or play games or to go to the park and have a Sunday barbecue. You might not be able to see a a practice that your son or your daughter has. Why aren't you doing it? And before you argue that those are important, what about the life you can create that is so big that you have this fire inside of you that you want to do that when you tell your kids you can do anything and be anything you want, they look at you and they go, "Then why aren't you and why didn't you?" Like people ask me all the time why I train so hard. It's easy. It's to quiet the demons trying to keep me from where God has already placed me. So, let me explain. I've been ill, right? I've been so ill to the point of the close to death. It's impossible to prioritize, business, money, finances, future growth, building a vision, whatever, when you're laying in intensive care connected to machines keeping you alive, fighting for your life. I train to get out of my head and kill the demons and ensure that I am as strong and healthy as possible. So I never say to myself, why didn't you Spartan? Why didn't you why didn't you be healthy? Why didn't you choose to be strong? Why didn't you choose to be powerful? Why didn't you choose to be athletic and fit? Why didn't you? I take away a reason to say that by staying as healthy as possible because that's what it is, right? Why didn't you? Why aren't you? Why can't you? [\h__\h] reason after [\h__\h] reason. Take away all the [\h__\h] reasons. Take away all of your reasons and all you're left with is the direction you should go. All you're left with is jump. That's all that's remaining. Right? Aams razor, right? Isn't that the whole take away everything no matter how improbable? Whatever is remaining, no matter what how improbable it is, is the choice, is the fact, is what it is, right? Are you in a place in your life that you'd want to share everything about your life with someone because it's just so amazing? Are you I'll say it again. Are you in a place in your life that you'd want to share every detail, everything about your life with somebody because you're just like, "This is the most amazing life." Are you there? 90% of you aren't. Why aren't you? Are you in a place where your life looks like everything you imagined it would? Are are you there? Are you in this place where everything you possibly could imagine is exactly how you envisioned it would be? And for 90% of you people, it's not even close. And they would never want to tell anyone about their day. 90% of these people would never want to tell a single person about their day and their life because it sucks and they know it. That life, that's the product of your decision to stay in that life. I need you to get this. it. Just drinking coffee for those of you guys that are just listening. I need you to get this. Why aren't you jumping? One day this conversation is going to come back around and you'll want to jump and it'll be too late. You'll think, "Damn it, Spartan was right." [\h__\h] If you put yourself in a position where you are you're leveraged out to the max. The worst thing that can happen is you have to come back to this life that you're in right now. To think that 80 to 90% of you guys live every day looking forward to the end of the day and dreading Monday morning and waiting five out of seven days for just two days so you can hide from your own life. That's crap. What are you doing? Really? What are you doing? That sucks. It's so mindblowing the amount of anxiety people have who place that on themselves because they're arguing inside their own head about whether or not they should change their life that they currently hate. I I have two clients that are billionaires with a B a B people. They're incredibly high performing machines. And I use these same conversations I'm having with you right now with them. Why aren't you Why aren't you losing the weight? Why aren't you going for the next billion? Real conversation. True story, by the way. That one. Why aren't you fixing your marriage? Why aren't you starting the podcast? Why aren't you buying the program? Why aren't you joining the Unbreakable Mastermind? Why aren't you getting up at the same time every day? Why aren't you eating different? Why aren't you loving on your spouse more? Why aren't you like I had a one-on-one with a client who was going through what they're looking to accomplish that's above them in their company and the vision they see for their life and their company. They have a ninef figureure company and the vision they see they were talking about what they were trying to accomplish with the executive team which had to do with them getting on board being healthy. the executive team getting on board, being healthy, and building a strong personal psychology and what needs to be done in order to facilitate all of that. And the push back they got from these executives about how that's not important and that they should stick to safe tactics and business tactics and not worry about the physical and psychological aspects of a company that's built and run by human beings that live and breathe in a physical and psychological environment. Right? So, it's not important. And after they were done telling me this, right after she was done telling me all this, I said, 'You know that this is your company and these are grown ass men and women. And if they don't resonate with a very real and important, I might add aspect of business health, which is psychological and physical health. If you're just coming on board with this call or you just got the part of this is actually live, right? You're coming on board with this call. If they're not, like it's so important. If they're not wanting to run the plays that you're calling as the coach, right? Which is what you are. You're the owner of the company, the coach. Then they can go get another job. These are adults. Bye. Replace them. Build the culture inside your business that you want to have, not the one that they want you to have. The entitlement, but do that in your life. Most of you guys are sliding along the culture that you don't really want to have because everybody else does it. But if that's not what you want, why aren't you doing it? Like, why aren't you, man? Why aren't you? The entitlement and disrespect people have towards moving out of the comfortable areas that aren't creating growth and a stronger life simply because they've gotten used to making those around them con conform to a lower bar is embarrassing. I I asked her, this is the owner, right? Why didn't you think of that? Why didn't you say that this is important in the long term, not just for the company, but for you? And since you work like cuz I care. You are my responsibility. All of my clients, all of my customers, all of the people that I work with, all of the people that are on my team, you are all my responsibility. It would it is my duty and my obligation to demand higher standards of you because I [\h__\h] care. So I asked her that like why didn't you ask that? Why? And it wasn't in a in an angry sort of way. I went genuinely why didn't you think of that? Why didn't you say that? This is this is important in the long term. Not just for the company, but for you. And since you work, all of you executives work for my company. It's my duty to keep you as healthy and powerful as I can for your families, for your life, for your future. Why wouldn't you want to be a more undeniable person in your health, your wealth, and your relationships with yourself, never mind others? I could go down the rabbit hole with your relationship with yourself and how choosing to be mis miserable is this self-reinforcing problem because it causes you to take actions that create more problems and disharmony in your life which then makes you miserable. But we only have so much time. I got stuff to do and so do you. I'll have her on the podcast and you can hear her follow up for yourself because when she went back and presented it that way the way I just explained it was why wouldn't you though? It changed everything. You you need to look at not just right now, but why wouldn't you? Because most people argue to stay in a shitty place, but they don't even really know why they're arguing. They just don't want to be uncomfortable through the growth, and they don't want to be wrong. See, people are willing to challenge their beliefs, but in doing so, they stay unhappy and miserable because they never do the thing. They never do the thing, whatever that thing is, whatever this that demands that they get uncomfortable and jump. Like, so many of you are waiting or arguing against it in your head. whatever it is that you should do. And that birthday is coming where you'll hear me. Why the [\h__\h] didn't you, man? Listen, if you get this from this podcast, then you evolved more in 20 minutes than 90% of the planet has done their entire lives. So many of you guys are willing to have almost no savings, like a poor paying career. Listen, you can argue that where you are isn't your career, and you can go, "That's not my career. I'm not going to stay here forever." But if you're there for a year and have made no discernable action to change that, you have a career, my friend. But you're so willing to stay in a place that you don't want, right? You just live in a place that you don't want to be in because you're locked in financially because you aren't willing to put pressure on yourself to get out. You can only change the life you're in by making it hurt to stay there. So many of you guys, you feel stuck, but it's of your own valition, right? It's your own valition. You argue against jumping. You guys, you're holding on to these fears from other people, from your past, from your peers, from your parents, from your surroundings, whatever. But you're handing the keys over to reasons to stay in a place that you're genuinely unhappy in for another 30, 40, 50 years because you won't jump. What are you afraid of? Any argument you give, by the way, if it doesn't involve absolute torturous immediate death is an invalid argument. You don't have as much time as you think and how you live the time you have is up to you. It's a valuable lesson and most people don't get it until they're 50 60 years old. Like I said, I'm 52 and I just said to my wife, I said, I love where I am. I like I'm killing it right now. I believe that I'm with my wife. I love my wife so much. 20 years of marriage, great kids, great life, building this great empire that we have so many more things to to accomplish and grow to help everybody we possibly can. Because if you understand my vision that I got from God, it's build a life as big as possible. So [\h__\h] big, so massive that I can fit everybody else's hopes and dreams and goals and accomplishments and everything they want and visions inside it and take them all the way up to the top with me. That's the vision I have. But you don't have as much time as you think. And how you live the life you're in right now is completely up to you. Why didn't you? That's the question you should be asking. Why didn't you right yesterday? Why didn't you? If you need to do something, why aren't you? Hey, I have to spend money to do this. Why aren't you? Hey, I have to change how I eat. Why aren't you? I should have done this thing yesterday and now it's going to take me twice as long today. Why didn't you? I should have bought that thing yesterday, but now today it cost me 10 times more. Why didn't you? I have to fix this thing, but now it's broken much worse. And I have to replace it, not just repair it. Why didn't you? I had to sit down and have a conversation with my wife or my husband, and it would have saved my marriage. Why didn't you? If I would have done this and this, I wouldn't be in this position. I'd be over there. Why didn't you? And it to say hindsight is 2020. All it takes is action. You can predict your future by doing what like through whatever you do today. Why didn't you and why aren't you is a very they're both very real questions that your future self is going to ask. Why didn't you? Your future self is going to ask you if you choose to stay where you're miserable. Because you can upend all of this, but all you got to do is jump. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.