Every time I come out here, I said it to my wife Brandy, I'm going to war. To you guys, it might just be a studio and a podcast, but I'm going to war against mediocrity and average and all the people that are lying to themselves and everybody else and every one of you, lying to you guys about how it's okay to stay where you are, even though you hate it or that it should be easy. I'm going to tell you how to get everything you want on this one. If you miss any vlog, first of all, that's ridiculous. I give the secrets away. I don't ask for a a single thing from you guys. Nothing. I just come out here and I give you the truth and tell you how to do it. But I'm going to give you exactly how to build whatever you want. Business, life, marriage, I don't care. Fitness, just listen to this entire thing and you'll see what I'm talking about. But everybody is saying it should be easy. It's not easy. So, if you think it should be easy, you may as well swipe right, go watch some Pornhub or something. But I look at social media and YouTube, even television. Everyone lately has some special hack or course that if you apply it will grant you some kind of magic genie where everything you want will just happen. I'm going to tell you something. All of that is crap. All of that is crap. The guy who tells you his script closes more deals. The program that changes your frequency to align with the universe. The course that teaches you how to go viral with every post. The workout that takes 20 minutes but you'll be jacked in a month. All crap. All of it. All of it. But you guys know that. You guys know that. Like I'm probably the most real man out here with the exception of a handful of other guys who think the same way that I do. And all of us know how it's done because we've all done the same thing. We've done the work. But not just the work. We've done the work in the direction we wanted to go and refused to do work in any other direction. And when people hear that, you guys, they get disappointed because they've been bombarded by all of this hokey [\h__\h] These nonsense coaches, these gurus who tell you all about their success and the method they used and how it's this proprietary system that nobody else knows. And then of course they want it, right? People want it. They want that magic system because they think it's going to be this epic secret that when they open up the email and it's going to tell them to click here, they're going to be rich and jacked and have all the girls that they want. That's the kind of [\h__\h] that's online nowadays. Nobody is coming out here for free, giving you the real answers and telling you how to do it all and showing up day after day with the truth and real tactics, real strategies like I am. Nobody. And yes, there's a blueprint, but it doesn't cost you any money. The barrier to entry is your willingness to keep going long after you want to throw in the towel and say the hell with all of this. I'm going back to my same shitty life because it's easier even though I hate it. So if you're not willing to go allin and extricate yourself completely from the life and beliefs and psychology of everything you're in right now, you cannot win. You don't deserve to win. You don't deserve to win. I'm so tired of hearing these coaches tell you that they have a secret that nobody knows. Everybody knows. Everybody knows how to lose the weight. Everybody knows how to get rich. Everybody knows how to get the guy or girl. Everybody knows. If you looked at your life right now, just listen to me. If you looked at your life right now, there's something you're not doing. You know it. You know what it is. But if you went just a little deeper and asked, "What's the one thing that I should be doing?" Not all of the things. One thing that I should be doing that I know I can do that I also know that I'm not doing and lying about it. But if I did this one thing to the best of my ability, it would put me on a trajectory on a path to get everything that I want. What's that one thing? But most people won't do that. Instead, you guys like people will question. They'll here's what and in fact this is what people will do. They'll ask the question they'll do that what's that one thing but they'll come up with some impotent mediocre task [\h__\h] action that a monkey could do just so they can say I did it and it didn't work. It always works. You're asking a stupid question. You're not going deep enough. you're not having a hard enough conversation with yourself. Because if you wake up every day and you ask that question that I just told you to ask again and again, eventually you work your way through all of the tasks necessary to get the exact life you want, but it's work and it's hard and it should be. Most of you don't deserve to win whatsoever. I want everybody to win, but I demand that they earn it. People don't like that because you're demanding just that you raise that's here's why you're demanding that you raise like that's I'm demanding that you raise your standards. That's what people say. You're demanding that I you raise my standards or I raise my standards. When people are asked to raise their standards, it makes them uncomfortable. They don't like it. But here's why. Because now they can't hang around the same people. They can't do the same things. They can't go drinking. They can't get high. They can't play video games. They can't do all of the stupid distracting things they've been doing. So, they have to look at themselves and they have to look at their lives and the actions they've taken on a daily basis to come face to face. They have to come face to face with their own arrogance and their ignorance about the amount of time they have on earth and the amount of time it takes to win. And it's uncomfortable. It takes time. Yet most of you guys wait, right? This is what you say. You just I'm gonna wait. Wait until you've saved a little more money or you want to you banked a little more time or until the kids have grown up or until you meet the right girl or your business makes a little more money or you move out of your mom's basement or until you're a little older or a little less fat or all the other lies that you live in just so you can say and just so you can say you're working on it, but stay in the place that's comfortable. But where you are is painful comfort. You want more and you hate where you are and you damn well know it. That's why you keep coming up with distractions so you don't have to look at yourself. People come up with distractions so they don't have to look at themselves and that pathetic life that that they've created for themselves. And somebody's going to be like, "Oh, that's mean to say that." It's not mean. It's not is it it's mean and offensive to tell the truth. It's required. But here's the problem. How if you can't do that? If it's mean and offensive to tell the truth, how can you create the life you want if you can't even tell yourself the truth and get honest? You can't. People say, "I don't have the money. I don't have the money to invest in this, to create this, to buy this, to do that. All things that are going to take them in the right trajectory." Yes, you do. You just don't want to invest it in something that will demand you you work. That's it. You will not put the money into what demands that you work to get the return. You want to give the money so you immediately have the return. Yeah, everybody would love that. That's not how it works. People go, "I don't have the time." Yes, you do. You just don't want to give up your entertainment and distractions because you'll have to look at your own life. I don't have the energy. Yes, you do. You have it every time you go to the bar or you play Call of Duty or you binge watch Game of Thrones or have sex with your wife. You have the energy. You don't want to give up the entertainment shortterm for the benefit long term. Listen, you aren't you aren't where you want to be. Not because of some secret that everybody has, but because you believe it's something that you don't possess that they do. Do you understand the difference? It's not because of a secret somebody has. You simply keep trying to convince yourself that somebody has something you don't, which is why they're winning and you're not. You're lazy and you're a coward. So, here's the I'll tell you how to do it. And if that bugs you and it sticks you the wrong way, good, because it should. When are you going to get angry enough at yourself instead of gaslighting and blaming everybody else for your actions? When are you going to do that? Because the moment you do that is when you actually can start winning. I could do this all day. I just don't want to. So, here's the way to get everything you want on Earth. I'll just lay it out for you. I'm going to go over this one time because if you're too ignorant or inattentive to pay attention, then you're too stupid to deserve victory. You need to get clear. You need to get clear out of about everything that you want. Everything crystal clear about how you want your entire life to look. How are you going to hit a target that you don't even know what it looks like? How you I'm talking crystal clear. Most of you guys are wandering around hoping to bump into success and wonder why you die broke and alone. Get clear. I want a Lamborghini. I don't care if you want a Lamborghini. It's an example. I want a Lamborghini. What kind? What year? What color? What do the rims look like? What does the interior look like? What does the stitching look like? How many miles on it? Is it brand new? Is it year- old? Every single thing about it. I want this many zeros after the one in my bank account. In my investment accounts to the penny. What accounts? What investments? What bank accounts? What bank are you at? I want my house to look like this. Okay. What color are the walls? How many bedrooms? How many stalls for all of your cars? Does it have a lift for your cars? Does it have a gym? It should. Does it have a pool? How many homes do you have? Is there security? Where's the home? Every single detail. How many bathrooms? Are you on a mountaintop? Whatever. You should know how many gallons your pool holds when it's full. Details matter. Details matter more than anything. And this is where people get tripped up. This isn't This isn't going to help me. This is exactly what you need to do. What about your body? Like, what do your abs look like? What does your chest look like? People are afraid to want to look like a superhero. And yet, that's all I knew growing up. Superheroes. What does your body look like? Yes, it matters. Your kids should look at you like you're [\h__\h] Superman. If they don't, you're screwing it up, not them. Your relationship with your children is your responsibility, not theirs. So, demand more from yourself, not them. They're just following you around like they're supposed to, taking notes, emulating you. So, if you are a fat, sloppy, beanag of a man who's scrambling to pay for coffee, your kids are taking notes. That's embarrassing. I could not allow my children to see me like that and try to convince them that they don't need wealth or fitness because they have a fat beanag daddy's love while they live in a neighborhood where houses are getting broken into or can't even get groceries. It makes me angry. You all make me angry. All of you who are choosing to pour lies into kids. All of you who are choosing to pour lies into the minds of your children that not having money, not being fit, not having an exceptional marriage, that's all okay because that's all secondary to your hugs and parent teacher interviews and gold [\h__\h] stars on a report card. One day you're going to be gone and they're going to have to lean on the knowledge that you left them and gave them to survive. How the hell can they become exceptional if you never were? You need to make an entire vision for what you want your life to look like. Your that kingdom that you are walking towards every day at the end that you just every step you take is towards that that right down to the last pebble. And then here's the second part. Then cuz now you know what it looks like. Every detail. Once you've done that, the next thing you do is you look at the trash bin dumpster fire of a life that you've gotten in yourself into. But you look at it, right? You created this life. You are where you are because of what you've done or not done. What you thought or not thought. There's nobody else that's at fault except you. Get over yourself. But you need to look at that life now through the lens of someone already in the life that you just created. You need to scrutinize everything, every detail. Be a nitpicky [\h__\h] Oh, he's doing that wrong. He's doing that wrong. That's a mistake that's costing him. Oh, he went the wrong direction there. You need to poke holes in your life as if you're going through an audit. triage your life while writing all of this down. Don't do this in your head. Don't sit there on some park bench going, "I'm just manifesting all of this. You got it. You got it, Spartan. Don't be gay." Do this the right way. Write it all down. Every detail about your current life. Yeah. The life you're in. Write down every single detail about the [\h__\h] pile you're living in. No validations. No, well, I'm here because of you don't understand my situations. I have one lung. I started in a wheelchair four years ago with no money, no house, no nothing, no self-worth, and no body. Don't even start with me with your validations. Who cares? If you can't be honest here, you'll never win at this stage. If you can't be honest, you cannot win. It's impossible because you're trying to fulfill a lie. And the universe and God look at you and go, "You're lying." But see, now you have a very clear picture of where you are. And it hurts and it sucks and you don't want to look at it. Look, here's the last part. You spend every second of your day doing whatever it takes to make your current life look exactly like the life that you've created. If it doesn't, I'll make it easy. If it doesn't move you in the direction of what you want, you refuse to do it under any circumstances whatsoever. This is where you guys all screw this up. You make exceptions. You allow options. You look for an easier path while complaining about how hard it is to reach the goal. You keep throwing [\h__\h] in the way. If you eliminate every option except what will move you in the precise direction of your target, you can't help but hit those targets 100% of the time. You want to know what that means? That means that you spend all of the money. You spend all of the time. You spend all of the energy, everything you've got every day as long as it's in the direction of what you want because you know that where you're going is a 100% guarantee. So you don't worry about going zero right now. you'll get more. Listen, some of you guys right now, you're like, "What actions do I take, though? It's not that simple." Yes, it is. I've done it. I'm the one with a nice watch in the studio where I came from nothing four years ago, three and a half, nothing. You guys have got to understand that just because I did it, I don't have some magic special power. In fact, I started with less than almost everybody listening to this and I'm coming out here to go here's how. Yeah, you bet your ass I think you should join my mastermind because I come all this is in there. Except then you have someone you can throw questions at 24/7 365 who's going to answer it but you guys half the time are so [\h__\h] cheap you'll spend 1,600 bucks on a phone. my mastermind if you get it off of this my unbreakable master it's 144 live calls with me every year if you don't like to be held accountable don't join plus every single course that's in there how to sell how to create a business how to build social media how to run I mean you name it is in there this is four years of every single thing I've ever done that's worked so all my scars are the lessons you don't have to take and it's all on video done by me not some weird AI [\h__\h] it is me it is a huge community of people that only want you to win. So, I don't let people in that don't want to win. $1,500. It is a $25,000 a year mastermind. $1,500. If you come from this, yeah, it is 100% a pitch, but why you wouldn't do it is absolutely beyond me. $1,500 for the whole year. You guys will spend that on a television. Let me know if you get paid by that TV. I'm all in. I'll buy your course for you at full price because you're not making money off of your entertainment. But you wait. I have a guy that went through five credit cards just to pay 1,500 bucks. He's the most gangster stud of a human being because he went, "I want this. I need this." I respect him more than someone who just plunked down a Centurion card. You guys are missing the point. I get it. You've been burned some You're all cynical and skeptical because there's all kinds of [\h__\h] coaches and courses out there that you get in and you go, "This is garbage. It's some AI generated PDF or some useless simpy coach that's whining about how I thought money would be good, but it's not. You shouldn't earn money at all, but let me help you be successful. Get out of here. I am the most real guy on earth, but the barrier to entry is you're going to pay to be in my mastermind. You decide 25 grand." And I say that people [\h__\h] then I just won't join. then then don't succeed. When you have an opportunity sitting in front of you, you squeeze the trigger. That's what winners do. Everybody else comes up with a reason why they can't. 1,500 bucks. Send me a message. Just says, "Yes, I'm in." Three words. Yes, I'm in. Send it to my Instagram, Dr. Trevor Bachamire. I'll send you a payment like for 1,500 bucks. You want lifetime access to it? $4,997. I've said it before. I'll say it again. Every time I say it, I should get fulled with people. I do. I should. Every one of you guys that hears this should go, I'm in. If you are struggling, if you don't have the money you want, the relationship you want, the business you want, the mindset you want, the psychology you want, the community you want, the friends you want, all of it, you need to join the unbreakable mastermind because it is the only place on earth where that is all I do. Solve your life equation. All the problems you have on one side so you can get to the vision you have on the other. Don't take my word for it. Look at all the testimonials I've got. Look at the posts I make with people in it. How many people are actually in that mastermind? It's not three people. You have to ask yourself, do you want it? Because if you do, it's whatever the [\h__\h] it takes. So, there's the pitch. 1,500 bucks, one year, or 25 grand. Take your pick. But I'm sitting here trying to hook you up so you have something. So you can be in there. You know what? You come in at 1,500 bucks and you go, "This sucks. I hate everything about you and everything that's here. [\h__\h] I'll give you your money back." Because I know how good this is. Nobody else has a mastermind like this. Everybody else is salesy [\h__\h] I'm as raw and gritty. So if you don't like raw and gritty and real, you're not going to like me. But if you want to win, you're going to love me on all fronts. I don't care if you need to lose weight. It's not a workout program, by the way. Somebody asked me that. None of this is a workout program. I get it. There's all these [\h__\h] workout programs out there going, "Let me tell you how to get jacked." None of this is a workout program. I don't even have a workout program, just to be clear. So, if you're joining to get a workout program, don't. I don't have one. You're going to do my workouts. If anything, I'll just send you a copy of what I'm doing today. Good luck. Enjoy. I hope you just [\h__\h] smash it to bits. I want to see it. I actually want you to win. Like nobody cares as much as I do about you guys, but it makes me so angry that you're looking for the easiest thing to do thinking you deserve the victory until you're willing to sacrifice every single thing you've got till you are bleeding. You don't want it. Whatever the current ecosystem is trying to tell you, you don't want it. You shouldn't have to work that hard. That's not healthy. Then don't. But quit whining about where you are because the biggest [\h__\h] move you can do is complain about where you are, wish it were better, and do nothing about it or look for the easiest solution thinking that's going to change. It's not. Like I said, so that means you spend all the money, you spend all the time, you spend all the energy, everything you've got every single day as long as it's in the direction of what you want and you eliminate every single option other than what you need to do to make where you are look like where you want it to where you want to be. Cuz now you got a target. And so here's the question. How do I do that, Spartan? What? How do I know what actions? This isn't a good example. Yes, it is. I'll even give you that. I'll give you Listen, I've sat down with my elite one-on-one clients who pay me an incredibly large amount of money to help them. And this is the stuff we talk about. So, I'll just give it to you. So, here's what you do. Since most of you are going to walk around bumping into each other, trying to figure out what to do first. So, here you go. If you haven't figured it out yet, yes, I'm disappointed in mankind. Because you guys are choosing to be less. Stop validating less when inside your soul you know you're meant for more. So here's what you do. You look at each aspect of the new life that you're going to build. Every aspect of that. Remember I said details matter. So you look at every single thing. What are the precise and exact actions that need to be taken in order to get the house that you want? Let's use that as an example. I don't care if it's a palace. I don't care if it's Novonstein in Europe. If you know what it is, you do. If you don't, it looks like the Disney castle. I've been there twice for real with my parents. I love the fact that my parents took me there. It's one of the coolest things. On a quick side note, my parents took me all over Europe looking at castles and we had no money. How the [\h__\h] they managed to do that, I really don't know, but we went to Germany at least a dozen times and Europe and Austria and all these places. Cool as [\h__\h] So, I thank them for that. But if you want this house, whatever the vision is that you want this palace of a house with garages full of cars or a pool or you want it built on the water, I don't care what it is. Your vision, not somebody else's. Okay, you need money, right? Okay, how do you earn the money? These are the questions you need to ask. I'm not just listen. What problem can you solve in exchange for money? Which I do in my mastermind, by the way. Now, are you getting it? The problem I solve is coming up with all of this stuff for you. And I'm very good at it. Oh, I'm the best at this. It's not an arrogant statement. I really am because I've suffered through it to get here. But that's what I do in my mastermind. So now you know, now that's the problem I solve. So what problem are you going to solve? What problem can you solve in exchange for money? How much money do you need? How many times do you need to solve that problem until you have enough to buy the house or build it? Do you need to learn a new skill to solve that problem? Okay. What skills or what skill? What about the body? What are all the things you need to do to get jacked, to lose the weight, to get fit, to get healthy? If you're fat, you need to eat less, right? So, how much less? 500 calories less a day is a great start. Not 500 more every day. Just take off 500 and stay there until you hit the weight you need to hit. What type of food should you be eating? What type what what type of food should you not be eating? Let's use common sense. What type of exercise? How are you going to track it? go line by line through every single action that you need to take in order to hit every single target and aspect of that new life. You just need to keep chopping them up into smaller and smaller bite-sized pieces until you can fit each one of those actions in one day. You know what you have now? A list of hundreds of actions that if you do each one, remember everyone takes a day. You have hundreds of actions on pages and pages of paper. I was looking for my journal because I write them in there that if you do each one, they will result in the life that you created at the beginning while pulling you out of the mud that you're in right now. It's not going to be easy if you go, I thought it would be easier. Expect it to be even harder than you can imagine. Every day, take two or three things from that list of actions that you've just created and do them to the best of your ability. and then check them off and repeat that the next day on the next set of actions. You guys will spend 14 hours a day playing video games, looking up secret levels and walkthroughs and planning character builds, but you won't do this in real life. You're the main character of this video game. You should be spending every second of your day upgrading your real life player. You listen, I just gave you a blueprint that works, by the way. It always works 100% of the time. And most of you won't do it because you're too lazy and too addicted to your problems and your excuses. You guys think why solve a problem when you can just complain about it. That's how you guys think. The ones who want the exceptional life know they must become exceptional people. And they know that happens along the way in pursuit of the kingdom they've built that they want. You become exceptional on the journey to be to become exceptional. Do you understand that? You want the exceptional life. You become exceptional along the way by the work and the suffering and the struggles and that adversities that you overcome. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.