So, welcome to the Unbreakable podcast. I am Dr. Trevor Bachmire. Most people call me the Spartan, and I've already told you the reason why, but I've been that for well over half a decade at least. I'm going to talk to you about making money today. And honestly, and how to do it like for real. None of these fluffy open this store, set up this app, you're going to be rich in two weeks. None of that. How to make real money, generational wealth. But you have to be willing to listen and do the work. Wealth-b buildinging podcast or your investment podcast or whatever YouTube channel or social media influencer with a fancy car that's going to tell you you don't need another book or a vision board or another goal setting seminar. You sure as hell don't need another 2 3 4 5 10 minute hack to manifest wealth. What you need is that you need to admit that you have been halfassing your entire life. You need to look yourself in the eye in the mirror and then just confess, hey, I've earned this poor, broke, poverty-stricken life that I'm living in. And instead of giving yourself validation and going, I'm not living in poverty. I'm above the poverty line. Dude, if you are making less than a half a million dollars a year, you're broke. And you know what people do? They get mad and go, I make $19,000 a year and I have a really great life. You'd have a better life, more freedom, and all the things you want and the safety and the options that you desperately crave at a half a million a year. Even more at a million, even more at 10 million, even more. And instead of getting upset and going, I don't I don't need money to survive. I have the love of my family. I have a great neighbor. I have a mom who loves me. Or all the other excuses you come up with, why don't you just admit the fact that you aren't willing to do the work. You need to look yourself in the eye and confess that. Understand that everything you have right now, the car, the life, the body, the broken marriage, and I will say this over and over. I will come out here and keep telling you the same thing until you guys either do it or you continue to fail and look for the next easy thing that's never going to show up. And by 80, you're going to still be complaining, making the same crappy amount of money, living in the same shitty, you know what, double wide on a rented plot of land while every single person that listens to what I tell them to say will be rich and wealthy and change generations. This isn't salesy. This isn't to make you buy something of mine. And this is just to tell you how to do it. Because where you are right now is exactly what your habits have purchased. You don't like your bank account. That's because you made a deal with laziness and procrastination and fear and average and mediocrity and all your loser friends that you hang out with that think the same way. And every day you've been cashing in on that same stupid deal. There is no such thing as unfair when it comes to success. It doesn't exist. There is no such thing as that. You guys go, "It's unfair. It's rigged. It's gamed against me." Yes, the system is designed to keep you poor. So what? Your mindset is designed to make you successful. You just allowed somebody else to install software and operating system in your mind to justify and validate being broke and you seek escape instead of advancement. The game is harsh and abrasive and people are all gunning for your position and there are infinitely more people out there to compete with than you can imagine. But the standards are so low that it's not that difficult if you're willing to stay in the game longer than they are just outlast everybody. And the rules are crystal clear. The rules of becoming successful in any capacity. Health, marriage, business, money, psychology, it doesn't matter. Effort equals return. Your effort will define your return on the investment of that effort. Discipline equals leverage. Ignorance equals prison chains. Time is your currency and mediocrity. That's the pandemic. That is that's the genocide. That is what's killing people is mediocrity and settling for it. You guys going around going my job forced me to do this. Nobody has ever forced you to do anything despite whatever leverage you think they have over you. Quit your job. Not all of us have that option. You could live in a box, couldn't you? You don't want to. Could you eat garbage out of a dumpster? You could. I've done it. Could you live in your car? You could. I've done it. Could you function with one one lung? You could. I'm doing it. The real pandemic is the addiction to mediocrity and complacency and the demand for approval and acceptance in a way that people expect others to lower their standards in order for them to feel good about the weak, low standards and poor decisions they have made on repeat to create the life that they have purchased with those habits and those decisions. They expect other people to lower their standards so they don't feel bad for where they are. Screw you. You put yourself there. I have no sympathy for you. None. You are broke because of your decisions. You are fat because of your decisions. Your marriage is gone, broken, disintegrated, or non-existent because of your decisions. You are where you are doing what you're doing, living how you're living, because of the things that you have done or have failed to do. There is no other explanation. You're unwilling to look at that because that demands that you look at yourself in the mirror and not everybody else. Get your head out of your ass and start owning your life. Because instead of owning your lack of effort, you blame the system, inflation, God, AI. You blame the [\h__\h] stars. You blame your horoscope. You blame a social media influencer for saying bad things and making your feelings hurt. Listen, I I'm not here to give you a warm fuzzy hug and make you feel like you're just petting a bunny. This is a punch in the face cuz you don't need hope. You got to start getting urgent about you need to move faster. You need to execute so much faster. You need to understand that the reason that you're not rich is because you haven't earned the right to be. You haven't done it. Not yet. But if you've got the balls to hear the truth and you've got some steel in your spine to actually do something with it, then you know what? Then ride with me for the next 40 minutes and I'll tell you. That's what I made this Unbreakable podcast for. That's what I made my unbreakable mastermind for, to help people win. But it's not for people that want a cheerleader. It's for people that want actual steps and someone that demands their accountability and will not lower their standards. I don't want your excuses to survive, man. I don't like Listen, you're not you're not lacking any information. You guys scrolling social media and looking through the next video and the next course and the next book. I don't know how many times I need to tell you this. You're not broke because of a lack of information. You're broke because of a lack of application. There is no information problem. You can get on chat GPT, ask it any question. It will give you a blueprint to do it. you just don't like the blueprint because it requires you doing work. There is more free information available on how to build wealth, real estate, crypto, business systems, tax shelters, sales, psychology, affiliate marketing. You don't even have to stand up. You can keep your big butt on the couch. Just open your phone, type it in. Anything. Whatever it is that you want to learn, it's right there. But what do people do instead? They go on social media, get the comments, drop hate, drop anger, drop bitterness, and then gossip with their friends about how they hate somebody that has all the things they want. And then they culp by seeking escape and distraction, watching television, drinking booze, taking a bunch of drugs, and eating food until they're addicted to 12 different medications that are keeping them alive. They critique millionaires on Instagram while ordering Door Dash with maxed out credit cards. Every one of you guys knows enough to win. You just don't do enough to win. You're not. Just because you are curious and you know what direction to look does not mean you are capable. Looking doesn't mean doing. Reading doesn't mean you're an expert. I could read all the books I want on something until I apply it. It's worthless information. And in this era that confusion is going to bankrupt you psychologically, spiritually, mentally, emotionally, and financially for sure. It's not an access problem. You just aren't hungry. You are not starving enough. Because even when you are, somebody comes and gives you a handout. And if they don't, you get mad at them. Even though it is your fault for where you are, it is your fault that you are broke, alone, miserable, and living with your mom in her basement, even though you're 42. It is nobody else's fault but yours. But you can sit there and complain about it long enough where somebody somewhere is going to give you money. So there's no incentive. What if you were going to die? You'd figure it out or you'd die. And if you die, that's one less person. That's welcome to natural selection. Then I don't know what to tell you. It's not an information issue. You need some repetition and it needs to hurt. You need to do something and just go, "Fuck, that hurts. Do it again. [\h__\h] that hurts. Do it again." It needs to be and you need to be relentless on that follow-through. You need to be so ruthless and violent with your execution on all the boring things that you don't want to do because until you prove otherwise honestly you're broke, chubby, fat ass, all that failure. This is I love you. I really do. But that's the jagged pill that most people are just not willing to swallow. But yet it's the truth. The moment that you admit, you just have to admit it. But you don't want to because then the onus goes on you. But the moment that you admit that you enough to get rich, you do. And if you don't, you can find out like this. But the moment you do that, that means you also have to admit you're the reason that you're still broke. See, maybe you should just start asking. I've said this, I will say this over and over again. The quality of your life is predicated on only two things. The quality of conversations you have with yourself and the quality of questions you ask yourself. So maybe ask yourself better questions. What piece of knowledge have I already learned? I already know it's already filed away that I'm not applying. What piece of knowledge do I have that I know it'll change my life if I just do it that I'm not applying? Why? What's the reason? Why? Why not? Because everybody acts like they're being held back by some horrific conspiracy that is dedicated to screwing up their life. Except that's not the case. You are being held back by your refusal to dominate. You want the results of a leader. But you can't even master chat GPT and get the answers and then follow it up with the action. You just read the answers and read more answers. That's why you lose it. It's because you're incapable. Stop letting people tell you that because it's not the truth. You're not incapable. You think your ignorance is a shield. It's not. It's a cage. You think you're disciplined because you watch a YouTube video that tells you how to invest in crypto, but you don't even know what dollar cost averaging is, or you complain that Bitcoin's a scam. And yet, had you put a dollar into Bitcoin in 2009, you'd have well over hund00 million in your account right now. Somebody will tell you how to set up your taxes and your corporation and your trusts, but you just look for the next thing because it's too much work. Somebody will tell you exactly how to start a Shopify business, but you won't do it. You could start a lawn cutting business right now. Hell, you could go out and buy laundry mats non-stop and it is a neverending cycle of money because they will never go away. But you look for reasons to go, "That's not true. That's going to go away. I'm looking for something else." Then it isn't AI that's coming for your job. It's you. You're the AI. You're just trying to blame something. So when you do crash and burn, you can blame. Still you, man. Blame all you want. It doesn't change the facts. It has nothing. You watch these videos and read these books and take these courses, but you haven't done a damn thing yet. Show me your bank account. Show me the receipts. Show me the reps. Show me your consistency. There is no hidden mystery to being successful or winning. There is just a graveyard full of people who wanted to but never did. And almost all of them look just like you. It's not the absence of knowledge that destroys man. It never is. It's the presence of excuses. Because when you begin to realize that potential is measured not by intelligence, not at all, not by a long shot, but by the courage to act on what you already know, you stop searching for new tools. You stop looking for new blueprints. And you just use the tools you've already been neglecting. That's how you win. You have everything already. But you need to read another blog about Bitcoin and now you think this is the best part. You'll read something and because you're a headline reader, you immediately think you're an expert just enough to be dangerous to yourself and everybody else because you give advice that has no substance. There's nothing behind it. Because if somebody goes 5 minutes into a conversation with you, they realize you are dumber than dirt. But you read a blog about crypto and the fall of Bitcoin and now you think you're Warren Buffett. Listen, you've got more tabs open on your screen than opportunities and zero closed deals to show for it. How about you close your browser, you close your phone, you turn off everything in your life except one thing, grinding, and becoming successful and wealthy. Do the damn thing already. You already know what it is. And and if you don't think that's the case, that's because you're looking at your excuses. Focus, feeling, action. You don't have a money problem. You don't. There is so much money in the world. So much. You have a time leverage problem. You think you're broke because of your job or the economy or AI or your neighbor or some mishap or catastrophe that happened or the fact that somebody died in your life or you got sick or you had to pay for something or your lack of opportunity. Wrong. That is absolutely wrong. You are broke because you keep thinking time is endless. You burnt hours arguing with your spouse. You scroll Instagram, Tik Tok, you get in Twitter fights. X obviously now, right? You compare your path to all of the influencers on a cell phone who lap you over and over again in output before you've even made your coffee in the morning. I've done more by 6 a.m. than most people do in a month. And you think that's bragging? I'm telling you because it's possible. Because I'm a 52year-old man with gray in his beard and one missing lung. I should not be beating you because I started 4 years ago. You can't say you've had all this time to acrew all this wealth. I started at zero less than four years ago. Listen, let me break something down to you. Time is wealth's oxygen. I know the value of oxygen because I'm running on half of what I'm supposed to be having. Most of you are suffocating with a big giant shade eatating grin on your face because you think wealth comes from stacking cash. Wealth comes from stacking decisions, smart ones, repeatedly over and over again with so much urgency that everything else falls by the wayside. What you do with every hour determines whether you compound into wealth or regret. And you will know either one because if this is making you mad, you already know the one that I'm talking about. You're living in regret. Poor people trade time for money. We all know this. Rich people buy time with money. Dan Martell is an incredibly intelligent man. I have a lot of respect for this guy. He has sold not one company, multiple companies. He is worth many millions of dollars, hundreds of millions, and he manages portfolios and he teaches you what to do. And his book is all about buying back time. You should read it and apply it to your life because rich people buy time with money. the truly powerful, the extremely epically successful collapse time with execution. So, you can do all that, but you're too busy trading your hourly wage, your salary, and you're like, I make 100 grand a year. I make 100 grand in a week. I know people that make 100 grand in a day. When you listen, it it's you have a choice. There's no shortage of money. There is a massive shortage of application. When I hear somebody say, "I just don't have the time to start that business." You're right. You're right. And don't argue anymore. Let me find your time. Let me open your phone and look at your screen time and all this stuff. But you know what? No, you're right. You are right. Because you have already spent your time on distractions, dopamine, and dog [\h__\h] priorities. You spent your future on the cheap, embarrassing currency of comfort. But you listen, if you want to change the game, if you really do, if you want to bend reality to your will and your will is in the right direction, then your schedule needs to start looking like a war plan, not a Pinterest board. Listen, time is going to murder you anyway. You better fight it cuz you're don't even understand your time is winning at eroding your life. And you guys are waiting till tomorrow. And I said it the other day where I said, "You're not doing any of the work today, but you're waiting tomorrow to do all the things that you know you should be doing today." When you have less time, you don't have more time tomorrow. You have less. But you're going, I'm going to do more work tomorrow even though I'm doing none today because tomorrow I'll be in a better place. No, you won't. You will be in a worse place. And tomorrow it's going to cost you more, take longer, and be less effective. But you're so [\h__\h] stupid and ignorant that you go, "No, I'm going to wait a weekend. Then I'm going to put down my credit card. Then I'm going to apply myself. Then I'm going to go to the gym." That is why you're fat, poor, embarrassing, and honestly should just be knocked off this planet because I have no sympathy for people like that anymore. You are wasting oxygen. It bothers me a lot because you are disgusting. You are disrespecting the time that God has given you to become everything because you think you are owed something for existing. You're not owed anything. You're lucky you're even here. Cuz if we went back any amount of time when you had to hunt to survive, most of you guys would be dead or eaten. Maybe it' be a good thing. You need to apply everything every day. And if you have something that you need to do, start today. You need to spend the money. I don't care how scared you are, how broke it's going to make you in the moment. If you spend, look at my mastermind. Lifetime $4,997. Five grand. You'll never pay me again. This is a real mastermind where you get 144 live calls every year. Real questions, real answers, real tactics for business, real psychological hacks, and fixing all your limiting beliefs, solving anything from marriage to cancer all the time. over a thousand videos on sales training, marketing, branding, mindset, fitness, injury, rehab. You name it, I have done it because I've been doing this for so long. I've never missed a day for almost four years. All that content's back there. Online, offline, personal development, coaching, training, all of it. It's all in there. And you go, I don't have five grand, but you will run out and drop that on a new car. You're an idiot. You deserve to starve to death. I have no sympathy for you. and you're embarrassing your wife should leave you and find a better dude. Take it however you want. I have no sympathy for you if you aren't willing to go allin on creating a better version of yourself and you are dragging your wife and your kids down with you because of your arrogance because you think you know. But to know and not to do is not to know, which means you don't know a damn thing. And you think that you have every right to wait till tomorrow even though the life you're in is costing not just you, but costing your family. I hope your wife leaves, takes the kids, finds a better dude, and you struggle and suffer in a dumpster for the next 50 years because you deserve it. You selfish prick. You are hurting other people because of your ignorance, because of your misery, because of your toddler conduct in on social media getting into comments going, "Not everybody wants to be rich." No, you're right. Your version of rich is different than mine, but everybody wants options and freedom. Don't ever tell me otherwise. What? How about you ask this? You're just wasting time. What are the top three time wasters in your daily routine? Start with that. Well, what would happen to your bank account if you just eliminated those for 90 days? I'll bet your bank account would increase if you just did that. Like, you waste time and then you cry about not having a Lamborghini or a Porsche. I'll tell you why. Because you scroll like a coward but run your mouth like you're such a big shot. The only difference between rich and poor is what we do with the same damn 24 hours. You spend time performing weakness. You're an actor and a shitty one. That's why you're still fat, broken, embarrassingly embarrassingly low in your relationship. I spend my time conquering my time. Why? Why aren't you like I I've watched people pass away whether it's at the hospital or anywhere else. You think you got time? August I laid in a hospital bed and texted my wife and I didn't think I was going to make the next day. And you know what? Couple of months before that I had thought I had all the time in the world. I almost died. Two angels in that hospital. Third one was my wife, a married one. She's called herself that since the day I met her, I'm your angel. I'm here to save you. She said that. Who says that? An angel. And I talked to God and I went to war with what was trying to kill me and I'm still here. But you think those people that died, you think they didn't have plans, too? You think you got time? You don't have time. You think you got options? You don't. Until you become financially free and physically powerful, you do not have options. Every hour you waste is another rep that you missed. It's another version of you that you could have built, but what? You either never miss or you stay broke. It's very frustrating to come out here and do this because I already know what most of you guys are thinking. You guys turn into a bunch of babies and complain and then go, "This guy's mean. He hurts my feelings." Good. I hope it [\h__\h] hurts. You all need to have somebody go old school on you and say, "Go out back, cut me a switch," and then have them beat the [\h__\h] out of you a little bit. Because one of the most tragic psychological phenomenon is a belief that there is more time. The avoidance of meaningful action disguised as preparation is a slow and painful suicide. And time is not something you manage. It's something that you wield and leverage with precision and sacrifice and the knowledge that your mortality is on the line and it's the deadline. Listen, how many people have you like you ever meet people they like I meet people all the time and they're just I'm going to start next Monday. I'm an investor. I'm going to buy your program next week. I got this money. It's coming in. It's going to go to you. I had an expiry date for a certain program I was running. It expired two days ago. I had one ask me for the extension. The other one ghosted me cuz he doesn't have the money yet, which means he ain't going to get in. These guys go out. I'm going to start next Monday. Yeah. Except that dude that tells you that you all know somebody. It might even be you. Look in the mirror. Oh, I'm going to start next Monday. Listen, if your plan starts next week, it's never starting. It's never starting. Time is not waiting for your emotional hangover to wear off. Get off your ass and start now or shut the hell up because the hidden t you pay this. There is a tax you are paying every day. I've said this before too. You are always burdened with tax. Now, I think taxation is theft when it comes to finance and government, but that's a whole other conversation, a whole other podcast. But there is a tax that you are personally paying, not to the IRS, not to the franchise tax board, not to the government or some loan or lean or anything like that. It is to your own ignorance and stupidity. It's not a money problem. It's not even an income problem. It is a behavioral problem just like obesity, just like depression and anxiety. You want money. You want wealth. But you sabotage it with every arrogant, ignorant, emotional, lazy ass decision that you make. You know what keeps most men broke? Listen, it's not an opportunity problem. There are so many. If you called me right now, I bet I could give you at least a dozen opportunities to become a millionaire inside of 12 months. It's not an opportunity. It's the fact that people choose to be stupid every single day. Here's what stupid looks like. You grab your phone and you scroll. you see a comment that makes you mad, you spend an hour coming up with something witty and typing back how you feel really good about it. And then you check every two minutes to see if that person replied. And then you look and get in a Reddit forum and you support that stupid conduct. And that and then you tell your wife or your husband. And then you sit around and you stew about it and you look for evidence to support why you were right. And then you look up all of their entire life while they are making money and you are in their comments. You [\h__\h] You buy [\h__\h] that you can't afford so you look rich to everybody else around you. But you can barely make the payments instead of just investing and becoming rich. You guys chase comfort instead of compounding returns. And you guys hate on Bitcoin, by the way, because you don't have any. So knock it off. You can get rich in the stock market, Bitcoin, real estate, laundromats, lawn cutting, senior care homes. I could do this all day. There are so many ways to become incredibly wealthy. And if you go, "Well, they all take money to start." No, they don't. They take you making a [\h__\h] decision. You mock what you don't understand like crypto or AI or private equity, right? Because learning something new would expose the fact that you've wasted all those years. So you go around, you laugh at what could save you and you praise what's been destroying you. How is that not acting like a toddler? That's not that's just not that's not even stupid. That's pride in stupidity. And the price is your life, your future, and everybody else that counts on you. By the way, you pay this ignorance tax, this idiot tax every time you buy fake status. Every time you refuse to listen to someone like me that comes out here for free and goes, "Here you go. I I don't care if I get money from YouTube for advertising for this. I don't care about it. I show I've showed up. This is 152 episodes I have never missed." You can't even do 152 minutes of working out in the last 10 years. You pay that ignorant tax every time you buy something fake to make yourself look certain way. You refuse to listen to people trying to help you like me. Every time you choose validation over results and escape and distraction so you don't have to look yourself in the mirror. Ignorance is expensive. But arrogance, oh man, that is bankruptcy in disguise. You want real wealth? You need to bury your ego in a graveyard filled with all of your excuses and walk out ready to learn. is screw up, [\h__\h] up, fail, bleed, suffer, fa fail again, adapt, and do it over and over again. That's what you need to be willing to because the truth is brutal. Life is brutal. It is going to railroad you. Your life right now is exactly what your level of thinking, execution, and self-respect deserves. And let me tell you, if that doesn't piss you off, man, you are gone. It's over. You may as well just end it. You got to do it yourself. What the hell do you think I'm trying to teach you? Like I Those are all belief systems, by the way. Those are operating systems you're running in your head. What belief, what operating system, what behavior, what conduct are you defending every single day that is keeping you broke? Are you ready to end it yet? Are you ready to just put it in the dirt where it belongs? Like, you are not broke because of the system. You're not broke because the man has it out for you. You're broke because you're an idiot. You're foolish. You buy dumb [\h__\h] to impress people that don't matter, to make yourself feel better, even though when the door closes, you still feel like a loser. You pretend to know more than you do. You fear embarrassment more than failing, which I can't. Many listen I remember hearing Tony Robbins say large amounts of fearless people fear public speaking more than death because they're afraid of being viewed as a failure. That's why you lose. You're just you're just soft and stupid and people go that's not very nice. What the hell is wrong with you? You can't hear the truth without getting triggered, upset, and offended going cry to your therapist. I watch people run away from their pain their whole life. But the real pain is not from failure. It's from staying. It's from staying where you are that you can't stand. From staying average. Not everybody wants to be above it. Yes, you do. Yes, you do. If you're dumb, then fix it. Become not dumb. Become intelligent. Read, learn, apply, repeat. If you're slow, train, become fast. If you're broke, work. There's a nice cube song talks all about this. Excuses are easy. Discipline is violent, ruthless war. Stop paying the ignorance tax. Start putting in reps. Arrogance is rampant and it is the shield of the fragile. Let me explain. The refusal to examine one's incompetence is a path to permanent mediocrity. That's why you stay there. Financial ignorance when sustained by ego becomes a moral failure. a betrayal of your responsibility to your future, your family, everybody that counts on you, your potential, what God gave you, and that's what you're willing to do because of your arrogance and your choices to stay arrogant. Like the people that say Bitcoin's a scam while scratching a lottery ticket, getting food stamps, that's not poverty. That's Darwin taking a smoke break. If your idea of investment advice is listening to your drunk uncle at Thanksgiving, man, you deserve to be broke. You do. I I got nothing for you. Everybody wants the dream, whatever that is. Everybody wants the dream to brag. They want the freedom lifestyle, which means they don't have to wait for approval. They don't have to ask their boss if they can take time off. They don't have to do any of that. And here's the breaking point. Almost nobody's willing to bleed for it. Nobody. The 1%. You guys think it represents something different than it really does. The 1% are the 1% willing and have and will always look at themselves as they're not doing enough. They're so far behind and they have to achieve more. Why? Because they're always looking at the next mountain after they've climbed one. You guys are going to I just want to get up that one mountain, but then I said yesterday you're busy yelling at the mountain cuz it's too high. You guys want results, but no reps, no war, no intensity. Okay, cool. That's called a fantasy. That's not ambition. That's not drive. That's not focus. That's not goals. That's a fantasy. You may as well put on VR goggles and tell yourself that's real. Fantasies are for weak people. Desire without discipline, that is mental masturbation. Period. You you guys get hyped up and start talking about how ambitious I'm going to do this. I'm going to change the world. I'm going to create this company, make all this money. Talking this big game, but your actions are quieter than a broke man's wallet. Discipline is the bridge between what you want and what you deserve. You think success is supposed to feel good. It doesn't. Success is the result of doing the same boring, unsexy, painful, horrible, often uncomfortable, and embarrassing things day after day after day. long after everybody stopped believing in you until your life is unrecognizable to the version of you that was still making excuses. That's what success is. You want to build a business? Awesome. How many cold DMs have you sent today? How many calls have you made? How many emails have you sent? How many reachouts have you done? How many CTAs have you even posted in your social media? Do you even have a business? What do you want to sell? How many times have you engaged until you made the sale today, not until you hit a certain number? You want to be shredded? Awesome. How many grams of protein did you eat today? Did you actually follow the diet that I showed you how to do where you could eat cookies and ice cream every [\h__\h] day as long as you follow the diet? No, that's too hard. It doesn't work for me. I'm a carb addict. That's different. You don't know my Hashimoto's. You don't know my menopause. Try being a woman. Try being a dude. I could go back and forth on this all day. Okay, try being a dude. Maybe you want to retire your mommy, your daddy. Cool. How much work did you do? Deep real work. Not Instagram. I'm going to tell everybody I'm working and take a picture of it. Work. Real work. Deep work. How much did you log this week? How much? Stop performing your goals on Instagram stories. How about that? How about you start there? Start doing them in real life instead of telling everybody how much work you do and not doing a damn thing. The greatest lie the modern world tells men is that desire is enough. They just have to show up. Desire is enough. It's not. Desire is a spark. That's it. Just a little. You know what starts the blaze? The confflgration, discipline, consistency. If you don't follow your desire with daily ruthless, savage, unrelenting execution, then your dream becomes your punishment because it's a constant reminder reminder of what you could have been if you just showed up and applied yourself and tried like a [\h__\h] real man. You want to know what hurts more than it just burns it? It chews up your soul. You got it's like you you got a wood chipper inside you. It hurts more than any physical pain. I promise you I'm 52 and I have I still have some. And that is regret. So the next time you feel motivated maybe ask you going to use that energy or you just going to let it die inside so you can have a little more regret. Turn on that wood chipper inside because the clock's ticking. You don't have as much time as you think. But tomorrow is harder. You have no more time than today. Tomorrow you have less time. But again, you're so arrogant that you think, "I'm going to do more tomorrow, though, bro. Don't worry. I'm just I'm coming. I'm building this. I just a couple more things to do, then I'm going to join. I have a couple more things to do. I'm going to change my diet a little bit. I got to get wait for these supplements. Then I'm going to go to the gym. I just have to wait until my schedule clears out and then I can start working out. Then I can spend more time with my wife." You're a [\h__\h] Discipline is the only antidote to a wasted life. And you will not apply yourself. How about you look at yourself and ask yourself, where are you making the mistakes? Like, where? And I'm talking the mistakes where you are mistaking desire for discipline. What are you avoiding in your life? I guarantee you there are so many actions you're avoiding. Pick one. What what action are you avoiding in your life that if you just did it today, if you just started today and you kept on doing it for at least 100 days is all that's required to change anything. At least did it for 100 days. What is that? What is that action? It would just change everything because you want this millionaire or billionaire life. And shut up about telling me that you don't. Yes, you do. But you can't even get up and make yourself breakfast or make a coffee yourself. You got to run to Starbucks. You want a kick-ass marriage and you want 10 figures and you want cars in a warehouse, but you haven't done a thousand push-ups, 100 push-ups this week. You haven't done a 100 push-ups this week. You haven't done a 100 squats this week. I don't care what you want. The universe doesn't care what you want. Wanting is worthless. Let me help you out. Leaders and killers and savages and kings and winners, they don't want. They just do. Every day they do. I was so tired yesterday in my workout. I didn't want to do anything. I got to round three and I wanted to and I justified so many reasons came through my head. My everything was hurting. My glutes, my hamstrings, my thumbs hurt from holding the bar. My hands look like sandpaper. That's what my son calls me. He got sandpaper hands are so tough. When do my hands get like that? What a cool question, by the way. When are my hands going to get like yours, dad? That's awesome. I want sandpaper hands, too. You know how cool that was when my son said that? He's 16. He's a tough kid. Like, he's beastly savage. But I didn't want to do it. So, you know what I did? I made myself do seven more rounds. I said, "You're acting like a [\h__\h] You're going to stay here and you're going to stay in the pain and stay in the discomfort and you are going to move faster and more deliberate and with more purpose and you are going to talk to God until the only voice you hear is the Spartan going, "You did good." Because you guys look for ways out. It's harder than doing the work. waking up a decade from right now in the same just weak ass life and knowing for that all you had to do is try. Man, all you had to do is try to fix it. That's it. All you had to do was try and you would have fixed it. You say all day long you want it, but your actions say you want comfort. Do something. The only way out of where you are is through the pain. When I hear people, I spent this whole year trying to cope. Cope with what? Either you want to succeed or you don't. But if you wasted an entire year of your life talking about how you were just trying to survive, you shouldn't have because you wasted a year that God gave you to do something. Discipline is the highest form of selfrespect. It is voluntary confrontation with suffering in exchange for meaning. Like to deny discipline is to deny your own potential. You're not a child. As confusing as that might be to some of you, you're not a child. You are a man and you have got to carry the weight of that responsibility. That is the cross that you bear. Desire without discipline is like a guy buying a gym membership and now thinking he's ready for the Olympics because he got a membership card. Just cuz you want it doesn't mean jack [\h__\h] You better show up, shut up, and sweat or sit back down and shut up some more because that's where you're at. Listen, I really want you to win. That's why I come out here. But you guys, you think you're because you're talented. That's even the best. You think your talent is the ticket that you're going to punch that's going to take you to the top. It's not talent, passion, confidence. None of those. That's not what takes you to the top. That's not what saves you. That's not what's going to help you win. It's not. You need to put more effort in. And not just listen, let me get real clear on that. Before somebody said, "I could work all day and I'm not going to make anything." You have to work smart and hard. Singular of focus, obsessive, precise, brutal, ruthlessly executed effort every day, every night, every week, every month, every year, every task, every rep until until done. Which means until you win, not until you feel like it. effort is what separates kings from peasants. It's what turns people that talk into people that win and do and live like a legend. The uncomfortable truth is that I honestly think most men have never even I was going to say 100% have never given 100% to anything in their entire lives, but I'm going to say probably 50% because I'll go one step further. Most men have given 100% to their excuses and their validations of their escape, their desperate seeking of approval and acceptance by people that don't [\h__\h] matter. Most men have given 100% to that. their demand for approval for being a dad bod frumpy stay-at-home impotent sad embarrassment of a man who gets on social media at 40 years old and other people's comments and tries to trash talk and hate while sitting in a living room with furniture they're still making payments on. How about you give 100% to the things that you want? Nobody wants that life, but yet you do. But most men have it. Not to not to one project or one workout. Hell, not to the marriage. I see that all the time. Not even to one day, 24 hours. You can't even do it for that. You do 50% and you expect 100% in the outcome. Monday, you wake up am you go to bed Sunday with all this laundry list of ambition and all the things you're going to accomplish. Monday, you get up, you do your routine, you smash your coffee, you get going, you get to work, you're like, "Dude, I'm going to tear this up because I don't want to work here anymore. I'm tired of this [\h__\h] cubicle. that boss, these people caring in accounting. I'm tired of all this stuff. I'm going to do this and this and set myself up to win. And by Wednesday, you're coasting. Yeah, you'll start the business. You'll get the LLC. You'll even pay for it. You get your EIN from the IRS, but you flinch when it's time to bleed for it. Like, effort isn't a sometimes thing. It's a religion. 24/7, 365. Effort comes with the discipline. Religion doesn't care if you're tired or you guys taking weekends off when you try and play the God card when going remember the Sabbath and keep it holy. The reason I say it like that is because that guy's a fraud. The reason he's a fraud is because the Sabbath wasn't Sunday. It was Saturday, first of all. And second of all, if you want the life for your kids, then you need to sacrifice now, but you're not willing to do that. So people will work 30, 40 years wondering why they're working 10-hour days, taking weekends off, and never getting to where they want to be when all they would have had to do is work 1 2 3 5 years, just go dark for real, not posting about being dark. Really go dark and never have to do anything again in their life because they have so much money. money almost seems to lose its value and then go out and do a bunch of good with it. That's what you do with money. Go out and do good with it for your family, for your generations, for people around you. Help as many people as possible. Consistency, discipline, effort, doesn't care if you're tired or doesn't take off on weekends, doesn't ask if you feel like it. You either pray with your actions or you perish with all your lies. Like you want to be exceptional, then how about you just let that daily effort become a monument to who you're becoming. Maybe just start there. This is stuff that's not complicated. You're just lazy. Because the man who commits to effort like it is oxygen is always going to outlast the man waiting for the right time, the right motivation, the credit card to clear up, one more sale, one more week, a little bit more, my kids to come out of school, to pay off my debt, to get back from work, to start this thing for next Monday. All of it. The world is not waiting for another talented man. It's waiting for a man who can't be outworked. Why don't you become that person? A man whose standard is savage. Just pure grit steel savagery. Who sees excellence as the only option. That is the only air they breathe. Most of the time I just bang the speaker with us or the mic with us. If that's not you yet, so what? Good. Because that means there's still time to earn it. You're still breathing, aren't you? Stop asking for results. How about you become somebody who demands them through all of the work, the blood, the grit, the unbreakable god tier effort. That's how what would your life look like if you gave 100% to just one area for the next 100 days. So what the [\h__\h] is stopping you from doing it? Because that effort, that disciplined effort in the right direction is the difference between a boy and a king. Nobody cares how talented you are. They care if you show up and own it. And not we're talking every day. Like while you're sleeping, I am creating. I see this [\h__\h] in my sleep. While you doubt, I'm executing. That's why I win. That's why you watch on social media and hate in the comments on everybody and anybody that has a life you want. I don't care how gifted you are. You're not going to oute me. I'm a war machine and I'm at war every morning. Effort is the dope that I smoke every day. I mainline that [\h__\h] every day. If you are not addicted to the grind, the struggle, the pain, then you are allergic to being exceptional. That's a problem between you and yourself, not between you and God, not between you and your friends, between you and that ugly fat chubby porky pig that you see in the mirror every day that you could do something about. Instead of you blame your conditions, label it, get recruited by the losers at the bottom. Listen, effort is a noble burden. It's the sacrificial offering of one's time and suffering in pursuit of a higher order. How do you guys not see this? The refusal to go allin and exert oneself fully is not humility. It's cowardice and it's wrapped up and cloaked in selfdeceit. It's nothing but lies. You've got to strive forward towards towards your potential. You guys shy away from it because you're afraid of what other people are going to say. But that's the direct you have got to move forward towards your potential. And we're talking absolution sacred ferocity with everything you've got. Most of you guys are out here. You guys all have talent in some direction, man. And you have all this talent to succeed, but you put no effort behind it. It's like owning my Rev or hell, my Silverado. No gas ever. Not willing to do the work to put gas in it or diesel. No matter what, I just go outside and look at it and polish it like a shiny dick with wheels. You're not going anywhere, slick. You're not And here's the kicker. Most of y'all are out here trying to muscle a [\h__\h] tricycle, your tiny little legs. Why? And you wonder why you're getting smoked. You just got to put in the damn work. Cuz if you're not, which is fine. If you don't want to put in the work, that's fine. That's it. That's fine. You want to stay where you are, that's fine. I don't get it's not my responsibility to take care of you, hold your hand. I come out here as something I just want to do to help as many people as possible. But I'm also not going to lose sleep if you don't change. That's on you. But then don't complain about it. You want to stay where you are. You don't want to put in the effort and you think you deserve more. You don't. So just shut up because you don't deserve [\h__\h] until you actually bleed for it. Like you want success, you want money, respect, power, legacy, fitness, marriage, sex, yachts, cars, mansions, whatever it is. Is there any action? Is there any blood? Is there any sacrifice? Are there any receipts for your effort? Or you just all bark and no [\h__\h] bite? Because here's the brutal truth. Desire without discipline is a waste of time. This is why most men die with regrets. They like the It's like they're in love. They're in love with an idea, right? You like the idea. It's what I tell people about their marriage. Most of you guys aren't in love. You're in love with an idea. Most of you women, too. You think you can you can rebuild and fix your dude. Most men like the idea of being great. They just hated the pain required to become him. And you think the world owes you success because you tried. Universe isn't your mom. It's not going to clap. When you give your best, nobody gives a [\h__\h] about your best. You know when you get paid, when you stay consistent, when nobody's watching, the man who gets paid is the man who never fesches. The man who gets paid is the one who wasn't scared to bet every single [\h__\h] penny, every minute, every ounce of energy on himself while carrying the cross uphill. You want the life, earn it. Discipline, accountability, self ownership, unrelenting savage [\h__\h] execution. And if you think that sounds harsh and abrasive, good. Either I'm not for you or I just lit a fire under your ass. Because this isn't made, this podcast, I didn't make this for little boys that want to cheerleader. This is for men and women who want to do more. They're born with fire in their belly and somehow it just burned out. It's just smoldering there. This is for people who want to be forged in pain and wake up every day and sharpen their soul and their life through effort and faith in God and blood and discipline and desire and fire and repetition non-stop. You don't need another morning routine. You need a war path that you're never going to deviate from. You need a reason. Reasons drive behavior. You need a reason so big that you'd die before you quit. Do you even have that? Look at your life. Do you have a reason that you would die? You'll die before you tap on that. You need to burn down that weak version of you that keeps showing up with the excuses and the validations and the yeah, but you don't understand my condition and I have this hormone and my doctor said and resurrect the weapon that you're supposed to be. That's the game. You don't get to whine about your life and win. You don't get to delay and make excuses and take days off and then expect to dominate. You don't get to be soft and be violently powerful. You got two choices. That's it. Burn out as a nobody or set yourself on fire. Become who you were designed to become and have everybody come by just to see you burn. Because the battlefield is your life. You do not have time. the battlefield. That's your life. Whether you like it or not, welcome to [\h__\h] war. Welcome to your world. You just have been indoctrinated to think you're supposed to sit at home and feel like you're getting a hug from mommy until you're 85. Which is why you're shaped like a potato and have a bank account that looks like a goose egg. You need somebody that is ruthless. You need me. You need an [\h__\h] I told you yesterday I'm a recovering [\h__\h] but I haven't quite made it yet. I'm still there. The battlefield for you is your life. And you only have one enemy. You, your weakness. And there's only one sword you can carry. Discipline. That's it. Discipline married to work ethic and consistency. What the hell are you waiting for? Why are you even listening to this anymore? Shut it off. What do you have? One job now. fun. So go earn it. I got to go. Never miss.