Oh man, today's a good day. It's always a good day, but today's an extra good day. I could drink coffee all day. Coffee is not bad for you, by the way, for all of you guys. This is I'm looking at myself in the mirror in the camera. I'm like, man, I am jacked. That is a result of staying committed. I think and that's what this is. Listen, I'm going to lay out seven things, seven observations that you need to make on your own life and then I'm going to give you a checklist to quickly go through your life and see if you're actually doing them and see where the holes are in your life and then the solution on how to plug them and fix them and evolve to where you want to go and have the life that you want. Whether it's like this will scale your business, it will create millionaires. It will fix your marriage. It will solve your health and fitness problems. It'll fix your own mindset that keeps you awake staring at your damn ceiling fan all day or all night when you're trying to get some rest. It'll get rid of your depression and your anxiety and all of the things that you have going on that you keep looking externally for a solution for. But this is a checklist that you can go through. So, we'll go through these and some of these you've heard before, but I'm going to keep drilling down on these until you actually understand them and you apply them to your life. Because the reason my life and please understand this comes from love. This come I love that you guys are here but this comes from a place of love. The reason my life in a lot of ways is in a better place and it seems like it's better than yours is because it is because I look at this stuff every day and I apply all of the things that I teach you to my own life every day. That's where I get all this from. I don't get this from some book or some secret blueprint that I have kicking around somewhere. This is from life experience coming up to almost 4 years where I had to completely I had my whole life dismantled and I had to I didn't have a choice. I had to completely redesign and recreate and reconstruct my life from ground up and I had a choice. I didn't have to. I could have chosen to stay where I was but then this vlog wouldn't exist and my wife would be a widow and my kids wouldn't have a father. So, this is very I this is as serious as a heart attack. And I think a lot of you guys aren't taking life seriously. But there are seven things that I'm going to tell you that you're going to go through that if you actually take a deep dive into your life and look right at what I'm telling you to look at, you will find out where your mistakes are, how to fix them, and what direction you need to go. But like I was saying, I was joking around, right? Look at this. Is I'm jacked. It's awesome. I love. Do you know why I like this? And some of you guys might go, "Listen to this arrogant [\h__\h] this egotistical asshole." Are you kidding? Do you have any idea how proud I am of what I can do at 52 years old? I've been 52 since Monday. Do you have any idea how proud I am of just the capacity I have? The fact that I can run a mile with one cylinder in seven or less? That I can run a 5K in a 22minut time. I have one lung. Listen, I know people that are healthy and fit that can't do that that have two lungs. I'll go toe-to-toe with you. When people go, "Come on, line up." See, that's the difference is I have no problem going when and where. Let's go. I invite people to do workouts with me all the time and they all talk a big game. But you know what? I don't do it because I want to show you up. I do it because I do what I say. And a lot of people don't think that I do because they're busy not following through on their own life. That's something you guys need to look at. The reason most of you guys get pissed off and angry at whatever it is you see on social media is because they're calling you out for what you're not doing and you damn well know it. But I look at myself and I'm like, Jesus, look at this. That's awesome. At 52 and just nothing but the comments I've shared, just excuses and whining and justifications and validations and blah blah blah. I have one lung. I've been through cancer more than once and I've gone through more hell than 99% of the people on the planet. You got nothing. You can validate all you want. That's your way of going. I have no follow-through. I'm insecure and I need to attack somebody else. It says everything about you, not me. So, if that pisses you off that, you're not going to vlog at all. You're not going to podcast at all. And I'm still going to call you out. I'm still going to be here. Why do I I had a guy today, it was the most funny thing. I sent him a link to a discounted offer to my unbreakable mastermind and the lifetime option, which is it's just under five grand and you get jeez, there's no pitch in this. I'm just saying you spend less just under five grand and you never have to pay again for everything surrounded by nothing but winners and high performers. I I don't know but the one-year option was significantly it's less and it's I gave him an option that I give people that when they go to my webinar which is free because I respect your time. That's why it's discounted on my webinar, by the way, because I respect your time because you're giving me your time. Even watching this, you're giving me your time. I If you don't think that matters so much to me, you're insane because I value your time so much because it is the one account that is constantly being chipped away and eroded and that people just throw away and piss away and until they're in a panic going, I I need more time. I need more time. You don't need more time. you need more respect for your time, which means you need to get your priorities handled. But I sent this guy the discounted link for that. And this was his response. I was like, "Dude, you don't want to change your life. You're [\h__\h] embarrassing." He went, "You know, I just I really have a hard time spending that much money, dude. It's like two weeks worth of groceries. Like, I spent $622 on groceries yesterday. It's slightly more than double that." Oh, no. For a [\h__\h] year. I I just really have a hard time spending all that money when I I haven't met any of them of the men in the group yet. What are you, gay? Listen, the group the barrier to entry, the cover charge is paying to join and having high standards and being resourceful enough to get in, finding the way to come up with the money. And that's cheap. One-on-one coaching with me is significantly more. That's why I built the mastermind so people have a way to do a much lower barrier to entry one-on-one coaching with me so I can help them. You don't get one-on-one coaching with me. You It's almost You can interact with me live on every call. It's three times a week. You get 144 calls a year. It's ridiculous. But he just gave me a thumbs up. I was like, "Dude, struggle ends when commitment begins, man. You can keep being a loser. I got nothing for you." When opportunity walks across your path and you find a reason to not take it, the problem isn't with the opportunity, it's with you. So, I look at myself and I go, you know what? I'm damn fit. I'm damn fit. I can run, jump, I'm athletic as [\h__\h] I can do things that that I love. And it is not like I don't train to look like this. I don't. Everybody, oh, sure you do. No, I don't. I train to get out of my head. I've said it before. I train to absolutely destroy the demons and put Satan back in the ground every time he tries to call my name because only one person can call my name. That's God. And so anytime he gets in my head and demons start chewing away at me, we're going to go to war until I'm the one standing. So the byproduct of how I train is that I'm athletic and fit. It's not the other way around. I don't train to be that way. The byproduct is that. But you know what? Most of the workouts I don't like. Very honest. I did a workout yesterday. It was front squats from the floor and pull-up variations. And it was it felt like it never ended. Like it was just dozens and dozens of these things. And it was so heavy. My legs are so sore. I don't know if I'm going to get up out of this chair later. I might just stay here. We'll have date night in my studio. But I like what I can do because of the workout. I like how strong I am. I like how agile I am. I like that at 52 years old I can do things that people that are 22 can't do. And it's not offensive. Stop getting so triggered and offended by [\h__\h] How about you just go to learn? I need to get on a You guys are looking for the cheapest, easiest, and fastest that gets you nowhere with the expectation of everything in return for your little to no output from you. It doesn't work that way. It just doesn't work that way. That's a whole other vlog. But how many days in a row can you stay on target? That's literally what I want to take because I train every day. I train every single day and like I said, this is going to be seven things. It's a checklist for your life to look at where you're screwing up. Find all the observations that I've made on other people's lives and mine and my children and my wife and we've looked at our own and where we see that things need to change and how we change them and why. But it starts with this. How many days in a row can you stay on target? You need to start there because otherwise none of this is going to have any value. Just so you know, less than a week is average, which is also shown to produce absolutely zero progress towards the target. Nothing. Zero. Nothing. So, for all of you guys thinking that you're just plugging away at whatever it is that you're trying to achieve and one day per week is going to get you there, it's not. And I'm not sorry. It's not. You're lying to yourself trying to plate yourself for the minimal effort you're putting out. In fact, what it's going to do is take you in the opposite direction because you're going to end up slacking off under the lie to yourself that you're making progress. It's valless work. It's busy work. It's like the people on the hamster wheel that think they're actually working, forgetting that they're in a cage. It's the old something is better than nothing, which isn't true. And I'll prove it. And I could go through the number of days one by one. What about two days? What about three that are required to create change that's of any value of any worth but in the interest of not taking up your entire day on empty research that's not going to serve any purpose other than probably piss you off or save you some time. Anything less than four times per week is not producing anything worthwhile. But here's why. The opposite side of that equation is also operating right. There's seven days in a week, right? So the excuses, the validations, the busy work, the victim mindset, the scattered attention, the digital dementia, all of that is constantly working against you. How many days are in a week, folks? What did I say? Seven. There are seven. It doesn't change. So seven days a week, if you're doing anything, anything outside of what's required to make progress and real hardcore progress towards your target, your goal, that that kingdom I always talk about on the horizon. Listen, that is so important out of all of this. that kingdom on the horizon that you have that you should stare at every day that should light you up and get you so amped up and just almost like frothing out the mouth obsessive run through anything that's in front of you smash down a brick wall. Go get the [\h__\h] out of my way because that is the only direction I know that kingdom on the horizon that you've built that in your head that God has built in your soul and placed in your soul. Anything less than working 4 days is more than half the time working against your own progress. It's just math. If you are working three days towards it, you are working four days against it. You can argue. You can get in the comments and argue. You can complain. You can get, like I said, get in the comments and start getting upset and quote some Google research or something you have you saw on Reddit or Kora. The hard truth is that if you are working less than half your time towards your goal, you're working more than half your time away from your goal. which means you are actively pursuing. Hear me out. You guys are actively pursuing things that you don't want more of. You you need to listen and look at this very closely in your life because a lot of people have been indoctrinated to believe that a little bit once in a while is better than nothing. That's not true. It's not true because if you believe that you're working in the right direction and at that that almost non-existent level, right, you believe that you're working in the right direction, but it's at that almost non-existent level of commitment, you end up allowing yourself to slip significantly more often. The ideal amount of time, I'll save you a whole bunch of time. The ideal amount of time, the number of days a week, the only amount that has a guarantee attached to it, by the way, of hitting your target is 7 days a week. seven days a week towards anything will get you whatever that is 100% of the time. Now, before the arguments on the fringe begin, I'm not talking about fabricated fairy tale [\h__\h] I'm talking about real, tangible, measurable goals that you can see. Money, business, marriage, relationships, health, fitness, weight loss, psychology, things like that. 7 days a week. 7 days a week. understand that you can work seven days a week on things that aren't taking you even remotely close to your goal, too. They're working the other direction. So, do you see the problem with this? You have two sides of this equation. Everybody is talking about I have to work on balance. I have to have this life balance. I have to have this work life balance. I have to have this family, work, business life balance. And there are some coaches out there. I think they shouldn't be helping anybody because they're not. They're lying to people because they go, "I finally realized I have balance in my life." No, you didn't. You finally realize that you're gay and you're actually using that your balance nonsense to absolve yourself of the personal responsibility required to get to the target that you originally set because now you lowered the target to match your weak behavior. And and that's the problem. It's 7 days a week towards your goal or nothing. That's the best way to guarantee your results. But at least go over four. So listen, I'll be fast on this one. Here are some seriously brutal observations that if you ignore these, I I promise if you ignore these, they're going to slow you down, if not all, but eliminate your chances of changing and creating the life you want. So, let's go. Now, just to be very transparent, most people intentionally avoid what most of what I'm about to tell you. So, if this sparks something, please listen to what I'm saying. If listen to what I'm saying. If this sparked something inside you that makes you go, "Holy [\h__\h] I needed this." Please hit the subscribe button. If this is on YouTube, then give me a comment. Hit the subscribe. Like the [\h__\h] out of it. If you're on Spotify and you're listening to this as the podcast version, which is going to come out all the time now. Get in the comments and leave me a fivestar rating if I've actually earned it. If I've actually earned it. That's important because I don't want a fivestar rating if I didn't earn it. I don't I'm not that guy. I'm not like gonna beg for five stars when I didn't earn it. If you're like, "Ah, that's like a that's like a one star. That was a terrible. I thought that was a stinker." And that's okay because like I put a lot of time and energy and effort into what I do to bring you guys everything I can so you guys can be successful in your life. However, at the same time, if I didn't earn it, you feel I gave you no value, don't give me five stars. But I come out here every day because I want you guys to win. So, if what I'm doing is helping you in any way, please help help us. just bust through the walls and noise on social media and the podcast platforms and get in front of as many people as we can. Share this everywhere because I want to reach everybody. I don't market this or advertise this outside of my own social media platforms and the only reason anyone sees this is because you guys are awesome and helping us to do that to do so. Thank you for that. Really that matters to me. So, thank you very much for that. All right. Now, after I've said that, let's go. All gas, no brakes. As my wife Brandy always says to me, the first thing you have to put in your head and the observation I made is risk aversion. Risk aversion, opportunity avoidance, procrastination, whatever you want to call it, this comes out as all kinds of things. I'll have to wait. It's too risky. What if it doesn't work? Let me look around a little bit. Give me a week. Give me a month. Give me another day. How about you let me try it? Ghosting, hiding, lying. All of them are doing the same thing. They're convincing yourself that waiting is the best thing for you in the moment. I have a client, I talked about him, his name is Ryan. He said the biggest mistake he's ever made was risk aversion. He wished he would have tried everything and failed a whole bunch more and he got it cost him a ton. So listen to me. This is a very successful man with a great family who regrets not taking every possible risk and taking every opportunity that rolled across his path. It doesn't matter where you picked up the risk aversion habit. It doesn't. Or what experience trained you to think that way. What PTSD you have, which are valid. I talked about it yesterday in the health vlog that I talked about with nicotine and everything. It's one of the things the factors that contribute to negative health is a psychossematic response. But I'm not going to get into that. Watch the vlog yesterday. But it doesn't matter where you pick this up. This risk aversion, it's always going to cost you. Always. Now, I know there's always somebody who's And I just had this conversation with Tasha at at the bank. I There's always somebody who's got this story of how if they didn't hesitate or wait, they would have died. day, lost millions, lost the girl, etc. But regardless of the exceptions to the rule, which there always are, but they're very few and far between. Playing the risk aversion game, the waiting game costs you every single opportunity that crosses your path. And yes, they are all important. You will always have a story about why you should delay when it comes to doing like when it comes to the commitment to doing something new or uncomfortable. And you will always have a story about why you need to act immediately. Like yesterday when it involves something providing entertainment, escape, distraction, some kind of seeking approval, all of those, you will act on those right away. I'll lay this out very simply. A winner always engages. I've said it before. Winners always take action. Every opportunity that rolls across their path, they just take action. I have taken every risk that has ever shown up in my life since August of 2021. Every single one. Have some of some of them kicked me in the balls? Absolutely. But 90% of them, oh my god, they've created so much success in health, wealth, relationships. They've connected me to God. So many things. And the more risks I take, it is exponential. The more rapidly my life becomes better with with my wife Brandy, with our kids, with our businesses, with all of these things. Like I started a business with a very good friend of mine, Sean. If you guys don't know, Elite Biogenics, it is a massive peptide. Just look it up. It is a massive peptide company and Sean is a he's very close to being a brother to me and we started this company together and we're the whole goal is to help as many people on the planet as we can and get in front of them and give them solutions that don't involve poison horrible things. So, if you want to look it up, it ends in an X, by the way, not CS. Elite Biogenics. I'll put it in the description somewhere. You can just find it. But everything's tested. It's all in-house. It's all from here. It's all USmade. Like all of this matters. And so that's a big deal. But anyway, I had to engage on that. And we've gone through all kinds of hoops. Believe me, we still run into walls all the time. There are days where I tell him sometimes I'm like, "Somebody, excuse me, somebody needs to be punched." We still do it. He He's a little more calm than I am. Just as dangerous, but a little more calm than I am. So sometimes I'm like, "God, he's just short fuse, quick, right?" And he's like, "What do you need me to do, man?" So, those are good people to have in your corner, by the way, which is one of the things, the observations I want to talk about. But come back to the winners. Winners always engage. Winners always take action. I could have said, "I'll do this company later. Let's figure it out another day. How about this?" I literally have been squeezing the trigger non-stop on this thing. We've done this with everything we've ever done. But I want you to understand this. The reason for this episode is to give you a line by line, I said at the beginning, checklist at the end to figure out what's keeping you tied to the ground. What's keeping the blocks in front of that that F-22 Raptor, right? Because if you're not going where you want to be, there's something that you're doing or not doing that's keeping you where you are. There is no other option. There's no other explanation. Let me say that again. If you're not where you are, or rather if you're not, it makes no sense. If you're not where you want to be, you're wishing you were somewhere a little further down the line, a little more wealthy, a little more fit, a little better relationship, whatever it is, there is something that you are doing or not doing that's keeping you where you are. The only difference between a winner and everybody else, the losers, is that winners squeeze a trigger on every damn thing and fix it along the way. That's it. When you defer action, you talk yourself out of whatever it is that you were just about to do. Understand? Remember, I've said this before, the number of times that most people try and achieve their goals is less than once. Because they have a conversation in their head about why they don't need to do it, why they shouldn't do it, why it's too risky, why it's going to much it's too dangerous to do it, why they can probably just figure it out my themselves. That's my favorite one. Why they can probably figure it out themselves. And a lot of times they get mad at the opportunity. And here's why they do it. You get where I'm going with this, right? An opportunity shows up, they get angry at it. So they get mad at the opportunity. They get mad at the discount to get into a program that's going to change their life. They'll get mad at a trainer who offers a one-year program versus a 30-day program. They'll get mad at an app on their phone, right, that shows them an ad that will help expedite the work that they have the app for in the first place. And a lot of you guys know exactly what I'm talking about. They get angry. See, the reason that you guys get angry and get mad is because it's easy for you to shut down taking action because now you're triggered or offended or whatever baby boy or girl hissy fit you're throwing. I don't need them. [\h__\h] them. I'm never going to use that app just because they offered to make my life easier and so on. All the other [\h__\h] that goes through your head. When you're pissed off, it's easy to say no. So, what people do is they end up being angry, bitter, and miserable their entire lives because they never take action. and they never take they they never take action and they never take the actions because they're always angry, bitter, and miserable, right? So, they spend their time angry, bitter, and miserable because they never take action. And they never take the action because they're always angry, bitter, and miserable. It's this self-propagating cycle. And every opportunity that shows up, I'll make it very easy. And this is how I learned my lesson. If you want, listen, if I have even remotely close to the life that you want, and most of you guys should probably say yes, unless it is a downgrade for you, and then don't, if you go, "No way. I have way more money than you. I'm way more fit than you. I'm way more successful. I have a much better marriage. I have a much better life." Don't take my advice to come down. I'll help you get further, but if you don't, that wouldn't You understand? Like, you don't want my life. You want a better version of yours. But if I have a lot of the things you want, you should probably listen to me. And every opportunity that shows up that moves you forward towards your kingdom, you need to figure out how to take just figure out a way how to just get on and take that opportunity immediately. Risk aversion in our own psychology will come across as a much safer choice. But that is your stupid lizard brain telling you that anything that moves you anywhere outside of where you are is dangerous. Risk-taking is security and success making. Regret is no fun. I've had plenty and so have you guys. The second observation is that most people in your life right now who say they love you unconditionally. This is what I was talking about why I was talking about like Sean and how good of a guy he is. Most people that say they love you and they're in your corner unconditionally actually love you and are in your corner under one condition that you don't evolve past where they are. And let me explain that one because I guarantee you some of you guys just went, "What? This is this the entire reason I'm going through this is so you actually look at your own life. That's why this is the checklist, right? Number one, where's your risk aversion? Cut it all out. Number two is where are the people in your life? Who are they? What are they doing? Right? People see you through two lenses. Their position in your life and your position in theirs. And now when either one of those change where that person in the self-perceived hierarchy in their world, when that preser when that person is in a lower position than you, all of the sudden, whatever it is, because it doesn't matter what you're doing, you become more fit, you make more money, you lose the weight, you get the car, you build the business, you get the house, you get the girl, whatever, that person is going to become extremely upset because now your position has changed. I always So you guys get that, right? When your position moves up, that lens that they're looking at you, right? Their position in your life and your position in theirs, that lens sees you moving away from where they are. And so, I think it's really important to look at all the people in your life. You want to see who's truly on your side, start putting a lot of points on the board and see who cheers. Most people won't. It's you don't like it. It's the truth. Most people in your life, you're going to be unpleasantly surprised. Most of those people will try and dissuade you. They'll try and use this emotional terrorism to do it. We're only looking out for your well-being. I have a friend that did that and it didn't work out. They died. They were bankrupt. They cost them everything. I have a friend who did that and everything exploded. Would you want to change? Like, why would you want to change XYZ? You have a better life than most people. Yeah, except them, right? Those are all the things that people are going to say. People who you thought will be in your corner. Your ride or die homies are going to become the ones trying to sink your ship. The simple reason is because you are disproving their excuses and validations and they don't like it. Again, that's why I have the unbreakable mastermind because it is only comprised of people who have number one gotten past the gatekeeper which is the barrier to entry, the commitment and the financial obligation. And number two is they have high standards. So they are never going to try and look at you and disprove what you're doing. In fact, they're going to hold you accountable to do more. So, keep that in mind just in your life in general, who you're surrounding yourself with. The third thing is you need a lot of money. A lot. I'm so tired of hearing people complain. The internet has become so desensitized to the sheer value of money. $1 million. Let's spin it into time instead. A million seconds is about 11 days. A billion seconds is almost 33 years. Do the math in all of that. Yet people understand that is such a radically different amount of time just shy of two weeks and 33 years where people have careers and children by then. Right? So understand you have to look at it that way because if you go it's only a million dollars. The only people that say that are people that don't have a million dollars because we have millions of dollars and I pick up pennies and I have a lot of respect for people that have made billions. I have personal friends that are billionaires. My buddy Howie Payes, he is Howard Payes. You can look him up. He is an incredibly good dude. He sold Logic Eig brand to a Japanese company for just I think almost $3 billion. And he always says, "I bypassed the millions and right to billions and bought a lot of cars except what he is also an incredibly intelligent entrepreneur and he's got a heart of gold." And if you look this guy up, you tell him the Spartan, tell him that Dr. Trevor Bachmire, he is a good man and I love the guy to death, but he wants people to win and he's a very smart man. But he is also a billionaire. And yeah, he shows all the cool stuff. He has the wicked cars, the McLaren, he's got the big three, right? The McLaren, the P1, he's got the 918 and I think a Ferrari, the one of the Ferraris he has, but he has so many cars. He's got so much stuff and it's all cool stuff, but he's a good guy and he has fun with it and you can't help but love the guy. But he's a billionaire. And I promise you, he will tell you you should be successful when nobody who is incredibly successful is going to be telling you not to earn more money because it allows you to take a hit and it gives you freedom. You need to have a lot more money than whatever you have. I look at people like, why does Elon Musk need more money? He's not doing it for the money. He likes to play the game. Why does Warren Buffet need more money? He doesn't, but he likes to play the game. However, it allows him to take a hit of catastrophic proportions. That's what money does. It gives you freedom. Like I just got groceries yesterday with my wife, right? We ran by Costco, which arguably is the most reasonably priced store in relation to quality. One of my buddies, Jeff, is the VP of Costco. And I promise you, they get first right of refusal for produce for everything, which means they pick the best. That's why their strawberries are the size of baseballs, and their crabs legs are the size of your arm. I [\h__\h] you not. I get boxes of crabs legs from there. A 10 lb box. It's a couple hundred bucks. And the crab's legs are like this big. I'm not kidding. I'll put them on a video one time. You guys will freak out. They look like my arm. Like they're giant. We eat two, but because they get stuff that you'll never see anywhere else because they get the first round pick, right? They first round draft. So, you can argue about Costco and all that stuff. It doesn't matter. I'm not getting into the politics of this. I just want you to understand the example I'm giving you. And don't start talking about massive proportions and huge quantities. You're going to use all those paper towels and all those trash bags anyway. So, just shut up. But we got groceries and the ticket was $622 and some change. Nothing magical in our card like a vacuum or a generator or something like that. Just food and supplies for the week. That's about every week. Now, I'm sure I'm going to get the bro, that's ridiculous. My grocery bill is 148 bucks every week. You don't have to get lobster and filt and boxes of crab all the time. Get real. And there's the next observation. By the way, victims, just to come full circle so you can see what's coming up in the hierarchy of everything I'm talking about. victims, excuse makers, liars, whiners, and validators. And I'll get to that in a sec. But you don't have as much money as you think. 622 bucks. Like I remember when my parents would go grocery shopping and they I mean we my parents were flat broke when we were growing up. They had no money. You guys know that. And great parents, but just poor money management and poor paying jobs and never any ambition to change that, right? But I remember it was 50 bucks. And 50 bucks was a lot. And we would come with these paper bags from Safeway and we never had anything fancy ever. We had the peas and carrots in a bag and my parents ate pork chops, right? Just like certain things. And yet at the same time, I had some really good food. My dad had this incredible addiction to farmer sausage. If you don't know what that is, I'm not going to explain it. But it just didn't turn out so well for the Spartan. But at the same time, we ate things that we could afford, but 50 bucks versus $622. But so I get it, there's inflation, but could you pad yourself against that? Could you brace yourself for an impact like that when eggs go from two bucks to 16 bucks and you don't have a a chicken coupe outside like us? Or we can just go out and get eggs, right? By the way, a good quality chicken coupe. I built our chicken coop and is gangster. It's like the Taj Mahal, but and it's huge. You can walk into it. It's not some little teeny thing that you get at Tractor Supply. Like it is solid. You could probably put people in it and hang out. But good chickens, our chicken, they lay twice twice a day when it's warm and comfortable. Twice a day. That's a lot of eggs. That's a lot of eggs. So, if you guys are like, I need like 10 chickens. Buckle up, man, cuz you're going to eat a lot of eggs. You just sell them or give them to your friends or something. But anyway, that's just on a tangent, but you don't have as much money as you think. You know what Brandy said to me when we were at Costco? This is the coolest thing because it's my job to make her feel safe at all times. She said, 'I love knowing that we don't have to worry about what the grocery bill is because we have the money. She says that about everything going. We went She went and bought a bunch of clothes today. Didn't have to Didn't have to make sure that the Centurion card would take it. Didn't have to make sure that there was money in the account. Nothing. I wasn't always like this. That's what I'm trying to get through your head. You guys are like was lucky. I come from nothing. Made a bunch of money. lost a bunch of money and my health and had to do it again at 48 years old. I have a history of being incredibly successful when everything is knocked down, which means what I do and how I think actually works. But listen, you guys think that money is about the Revuto I got or the watches or my wife's Brabis G or the house or all the things that I've never even shown on social media that I'm probably not going to. Those are the bonuses because they're simply things we enjoy. You enjoy what you enjoy. I like enjoy the things I want you to have it all. If you want to have your own 747 and a runway, 12,000 meter runway, whatever it is, that's great. Stop making your life about other people. Make it about you. And then help a lot of other people. But even with a ton of money, you can the more money you make, you can do a lot more good with it. Go help a bunch of people. God, I help so many people because I want to. And that's these are so important. But the money is what allows us to take a hit. If God forbid, like if God forbid we needed to charter a plane because it was life or death to get somewhere in a hurry, if we wanted the best surgeon, if I had to save someone's home from being foreclosed and they had no other option, if the car broke down and we needed it fixed right away. I have this diesel, this L5P Chevy. This 2018 2500 Chevy is badass truck and it's been fully built. I mean, from cover to cover all the way from stem to stern, right from the top to the bottom. And we're talking like right down to heads, gaskets, ARP studs, the turbo, all full, I'm afraid to say it, but things that shouldn't be there are just not there. and turbo, downpipe, exhaust, hot, cold side, rad, intercooler, turbos, everything is done. And I built it all by myself, handbuilt. And so there's a lot of sweat in in that truck, but holy [\h__\h] this thing is such a sleeper. And it is a monster. It is a mo It's one of my favorite vehicles, if not my favorite vehicle to drive because it's big ass white truck all jacked up and fun and it's not a pavement princess. I'll get in the dirt. I'll go any Allison transmission all built. It's input and output shafts are billet are done. Like it's just a great truck. It's built and I did it all myself. But I have a fast fuel system in there, right? Water separator and fuel system at 240 gallon pump gallon per hour. And if if you don't, it doesn't really matter. that it broke and it started leaking off of the housing, which is a weird place. We couldn't even find it. And my son asked, he goes, "When you fix it, when you send it in for warranty and get it back, can I help you fix it?" I said, "Pice, I just bought a new one." And he went, "Oh, okay. Cuz they have a warranty and you can send it in." And they told me it would be about 2 to 3 weeks. Well, I'm out of commission with my truck for 2 to 3 weeks. So, I said, and I explained to him, I said, "You know what? What's great about having money?" I said, "We didn't have to wait. We just bought the pump and I expedited the shipping. I had it the next day and I installed it. And I made a whole video of Pierce and I installing this fast pump and it was fast and easy and my truck was back on the road in 48 hours tops. And that's what money allows you to do. And if you're thinking, "What a waste. Now you got this fuel pump." What you That's just arrogant and stupid and ignorant. No, it's not. That's freedom, financial freedom. So, it's you have to look at that because the only people that are going to say that was a waste of money are the people that don't have the money to do that. And I wasn't wasting it. I wanted to get my it's more important to have my truck on the road. So, it's like what I was saying, if you have the money, like if the car broke down and we needed it fixed right away, which it did, we could do it. If our parents needed help, if we needed to move, all of these things you can change immediately when you have money. I told the story about the beautiful house we owned in California. It was on its own court. This thing was like a resort. Everybody wanted this house. Anytime someone would come deliver food, they would freak out seeing this house. I would always What's the address? It's the only one on the court. You can't miss it. But whereabout on the court? You can't miss it. I literally own the entire court. And everybody wanted this house. I got almost every day somebody asked about this house to buy it. We sold the house in less than a day when it was listed. And for just over four times what I paid for it. But one of the reasons we moved, and that's just another example of cool things that happened. But one of the reasons that we moved is because we noticed this infiltration of thug scumbag bottom feeders in our neighborhood. And regardless of how nice the house was, it can't be moved. Don't argue that you can move a house. It's not what I'm talking about. But it it can't be moved. So if we weren't in a financial position to move, we'd have to stay there and just suck it up and probably get our things vandalized and broken into and stolen, etc. So one of your top priorities is that you should be rich. And for some reason, that's an extremely triggering statement to a lot of you because we're in this world that is conditioning people to think that being broke and settling for less in exchange for a trampoline in your backyard of a house that's a piece of crap is actually winning. Validating where you are, defending your weak position, and then trying to sell the idea under gaslighting and guilt tripping is the characteristic of a weak, insecure person, male or female. That's the problem. Just so you know, validating all of that, validating where if you think it's winning, when you are like the world is conditioning you to be that it is righteous and noble and a much better life. I've said this before. When you lose everything, you choose to stay there and you downgrade your goals to meet your behavior in exchange for some posos garbage rental with some half worn out dangerous trampoline that's a piece of crap and you're trying to tell everybody that's winning and your life is better. Validating where you are. Now I'll say it again. Validating where you are, defending your weak position, and then trying to sell this idea using gaslighting and guilt tripping is the characteristic of a weak and insecure person, male or female. Here's why. Just ask yourself, just please ask yourself a very honest question. And I've asked this in my Spartan Live calls on Saturdays. Is there a problem right now in your life that you could write a check for that would go away after you write that check? For almost everybody, the answer is yes. So, there's a follow-up question. Can you write that check? And for most people, the answer is no. That's why you need more money. The fourth observation is that nobody's responsibility, it is nobody's responsibility to solve your life equation except yours. And let me explain because I use this a lot. Life equation is something I came up with and everybody has it and it varies and it it's constantly dynamic, right? It's a dynamic question. It's a dynamic equation. So, let me explain what I mean by your life equation. When I began coaching, part of what I have as a core value for my program is that I only allow people who are committed to the goals at the end, right? Committed to their goals at the end, committed to constantly showing up every day. They're willing to have singular focus, commitment to action, singular focus towards their target and what's required to hit it. And they resolve and advance to never give up. They're willing to pass the barrier to entry, which is the cover charge of admission into either the unbreakable mastermind or my one-on-one coaching program. The cover charge to come inside is what it is. And if you're not willing to pay that, like if you're not willing to pay it, that shows me that you are not committed to the goal. You're committed to your excuses and your current story. Which is why my mastermind is comprised of only high performers because you can't even get in without the financial commitment and the personal commitment. That's how you maintain a high quality circle by the way is you put a barrier to entry in place. And it's not mean. It ensures that your circle is comprised of people that you want to win that also want you to win and that will constantly build you up, not tear you down. You price your way out of reach for anyone who will make excuses or have low standards, which is what I've done. Because in order to get in, you have to have high standards. If you don't have the financial capability, then you're resourceful enough to get it. Those those are the two things. My unbreakable mastermind is a fraction of the cost, by the way, of my one-on-one coaching program because I want to be able to help people who genuinely want to become the 10.0 versions of themselves in their life, their finances, their business, their relationships, their health, all of it, in every arena. But I only want people who are committed to the whole damn thing. A lot of people are looking for little support groups where they can get permission to stay where they are or move slowly and expect celebration for that. That doesn't help anybody. Unbreakable isn't for those people. Everyone in the mastermind like when people go, you know what, I just my husband wouldn't pay for it otherwise I would go. I really want to but I just can't. No, you're making excuses. You're not You don't You're complaining about resources. I did a vlog on this. Not resourcefulness. You don't have any resourcefulness. You want everyone to think you are but you're not. Because if you were resourceful, you'd be where you want to be. You'd find a way to make it happen. It is that binary. Unbreakable isn't for people that aren't resourceful. Everyone in the mastermind is will, not even is, they will hold everyone else accountable to their actions and everyone will help each other achieve their goals and we never miss. But that's it, right? Everyone is responsible for themselves and their conduct. Nobody is going to save you but you. You can get on social media and blame and rant and rave about how you deserve help. You don't. I'm sorry. You just don't. Should people help each other? Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. Why do you think I'm out here? But you don't deserve anything. What you deserve is where you are and nothing more. So, the sooner you get that into your head, the faster that you'll get out of where you are and into where you want to be. Like I listen listen listen to me. I laid in bed struggling to breathe with a little blue oxygen machine keeping me alive knowing that my entire family was responsible for their safety and mine because I couldn't defend anybody. I could barely get out of bed to take a leak with 40 ft of surgical tubing trailing behind me attached to the oxygen machine. Nobody was coming to save me. So I had to get the hell out of that situation as fast as possible. I was outside in the gym every day. I'd suffocate myself every day. I'd wait to see if I was going to pass out while I was on all fours in the house because I'd run into the house during my workout to breathe the cool, dry, air conditioned air instead of the thick Texas humid air. And the moment I collected myself even slightly, I was back outside finishing my workout. I'd train jiu-jitsu, train Muay Thai, I'd train weapons, guns, and knives. I'd work my engine, my cardio. I'd run however I could. And eventually I became who you see right now in front of you. But nobody did this for me. I built a company from the ground up with my wife Brandy when we had no money. I was fresh out of thoracic surgery with two kids in school with no savings in the bank. Nobody did this for us. We did. Your bank doesn't owe you a better interest rate. Your car doesn't owe you a warranty. Your neighbor doesn't owe you anything. You are your only defense against everything. The fifth observation is that your health and your body and your fitness are the mo that it's the most important piece of your entire world to your entire world. It is a deficiency need. When you do not have your health, it is all you think about. When you have your health, you take it for granted. That's why people look like bowling pins during eating cookies the size of their head, drinking 4 foot margaritas, smoking cigarettes, staying up till 4 in the morning in Vegas, [\h__\h] anything that moves going, "This is living." That's not living. That's a That is suicide. To think that it's anyone else's fault that you're fat or that you have type two diabetes or you have whatever other self-created health problem. To think that those are somebody else's fault makes me just want to punch you right in the face. Nobody has ever accidentally eaten themselves into obesity. Nobody ever. It's because we have shows like My 600 lb Life which are a byproduct of society being complacent and intolerant of a 600 lb lifestyle and demanding that it's celebrated and accepted. Poor health is not a celebration from a man that almost died twice in two months for real, not some manufactured they almost had to do this to me. I was on the table and I remember being in a room filled with nothing but this was during surgery being in a room filled with nothing but beds in recovery. It was a black and white video that I was watching. I was watching from above and I saw me trying to sit up and a nurse trying to push me back down saying this one keeps trying to get up. When I asked about that there was no such room. They took me from surgery to the recovery room. I had a lady rubbing my back when I was in the hospital prior to that, about three weeks prior to that when I was sending my wife a message that I wasn't going to make it. And she said, "I need you. I can't do this life without you." And the nurse was rubbing my back saying, "You're going to be okay. I promise you're going to be okay. We're going to get through this. I promise you. I promise you're going to be with your wife. You're going to be home. I promise." I was on Brad Lee's podcast and I said I couldn't I looked everywhere for that nurse because I wanted to thank her because she had the bedside manner that the most incredible bedside manner. She made me feel safe. Brad went maybe it was an angel. Now if you understand Brad Lee, he was serious. I know Brad. He's a good friend of mine. And he's right because I looked all over that hospital for months trying to find that person. They didn't exist. I have more miracles in my life. But to think that like that I've happened in the last four years that I see, never mind all the unseen ones. But my health, I've almost lost it. And and some of you guys are willingly choosing to just piss it away. And you're like, "It's tolerated on social media." Everybody says, "You should just accept me for how I am." I love you enough not to tolerate stupidity and to demand more of you because I [\h__\h] love you. It's nothing to be celebrated. Poor health is not a celebration. We are made in God's likeness. He tells us in Genesis before anywhere else in the Bible, right in the beginning, folks. And do you think that Jesus is this fat, sloppy Homer Simpson or he created Adam and Eve to be shaped like a circle? your body, your fitness is your responsibility and to offload it to the food manufacturers, the supplement chains, the fast food restaurants, the commercials is grading because those are the beliefs of a weak individual. Jesus is jacked. If you read Revelations, he is described as covered in muscle with fire in his eyes, a tattoo on his thigh, and a sword coming out of his mouth. Jesus isn't a beachball with arms and legs. He didn't create us to be that either. The average person spends two and a half hours a day on social media and three hours a day on television. Same person. That's just under six hours. And yet the number one reason why people don't work out is because they say they have no time. Co exposed that in everybody by the way. All of the people who complained that they had no time because of their commute, their long hours, their long work hours, their crazy schedule, their exhaustion from the hectic overwhelming life they would talk about. when the lockdown showed up and closed everything and they chose to remain trapped in their house for months on end. They had nothing but time and yet the follow-up excuse was now the gyms were closed and they had no idea how to work out. And in fact, dad bods and fat mommies are much more preferred. And all of you that did that rolled your big butts out of your house after lockdown, blinking your burned out eyes from staring at a screen for months and seeing the sun for the first time. You spilled your way out of your front door 40, 50, 80, 100 lbs heavier. You're blaming the lockdown. Gravity is free. Walking is free. Push-ups are free. Air squats are free. Sit-ups are free. Running is free. Burpees are free. And you can choose what you put in your pie hole. I could do this all day. It is your duty to be as jacked and fit and athletic as possible. To eat what will give you health, not steal your life. to demand respect from yourself when you look in the mirror, not justify where you are, and then run to some Facebook group that approves big bodies because they're beautiful. They're not, and you know it. Nobody who is obese likes it. You should be training every day, 7 days a week, and build yourself into a juggernaut. I've got one lung. You have no excuse. None. Another observation is that you must have a replicable filter that like I could stay on the health thing but I can't. You guys have things to do and these are always 30 40 minutes but I want you to understand this cuz I [\h__\h] care. Another observation is that you need to have a replicable filter that you run your life through core values that align with your purpose and move you towards that kingdom on the horizon at all times. That is the most powerful driving force is that vision that kingdom and to reduce that or ignore that is an insult to God to our creator. So you need to have this replicable filter of core values and that just demand of you. These are your standards for life. What you do, regardless of what's going on in your life, whether you're winning or losing, these never change. Most people have variable standards and little to no core values. If you have no no core values and variable standards, what happens is that your conduct is a reaction to the environment which makes you someone who is completely controlled by their circumstances. You need to look at your life and go what is the reaction I desire? What is the reaction I want? I want someone to give me money. What is the action that will produce that reaction? What is the I want to have a tighter relationship with my wife. What is the what what is the action that will cause that reaction? I want to have a much closer bond with my children. What is the action that will cause that reaction? What I want to have the wildest, craziest, freakiest sex with my spouse. What is the action that will cause and create that reaction? I want to build this incredibly large company, this big, beautiful empire. What is the action and what are the actions that are going to cause those reactions? It is always the same. It is you are reacting to not looking at the actions you need to take in order to create the reactions you want. The that is based on your core values and beliefs. Change them. So that is the only way you think. The power you have when you know how you're going to conduct yourself at all times is what separates winners from everybody else. Because regardless of the noise, you're always going to do the right thing that moves you towards that kingdom on the horizon. And the last one, I'm going to wrap this up and land the plane. So the last one is when it comes to marriage, oh this is great. When it comes to marriage, the most important thing you can do is marry the right person. And I've said this so many times. So these are this is the checklist, right? You need to look at your life and look at all this stuff. So you need to marry the right person. And if you get defensive and going, I did. Not all marriages are like that. And not everybody wants to have a marriage like yours. Yes, you do. Yes, you do. Our marriage is incredible. We could write the rule book for the best marriage on the planet. And I damn well mean that because I adore my wife and my wife adores me. I would John Q myself from my wife even even though the logic before you guys take it down that road is ridiculous cuz then she'd be without me and she'd still be miserable. I get that and vice versa. However, I do everything and anything to demand more of myself than anybody else ever could so that I am the best version of myself for her. I take care of me for her. She takes care of her for me. And she believes in me when I don't. and I believe in her when she doesn't. We are always back to back facing the universe going, "It's us versus everyone else in the [\h__\h] universe. There is no other way. We have only one way of looking at everything when it comes to communicating to each other. It is anything you want, babe." And before somebody goes, "Oh, yeah, one of you guys is compromising." No, we're not because we actually love doing that. Anything you want, babe. It doesn't matter. Yes. Bedroom, food, cars, life, because we look at it and go, "How can we do this together? What are the actions that we need to take?" Brandy and I to create the reaction we want, which is the reality we want to create. It is the same thing with the other side of the equation, which is we give each other all of the weapons to completely obliterate each other knowing that we're not going to do it. Everything in the arsenal to destroy each other knowing that we're not going to do it. So that way we are not running bandwidth or taking up bandwidth in our mind running a dialogue about what we can and can't say. We don't have filters against each other. We have a core set of beliefs and values for the world that we have together. Because opposites, listen, and I've talked about this stuff so many times, who you marry matters. So, stop defending a shitty marriage because maybe you need to either look in the mirror or figure it out or just change. Maybe you guys need to not be together because you didn't marry the right person. Opposites are fun, not sustainable. Attracts because like creates empires. Brandy and I could not be more alike. She's a former pro alete for real. She's driven, taskoriented. She has the most powerful word I've ever seen, which means that if she says she's going to do it, you can walk away and know it's done. Her word is like iron. It never changes no matter what. In 20 plus years, we have been married just over 20 years. Monday was 20 years. Our anniversary was Monday. And I've she has such an incredibly strong work ethic and word. And she believes in me. I told you in the times that I don't. We're always playing on the same team. It's us versus the universe all the time. We walk with God and we push each other to go further every single day. We take our wins of yesterday together and make those the standards for today. And we're constantly evolving and we're constantly growing together. And yet I can't like even being out here. When I talk about my wife, if you can't see this on the screen, you're missing it because I absolutely adore my wife. Like right now, I'm I just want to go inside and hang out with my wife. Like I love Brandy so much. I can't get enough spending time with her. I wake up in the morning and the first thing I do is I just go and she tells me I she beats me to it. She says, "I love you, baby." And I love being married to my wife after two decades. And she is just the most powerful woman I've ever seen. And I'm a superhero to her. And that is always my job. But that's the right marriage. It doesn't mean that we don't argue. We don't fight. A fight, you try and hurt each other. In an argument, you try and convince each other of each other's opinion or viewpoint. But we always end up going, how do we solve the life equation in this moment and move forward so we can create another step for our life to get even better? We always play on the same team. We walk with God. We push each other to go further and harder every day. What people do is they marry for convenience. What that means is they get married because they don't want to be alone. They want the white picket fence and the little perfect life that they see on Netflix, some romcom, and they think Matthew McConnA is going to be the guy. And they're in love with an idea, not really in love. what happens in those relationships and I've had a lot of coaching clients like billionaires with a B some billionaire CEOs and entrepreneurs and some people that of note let's just say that where I've had to help them with this what happens is that when one person begins to level up it goes back to what I was saying the two lenses that people see you through when one person begins to level up and the other one begins to feel threatened and they're not supportive because they feel threatened and then they act out start arguments start fights engage in destructive attention seeking behavior. Maybe they start drinking. They all of a sudden go out. They start the girl is flirting with the guys, the guy is flirting with the girls. They're doing all kinds of inappropriate things. They're hiding things, keeping secrets. All of these behaviors which then cause the other person to stop evolving. So that person that was trying to level up now stops because it's causing destructive behavior. The other person is reacting with destructive behavior. And now one person is bitter and the other is constantly walking on eggshells. That's not a marriage. That is a ticking time bomb. When you marry the right person, the amount of horsepower that you generate as a couple is immeasurable because neither one of you will allow the other one to tap out or fail. But you guys always look for a a solution. Brandy and I, we've had nothing. Zero. She met me when they gave me less than 9 months to live. And she didn't look at it as I'm taking a chance on this guy. I hope it works out. She went I'll never forget the conversation sitting across from me. is our very first date probably a half hour in when I went I have to tell you something and she's is it about cancer? Yeah. How did you know? The people at the gym have seen you coughing up blood and really sick and you come in with these really dark eyes sometimes and sometimes you just don't look like you're doing so well. Yeah. They gave me not a lot of time. I don't care. She said two days, two months, two years, two weeks. I don't care. I want all of your time, Trevor. All of it. I'm your angel. I'm here to save you. I know that. Three months later, we were engaged. I started crying at the table. So did she. Cuz I couldn't be that [\h__\h] And I've said it before that just we ride off into the sunset. No. And I knew full well that they gave me a death sentence. She watched me go through chemo. She watched me go through hell. She was building our daughter when I was going through chemotherapy. One of us was throwing up at one point, the other person at the other time. Like it was we went through hell. We've had no money. We've had family ostracize us. We've lost friends because we evolve and they don't. They don't like it. We've had people like my mother-in-law tried to split us up because she just didn't like the fact that her daughter had a mind of her own, but she's done it to other people in the family. So, it's not when you look at the common denominator and it's that person. You need to extract extricate yourself from those situations. But all of these things, we've been through a lot of hell, whether it's health or battles with each other. There were times when we were at each other's throats all the time. But we have a philosophy for our marriage where we don't throw it away, we fix it because we married the right person. But that's what's required when you marry the right person. You do not learn to love each other. I've said this before and said somebody you just learn to love each other. No, you don't. That's when you become tolerant and that's when you become used to somebody being around, but that is not love. I saw Brandy and my soul went there you are. She I've told this story so many times. She wrote pages of what she wanted in a husband and I checked every box. I was sitting there with a gun to my head saying, "You better [\h__\h] fix me and give me a reason to be here, God, because I'll do it myself." Because I thought he was trying to kill me. I fell asleep balling my eyes out on my living room floor in my apartment. I was about to be evicted from with shitty furniture that I had a love seat that I had to put a board under the cushions because you'd sink into it cuz it was such a piece of crap. I've had nothing. I lived in my car. But 2 days after I did that with a gun, I met my wife. Number one, God is real. Miracles are real every day. You have to pay attention because those are the things that might come across as an obstacle and work and frighteningly insurmountable in the moment. But I've learned that God doesn't give me anything I can't handle. I know sometimes I just wish he wouldn't trust me so much. But I marry the right person because we've been through hell. It's been two decades and I'm just getting started. And I am so deeply in love with this woman. And likewise from her to me because we're always playing on the same team. So if that's not your marriage, you either need to look at the reason and find it because a lot of you guys are running dialogue in your head about all the things you can't say that you wish you could say that you want to say, but if you say is going to cause a fight. What do you think she's doing? Same thing. So, I want you to think about all of this stuff that I went over on this call because if it comes back to all the things that you need to check off in your life, where is your risk aversion? Where where is your risk aversion? Because it's costing you every opportunity. You either take every opportunity when it rolls across your path or you take none of them. Stop cherrypicking everything you're doing going I can wait. No, you can't. No, you can't. Where's your risk aversion? Where is it? Risk-taking is security and success making. The second thing is who are the people in your life? Look at that. Who are the people in your life? Are they rooting for you or secretly rooting against you? And do they love you unconditionally or do they love you on one condition? And the easiest way is start stacking wins and see what they say. The people that try and keep you down, try to sink your ship are not the people you want in your corner. You need a lot more money. Where can you make more money? How do you make more money? What do you want to do to make more money? Why don't you have the money you have, but you need a lot more money? Where where is the bottleneck for how much money you're making? Is it that you don't know how to run your business? You don't know how to scale online? You have a job and it's got a salary and you don't like it. If you're spending, you're hemorrhaging money and all these stupid things trying to impress other people. It doesn't matter. Where's the problem with your money? Because if you are not making a lot of it, you need to step on the gas. You your priority should be to be rich because if you can you write the check. Is there something that you have a problem in your life that if you wrote a check, it would go away. And if you can you write the check and if the answer is no, you need more money. And nobody's coming to save you. It's nobody else's responsibility to solve your life equation. That's the fourth thing. I think it is nobody else's responsibility to solve your life equation. Your life equation is all the problems and obstacles that you need to overcome in order to reach the kingdom that you have set on the horizon. The vision placed in your soul by God. And your life equation is dynamic. But it is nobody else's responsibility to solve your life equation whatsoever. Not. And you need to understand that because if you keep looking, if you keep extricating yourself from your own responsibilities and having an external locus of control, all you're going to do is feel overwhelmed and frustrated and blaming everybody else. And blame is not a it's not a plan for life, for success. It is a plan for a disaster. The next one is your health and your fitness. Your body, your health, your fitness, the most important piece of your entire world. Because I don't care if you have had food poisoning and you're hanging over that big white porcelain telephone call telephone to God and you're puking away and you're just screaming, "Oh, God." The last thing you're thinking about is driving your new Ferrari. You want that to stop. You want that to stop. Where are you tolerating the lowest standards possible in your life? And it's embarrassing because we are made in God's likeness. And I promise you, I said it already. God is Jesus is jacked. fire in his eyes, tattoo down one of his thighs, just savage machine with a sword coming out of his mouth. That's a jacked son of a [\h__\h] But your body, your fitness, your health, and that goes with your psychology, by the way. Your bullet, everything starts and ends with what you're thinking. Nothing happens in the mind without it happening in the body. So if your body is a train wreck, so is your mind. It is that simple to look at, right? You have to have core values. That's the sixth thing you should look as far as a checklist. What are your core values? What is that replicable filter that you have? And if you don't have a filter that you run 100% of your things through, it's the ten commandments for your own life. Not the ten commandments for everybody, but these are your core values that you your that they have to align with your purpose, your belief system, your core values that you run everything through because they give you the same conduct. That's what defines your character because adversity or success will expose who you are. They will introduce you to yourself and you to the rest of the world. It's like when people say, "Oh yeah, they got money and now they're an asshole." They were always an [\h__\h] Oh, they got money and they just, man, they're helping as many people as possible. They were doing that when they were broke as well. And the last thing you need to look at is your marriage. Look at your marriage. Where are the holes? Where are you hemorrhaging affection and passion and joy and sensuality and sexuality, devotion, and trust and connection? Where are you where all of that is disconnected? Where is all of that disconnected? Are you opposite? because you're not going to be attracted to each other. You're entertaining each other. When that entertainment goes away, you're left with life. So, what's your marriage look like? Are you running bandwidth in your head about what you can and can't say? Do they have all the weapons to utterly obliterate you and you know for a fact they're not going to? Do you look at yourself and your each other and go anything you want, babe, and you actually mean it? Not keep track and keep a scorecard on who's doing what? That's it. You need to look at your life. So, you run through these seven things in your life and see where you're missing and then get the [\h__\h] to work. All right, I got to go. It's date night. I'm gonna go hang out with that sexy bride of mine. I'll see you guys tomorrow.