you guys in your plan B. It doesn't even make any sense to me. Why would you have a plan B? All it does is take away from plan A. But I'm not telling you anything you don't know. You guys do it on purpose so you can have a way to escape when things get hard. You go, I'm working on this plan instead. you keep you you create this endless supply of plan B and you think that you're winning. What you need to do is look at your year right now. Look at where you were last year and look at where you are this year. And if it looks extremely similar, your plan B ain't working, son. I was screwing with this knife here on this vlog. My buddy Victor Marks. So, I don't know if you know who Victor is. This isn't a shout out for him. He's just a damn good guy. I shouldn't even have to shout him out. Like, he's just a great guy and he's a dangerous human being. If you haven't looked up Victor Marks, just look him up. He's as lethal as he gets and he is hands down a warrior of God, but he and I became friends a while back and I helped him with him and his wife with some things and it doesn't matter what it is. And and he sent me his books and he sent me this knife, but I was screwing with it. I was talking to my son Pierce. He's a knife junkie, right? And I was looking at this. Look at this thing. Look at that. That is That is thick. And it comes He sent it to me razor sharp. But this is all kinds of sexy. Like I love this thing. And it just sits right in. Like it's so good. People that make quality things, they don't have a plan B- which is what actually prompted this entire vlog or podcast is looking at Victor and looking at what he does and then looking at my life and looking at Brandy and looking at all the clients that we coach in our unbreakable mastermind and even with one-on-one like I'm getting at least one one-on-one client new every day right now. And I don't market for one-on-one clients. The reason I am is because I get results, but because I don't have a plan B. I don't give them a plan B. If you do one-on-one with me, I'm not going to do a plan B with you. Singularity of focus. And we work on plan A until it succeeds. And I will stomp all over you if you don't do what I tell you to do because I expect you to win because I hold the standard so high. So that's why a lot of people I turn away. And I think people get really hurt about that. They're like, "You're turning away my money." No, I'm turning away your lack of discipline because I don't want you to muddy my name because I expect certain things. And even in my unbreakable mastermind, there's hundreds of people in it. And just see for yourself. And I think the biggest deterrent for me for working one-on-one with anybody is a lack of commitment and discipline. Constant willingness to pivot and go do something else when things get hard. But honestly, just begin with the simple hard truth. Your plan B is destroying. It's killing your plan A. Regardless of whether you're doing one-on-one with me, you're in my mastermind, you're on your own, you're with some other coach, I don't care. If you have a plan B whatsoever, it is killing your plan A, but your plan A is what you originally started with. So, when I see somebody that comes out and says, "I used to chase this thing and I used to want this thing, but now I realized I don't really want that. I want this instead because then I can still be happy. You're a liar. You're a fraud. And if you're a coach, [\h__\h] you. You're a fraud. That pisses me off. Nobody should ever listen to you. If you are asking people for money as a fitness coach, and I know a few that do this. They all of the sudden had some catastrophe happen in their life and they decimated all their goals because their life got flushed down the toilet and they lost everything. They had to start all over again because they made bad decisions and they sold all of their goals for a new set of goals that are significantly lower under the illusion that they're trying to get everybody else to believe that now they're at peace. No, you're not. Because now you're working on plan B, but your brain goes, "Yeah, but I wanted plan A." The problem is this. The very exist You put a safety net in place when you do that. safety net is your way of going I'm protected but you're not you're not the very existence of that safety net is the precise reason why men never leap why women never leap not because they can't but because they know that there's somewhere soft to land if they fail just and let me just follow up nothing neuters execution faster than the promise of comfort after failure that's why you screw up because You get a pillow when you fail. Imagine if they shaved your head, beat you to a pulp, and stuck you in a box for 30 days. This isn't a motivational episode. None of this stuff I tell you is motivational. It's hard-hitting truth. But you guys have to understand this because this should be a funeral for every excuse that you've ever built around having a backup plan. So instead of going, I just need to play safe, though. Everywhere you're struggling in your life, I promise you right now is where you're playing safe. So you should go to war with your safety net. Because you've been told by teachers, by parents, by society, by people on social media, by pseudo Insta coaches and gurus, it's smart to have a fallback. Always have a backup. Don't put all your eggs in one basket, right? Keep your options open. All that [\h__\h] And on the surface, that all sounds like wisdom. But underneath that is self-preservation dressed as intelligence. It's the intellectual justification of fear. what most people mean when they say plan B and you will start seeing these guys everywhere like I want you to look if you are a fitness person or a you need a coach I'm not saying come to me don't because unless you're ready to do really serious work and become extremely successful don't cuz I'll demand high standards if you want a cheerleader I'm not your person if you want a genuine consultant and a coach that's going to demand more and you want to win then come to me but look online. Look at the people that have sold their goals and you guys are like, "Oh, you're so brave. Good for you, man. You got rid of all those great things that you wanted in your life and those ambitious dreams and those audacious goals cuz now you get to spend time with your kids and you weren't before. If you weren't spending time with your kids before while hunting audacious goals, you are a bad parent. You are bad at prioritizing your life. It has nothing to do with your goals. You're an idiot and you're bad at what you do. You suck at being you. So save it. But look around. Look at people who have reduced their target. See, what most people mean, I think, when they say plan B is a career they don't care about that keeps them comfortable. That's what they mean. A relationship that they'll tolerate in case the ideal one doesn't show up or a second goal they pursue halfway because they don't believe that they can dominate the first one. So, what they're really saying, I think, would be, I don't know, I don't believe in my capacity enough to commit fully. That's probably what it would be like. I just don't believe in my ability. That's what it sounds like to me. I need an escape hatch in case I prove myself right about all my limitations and that I'm going to fail. So, you're telling yourself that if you walk through your life all day saying it's not going to work, it's probably going to fail. Then that's exactly what the mirror is going to reflect back to you and the world is going to give you. So ask yourself, where in my life am I calling fear logic? That's what you should do. Because most people aren't willing to do that because it's uncomfortable. Cuz it makes you look at where you're being a [\h__\h] Honestly, here's something that most men aren't going to understand. The presence of a backup plan alters your psychology of execution. Because if failure is survivable, then so is mediocrity. If comfort is guaranteed, pressure is diminished. And if pressure is gone, urgency dies. Yeah, you follow all that. That's how most of you guys think. This is what's known in performance psychology as learned helplessness with incentives. Like you are incentivizing your own helplessness all on your own. You're doing it just to play safe. See, you're not helpless because you don't have options. You're helpless because you've trained yourself to never go allin. That pisses me off because here's the result. You move slow. You make soft decisions. You negotiate with your goals. You build momentum only until that first obstacle. And then you pivot. Pivot is that buzz word where everybody's, "Yeah, I'm just making a pivot. I'm just taking a different path. I'm just going to pursue a different avenue." And that's why you're still living in that shitty apartment, that rental house, or your mom's basement. You call it being pragmatic, but really, you're just avoiding commitment through complexity. You guys make all these crazy plans and you complicate them so you have a reason to go, "It's too hard. I can't do it." How How about this? Reflect on this a little bit. Where in my life have I chosen flexibility over just pure fire? Because plan B isn't just an alternative. It's a subconscious permission slip to never become elite. You think and talk about being exceptional, but your actions say mediocre. Let how about we just drill down a little bit more. A man who operates with backup plans is a man who lacks identity congruence. You don't know who the [\h__\h] you are. You have cognitive dissonance 24/7. You're split, divided, conflicted. You want greatness, but only if it's guaranteed. You want mastery, but only if it doesn't cost you everything. You have to be willing to zero out time, money, energy. You have a million dollars in the bank. You have to be prepared to spend every single like penny to get to where you want to go today. You have 24 hours in a day, give it all. You have energy until you collapse. Give it all. that that's what plan A looks like. The problem is the duality that you guys have manifests in hesitation, compromise, indecision. You start building some business, but you keep your resume polished just in case. Burn the damn boats. It's like you'll commit to the gym, but you keep a bunch of shitty food in your pantry. you have a candy bars in your bag or you go to McDonald's or you smoke or you drink milkshakes just in just in case you have a bag of candy in in your house for that cheat day. Even though you're 80 lbs overweight and your scale says you're fat, you'll commit to your wife, but you keep texting options just in case. You keep scrolling through social media hitting on girls. That just in case mentality, that's the internal signature of a man who doesn't trust himself to go the distance. You aren't you have no faith in your own follow-through. None. So ask yourself, what version of me am I preserving by refusing to fully commit? What what what are you preserving? Because every backup plan you build around your life is a vote of no confidence against your ability to win. That's embarrassing, man. Irritates me. So I'm going to drink some coffee. Listen, flip the script. Every man that you respect, every dominant force, every icon, every savage that's reshaped the world like bent reality to his image, they all operated without a plan B. All of them. Julius Caesar didn't cross the Rubicon and say, "Let's have a retreat plan in case we upset the Senate." He said, "Burn the [\h__\h] bridge." Alexander the Great didn't look at the Persians and say, "Let's let's park those ships nearby just in case this gets a little messy." He said, "Burn the boats." You guys aren't getting it. And that metaphor is more than just a motivation. It's a neurological reset. It tells your brain there is no alternate future. This is the mission. Success or die. Listen. And when that's I went through this. This isn't some I'm not a guy that just came out and decided to start talking on a podcast. I'm missing a lung. I rolled out of a hospital with nothing. My life was burned to the ground for me. And I could have struggled and scrimped and done all kinds of little tiny things to get by for the next 20, 30, 40, 50 years or die on my couch, whatever it was going to be. Or I could have burnt the boats and I chose to burn the boats. Because there is no alternate future for me. This right here, what I'm doing for all of you showing up here every day for all of you, that's the mission. Success or death. Because when that switch flips, your standards elevate, your focus sharpens, fear transforms into just grit and fire because there's nowhere else to go but forward. You have no options. So ask yourself, what boats do I need to burn in order to become who I say I want to be? Not metaphorically enough. Not metaphorically. literally delete the profile, make the call, shut the [\h__\h] door, block the option, announce the plan publicly so that you can't hide from it. Because men who move without a way out move differently. Look at me. A lot of you guys are like, I remember when you were all joking and silly. I don't move like that anymore because I don't have an option. I don't get to do this again. Like, I almost died. Not some, bro. I almost died, man. I almost [\h__\h] died and widowed my wife. I have no options cuz I will never go back there again. Listen, I'll land the plane with this. I'll tell you something that most people are just way too polite to say, and I'm just not. Backup plans are for [\h__\h] They're for the undecided, for the half-hearted. They're the They're for the men and women looking for proof before they commit to belief. And if you are someone that has a backup plan, you don't believe in God. Oh, you might spit religion all day long. Your words might say God, your actions say atheist. The world doesn't bend for men with options. It bends for men with resolve. So if you want to leave your mark, then you must commit to something so violently that the very idea of failure becomes offensive to you, your life, your nervous system, everything inside you. It just violates you. And if you still think you need plan B, that's fine. That's fine. Then just understand this. You're already building your plan A with your foot halfway out the door. That's why it's not working. You're acting like a [\h__\h] You have a finite amount of time here. The clock is ticking. The door is closing. And the man who you could become, that's who's watching you, man. So, you going to finally go all in or you going to keep calling fear being responsible, which is what you guys do. Oh, you don't understand, Spartan. I'm being responsible. No, you're a coward. Your success shows up when you quit being a [\h__\h] I got to go. This is where we fight. This is where they die.