I've been saying never miss since uh since I opened my eyes in August of 2021 after I came out of the hospital. You can't miss. You can't. And so many of you guys miss for no reason whatsoever other than it's tolerated. But if it was between life or death, hell, probably 95% of you guys would get eradicated. You would end your life because you chose to miss. But you can never miss a day. You can't. This isn't about motivation or balance. This isn't even about fitness or business or some weird morning routine. This is about the law of your identity, of getting things done, of becoming the man that you're supposed to become. Because every day you miss, you weaken your own selfrespect. And so many of you guys have no self-worth, no self-respect, and you think it's okay. and you get in my comments and everybody else that's like me who is masculine and you go, "You're narcissistic, you're egotistical, you're condescending, you're a rich [\h__\h] you're a muscular [\h__\h] you're just an asshole." Except I'm the [\h__\h] that you guys need because you keep running to the bottle, the drugs, the TV, the video games, the soft body, the soft wife, the soft husband, the job you hate, the kids that you aren't raising properly, and you are justifying all of it and validating all of it and except every day and you're missing 24/7, 365. When you go, it's not possible to never miss. Yes, it is because I've done it for almost 4 years. You're not doing it because you're looking for validation. Every day you miss, you weaken your own self-respect until you get to a point where you don't have any. Every day you show up is when you fortify your throne. Like winners don't miss days because every day is a war. And a man who skips the war will always 100% of the time lose the kingdom. Let me explain something to you. Every time you miss, you send a signal to your subconscious saying this isn't who I am. And every time you show up, no matter how tired, how busy, how [\h__\h] your day is, you reinforce a belief. This is what I do. This is who I am. This is how kings and leaders operate. It's not about the reps. It's not about the money. It's not about the calendar. It's not about the cars or the house or the body or the wife or the husband or the jewelry or the watches or the lifestyle. Put that down before I throw it. It's about your identity. Listen, this is serious. This is about your [\h__\h] identity. You say you're taking a rest day. I have never taken a rest day since 2021, since the summer of 2021. And so many of you guys get so put off about that and say, "No wonder you're injured. No wonder you have this. No wonder you have that. But I'm doing better than you. I'm further than you. I'm smarter than you. I'm more successful than you. I have a better marriage than you. I have a better lifestyle than you." And you get mad. except you have no opinion. If somebody is doing better than you, you've got nothing. You have no opinion to criticize them whatsoever. Keep those words out of your mouth. The minute somebody is doing better than you in your life, and if you go define better, they have more money, they have better fitness, they have a better relationship, they have more successful business, they have better health, they have better mindset, they have better sex, they have a better wife, a better husband. their life in whatever cap capacity that they are sharing with you if it is better than yours because better is not relative. There are winners and losers. In fact, there are winners and everybody else. And the winners are the ones that everybody looks at and goes either I wish I would do what they were doing. I wish I had the stones to do it. Or they validate why they aren't really winning. And winning is all relative. It is not relative. Success is not relative. Winners are winners. And then there is everybody else. But you justify taking a rest day. You've been resting your entire [\h__\h] life. Most people are experts at starting and amateurs at continuing. You miss one day, then you miss two. Then you've created a new habit and you fall off and you justify it and you look for people, little groups to get together to justify and support each other and circle jerk around why it's okay to miss, why a dad bod's okay, why being a fat mom is okay, why raising kids that little boys that now think they're girls, why gender reassignment surgery is okay, why you guys are okay with bombing your kids with chemistry, with indoctrinating them with weakness, and you validate it because that's your life except those little groups where you have your little support groups where you talk about how bad the world is because they're winning and you're not. I don't mean groups that go we're going to get together like my mastermind where we go we're going to figure out ways to become more successful, more powerful, stronger, happier, healthier. We become the leaders in my mastermind and you can either follow or get the [\h__\h] out of the way. I am done playing nice. Because if you were in any group other than one that demands higher standards, you got recruited by the bottom because you are always being recruited. You are always being recruited. You are either being recruited by success or recruited by failure. And most of you guys are recruited by failure. And then you justify it and you get mad in the comments like you have anything to stand on. But your life isn't any better than mine. It's worse. It's not relative. I don't know how many times I need to say that because when you do that, you make one mistake. It's a mistake. You make two mistakes. It is the beginning of a brand new habit. And now your routine is dead. Your discipline's in a coma. And your results are gone. You know what never misses? The suck, the doubt, the depression, the voice in your head that says you're not enough. That shows up. [\h__\h] That [\h__\h] shows up every day, doesn't it? So why don't you? The voice is still in your head. Like I said, you guys get recruited by your little soft groups. You guys go cancel people that have a better life and a stronger opinion and more self-worth than you because you don't like it because it exposes where you are. You're not building a habit. You're constructing the framework for your future self. And consistency is how that identity becomes reality. Either side of that equation, when you skip days, you don't just pause progress. You fracture trusting your own damn word. You are a liar. People that cannot keep their word, I have no respect for ever. Get out of my life. And that's how you should be. Except most of you guys, it's the person in the mirror. So, you have to change or you have to lie to validate why that's not really what you're doing. You have extenduating circumstances. No, you don't. I have one lung. I started further down than you. We have had the same amount of time. What did you do with your time? You lied about it. You wasted it. You made bad habits and bad decisions and justified them and found people that supported all those justifications so you could get together and point at all the people winning and go, "They're narcissistic. They're [\h__\h] They're mean. They're conmen. They're scammers." No, they're not. We're the ones that are leading the way. You're too arrogant to take notes. But you keep anybody's name out of your mouth that's doing better than you. If they're doing better than you, shut up. you haven't earned a right to have an opinion about them ever. That's the problem with the internet is all of you cowards get together and have an opinion when your life combined, all of you combined can't equal one person that's winning. That's embarrassing. When you skip days, you destroy your self-worth and no trust in yourself. And anybody, man, woman, child, who doesn't trust himself, can't lead, can't love, can't build, and certainly cannot win. Like you, you guys have this motto, can't win them all, man. You can't always never miss. Yes, you can. But let me tell you how. Like, you can't win them all. You're right. But you can show up. No [\h__\h] You're not going to win every time, but you show up for every one of them. You don't skip brushing your teeth because you had a long day. You don't skip wiping your ass when you get off the toilet because you're in a hurry. So, don't skip becoming a better man because your feelings got hurt or your schedule got tight or your Wi-Fi went out or you couldn't get your Starbucks. You're not a [\h__\h] kitten. You're a king. Yeah, I'm lit today. Act like it. You're a king. You want to be one. Nobody wants to be a peasant, but you guys are choosing to do it. You guys should ask, "What lie am I telling myself to justify missing all of the actions that are going to define my future?" Because the future you have is going to be a byproduct of all the [\h__\h] you're doing right now. And you're going to be angry about it, blaming everybody else. But the only person you should ever blame is who in the mirror. Like discipline is not a feeling. It's not about how you feel. That's where never miss came from. It's about who you are and whether that man or that woman is worth respecting. Because every day you execute, you reinforce your code. Every day you don't, you betray it. You're a liar. And I've said it before, discipline is not a vibe. It's not something you feel like doing. It's not a burst of motivation. It's not some morning playlist or a self-help book. It's it is a command to yourself that you damn well obey whether you feel like it or not. Brush your teeth every day. You eat food every day. You lock your doors every night. Not because it's fun, but because it's required. Now ask yourself, why the hell is your purpose any different? Like, I don't give a damn how tired you are. And you guys go listen to this guy. I'm tired. I still work out. Yeah, but you're fat and you still eat. Why don't you get some discipline and wrestle with your refrigerator door? Shut it. Shut your mouth. If you can't control what you put in your mouth or how much you spend every day, the problem isn't with what you're spending or what you're eating. It's with you. Tired men win. Undisiplined men don't. You think I felt like running after I had my lung taken out? You think I felt like doing circles around my driveway the day I got home from the hospital 7 days later after they pulled this lung out? You think I felt like strapping that sled to my back basically with rogue strap, putting a 45 on and doing laps and looking my wife dead in the eye and going, "Come get me when I collapse." While she watched me struggle lap after lap that I could do and I don't even know how many I did. Two, maybe because I had six 4-in incisions in me. I just refuse. I was tired. I was in pain. I was mad. I was frustrated. I was angry. I was bitter. I was 150 lbs knobbyby need and weak at 48 years old with nothing. So my back was against the wall. You think I felt like training when I knew every single time I went out there I was going to suffocate because I only had one cylinder? No. I did it because the alternative was becoming the kind of male. It's not a man almost said man, but the kind of male that I hate. The one who only works when it's easy. Discipline is the ritual of becoming. And every time you abandon it, you don't just lose progress. You chip away at the very structure holding your your damn future together. You understand what you're doing right now is what the version of you in 10 years is going to either thank you for or call you an idiot for. Why aren't you hooking up your future self, man? You're arrogant. Skipping discipline is an act of betrayal against the person that you could become. You guys demand respect from other people, but you've got none for yourself. No external success can fix the internal fracture that is going to happen when you abandon your post, your discipline. Like you say, you don't feel like it today. Okay, let me break it down to you gently. Nobody gives a [\h__\h] least of all your potential. You don't get to feel your way into success. You fight your way. You bleed your way into it one brutal, boring, relentless day at a time. Anybody that's ever succeeded has they all have the same common denominator. They overcame adversity. They didn't take it laying down. And all of you guys look for a pill for when you have a sad day, when you have a fat day, when you have AI'm whining about my life day. You guys justify where you are instead of changing your circumstances so you could be where you want to be. Maybe you should ask yourself, where in my life have I mistaken temporary emotion for permission to skip all the things I'm supposed to do to get to where I want to go? Because it's not it's just one day, bro. That's not what it is. And that's what you guys do, bro. Take it easy. Maybe take a vacation. Take a chill, bro. I would never hang out with you. That's a slippery slope. And that takes men from focused to finish. Because it's never just one day. It'll take you from focused and driven, lasered in on everything you want to finished and nothing to dad bod fat justifying on 12 different medications at the same job you hate with a dead bedroom and an impotent dick and a miserable life that you would trade for anything. But you're too arrogant. You're too arrogant. You have too much pride and spite to do anything about it because you can't admit you were wrong because it's never just one day. When you go, it's just one day, bro. It becomes 1, two, 3, five. And that's the crack in your armor, man. That's the beginning of the erosion, the start of you convincing yourself that it's okay to live beneath the your own standards. And then you lower your standards demanding that everybody else around you lowers theirs so you feel better about quitting. It's never just one day. That's the voice of a man who's already negotiating with her own weakness. You guys in your I've been pretty good lately. I earned this cupcake. I'll make up for it tomorrow. I'll work twice as hard tomorrow. I deserve a break. That's like going through a stop sign and saying, "I'll stop twice tomorrow." And on your way through it, you obliterate a family that's crossing the street. You're an idiot. No. What you deserve is to become unstoppable. That doesn't happen by skipping leg day and skipping the damn plan. Most of you guys don't even have a plan because one missed day just doesn't it doesn't just steal your progress. It rewires your psychology. It changes neural pathways. It tells your mind to think this. We fold under pressure. We're not who we say we are. We're frauds in disguise. We can't keep our word to oursel. We always come up with a reason why it's okay to procrastinate. I missed a day once. It turned into three, then a week, then a month of [\h__\h] You think you could start again whenever you want, but guess what? You're lying. Because every time you quit, you make quitting easier the next time. Your threshold for mediocrity just gets lower and your shame tolerance gets higher until eventually you're soft and it feels normal. And then you fight for it. You get on social media and get my feed, other people's feed, you get in the comments section, your life looks like a Tik Tok comment section. It's a disaster. It's all over the place. There is a compounding moral cost to betraying your own commitment. And you think it's small. It builds every skipped session, every broken promise, every procrastination, every extension of your deadline, the date of fruition. I'll do it by January 1st. And then it's May and you still haven't done [\h__\h] You're a liar. And it builds into something dangerous, an identity that you no longer respect and everybody else around you loathes. And once once that that that habit, that self-respect is gone, all the habits, all the hacks, all the planners and magic apps in the world will not save you. But most of you guys know that you earned a day off. Please. Did you? Nobody earns a day off. There's no such thing. No. What you earned was momentum. And then you pissed it away. For what? A few extra hours of Netflix. for some prime video, for going out for a bunch of fries, for sitting on the couch, for hitting snooze, for going to bed early, for jerking one off in the corner when nobody's looking, for lying to your spouse, for lying to your friends, for extending the day to fruition, for pushing things back every single day again and again. making promises to other people and then not following through and then coming up with every possible validation and reason about why it's okay you should do that one you have no self-respect and anybody in your life that you've done that to has no respect for you one day missed is always more expensive than it looks you don't just lose the day you understand that you don't just lo the day you lose the edge and the edge is everything in your life ask yourself listen what you guys in your small compromises and coming up with your reasons and your validations about why it's okay. What small compromise have you convinced yourself is harmless? That's crippling and sabotaging who you could become or who you are becoming or it's taking you down the road to becoming somebody you would never respect if they were on the other side of you. The moment you realize that consistency isn't just about showing up, you could show up and be an idiot. It's about how you show up. You forge power, identity, influence, wealth, legacy, strength. Because every time you quit, you don't just pause. Like I said, you program this neural pattern. And those patterns become permanent if you let them. And interrupting them becomes more and more difficult. Every time you have to restart, it gets more difficult to do. And you become surrounded by all it's like gravity. This stuff is nasty. Quitting is like a virus and it's so contagious because you surround yourself with people that validate quitting but they give it another name. Finding yourself, making peace with yourself, balance. If you see anybody or you hear anybody in your life that says, "Bro, you need balance." Rricate yourself from anybody that says that from their circle, from who they are, from their family, I don't care who it is, because there is no such thing as balance when you want to win. It is the most disgusting thing to hear somebody go, "Bro, you got to have balance. I bet your wife hates that. My wife [\h__\h] adores me because I take care of her and we do our things together. If you don't, that's a problem between you and your spouse. Either she married the wrong person or you did cuz I have no sympathy for you." There's no such thing as balance when you want to win the game. By the way, that's what life is. You should constantly be seeking to evolve. I never miss. I never ever miss. Ever. It doesn't mean I don't fail. It doesn't mean I don't struggle. It doesn't mean it's not difficult or I want to quit or I talk to myself about quitting or I plan it all out or I have days where I just feel sad or angry or bitter or tired. It doesn't matter. It means I do what I say no matter what. Which means I will go to bed at 4 in the morning and get up at 4:10 if it means I had to stay up till 4 in the morning to do everything I said I was going to do that day. You guys miss all the time and then you validate it. Oh, bro, you can't function like that. Coffee is inauthentic energy. Coffee delays fatigue. I heard somebody say that and I'm like, dude, your your endocrinology, your biochemistry, your physiology is so way off. Your knowledge is disgustingly low. You're trying to justify it for you. Coffee is amazing for you, by the way. Anybody that says otherwise doesn't know their facts. Let me tell you something that like God I just I never miss ever. And I used to miss and then come up with all the reasons why well I had to take a family day. I had to go do this. I promised I would be at this. I said I would be at that. But don't make promises that if you have two promises in the same time, you [\h__\h] up. And all you're doing is programming yourself. I know a guy right now he's made non-stop promises for well over a year. I've seen nothing, zero, but lots of promises. If the promises keep coming out, there's no follow through. There's no date of fruition or it keeps getting extended. Those aren't promises, they're lies. Most of you guys just looked outside your circle or outside of yourself to see where that is. It's you. How many promises have you made that you have not kept? How many times have you broken your word? How many times in one day, in one hour, do you break your word? Let me tell you something. Most men will never understand. The most powerful men on the planet, they're not the most talented. They're the most consistent in the right direction. A lot of you guys are consistent for your Starbucks and your breaks and your balance and your jumping on trampolines and your validations and your excuses and your lies and your little groups that you get together on Facebook where you guys all hold hands, dance around going, "We're so happy." No, you're not. Because when all that stuff's gone, you're still broke, fat, miserable, alone. And your kids don't respect you because my kids respect us. Brandy and I, our kids respect us because they see us work. They're part of the work. We teach them how to work. They always look for ways to become exceptional. They've never seen us quit. They watched their dad come home from a hospital with an oxygen line in his face. They saw pictures and video of tubes being pulled from me because they weren't in the hospital. Why? Because they weren't allowed. Because the medical system here is [\h__\h] You know what I said? Even if I pass away, my kids are going to damn well know that their dad never quit ever. Why? Because that's where they learn it from. And a lot of you guys are teaching your kids to quit to justify sit on the bench and demand trophies at the same time. You're teaching them how to be fat. You're teaching them how to eat shitty food and never train and that a shake weight is an incredible workout. You're teaching them not to fight, not to have conversations, not to have intellect, not to challenge anything. You're teaching them that in order to get along, you have to go along. And that comes from you. Yeah, it bothers me cuz like I said, the most powerful men on the planet are not the most talented. They're the most consistent. They show up no matter what because consistency in the right direction. Get your priorities right. You want to stop right there. Keep your word to yourself. Do that above all else because consistency compounds. It builds skill, credibility, discipline, mental warfare, capacity, vision, wealth, identity, bulletproof psychology, and it becomes damn near unstoppable. But if you keep quitting, you're building that, too. You're just doing it in reverse. Every quit just lays another brick in that building that house of your own destruction. Like, you think you're tired now? Wait until you see the price that you'll pay for quitting every time [\h__\h] gets hard. You've trained yourself to fold. Listen, our kids never quit. Not since day one. And you're born unstoppable. Somebody taught you to quit. You've caught it like a disease. You've built the habit of failure and now that's your default. That's your setting. Something gets hard, boop, got to stop. You don't need another program. You don't need another start date. You don't need another Monday or another New Year's or another next year where you're running out of time. You need to become the kind of savage who doesn't [\h__\h] miss ever. Listen, a man's identity, it's not created through what he says he values. It's not. A lot of you guys come on here with your insta quotes and your memes and your comments and your whiny little justifications. Except the only person that believes you is you. Because your excuses, your lies, and your validations, and your justifications, and your procrastinations only sound good to you. They are there to make you feel better for quitting, but nobody else believes them. A man, a person's identity, it's not created by what he says he values. It's created through what he repeats without any compromise. Every single action you repeat is an architectural blueprint for who you are becoming on either direction. So maybe ask yourself, are your habits, your beliefs, everything you're doing, are your habits turning you into a warrior, into a lethal human being, or a whisper of what you could have been? Are they turning into a soft, pudgy, frumpy, heavily medicated, couch denting embarrassment? Because no external system can ever override a corrupt internal rhythm. And that's what quitting is. It's this slow decay of a blueprint that God gave you that you were born with. A slow decay of your purpose, your rhythm, your resolve. So, let me guess. So, most of you guys, and I know one person specifically, and if she's listening to this, I'm talking to you. You're a perfectionist. So, when you miss a day, you throw out the whole month. A lot of you guys are like that. I missed a day. [\h__\h] it. I may as well just burn the whole month. Get the [\h__\h] out of here. That's not perfectionism. That's cowardice dressed up as standards. They aren't standards. That's cowardice. Consistency builds the man or the woman. Excuses build the casket. Pick pick one. You want to live or you want to die because it's all up to you. You know what you should ask? I'll leave you with this because I'm just I'm so disgusted with the conduct of mankind right now and the attack that all of you soft people think you can you have a platform to stand on. And when someone like me or anybody like me with ethics and standards and integrity, you're ver you come back with what about compassion and balance and sympathy, empathy? None of that is what makes somebody a powerful leader for themselves because you keep lowering the bar over and over again. But you guys attack everything you wish you were or you attack everything that exposes your weakness and your lies. So maybe ask this. I don't know, just a thought. What consistency? Me, you, right? What consistency have I been avoiding because it demands that I kill the weaker version of myself? What is that thing? Start with one. That thing that I have been avoiding because in order to do that, I have to kill that weak [\h__\h] myself. Let me start there. That's how you never miss. And that's why I never do. I never miss. You should probably take notes. I got to go.