Listen, welcome to the Unbreakable Podcast. I am Dr. Trevor Bachmire. Most people call me the Spartan. If you've listened to any of the episodes, you know why. My son thought that name up when he said I look like God of War, like Kratos from the video game. And then he says, "I am the toughest man he knows he's ever seen." And he calls me his hero. But little does he know that he's my hero. So that's how I came up with it. In fact, that's how everybody came up with it and it just stuck and everybody started calling me that. Today is my Spartan Live coach call and I I was talking about some things and my wife made a great observation. So my wife Brandy is my best friend 20 years, two decades plus and there's nothing I wouldn't do without my wife. We do everything together. We run everything by each other and we do everything as a team. And I promise you this, who you choose as a partner for the rest of your life is going to determine what the rest of your life looks like. And she makes me unfucking. I've called her my angel since the day I met her because that's what she called herself. She said, "I'm your angel and I'm here to save you." Because when I met my wife, they had given me less than nine months to live. I had stage three bet on Hodkins lymphoma and she went all in on me. Anyway, that's an entirely different episode. But today, she sits in on every one of my calls and there's a big giant couch over there. We're in this giant professional studio here. And she said, "You should make that into a series what I was talking about." So, I'm going to go over it lightly today. And then, you know what? Honestly, if you guys want me to make this into a series on exactly how to win, everybody's got their little blueprint on how to be successful. I honestly think mine is the best one, but I'm probably biased because it's mine. It's my wife's. It's how I teach everybody. And I came up with this when I opened my eyes in the hospital, and I've been running this blueprint ever since. I'm just going to give it to you. You decide what you do with it. I call it the life equation. and it'll change what you do. But I think first of all, you guys need to understand something. Please bear with me here because I'll probably pop off a bunch of times on this podcast. Nobody's paying me for this. And yet you guys still think, well, listen, like the people who come in and criticize anything, shut up. I come out here for free, not to chastise you, to give you the answer and point out all the stupid [\h__\h] you're doing. I don't have to do that. Sit there and a lot of times I don't want to. I didn't want to bother with you guys. I don't want to bother helping you, giving you any information because you guys don't want to help yourself a lot of the times. And that is a problem between you and God. It has nothing to do with you and the system, capitalism, the president, the left, the right, religion, nothing. It has to do with you and the reflection in the mirror. If you want the life that you claim to to believe or claim to tell everybody that you want, the lie that you keep convincing yourself of that I really want this life, but you think you're entitled to getting all of the results without doing any of the work. You're a fraud because you run around criticizing everybody with the results who's working harder than you. I just can't get my head around the fact that you guys actually think, especially you Gen Z [\h__\h] you guys think that the world owes you something because you've got blue hair and a body shaped like a potato. Listen, I I we are the representation to you and you guys are [\h__\h] it all up because you're listening to the handful of adults that have created such an obuse, screwed up reality based on lies and what and their feelings. Like my son said it best, if you have blue hair, pink hair, fuchsia hair, it's all kinds of wild colors and you are shaped like a beach ball. He goes, it's like colors mean danger. Stay the [\h__\h] away from those people in nature. My son pointed that out and I went, "Dang, Pierce, you're right. Stay away from those people. They're poison, man. They're poison." So, that's how I look at it. It doesn't matter to me. This is my show. I come out here to tell you the truth. Just cuz you don't like the truth doesn't change the fact that it's the truth. And that's what a lot of you guys are trying to do. So, let me explain something here. I will teach you exactly what the life equation is. You solve this life equation, you will have everything you want. The money, the mansions, the health, the fitness, the marriage, the business, the island, the house, the yard, the dog, the cat, the fish. Everything you've ever wanted is a result of solving the life equation for yourself, not for any anybody else. For yourself. You cannot solve goals for other people. You can give them the instructions to solve for whatever the problem is that they have. You can lead them to do what's you can lead a horse to water, but you can't make them drink. I come out here and I give you guys a choice. But a lot of you guys swipe through and go, "What what else is there? Is there something else I can do that would be easier and would just give me the results if I just read it? It doesn't exist. Because honestly, let me get this straight. I come out every day, every morning, and I do the same morning routine. Follow me on this. The same morning routine, 100 pull-ups, 100 squats, 100 push-ups, 100 bicycles. But in every day, it's over 200 of each of those. 200 pull-ups, 200 squats, 200 bicycles, 200 push-ups every day in some way, shape, or form or another minimum. I train every single day. I run multiple companies. I work 12 to 14 hours a day, seven days a week. I still show up for my wife. I show up for my son, my daughter. I still train. I still build. I still lead. And you are sitting on your ass validating why you don't look like me, move like me, and live like me while you are doing the easiest workout YouTube could fart onto your feed. No, really, go on with all your excuses. I want to hear them. Tell me again how your fiveinute fat burn routine changed your life while you mainline cheesecovered bagels and blame your boss. Listen, let me explain something to you that's very simple. You have to get this. You're not tired or overworked or overwhelmed or frustrated or unappreciated. You're just weak. You're just weak. And stop getting angry about it. Do something about it. Listen, you don't become elite or exceptional on accident. You don't you don't wake up shredded or respected, which you guys demand respect for not even respecting yourself. You don't wake up rich. You don't wake up leading a family that actually admires you. You build that through blood and repetition and discipline and suffering and honestly in silence when nobody's looking, nobody's clapping. You build that. Four years ago, I had nothing. Nothing. They cut out a damn lung. Now, I didn't have a cold or a sprained ankle. They took a piece of me out. I started at zero at 48 years old and I rebuilt everything. health, wealth, my marriage, my psychology, all of it. And you guys are out here whining with about a 40-hour work week, a full set of lungs, and access to the internet like it's 1997 gold, and you're still losing. And you're still broke, right? And you're still bitching about who's president, still blaming the economy like your bank account is allergic to deposits. Get the hell out of here, man. You guys are responsible for this. You're not overworked. You're not over underappreciated. You're under evvolved. You're underdisiplined. I've said this so many times. Wait, ask yourself, where in your life are you confusing all of this busyiness that you have with actually being disciplined? Because that's what you guys do. You guys fill your life with all this busyiness and go, "Dude, I'm so busy. I still find time. And I work 12 to 14 hour days. I still find time. I'm married 20 years in an epic marriage. Just look at us. What is real? We love the [\h__\h] out of each other. We respect each other. We're connected. We share everything together. My kids are amazing to both of us. We treat them with so we work them like rented mules. We live this life. We never miss working out. You guys are going, "I have a 40-hour work week. I can't train. You don't commute. I work 14-hour days Monday to Monday." And you guys are complaining that you deserve a break. Got it. I said in my post today, you know, at 40-hour work week, my grandma, she worked a 40-hour work week. She's a lunch lady with a back brace. But you go ahead and tell me how hard your life is. Maybe ask yourself, really ask yourself, where are you so busy? You're confusing that busyness with being disciplined. I know somebody, they were a client of mine in my group, and they bailed at the end. Nope. It's all on them. They didn't renew. They didn't understand the program, which was do the [\h__\h] work. And for an entire year, they did nothing, produced nothing, created nothing because they were always trying to save themselves from something because they were so busy. They get up super early, they run non-stop till the end of the day, and they're exhausted, but they were getting nowhere. That's being on a hamster wheel, forgetting you're in a cage. Where in your life are you confusing busyness with discipline? What incredibly brutal truth have you been avoiding about the gap between them, between busyness and discipline? What is that? Because if you identify that's exactly where you need to start because you want to know what the real problem is. It's not the government. It's not your boss. It's not your thyroid or your pancreas or your lack of equipment at home or that the gym is closed or that the system is against you or that your town, your parents, your cortisol levels, your menopause or your [\h__\h] childhood. It is you. It is you. And we are in a world right now where it goes, "No, it's not you. It's everything but you." In fact, it is you. It is you. the guy with 37 browser tabs open searching for one more video to convince himself that trying harder isn't going to work. You actually look for like right now you can get online and look for a video to support come up with every ounce of evidence required for you to prove that it shouldn't have worked what you did anyway. That's why so you deserve to be where you are because it doesn't work because there's always an idiot out there that goes, "Yeah, it doesn't work." but they still live with their mom asking for hot dog money. You have built an entire life philosophy around justifying failure and you surround yourself with these other losers just to make it feel normal. That's why people bail on highlevel places, highle people, highle groups, highle jobs, highle careers because they are surrounded by killers and they go, "Oh god, I got to maintain these standards. I can't do that. I'm going to go down over there where Nancy is, where Suzie is, because that's better. If your life sucks, it's because of the person in the mirror. You have turned rationalization into a [\h__\h] religion. And guess what? Your body doesn't care. Your bank account doesn't care. Your boss doesn't care. Your wife doesn't care. The market sure as hell doesn't care. Crypto doesn't care. God doesn't care. All of them are watching. And while you're out here trying to convince the world on one side of the equation how badass you are and on the other side how you deserve a break, the universe and God are filing you and your name under completely irrelevant. It's on you. You don't get what you want. You get what you earn. You live how you tolerate. So if you don't like it, you're tolerating it. That which you don't choose to change, you are choosing to accept. So this is important because otherwise the everything is predicated on what I'm telling you right now. So what excuse do you keep rehearsing that needs to be buried today? Like look at your own life. Where are all the holes in your life? Stop filling them and justifying them. What holes? What holes? What useless excuses do you have buried in your like or that you have in your life that you need to bury? You need to murder them and put them in a box before those destroy your tomorrow, your entire life. cuz you will take these all the way to the end. And here's the worst part. You will know all the way down the line inside your psychology will be so broken and screwed up. You will know. You will know exactly that what you're doing is costing you and that'll make you even more angry and you'll get even more defensive and you'll get online and get in all the comments and get just as pissed off saying that you don't understand my circumstances. The world doesn't care. The universe doesn't care. God doesn't care. He gave you all those circumstances. [\h__\h] do something about it. Like I'm married. Listen, let's go a little deeper. Let's look at your relationship cuz most of you guys are screwed up there too. The I'm married to my best friend. Like I genuinely am. Two decades plus two two decades with Brandy, man. I just I love her so much. Two kids. We train, we build, we pray, we laugh, we we talk, we connect, we we dominate, and we [\h__\h] like we're in our 20s. Every emotion I've ever felt, anger, peace, joy, grief, she has seen it all. And she is still in my corner. And I'm in hers, by the way. Every damn day, every second of every damn day. You, how about you? You hide from your wife. You escape on Tik Tok or Instagram. You DM other women. You watch porn. You don't have the energy or confidence to replicate in real life. You look at it and go, "I wish I could do that with my wife." But you never talk about it. You want to have great sex, tell your wife all your freaky things that you want to do. You want to have amazing sex, be honest. Connect and give them a reason to be honest with you. Don't get mad. Don't sit there late at night, 2:00 in the morning, rubbing one out like a [\h__\h] idiot. Talk to your wife and you come home from your job and you dent your couch like it is a bed pan. And then you fall asleep with with a heart on bitter because your woman isn't treating you like a king, but you are one. Son, you are not a king if that's how you were conducting yourself. And if you are validating whatsoever, excuse me. There is nothing that your wife sees in you that is a king. She sees you as somebody she has to pity and repair. Get get as angry as you want. She is looking at you as a project and something to solve. She is not looking at you as anything other than that. And if she can't solve it, she's going to move on because she realizes you are irreparable because you're an idiot. Cuz you are choosing to be where you are. And she'll see it and then she'll leave. She doesn't treat you like a king because you stopped acting like one because you broke every promise you gave her at the beginning. Maybe she doesn't respect you because she's been watching you slowly fall apart and die inside for years while you make excuse after excuse and just completely forgot how to lead like a man. You want her to respect and adore you, then stand the [\h__\h] up. Stand up and be a man. You want fire and all kinds of wild stuff in the bedroom? Start leading with fire outside of it first. Stop looking inside and go, "Why won't you do this?" and wishing she would. Start being a leader. be a man. Your marriage is a mirror and it does not lie. It cannot lie. However, your marriage is a reflection of you, pudgy bastard. It's not a reflection of anything else. It is not a reflection of the current society. It is a reflection of you. So, if your ask yourself, if your wife mirrored back exactly what you've become, what would she see? What would she see? Would you respect that man? Stop justifying. Would you respect that man? Like you guys come out here and you hate on entrepreneurs. You hate on coaching and consulting programs. You hate on masterminds. You roll your eyes at people. You clown people who track their progress, success, and show you how to do it. And you mock people of faith who believe in God and somehow you think you're morally superior. You hate what, this is the problem, you hate what works because deep down you know what you are, right? Like you know what you're the pudgy, self-righteous parody of what you could have been. That's what it is. You're looking at yourself when you see all that stuff and it's reminding you that you're a loser. You're the one that looks out at everybody else, goes, "Why not me?" But then refused to do all the work that I've come out here and shown you how to do and millions of others have and gone, "Just do this." All of it. You get honest. You can't even do that. You guys, you hate the cars because you can't afford one. I hate Lamborghinis. I hate Ferraris. I'm not a car guy. But no [\h__\h] I don't care what it is. Make it a truck. Make it a plane. Make it a boat. Make it a bike. It doesn't matter. You hate the watch because it makes you feel broke and all you do is throw hate at it. You hate the jet because you're not invited. You hate all the muscle because you are ashamed to take off your shirt cuz you look like a beach ball. You hate the marriage because your wife doesn't even You guys are a thousand miles apart in the same room. She barely speaks to you because you don't deserve it. You guys hate God because you're scared he's actually watching you. And the more you discredit that and discount that, the easier it is for you to go, that's not really what's happening. But I'm going to tell you right now, his eyes are on you 24/7, 365. And he is disappointed because he gave you everything to win and you're [\h__\h] it up. You hate success because it exposes you. And you guys have become masters at making excuses sound like values. You You try and make them sound like you are this noble person with these amazing values that are costing you the life you want. You guys have moralized mediocrity. Do you know that? You've taken comfort and canonized it. How? How? You guys, you're not courageous and you're filled with failure and then you politicize all this stuff and think you're winning and you go, "Look at how smart I am." You're not smart. You're dumber than a bag of rocks because you keep fighting to defend the laws that are keeping you where you are. the laws you have programmed into your own psychology. You have laws in place that protect you because they get in the way of everything designed to make you uncomfortable that's required for you to get to where you want to go. And then you wonder why your life is cold and garbage and filled with non-stop dumpster fires and burning to the ground or quiet and alone. Instead, what success do you secretly hate? because it reminds you of all the effort that you're just refusing to give. If you think I don't come out here cuz I genuinely love you, you're blind. You're blind. I wish I had this when I was lining up screw-ups non-stop and then blaming other people because it would open my eyes. But you guys are ignorant because you're like, "It can't be this. The hell with him. What an [\h__\h] another guy yelling at a microphone. But I'm not yelling at a microphone. In fact, I am yelling at my 30 year prior self. That's who I'm talking to. The man 30 years ago that was a toddler little boy screwing things up. Hell, I could go back four years ago and go, "That's the man I'm yelling at because I should have done things prior to that better." But I didn't. So now I come out here and I go, "This is how what, when, and how, what, why, and how." You guys are just better at articulating your lies and excuses and then fighting to go, "Well, I'm so depressed and my grandma's thyroid is [\h__\h] me up. You don't understand my circumstances." No, you just have no standards. If you think for a second that I don't want everybody to be insanely rich, covered in strong, powerful muscle, and have a marriage that everybody else looks at and goes, "Dude, you guys are living a fairy tale. It's incredible." and have kids that adore them and listen and have this life that you have built this personal Xanadoo that you cannot you never want to get away from this Shangrila that you actually live in that you have built yourself with your bare hands and your own psychology but you guys are too busy jumping on TikTok looking up the dumbest things on earth instead of going this guy actually wants me to win you bet your ass I want you to win listen you you have to solve a problem it is a math problem and if you can do 1+ 1 then you can do this math problem so before you go math isn't my thing Yes, it is. Let me break it down like this. Just like a math problem. This is what I did in my call today. And there is nothing more effective than this on one side. Listen, today is the longest you're ever going to have to get to where you want to go today. Today. And yet so many of you guys are going to go, I'm going to do it tomorrow. But you have less time. So, let me get this straight. You're going to Today is the longest you've got. You're not putting in the time, the money, or the energy because you have all these other things that you keep coming up with to get in the way. But tomorrow or next week or next month or next year, you're going to go all in on it when it requires a hundred times that and is less effective, takes longer, and costs more. You're not even doing it now. So, you mean to tell me that your mindset is going to have such a radical shift, you're going to have this epiphany that a month from now, you are going to invest, let's say it's in my mastermind, let's say it's five grand to get lifetime access to a guy that wants you to win and actually knows how. Look at me. I am a walking example and I'm here to help you. And you guys go, I don't have five grand. But you have five grand to go buy a TV or go to [\h__\h] Disneyland with your kids. Instead of going, I'm going to do this right now and go dark. I love you guys that go, I'm going dark. But yet you have time to make posts well edited every day. If you're going dark, turn off social media, go dark, come back, and everybody goes, who the hell is that guy? He crushed it. That's going dark. Just to be clear, advertising that you're going dark says you're a commercial. not the same. But every day you put off what you want, it becomes infinitely harder until it becomes insurmountable. So, you're not doing it now, but you're going to do it later. That's like my wife and I running a marathon and she starts, never mind, she's got to run a,000 miles. I have to run the same thousand miles. It has to be done in a month. She starts today, right now and she's two weeks in and then I start. But we both have the same end date. I'm never going to catch her. That's what you guys are doing to your goals. If I'm not doing it now, you guys put it off. Every day you put it off. It's like you guys are running a marathon. I said this in my call, a 26.2. But every time you start to get slightly close to the end, you're like, I can almost see the finish line. I'm almost there. I'm going to actually do it. You start throwing more mileage in front of you and then you throw hills and rocks and all kinds of [\h__\h] So now that 26.2 that has never changed, you made it into a 100 mile run because you keep adding distance because you keep putting your emotional debris on the wrong on the side of the equation that you need to solve for. If you won't invest the time, money, and energy today, right now, tomorrow will be harder, but you will find you think your time is infinite until you're 70 going, "Why the hell didn't I listen to the Spartan?" No, I'm not kidding. You guys will beg, borrow, and steal money to buy a new car, new truck, or a house. But you won't do it to upgrade. You will borrow 200 grand to go to college to come out with some [\h__\h] world religion degree that teaches you nothing and gets you nowhere believing that you have more value because you have a degree because you're still falling for the lie. So, let me break this down because I could go off on this all day. On the life equation, it's just two sides. It's not fancy trigonometry or calculus. On one side is everything that you want. Every single thing. We're talking the money, the body, the respect, the marriage, the empire, the mansion, the cars, the jet, the yachts, the fitness, the power, the leadership, whatever, the adventure, the peace, everything. Everything you have ever wanted. And on the other side, you have a list of everything required that you have to do to get it. The list of everything you want is static. It does not change. That is what you want. The greater the detail, the more detail you have on the side of the things that you need to do to get it and the easier it is to solve. If you have a bunch of variables, you have no idea what the [\h__\h] you're doing. If you have a very precise set of things, you know exactly. I just got to keep checking boxes. On this side of all the things that you have to do are it's the discipline, the early mornings, the late nights, the long days, the sacrificed weekends, the not seeing your family or friends, the reps, the rejections, the hate, the silence, the judgment, the being ostracized, the dislike, the uncomfortable pain, the [\h__\h] grind. That's your life equation. And you guys are not solving it. You're adding more [\h__\h] to the suffering side of the equation and then complaining that the dream is just too far away. You're doing it. You're making it harder every day by putting more [\h__\h] on that side. Listen, the side of all your goals of everything you want is just sitting there waiting for you. It doesn't move. You keep pushing it further down. You add more fear. This is the recipe to succeed. This is the exact blueprint to get every single thing you want in your life. It doesn't matter what it is. You want to become the next Elon Musk, you want to be the next Gandhi, you want to be the kid down the street that all of a sudden hits it in YouTube and crushes. You want to have the next greatest marriage, doesn't matter. This is how you do it. And you guys keep looking for other ways. And then when you see this, you go, "I can't be it." Which means you just made it harder. You add more fear, more doubt, more debt in the wrong place. You guys won't borrow. I have people that join my one-on-one. My one-on-one is $50,000, which is so inexpensive cuz you're going to get everything I have done to get here along with a teacher, me, that will actually handhold you the entire damn way. All you have to do is one thing. Apply it. And if you can't do that, don't. Then you're looking for a cheerleader. I am not your cheerleader. I'm the guy that's going to put my boot to your ass and make sure you go. So if you don't like that, don't join. Don't become a one-on-one client. For people that can't come, they just cannot fathom. They can't get their head around 50 grand. They can't find it. But these are the same people though I will say that will go out and borrow 110 grand for a new Chevy and they're not using it as a farm vehicle. They might write it off on their taxes, but they're not using it for that. You're insane if you are using your time, money, and energy for anything other than getting to your goal. If you haven't reached it yet, you should really go dark. Imagine people will spend 30, 40 years working a little bit every day, hating it, miserable, dragging out their day, doing busy work, non-stop grind for 20, 30, 40 years when they could have sacrificed everything for one to two years, five at the most, and not seen a soul, not had a thing, lived like just a popper with their family. When at the end of let's go max five years they have so much money that money loses value to them. They have so much and you just refuse to believe it because you go that doesn't happen. It doesn't happen because you're not doing the work. You're being busy. If it took you a year to sell one car, one house, to close one deal, to make one sale, you're doing it wrong and you're listening to the wrong people. And most likely it's because you think you could do it yourself instead of actually listening to what needs to be done. And that is you adding your own stupid idiocy to the situation. But again, like I said, you add more distraction, more doubt, more escape, more struggle, more fear, more doubt, more debt, more excuses, more shame. And then you guys go, "Why is this so hard?" That's like adding a mile every day and you're only running 10 feet to a marathon. And you're like, "Why is this getting so hard?" But you're only willing to run for 15 to 20 seconds a day, exhausted. You're not exhausted. You're tolerating yourself being weak. It's hard because you made it hard. Look at your life. Don't take my word for it. Look at your life and ask yourself, "What distractions or habits or people?" You guys add people to your life and go, "Why the and they [\h__\h] up your life?" What distractions or habits or beliefs or people are you adding to your equation that are keeping you from solving the real work? What who are they? What are they? Because listen, I'm going to go I'll go savage as hell right now. Most of you are spending your whole life solving the wrong side of the equation. You stare at the pain. You stare at the discipline. You stare at how difficult the ugly uncomfortable hardship. And instead of doing it, you try and negotiate with it. You stare at the mountain and you yell at it. The mountain doesn't care about your feelings. It cares about what your damn feet do. And it just looks back at you and laughs. And then it throws an avalanche at your ass because you're not doing the work. So tomorrow it just gets harder and the mountain gets bigger and you become weaker and more tired because you're older until you settle because you beat yourself up. You try and find ways to feel better about doing nothing. Like you try and find ways around the work around that equation. You try and game it. You Google hacks. You buy books that you don't read. Take courses you don't ever apply. You join coaching programs and [\h__\h] about how hard they are. That's hilarious to me. This is really hard. [\h__\h] What the hell did you think it was going to be? You want to play pro level, but you only but you or you want the prolevel results, but you want to play intramural level. Okay, good luck. That's the world. That's what it they told you. You deserve it. You deserve to to earn. You know what? The Stanley Cup, right? They told you you deserve to win the Super Bowl. You deserve to win the Pro Tour by playing once a week on the weekends when you feel like getting up and only for as long as you can and then you're tired. As long as there's booze and alcohol and drugs and [\h__\h] weed that you can get afterwards and a movie marathon and you know what, some girl with is 3 ft tall with a flathead to set drinks on while she blows you. That's the life you have created in your own mind and you think you deserve it. I just want to smash you in the mouth because it is so aggravating that you are choosing to do that and yet I care enough to come out here and go you're killing yourself and it's costing you everything you want. The guy with the Lamborghini, my Revuleto has nothing to do with you. It has to do with the fact that I wanted the car. Building the dream house, the forever house for Brandy is incredibly important for me. is I want to fulfill her dream on that that we have been coming up with for 20 years. Do you have any idea how important that is to me? Because I want to see her face and I want to watch her walk through the door and I want to see the big double iron doors open up as she walks in and she knows she created every single piece of that house. She thought it up. That is her mind that came into fruition and I did everything I can to make it happen. Did you have any idea how much that means to me and how much it's going to mean to her because she is [\h__\h] everything to me? That's what I look at is I want to do as much. You think I'm building like I want to earn a ton of money so I can do a bunch of good with it. This podcast alone and most of you guys are never going to see it. People are never going to see this because I'll get 300 views because somebody's going to go whatever. then don't because it teaches you exactly what you need to do, where you need to look first. The platform, which is all the stuff I just spoke about and then what you need to solve and then you could go out and build it, but you're too cheap to do it. You're too cheap to spend 1,500 bucks is what it was for a year. I'll give you a shot. If you want to join for 1,500 bucks for the year, I'll let it slide for a couple more days. You got to DM me the word beast and I will let you in for 1,500 bucks. But I don't want people for a year. I want people for life. I want all your commitment cuz I want to see you win. 4,997 bucks. Never pay me again. 144 live calls, me live actually answering questions, every course, everything I've got in there. every there is over a thousand videos of me going here's how to do it for everything whether it is cancer or making a ton of money or losing weight or fixing your marriage or getting your own mindset out of the tarpet you shoved it in it's all there and you guys go I don't know man I got to max out my credit card so what if you don't have that limit on your credit raise it and do it but you guys won't do it because you're too weak and you're too much of a coward because it's not the course, it's not the mastermind, it's your lack of follow-through. So that's what you guys do. You solve the wrong side of that equation. You just stare at the pain and the discipline and all the things required and all the being uncomfortable. Being uncomfortable is what is demanded of you in order to get where you want. The uncomfortable side of that equation is where all the struggle and the hardship and the pain and the adversity resides. The other side is the goal that you keep looking at with sparkles and gold stars, but never doing a damn thing about it because you go, "That's not realistic." It's as realistic as you want. If you would have told me that I'd be building a 12,000 ft home for my wife, nothing. I went, "Build every single thing you want. Put everything in there that you want. Whatever it is, I don't care." Like, I hand her my Centurion. She's on it, too. The Centurion card. And I go, "Don't worry about it." It's taken 20 years for her to finally be comfortable enough to go, "Okay, because I want to spoil her." And I'm a guy that four years ago went through every dollar I had till I had less than 400 bucks in the bank when I had to start a business. After losing, they cut out a lung. You got no excuse. What's getting in your way is everybody else telling you that it's okay to not do that, to not go all in, to not sacrifice, to not pay the bill. Paying the bill is the time, money, and the energy. That's it. You will find ways to feel better about not doing it. And you will look for every possible hack you can that cost you next to nothing. And then you'll scroll through social media and YouTube for 5 hours hoping to find somebody else that failed as well. And guess what? You will find them every damn time because losers are like gravity. You guys are sticky. You guys clam together like you're disgusting, like a [\h__\h] virus. You just live in a little petri dish of your own disgust, right? It's just a crap petri dish. Losers attract each other. Comfort is a cult. It is a cult. So is success. So is victory. But it's a smaller cult because you guys don't want to do the work for the most part. I am I'm telling you, if you decided to go, I'm going to be as uncomfortable as possible. I'm going to join this cult. I'm going to be as successful as I can. Welcome to [\h__\h] victory. Welcome to going, I'm in, man. Where do I spend 4,997 bucks? I'm not hawking my mastermind. Beast. That's all you got to do. The word beast. B E AST. That's all you got to do. I will send you the link. You can't lose as long as you apply it. But you guys think if you complain and validate and blame like just a little louder and a little longer and you just hold out a little more life or God, they're going to lower their standards. It won't it here's how you fix it. I'll give you the blueprint even here. The reason you do the mastermind is so you have people to keep you accountable. Me. But here it is. Stop adding complexity to your life. Stop it. Do the work. Get up when it's uncomfortable. When you're tired, when you're cold, when you're sick, when everything hurts. You got a [\h__\h] hangail. I don't care what it is. Start checking boxes and tasks of things that you need to do to get to that side of the equation because everything you do on this side closes the gap to everything you want. Every task you do on the painful side, on the struggle side reduces a gap towards the reward. Every rep, every rejection, every painful struggle, every fall, every break, every silent, brutal, uncomfortable day gets you closer. You don't need more clarity. You don't need more time. You need more completion. Where, please listen to me, where are you negotiating with what needs to be eliminated completely? What are you keeping in your life? And what I mean by that are what excuses, what beliefs, what lies, what validations, what people are you keeping in your life that needs to be gone. You need to erase them permanently because all you have to do is solve for X, right? All you have to do is solve for X. X is everything that you have to overcome to get the life that you say you want. And what most people do is they discount the life. They dismiss it. They reduce it. They go, I really want this. I want A-50,000 square foot mansion. I want to buy the leaning tower of pizza. I want pizza. I want to my funny story about that. By the way, when we went to Italy to get married, I spent every dollar I had. I came back with 300 bucks in an underwear drawer in my house. I had to move in with Brandy because I had nothing. She paid my bills at the beginning. You guys don't understand how I started 20 years ago. You don't. She just believed in me when I didn't. So now it's my job to take care of her. Two decades. If I would have known this, I could have done it in two years. every up and down she's always been in my corner because I'm not willing to sacrifice my life equation for her for anybody. I just happen to have her dreams in my life equation. But if somebody else's dreams aren't in your life equation, that's okay. Your job isn't to solve for them. It's to solve for you. It's your life. Usually, it ends up being both. Especially when you're married, you guys have a lot of the same goals. So, make them happen. Stop lying. Stop being a [\h__\h] and going, "If you got divorced till death do us part, man." Sorry, I just disagree. You're a quitter. What if they did? Shut up. I believe in a life where you fix things, you don't throw them away. But that's me. You do you, man. You don't think my wife and I have arguments and disagree? What we don't do is fight. Cuz fight means you're trying to hurt. And that's what you guys do. You guys keep score with your marriage. you did this and you do it in your head and that's why it fails. You think it's because you didn't hang out with your wife enough? That's why that's why she left. You think that's why I know somebody Oh, I just I put my business above everything else. No, you didn't. You were a [\h__\h] in your marriage because I have a friend of mine who I love this guy so much. His name's AF. He is a special forces ranger and sniper. He just retired. He is one of Tim Kennedy's best friends and he has been deployed and been gone more times than he's been home six. He would be like, "Hey, I got a three-month tour." And he goes, "It always ended up being five or six months." Courtney is his wife and she is an incredible They have kids. They have a life and he's probably out of the I don't remember how many years, 20 plus years at least he was in service, maybe 30. He was gone more times than he was here. They have a rocking marriage. It has nothing to do with being physically present. It has to do with being psychologically present and connected and giving each other every tool to utterly obliterate each other. Trusting that you're not and sharing it all and knowing that your resource is the other person, not some other person. I started with nothing four years ago. I had to do it again. I started with nothing. I know how to do this and I'm really good at it. But when a man comes out here to help you win and you guys go, "That's shaming. That's toxic. That's hurtful. That's making me feel dumb." You're doing that because I'm calling you out. But I'm giving you the tools and you are like, "Stick a crowbar in your damn wallet, pry out some money, and actually join something that's going to change your life. That's it." or keep nickel and dimming and doing the things I told you. I think my net worth is about 50 million now. And you guys go, "My god, listen to this guy and his bullshit." It's not [\h__\h] It's that you're not willing to do the work. So, you need something to make yourself feel better for being a loser. Listen, you can hate it all you want. It doesn't change the fact that I'm right. All you have to do is solve for X. X is everything you need to overcome to get the life you want. That you don't need a laundry list of courses. Unless that's part of the equation, then just go learn them. That is part of X. But it's not some spiritual algebra or quantum mechanics. It's just work. But you're complicating it. You filled the equation. I said this before with emotional debris. You've added trauma. None of you guys have trauma. You've You don't understand my trauma. [\h__\h] your trauma. [\h__\h] your excuses. [\h__\h] your genetics. [\h__\h] your parents. [\h__\h] your boss. [\h__\h] your dog dying, your dad dying, your mom dying. [\h__\h] all of the problems that you keep coming up with because if you are still alive and the problem has happened, you got by it. You're just not willing to apply the lesson to your future. You've add That's what you do. You keep cluttering the side of the equation that's filled with the work. The work is a set amount of work. If you do that, you win. You just keep adding more to that side, wondering why you can't get to it. It's because you're afraid of being uncomfortable. You've added trauma. You've added shame. You've added labels and conditions and lies. You've added this speak. So, you now have a language to describe your excuses. You've added a thousand reasons for why you're still on the starting line while your buddy with a seventh grade education is already on his seventh business that he's sold. So, while you are busy editing your pain, that's what you're doing. You're editing the workload and the pain to make it feel better and justify why when somebody looks at you and goes, "Dude, they're still there, still in that same shitty ass house, same crappy car, they're in the same marriage, still smoking and drinking like a loser." While you were doing all of that, the prize has stayed exactly where it's always been, on the other side of the equation, just waiting. It doesn't move. your empire is always the same. You keep putting more things in the way and pushing it further down the line. I used an example today with one of the members of the mastermind. And I said, listen, you have a bum ankle right now. I can outrun you all day, baby, but if you start two weeks ahead of me and we have the same end dates, I have to run infinitely faster and overcome so much more than just running fast. And you know what people do? Here's an hour to run a mile. I'll start in 10 minutes. I'll start in 20 minutes. I'll start in 30. I can still do this. I'll start in 40. While the person has started an hour before you is literally lolly gagging and [\h__\h] around and they're almost at the finish line, easy as possible. And you go, "Okay, I'll do it in 10 minutes." And you've never run a day in your life and you hit the throttle and 3 minutes in your lungs are going to explode. You already got a pancake sized blister on your foot and you hate everything about it. and the excuses fly out of your mouth that they were more fit than you, even though he has a bum ankle. That's what you're doing. You're waiting till tomorrow. You're adding work. You're making it harder. And it's all the work you're already not doing, but you think you're going to do more. You're going to do more work even though you're not doing any of it. Now, I got to get this through your head. you are doing. You are saying, "I'm going to 10x 100x my effort, my time, money, and energy that I'm willing to expend to get to this life later." When you're not doing it now, liar. Liar. You have two choices. Solve the life equation or die with it unresolved and unsolved. There's your options. You're welcome. No one's coming. No one is rewriting the math for you. This law is as immutable as gravity. It is you versus you right now forever. Forever. So what what's a variable that you are pretending isn't part of your equation and that if you do if you look at it and you do something about it? What will change when you finally face that variable and you actually do something about it? What? When you go screw it, I have to stack nine credit cards to get into this program. I have to sell this car. I have to do this workout for the next 9 months because I'm a flabby pudgy bastard. It doesn't matter. I have to sit there and talk to my wife every day and solve the conversation problems and connect and be fully transparent with her so that we can have a kick-ass marriage. You don't like your job? Quit. Start a business. It's not that easy. I have responsibilities. Liar. You think I don't have responsibilities? I had them when I was broke. Probably more than you. You're having your ass kicked by a guy who started later than you with more problems than you, who just went harder than you. Me. I I think everything you want is on the other side of everything you are refusing to do. Solve your life. Solve your life or shut your mouth. There is no third option. Nobody cares about how you feel. All of the things you want don't care about how you feel. You hang around with losers that care about how you feel. Nobody cares. Only you. Even the losers don't care about how you feel. They just make you feel think that they do. They don't. Only you do. And that is your biggest enemy. So here, I'll give you the blanket invitation to succeed. Stop pretending. Stop pretending today. Stop pretending. Stop scrolling. Stop lying. Stop coming up with excuses. Stop saying you'll do it tomorrow. You'll do it later. You'll come up with it. You need more money. You have to wait till you sell this thing, buy this thing, move this thing, create this thing, lift this thing. Stop waiting, stop crying, stop blaming, stop overthinking, and start [\h__\h] solving. Because if you don't, the life that you want is going to die with you, and you are going to know it every day until the end. So go and solve the [\h__\h] equation. What are you still listening to me for? I love you guys. I want you to win. I got to go. Never miss. fight. This is where they die.