Oh man, I it is it's quarter to 9. I had a really long one-on-one call with a client because that's what I do. I don't rush people out of I almost broke that mic off. I don't rush people out of the call when I haven't solved their problem. That's why I have so many one-on-one clients. That's why people call me because I actually help them. But you know what? I started thinking about something today and this is going to be short because I'm hungry. I want to go inside and hang out with my wife and kids. But at the same time, I'm still out here at 8:45 at night doing what I said I was going to do, which is my vlog. I never miss. I never miss. I'm 104 vlogs in. I was going to make this a big highlight reel vlog. I was going to just stitch together a bunch of stuff and I called myself out and said, "No, that's not what you do, Spartan." Because I keep my word to myself. That's trust. I had somebody ask me something on on Instagram and it was about how to trust after infidelity. And the answer is actually simple. Choose. You either have to draw a hard line and say, "I'm out forever. I don't care how much it hurts." Or you say, "I'm in forever. I don't care how much it hurts right now. And I'm going to do everything possible to make it work with you." But the trust doesn't come from them. It comes from you. You give them trust. A weak person says, "You earn my trust." No, you give it. It's the same reason you forgive. You forgive for you, not for them. You give trust to somebody. But trust comes from the value you have in yourself. And when some, I don't know, someone comes along and gets all pissed off and says, "If they did that to me, [\h__\h] them. I don't want to be with them at all because if they're going to disrespect me like that, I understand that. But at the same time, what if you're in love with that person? What if they're in love with you? And if you go, if they loved you and they chose somebody else, then they love somebody else, not you. That's a Johnny Depp quote. That's not a reality quote. I don't condone any mistakes like that, but at the same time, I know that certain people in certain situations have made terrible choices. And when people make decisions based on emotion, they make very bad decisions about 99% of the time. And here's why. Let me explain this because and I think this is a good rabbit hole to go down because there are three things that you are doing in your life every second of every day. And that is you are looking at something. You are focused on something. Whatever it is, your life that you experience is not the same as the person sitting beside you at all. Ever. And yet we always expect everybody else to see, feel, touch, taste, and smell the exact same thing that we are. You can't do that because it doesn't work like that because they are focused on something completely different than you. Even if you go look over there, they're going to look, but they're not going to see the same thing you're seeing. That's why eyewitnesses are so screwy. But if you went through infidelity, whether you are the one that did it or you are the one that's the recipient of all that bad news, it still comes back to this. Are you going to look forward and absolutely eradicate the past or you going to spend the rest of your life trying to unring that bell while staying in that relationship? Because that's what you're going to do. You are going to do one of two things. You are either going to constantly look behind you and doubt everything that they say for the first little while because that's what you're doing. That's the worst thing you could do. Either you go, "All right, I'm all in. Don't ever [\h__\h] do it again. If you do it again, I'm going to cut your head right off. I'm going to chop your balls off." Whatever the hell you're going to say, some sick twisted thing with some Lena Bobbit reference. But that's not what I'm saying. That but that's not the point. The point is you have to make the decision if I'm going to trust you, then I'm always going to trust you. What people do is they trust conditionally and they forgive conditionally. But if you do that, then you don't trust and you don't forgive. You're just waiting for an opportunity to pull that out of your bag to hold it against them. So don't do it if you're ever going to talk about it again. Because when you forgive somebody, that means you never ever bring it up again. And if somebody has a variation or a alternate definition of that, save it because you're doing it for you, not for them. Because if you want something to work, you'll bleed to make sure it works. If you want something to be undone and all you want to do is get out of it, all you want to do is escape, then escape and leave. I'm in love with my wife. She is my best friend. I don't ever want to experience any catastrophe like that. But I'm also in love with my wife and she's my best friend. So it depends on how seriously you take your relationship. So if you go how do I trust after infidelity you stop looking at the past if you want to trust but you have to make the decision it's not see people take all this time oh it took me about 10 years to trust them again no it didn't it took you 10 years to make the decision to trust them again after you've sorted through all the demons that you decided to give power to that you decided to give all the fuel to by looking behind you because that's what happens when you decide that you're going to trust somebody. You can't do it if every time something feels uncomfortable, you look behind you to remind yourself of what happened. You can't unring the bell. And if you say, "If you don't pay attention to the past, you're bound to repeat it. Then get out of the relationship. Then get out of the business deal. Then get out of the job. Then get out of the whatever it is that you're in that you can't trust. Trust comes from you. It doesn't come from them." How many times do you think people break trust with Jesus, with God? He's still here. I'm nowhere near Jesus. I'm nowhere near God. Who am I to judge somebody for their actions? I'm not. But I do know this. If I want to be somewhere, to be with somebody, to do something, and it involves trust, that comes from me, not them. I'm not talking making a bad decision going, "That is a dark alley with a bunch of knife wielding people that are probably going to kill me if I walk down it and take my wallet, but I'm going to trust that they're not going to do that." That's common sense. So, you have to make the decision. So, when it comes back to how do I trust after infidelity, you make the decision. You don't delay the decision going, "Let's see what they do." Because now your brain is looking for why. Why shouldn't I trust them? See, your brain is going to go to work on either side of that equation. is going to do it to support whatever you have deep rooted inside you. If you go, I really don't know if I can ever trust them again. Your brain goes, okay, no problem. Let's go find all the facts and let's get every ounce of evidence against everything that they do to make sure that we always called them a liar. If you do that, you'll be in the most miserable life possible. If you go, I'm all in. I'm going to trust them. That means the past doesn't exist anymore. And then you just watch and you just love because if they break trust once, they don't keep their word once, you watch. If they break trust twice, then it's a pattern and they're showing you the pattern. So the problem comes back to you. It doesn't have anything to do with them. It has to do with you. If this is a repeat offender and that's all they keep doing, what the hell are you doing? Unless that's what you're into. You have to look at your life and go, "Am I willing to trust them with me? because it comes from you, not them. But if you are looking for reasons to not trust somebody, you'll find them. If you're looking for reasons to trust them, you'll find them. It has nothing to do with I have more respect than that, so f them. Is that really respect? Because I know people that have spent the last 15 years of their life heartbroken because they left, but they didn't want to, but they felt they had to because it was the right thing to do. And yet both of them are devastated. I know both. How did that work out better? It didn't. Because your ego, cuz that's what it sounds like. Ego and a lack of selfworth because you're more concerned about what other people are going to think. I don't give a [\h__\h] what other people think. Neither should you. So, if you are wondering here, I'll give you the short answer. If you are wondering how to trust after infidelity, you sit down and you lay all the cards on the table. Everything. Both you and that person. Every single dirty, grimy, shitty ass detail. And you shut up when they talk and they shut up when you talk. You don't use it as a weapon. You don't use it as ammunition. And then both of you go, "Here are all the weapons that you have to destroy me. Here are all the weapons I have to destroy you." And then you trust that they won't. And that's a decision. It's not a god, I really hope they won't. Then they will or you will. Because what you're going to do if you're debating on whether or not you should trust somebody is you're taking up bandwidth in your mind on all the things you should or shouldn't say and all the doubts that you have and all the conversations that have no merit and no value in anything you're looking at because you're coming up with scenarios that probably haven't even happened yet. But that's what you're going to do. So if you go, how the hell is it? is it's not that easy. Yes, it is. It's the decision because otherwise you are practicing distrust. I don't know, man. It's been a couple of weeks. I don't know if I can ever trust the man again. You're practicing distrust. You either make the decision right now. I don't care if it was yesterday. You make the the wounds are still fresh, Spartan. What are you, five? Get over yourself. You are either going to waste time right now trying to decide whether or not you want to trust somebody or you are going to go all in and go let's do this and ride off into the sunset and burn the boats. But this applies to your business. This applies to your health and fitness. This applies to cancer. If I wouldn't have if I wouldn't have trusted my wife when she said, "We need to get out of this hospital. They're not they're not helping you. They're hurting you." If I wouldn't have trusted my own ability to become everything I am right now and instead I would have trusted the medical profession, the doctors and the nurses and the healthcare and the pharmaceutical companies. If I would have trusted them with my health and my life, I'd be dead at the least. I would be filled with 12, 13 medications sitting fat and broken on a couch on my way out the door. The direction you trust is going to determine what happens. And if you go, what if what if I get hurt again? What if I get sick again? What if cancer shows up again? What if a car comes driving through this studio? What if my house explodes? What if my dog attacks me in the middle of the night? What if I go in the house, my wife is riding the pool guy? I could do this all day. It doesn't you you're going to spend your entire life on what if. Trust comes from you and it goes in every single direction that you aim it. That you aim it. So the easiest way to look at it is if you have a hard time going dude I just can't trust after infidelity you need to look at yourself and go do I want to because if you are in love with that person and you go I do want to then decide because it's not trusting that takes the hard the amount of time it doesn't take time to earn trust you have to decide and it takes time for you to make the decision you just how much time are you going to waste so either you make the decision to go I do trust you burn the boats and move on. Or you say, "I don't trust you." Burn the boats and move on away from that person. Those are the two decisions. It's an easier way than going, "Oh boy, I don't know. I'm going to need all this therapy. I'm going to talk about my problem four or five times a week. I'm going to sit on this couch and they're going to give me some anti-depressants. I'm going to be really upset. I'm going to think about all the things they did. I'm going to sit there and talk about it all the time. And anytime I get pissed off and insecure, I'm going to attack them for it." Who is that helping? All that's going to do is make you more pissed off. The more you focus on something, the more you experience it and the more you remember it. what are you doing? But that's what happens. It's like I said, three things you do in your day, every second of every day, you focus on things, you give them, you assign a meaning to whatever the hell it is, a feeling, and then you take action based on that. So, if you look at use use your spouse, I'm assuming this is what this is. This is like a vlog to one person specifically. But, okay, you look at your spouse, that's your focus, but what are you focusing on about that person? You focusing on all the things that you love about that person? All the things that you just believe in about that person, all the things you admire, all the things you desire, all the things that make your heart feel safe. And I'm not talking about this before you I don't feel safe anymore. All the things that make your heart feel safe, all the things that make you smile, all the amazing things that you have planned in the future, all the nasty things they do with you in bed. all the love that you feel, the way it feels to wake up, to go to bed, all that stuff. Is that what you're focusing on? Are you focusing on everything that you imagine that they did or that they told you that they did or you walked in on them doing and then you're just replaying that? Whatever you're focusing on, what's the meaning you're giving that? If you focus on this person and all the things you love and care and that make you feel so incredible with this person and then you give it a meaning that says, "I really love this person. I really want to spend my life. I have all these with this person. I have all these things I want to do with this person. I can't wait to do X, Y, and Z in the future. I want to have a family. I want to raise our family. I want to build a house. I want to go to this job. I want to go on this vacation. I want to grow old with this person. If that's what you're focusing on and they make you feel good because you are assigning that feeling to whatever it is you're focusing on, then that's what you will experience and that's the life you have. But if you are looking at this person and every time you look at them, how can I trust them again? They did this and this and then you're replaying all the things that they told you either shared with you, you walked in on, they talked about, you imagined in your head, and you give it a negative meaning. And if somebody goes well, what other kind of meaning would be? I don't know what the hell people are into in their sex life. Some people are into some wild things, but that doesn't matter. The meaning you give something, the meaning of the event that you give it becomes the event. So if you sit there and you go, I can't stop thinking about what he and she did. That's your fault. And it's not a listen, I empathize because it's crushing, but you are also making the decision on whether or not you want to trust them and keep going or distrust them and keep going in a different direction. That comes from you and it comes from the fact that you are focusing on something and then assigning a meaning to it. So if you are assigning a negative meaning, can you assign a better meaning to it? You're in control. By the way, it's a trick question. The meaning comes from you. It doesn't come from the event. I've said this before. We can go skydiving and if I go skydiving and I'm like, "This is going to be the best thing in the world. I can't wait to do this." And you go, "This is terror. I don't want to do this at all. I think I'm going to die." You're producing epinephrine, norepinephrine, adrenaline, cortisol, all these cancer-causing toxic chemicals and all the amounts you're producing. Me, interlucan, interferon, dopamine. I'm just like, I can't wait to do this. It's like I'm on a high. Exact same event, different meaning. However, subsequently the meaning I give the event becomes the event. Same for you. So if you want to trust this person, then you make the decision right now. Stop dragging your feet looking for reasons not to trust them. Then you only look for reasons to trust them. You tell your brain that's all you're going to do and you burn the boats behind you. If you want to go, I can never trust them again. Ask yourself why and then burn the boats and move on. Those the only decisions you have. It's like the people out. So focus meaning whatever you give it whatever meaning you want. I could look at this Rubik's cube and it might make me angry or it might make me happy or I might be completely unemotional about it. What difference does it make? It's my meaning that I'm giving this cube. Somebody might see this watch $350,000 of a watch. What a stupid ass. Why would you spend all that money? I would rather buy a house. But that's your meaning, not mine. I look at it and go, my time is very valuable. This reminds me of it. My buddy Justin told me, he says, "You know what?" He goes, "A Rolex says, I make money." The Richard Mills says, "Pay me." I thought that's an interesting way of looking at it. That's the meaning he gives it. And I have a lot of respect for Justin. He's a good dude. His name is Justin Winsel. Look him up. He's a good dude. I have a lot of respect for that guy. But the meaning of the event becomes the event. And the minute you actually understand that, you realize how much control you have over your life. But a lot of you guys keep allowing meaning to just formulate in your head and then just running with it because your brain now goes to on a factf finding tour. It's like a discovery from some attorney and they just go into all the caves and all the files and look for every possible reason to support whatever that is that you're feeling. Not even the meaning or not even the focus. It's just going to work to support whatever convoluted thoughts you have. What thoughts do you want to have? 60,000 thoughts a day. That's not the problem. I've said this before. It's that you have the same thoughts yesterday as you had or you have the same thoughts today as you had yesterday. Yeah. You can tell I'm hungry. I've been eating since noon, so I'm spacey as hell right now. I'm real hungry. Yes, I fast. But on my non-fasting days, dude, I'm hungry. So, I'm all over the board. But you have to decide what meaning you're giving something. If you want to trust them, then you go, "That relationship is everything to me and I trust them." And then you just cut off all ties of non-rust. You burn the boats behind you. And if you go, I don't, then don't. Burn the boats and move on in a different direction. But that's up to you. But this is like beating a dead horse. But a lot of you guys are doing this in your life and blaming everything around you. It's like people that go, "You should respect me." And their life is a disaster. Your life is a disaster by choice. Your life is a disaster by choice. If listen, if you woke up every day and your life stayed the same and it's something you don't like and you tolerate, that's your fault. That's your fault. How can I respect that? I can't I can't look at you with with respect. If you go, I am 80, 90, 100 pounds overweight and you go, you should respect me. How? If you go, I am choosing to be broke and drag my family through the mud and not retire my from my job, not retire from everything that I'm in and build the wealth and the machine and the life and the money and the business that I want so I can do everything for my wife and my kids that they want so I can spoil them and give them the life that I just want to give them. But you're not willing to do that. You wake up every day and you don't make the calls. You don't prospect. You don't build the business. You don't do anything to make yourself more wealthy. Even though it's hard at the beginning, it's overwhelming at the beginning, it's your fault. I got no sympathy for you. If you wake up every day and you just eat bowls of Froot Loops every day and you cover them in six pounds of sugar, I got no sympathy for you. If you wake up every day and you go, "I don't trust you yet." And you're yelling at your spouse and you're just treating them like crap. Listen, they're not going to respect you. You're not going to respect them. I have no respect for either one of you guys cuz you're not doing what you should be doing to make your life better. You're looking for reasons to make your life worse because you're seeking validation and permission from everybody around you. Except the people giving you the validation and the permission are all the low frequency people that you would never trade lives with. You should demand respect from yourself. And that doesn't mean you burn down someone else's life. It means you raise yours. But how can you demand respect from me when you've got none for yourself? Whether it's trust, whether it's money, whether it's wealth, whether it's your body, whether you're fat, it doesn't Listen, get all get as pissed off as you want. If you're so lazy, entitled, and disrespectful to yourself that you expect those of us like me, those of us like me with high standards to lower them in order to make you feel accepted, you don't have a weight problem. You've got a self-worth problem. You've got a behavioral problem. And you hate where you are. I've said it before. Nobody likes being broke or alone or overweight or sick or any Nobody. Like all of you guys that go, I would want a Lamborghini. No, but you'd want the money and the freedom to be able to buy one because all of that allows you to do good things with it. You're thinking so superficially like instead of listening to somebody who's actually telling you the truth about your weight, use that as an example. Or your money or your relationship. Listen, all your miserable friends to talk to this lady who I'm assuming it's a lady who is dealing with trust issues after infidelity. Listening to all your friends bitching, I would leave him. He said, "Look at their marriage. Would you trade lives with them? Because if you wouldn't trade lives with them, why would you listen to them? If I'm telling you, and by the way, my marriage is kickass. 20 years. I love my wife so much. I adore my wife, and there is nothing, nothing on heaven or earth that would ever make me walk away from my wife. We will figure it the hell out. She's my best friend. Every cell in my body craves to be next to her. She wakes up every morning and just wraps her arms around me, tells me she loves me. If you want that, then you might want to listen to somebody who has that relationship, whether it's me or anybody else. And if you people start sliding into the comments and going, "Yeah, but you haven't had to deal with this or this." It doesn't matter. If you aren't willing to trade lives with him, don't ever listen to them. But instead of listening to somebody, I'll just go right back to weight, who's telling you the truth about how fat you are because they care about you, you guys get on TikTok and make a crying video about how traumatized you are by the truth and then go, "Well, I'm going to" and then telling everybody how brave you are that you did that. What is wrong with you guys? The problem isn't your big ass. It's not your empty wallet. It's not your shitty boss or your crappy car or your lousy marriage or your lack of trust or your dead business. It's that you open your eyes every morning and watch the same damn movie on repeat. The movie that you can't stand and you're doing it by choice, but you're crying about it how it's not your fault. The issue isn't Gen Z or Unicorns or Trans, whatever the hell else is being sensationalized on social media. It's that most of you think that your life is somebody else's fault. And you want me to respect that. You don't even respect yourself. You don't. And having self-respect is not listening to a bunch of people around you who secretly want you not to succeed because they were jealous of the life you had in the first place. So when your life burns to the ground, they go, "Oh, I totally think you should leave. You should leave that guy. You should leave that girl. You should quit that job. You should move out of that big beautiful house. You should sell that car. We thought it right from the start." So, I'm so glad you came back, came around to your senses, even though they don't have lives that you would trade with, you trade yours with. Why are you listening to these people? I see it every day. You guys are listening to the wrong people. And you want me to respect that? Listen, I will help you grow a business, lose weight, get jacked, make a ton of money in any business that you can possibly throw at me. I will help you be successful, millions. I will help you fix your marriage. I will help you eradicate cancer. But I sure as hell will not respect anybody who thinks that their life is somebody else's fault and then who sits on the couch demanding that someone else fixes it for them. Listen, if you're a gritty son of a [\h__\h] who's putting in the work to change it all. Oh yeah, I'll respect that all day. No matter what you're You could be as broke as you are. You could be overweight. You could be at home crying into a pillow every day. But if you are doing the work to change your life, unending respect from me and I'll help you get to wherever you want to go. But the problem isn't your big ass. The problem isn't your bank account. The problem isn't your business or your wallet or your car or your house or your spouse or your marriage or your broken trust. The problem is your ignorant psychology. You have to stop demanding respect from other people and earn it from yourself. Like you you treat your body like crap. You blame everybody else for your bank account. You blame Listen, first of all, don't look in the mirror and blame yourself for what somebody else did either. Blame yourself for yourself. You complain about your marriage, your job, your life, and then you cry when somebody tells you the truth like me and they're like, "It's because you didn't want the truth. You wanted an answer that gave you permission to stay where you are." You don't have a trauma problem. You don't. You have a self-respect problem. It's not your boss. It's not your genetics. It's not your situation. It is your [\h__\h] psychology. And until you fix that, you're going to keep waking up in the same miserable movie that you and you keep pretending that you didn't direct it every time your eyelids open. That movie is playing because of you. You are the lead character and you're the director of that one. And you are writing the script every second of the day. Put down the pen and write something else. You can't. You're looking for people to validate where you are. I love that somebody asks me. I love that people ask me advice. I will give you the most honest, gritty, valid answer to direct you in the direction that you want to go. That'll make your life better. But if you argue against the direction I gave you, then you didn't want my advice. You wanted my permission or my blessing. You wanted my validation. I can't respect somebody like that. Get mad. Get offended. It doesn't matter. Slam your phone down. Smack the screen. I don't care. But if you treat yourself like crap, don't expect me to treat you like gold. You don't have a marriage problem. You don't have a business problem. You don't have a body problem. You've got a behavior problem. I said it before. You hate how you feel, but how you feel is based on a meaning based on what you're looking at. If you keep looking at something that you can't stand and it's not helping you get anywhere and it's not evolving your life and it's not helping you get to that kingdom that you've put at the end that you just keep walking towards, if it isn't getting you there, why are you looking at it? And if it is where you need to go and you need to overcome that, just punch right through it, then you need to give it a different meaning because focus first, meaning second, action last. an action is predicated on the meaning you give that event. So you can go on TikTok and get all the likes and sympathy. You post your little breakdown for whatever it is and call it bravery. That's not courage. That's deflection. The truth didn't traumatize you. It exposed you and deep down you know it. Adversity and success and truth introduce you to who you are. You choose to wake up every day and you choose to live live in the same damn life and complain about it. So if you want to stay in your job, you can't sit there and say, "Some of us has to have to pay bills." Yeah, you can pay bills from any job. You can start your own company. I started my own company broke. I had to burn through all of my money to get to just to keep my family alive. I lost almost $2 million to a contractor that ripped us off and then burned our life to the ground. and we lost the house, the dream house that my wife that I built for my wife and I was missing a lung and I was 48 years old and I have two kids and I had no idea how to build a business online. None. I didn't even know how to do anything but post on Instagram and YouTube. I didn't even know anything about anything else. I didn't even know how to take payments online. The problem is that you look at your life and you want someone to say it's okay to stay there even though you hate it, but you hate it. What are you doing? It's not the government. It's not Gen Z. It's not the [\h__\h] algorithm. It's not chat GPT giving you bad advice. It's you sitting on the couch looking for somebody to give you permission to stay where you are because you that's you are focused on finding somebody to give you meaning for your life. You give meaning to your life. You give meaning to the events. You give meaning to where you're looking and then you create your life. You can't do it if you keep giving shitty meanings to where you're looking or where you're looking isn't serving you. I will help anybody get anywhere, but I will never respect and support a victim mindset. And that's the world right now. No one is going to tell you that it's going to feel great going through hell. No one is if they do then they're lying. But it's that if you want something, then you're willing to go through everything to get it, to keep it, to save it, to build it. If you aren't, then you didn't want it that bad. You own your [\h__\h] and you do the work and you stop crying about the movie you decided to star in or become a better character. You're not broken. You're not broken. You're just undisiplined. Fix the psychology and the rest will follow. Anyway, I'm going to go inside and see my wife and kids. I'm hungry and I miss them. I haven't seen him all day. And you know what? I just I love the hell out of my wife. All right, I gotta go. Hope that helped. Never miss.