College is the only business that sells a product without guaranteeing any use like that. You're ever going to use it or even get paid for it. Going to ruffle a few feathers on this one. And you know what's wild is I went to college, a whole bunch of college. I mean, the number of letters after my name makes my monogram look like an eye chart. But it's a broken map, man. It is a broken blueprint. College is a waste of time. Listen, all of you guys that are struggling right now and you're trying to decide what you're going to do, this is for 17, 18 year olds, 19 year olds. This is a 52-y old man that is a doctor twice. I've got a whole bunch of degrees. And if I could go back in time, the number one thing I would tell myself would be, don't go to college at all. Don't waste your time. But I want you to follow me on this map because there was a time, think about it. At 52, my wife and I were talking about this. So before you get all upset in the comments and you start going, you shouldn't be giving people that kind of advice. They look up to you. Listen, I'm a doctor and I'm still looking back going, nope, I want my time back. I could use so many examples. How about one? Here's one. In 2009, how many of you guys had $1? Just ask yourself that. Because if you took that $1 and you guys in your stock market and your compounding interest and go, that was lucky and all this. It is still the same way. You put $1 into Bitcoin in 2009, it is worth over $100 million today. Everybody listening to this had $1 or their parents had $1 if they're young. Why didn't you put it in there? Instead, you went to college, came out 80, 90, $100, $200,000 in debt, and then went became a grocery a grocery bagger or a greeter or a salesperson at a shoe store or you work at Best Buy or a bank as a teller and you guys are all getting upset going, "We still need those jobs." Yeah, absolutely. But if you want to do something with your life, don't do that job. I am doing something right now that is completely unrelated to any degree I've got. I did the doctor thing for over two decades. I still want my time back. If I could go back in time, I had the parents that went, you got to go to college and you get yourself a good job and you work your way up and you make sure a degree is everything. You got to get a degree. Degrees are a waste of time. And what about engineers and doctors and attorneys? Absolutely. Then go get a degree. But how many of you guys are doing that when you go get your liberal arts degree or your world religion degree? Stop defending something just because mommy and daddy said you should do it or the world and its broken concepts tells you that going to college is the success. The world is owned by the entrepreneurs. It is not owned by college. How do you think those people learned how to be entrepreneurs? It ain't from college because the person teaching you business is broke. The person teaching you how to do branding or marketing, they're all broke. None of these guys are multi-millionaires. You take one year of your life and find a mentor. You pay somebody who is successful in your field to the level that you want. Not below, way above. Whatever they ask you, borrow that money. If they go, "Listen, it's going to cost $100,000 to take you under my wing and teach you everything I'm doing." Pay the hundred grand. But you guys would rather sit in class and take representative literature and growth and motor development and human movement principles and biochemistry and medical organic chemistry and all of this stuff that has never produced results for anybody. Listen, again, I've been a doctor over two decades. Not once have I used organic chemistry. Not once has anybody asked me what comes out of the tricaroxyic acid cycle, the TCA cycle, KB cycle. Nobody's ever asked me. Nobody has gone, can you explain hyper conjugation to me and show me an example of it? Can you talk about bromeilation? Can you tell me what bipenate and penate fibers are? Can Nobody has asked me any of this stuff. I can go through exercise, fizz, I can go through anything. a kinesiology, biomechanics, bio, like human biology. Most of the stuff that I learned in school is a waste of time. And what you're going to defend is you're still going there for the college experience. I can still give you the college experience. I'll send you 800 miles away, get you a crappy apartment with two roommates. Every Tuesday and Friday, I'll send you to the bar. I'll give you a job that you have to stay up late working. And you have to study for the next day because you have to constantly learn new things. In the morning, you have to get out of bed and go sit in front of something incredibly boring. And then you have to hang a hat or tell somebody that you you're busy or you have to have sex [\h__\h] your girlfriend or boyfriend quietly in the next room because you have a roommate or you have to wait till they're not there and you guys have to put labels on all your Tupperware in your fridge. Now you've just had the college experience and you can explore anything for a year, come home. You will have more out of that than sitting in some dorm and joining a fraternity and going, I'm networking. I've got a better network right now of people that are insanely successful and high-value men and women based on my contribution and my value than I ever got in any college. Stop defending a dated model just because your parents did it or because you think it's what you should do. It's not what you think you should do. It's all you know. They're not the same. If you are 17, 18, 16, 19, or 20, or you're trying to decide if you should go to college, or you're a parent drilling it into your kids, stop it. It is a broken map. College is a for-profit institution. It is not for education. Just like the indoctrination of the education system in elementary school, they should abolish school and replace it with something that actually educates people. Apogee. My buddy Matt Budro runs Apogee and his wife Heather. Amazing. I've known Matt for well over 20 years. He is a great man. Our son goes through Abeca homeschool. You guys have to take control of the education of your children. This is a desperate plea for you guys to take care of the next generation instead of shuttling them off to school because you need a babysitter. Upgrade your skill set so you don't have to. Quit making an excuse to send your son or daughter to public school and screw them up for life because they get indoctrinated with the hypnosis of social conditioning and go down some ridiculous mindset to support things that they normally never would have. Coming out with blue hair and gender confusion and arguing that God isn't real but science is. You guys are crippling the next generation because you're sending them to schools that intentionally create the mindset that is corrupting mankind. College is a cult and not culture cult like bad cult. There is a new code of greatness and it is not college. If I could go back, I would take my time back any day. There is nothing in this world that would stop me from getting my time back. If God came and said, "I will give you an opportunity to go back in time." There is only one reason I won't do that. Just one. And she's in the house. It's my wife Brandy. Because the culmination of events that have occurred in my life up until the day I met Brandy are why I met Brandy. If I had a flux capacitor and a magic ability to go back in time again, hypotheticals, none of those matter. The point is I still wouldn't do it, but only because of my wife. If my wife and children weren't in the picture, I wouldn't even think twice. Do it with the knowledge I have now. Hindsight's always 2020. And I would go, don't you dare go. I would go back and look at young little Trevor Bachmire and I go, "Don't go to college. Here's why. Who are you? I'm the older version of you that wishes he had his time back." Because I could have done more. Just stop for a second and quit defending where you think you need to go. There is nothing about college that has a benefit. Nothing. Even the education is dated. Anything they teach you in business is a waste of time. Harvard, Yale, Stanford, it doesn't m like Arkansas State, it doesn't matter. You're not learning anything. You are going to learn more. If I wanted to be a mechanic, works only on Porsches. Let's say I'm going to learn more following an elite level Porsche mechanic around for an entire year, free, paying to do it. You guys want an internship and you want to be paid, but yet you go and voluntarily pay for the dumbest classes on earth. Why do you need that credit? Do you ever ask yourself that? I did all the time. I go, "What the hell do I need this credit for? I don't need I took a class, we nicknamed it rocks for jocks because I needed a geology credit. Why as a doctor do I need a geology credit?" And of course, some idiot is going to go, "You need to experience everything. Where in me being a doctor have I ever needed to dive into the knowledge of geology? Where did I need to know about tectonic plates and calderas? The fact that I even remember that stuff is the most aggravating thing in the world. You don't need to know. And if you go, well, you're expanding your knowledge. Expand it in the field that you want to be in. Expand it up. Personal development. How about you just start there? Where are the personal development classes in college? Show me one. None. Absolutely none. You know who I love? Charlie Kirk. That guy is such a stud. I have so much respect for that guy. He is godloving, familyloving. He is a defender of the next generation because he gives a [\h__\h] And most of you libs go out and argue with him. You're getting mad against a man that's defending you and you don't even see that because you guys get sabotaged and you don't even know. Half the time you get sabotaged by your parents. Abeca Apogee, find a way to educate your children at home. If you go, I can't make the money, find a way to make more money. Honestly, join my mastermind. Start an online business that you can work from home. Nope. It is not some drop [\h__\h] Shopify, whatever it is. This is how to run a real business. I don't have one now. And four years ago, I had none. I don't have one. I have five with my wife and one of them is with a business partner. And the one with my business partner is going to be a billion-dollar company. Mark my words. The reason I'm saying that is because between the two of us, we have enough experience and enough contacts to blow this thing up. I would rather teach you how to run a business from scratch like you don't know a damn thing than sitting there and learning like you are better off learning about a many chat flow and how to set up a YouTube channel or do social media or get your message right, make content, how to streamline your message, then you are marketing trends and all the [\h__\h] that you take in a business admin degree. Stop defending things just because you're in it. I'm not defending med school at all. I think it was a waste of my time. Med school could be one year. Easy. Med school could be one year. Bring me I will go toe-to-toe with any doctor, any surgeon all day long. Bring them. Put them supportpartan armylc.com. I will go toe-to-toe with you all damn day. You can do all that in one year. Listen, you guys going, you mean neurology? you brain surgeon. You could do that in a year. Yeah, why not? Because if that's all you did, but you guys have a bunch of distraction courses. You don't get really good at the field you're in and nothing else. But you guys have nothing but distractions. And then you validate the distractions going, that's part of it. But why? I'll go back down that road. Why? Because you've been mentally sabotaged. Psychologically sabotaged. Let me tell you when that begins. 17 years old, 16 even. That's when the sabotage starts. That's when they hit you with a big dumb lie, right? What are you going to do with your life? How many of you have asked your kids that? How many of you kids listening to this? Have your friends asked, have your parents asked you, "What are you gonna do with your life?" You got to know what are you going to do with your life? At 16 years old, as if you've ever even lived life yet. And as if the people asking you have built a life worth modeling because if your parents are successful, they're telling you things that are probably going to help you. But for the most part, people that drive you into college, they're doing it because they're trying to live vicariously through you. as if your teachers and your counselor and your aunt Becky with a diploma in underwater basket weaving has earned the right to give you a map to success. But these are the people that give you one anyway. And I'm not giving you a map as much as the option to have free will and do what you want with your life and then build the [\h__\h] out of it. College, that's the blueprint. college debt, four years of processed, dated, moronic, myopic information that you're never going to use in exchange for a piece of paper that says you followed the rules. You bought yourself a degree. Now, a degree only says that you paid for an education. And it's not even an education worth having. Everything I learned, I did by doing, not by reading in a book in college. Most of the people giving advice don't have the life you want. So, why are you listening to them? If I don't have the life you want, don't listen to me. But right now, it's Saturday. I'm drinking coffee wearing a $300,000 watch in a $200,000 studio when four years ago I was broke. No, it's not about the money. I'm also missing a lung. And you've seen me train. I'm athletic as hell. So is my wife. We have two kids. I adore my wife. I got a 20-year marriage. We built companies from scratch. I can tell you what to do. I build people and companies. There you go. $1,500 for a year. There's not a single course in college that you can do that with. Most of you guys adults are floundering around for your student loans because they're calling them all in. What'd you get out of it? Nothing. You stay at home mom, stay at home dad, but you got a degree hanging on your wall you got to blow the dust off of and bragged everybody. How many people have asked you? Nobody asked me what I graduated. They didn't go, "Did you graduate magna?" Nobody's ever asked me that. They go, "Can you help me prove it?" See, the problem is these people that don't have the life that you want, that are giving you advice, that's the issue is you're conditioned not to question them because they raised you in fear. Better do it right or you're going to end up broke. Play it safe or you're going to be nothing. You better go along. If you want to get along, go to college or you're going to be working construction, digging ditches. Like even my dad, and I love my dad so much, man. But post hole digger. That's what he used to say. Don't go to college, be a post hole digger. as if building real [\h__\h] with your hands is somehow beneath being a cubicle slave with a $150,000 art degree and 12 roommates over the history of four years trying to figure out your sexual identity. Listen, the tragedy isn't that the map is wrong, you guys. The tragedy is that it's followed without any scrutiny. You inherit it from well-meaning people because they were programmed themselves but by the wrong thing. Fear, tradition, inertia, right? And if somebody you go to college should know what inertia means. No, you need to be a lifelong learner. What do you guys read every day? I've seen the dumbest things on television and you guys just literally zone out. The dream you have dies in the cradle. Not from lack of talent. It's from the lack of voluntary confrontation with what's actually true. Look at the world. Prompt engineers earn more than an arts degree, a bachelor of science degree. You got to go to college. But the problem is, you need a bachelor of science degree to go to med school. You need a bachelor of arts degree or any bachelor's degree to become an attorney. You think four years of essays, some thesis, gened is building toughness. You guys come out of college weak and it's that's by design. It's your fault that you went. It's not your fault that you come out weak because you're listening to the people that drill fear into you. You don't need a class in world mythology. You need to be baptized by God and then fire in cold calls, pressure, leadership, professional courtesy, conduct, personal development. You need rejection, obsession, and skills that make you money and movement. What skill did you learn in any bachelor degree that has actually made you money? I'll wait. You haven't. So, stop arguing in my comments or sending me messages going, "Yeah, I don't understand. You shouldn't be telling people that." I'm telling you the truth. You just don't like it. Doesn't matter if you're offended or not. It's still the truth. You want a real educ. Try and sell something. Get told the word no. You guys are so fragile. You get crippled by failure because now college and high school and junior and elementary, you guys get seventh place trophies and ribbons because everybody has to win. and they stop playing tag and dodgeball because they're too violent. Get told no a 100 times, a thousand times. Keep going. Learn how to lead people who just don't give a [\h__\h] about your feelings. Wake up and make money when nobody is giving you a thumbs up, a pat on the back, or a little gold star. That is real education. Get up when you're miserable and do it anyway. When you got nothing. When nobody said, "Good job, man. Hey, Bob, you did great today." Nobody said that, Bob. College is the only business that sells a product without guaranteeing any use like that. You're ever going to use it or even get paid for it. You pay six figures for some guy in khakis dressed like a youth pastor to read PowerPoints that you could have Googled for free. You get more education on YouTube. You'll get more education from this video than a year in college. If they call it prestige, I'd be embarrassed if I went to Harvard. I'm a product of the 80s. We say [\h__\h] and gay grow up. They're words. You guys have forgotten that sticks and stones, man. You guys call it like college. It's prestige. I call it hustle. They are getting you. They're fleecing all of you guys still. Don't worry, we'll lend you the money. You can take 30 years to pay it back at 3%. But don't worry, we'll make sure that you can't get rid of a student loan. Even a bankruptcy won't dissolve it. Why? Too many students were dissolving their student loans in bankruptcies. women to make sure they are 100% collectible. Weird law. You don't need a degree. You need a spine. Maybe a plan would help. You need a skill set that punches back. Listen, you're not failing because you suck. You're failing because you were told to chase safety by people who don't have any ambition or drive and no knowledge on how to do anything and they're unwilling to look at it because they've been taught by fear. Safety is the slowest poison on earth. Risk-taking is security making. To not take risk is to commit suicide. Safety makes you numb. It makes you wait. It sprinkles the seeds of one day. One day is still coming, man. You just believe it, right? One day, one day it's still going to come. But while your time evaporates on some group project and student debt, what map are you following? Just give me that much, man. What map are you following? And who the hell gave it to you? Who gave you the map? your mommy and daddy, your guidance counselor, your prof, your uncle. Is it still the same creepy one that molested you in the barn? Who? You guys advertising all your degrees on your you on your Instagram. I love seeing stuff like that cuz you look like a [\h__\h] idiot. I know people that just I have this in psychology and I'm a master's here. And I'm like, but why are you broke then? What? Because you got all those words after you when you built an insurance company. Every letter I ever got from an insurance company came with, "Hey, we'll pay you this tomorrow. It's a 60% reduction, or you can wait 3 to 5 weeks for the full amount, knowing full well that most broke ass doctors would go, "Oh, I'll take that. It's better than nothing." That's how I get in the system. I get $3 a visit. You guys have degraded yourself. That's the map you're following, just to be clear. And who gave that to you again? Insurance company, big pharma, college degrees, professors, neighbors, mom, your weak ego, your impetent psychology. If you don't question that, you're going to die with their plan in your hands and all of your regrets locked in your soul. So, you go ahead. Who gave me the plan? Who the hell gave me the plan that I'm currently living? And do I trust their life enough to use what they told me to do as my blueprint? Most of you guys are living a life that belongs to somebody else that you would never trade for. Why are you listening then? Honestly, I could go even deeper. College isn't the problem. Cowardice is. It's not a college issue. It's a coward issue. The problem isn'T4 years of education. The problem is four years of delay, avoidance, fear, terror, indoctrination, stupidity. It's all sold to you as the next step. You're taught in school that you need more school. Continuing ed, why money? It just keeps everybody sharp. No, it doesn't. It makes you money. Continuing ed is also a scam. I've taken the dumbest [\h__\h] in continuing ed and gotten credits for it. Didn't make me any better. It wasted my weekend, but I needed the CE credits. Needed two every second year, actually. So, I had to take them. Otherwise, they pull your license. I finally went, "Fuck you. Take my license. I don't want it." Because when you have a license, that means you can tell me what to do. When I don't have a license anymore, I don't have to listen to you anymore. I just can't practice that thing or label it like that. I'm still going to help you be healthy as hell. I'm still going to help you be successful. I don't need a piece of paper to tell me that. I've done it myself. You're not in college because it was the best decision. You're there because it's the most acceptable decision. It's an excuse. You don't know what to do. You don't want to disappoint your parents. You don't want to be ostracized online. You don't want to face the abyss of figuring out your own life. What do you want to do? What do you want to do? You know what you start off with? What do I want my life to look like? And go just go bananas. Go batshit crazy. Literally take a piece of paper and write down every single thing you want in your life. I don't care if it's an underground shooting range, a NASCAR track, and you want to have a space shuttle that's on your personal property that you can take up every day. I don't care. But stop letting somebody else dictate the life you want. And then look at that life and go, "What is required of me to get that life? Get to work." I promise you this, college isn't in that equation. But yet you guys sign your name on some dotted line for $200,000 of comfort. College. It's not an education, man. It's like academic heroin. slow, clean, conscious way to stay unconscious, right? There's no You don't go to college to commit to mastery. That's not why you're there. You're in college because you don't want to be judged for not being in college. That's not an education. That's social camouflage. That's like you going on social media and going, "I just want to say what everybody else is saying." Why are you complaining why you're not making any money then? Because you're too busy saying what everybody else is saying. You're swimming around at the bottom with everybody even though your thoughts are going, "I don't agree with any of that, but if I say that, everybody's not going to like me." Who cares? Social camouflage is killing you. You're hiding behind GPA. Who cares about your GPA? That does not indicate how intelligent you are. By the way, it says you can take a test. GPA, credits, your weak ass campus life, because you don't have the stones to say, "I'm doing something different." And I don't give a [\h__\h] what you think. I don't care. You're more scared of Aunt Karen's opinion than you are of dying broke, average, angry, bitter, filled with regret, invisible, worthless, forgettable. You're going to sell four years of your life, and pay for it. You're going to sell your time, but pay to give your time away. Follow that logic. You're going to sell your time, come out with a piece of paper that you bought for 200 grand and got nothing because of it. There are more people, I don't know what the statistics are, but I know this personally. I know one person, one out of all. And I know a shitload of people that are actually using their degree to do what they're doing. One. You want to win? Help you out. Keep your word, tell the [\h__\h] truth. You want to win? Keep your word. Tell the truth. That's exactly how you do it. If you can't do either one of those, number one, get the [\h__\h] away from me. Number two, quit worrying about being successful or having any friends. You won't. The problem is you're scared. Scared to sell, to build, scared to get rejected, scared to look dumb, scared to look stupid. Just be okay with looking stupid. You're scared to look. You're scared to be wrong. I am wrong all the time. I do stupid things all the time. I'm just not scared of it. You're afraid to be afraid. Accept it. Be okay with being afraid. Instead, you retreat into college like it's a safe little place where you can be busy. Get on that hamster wheel, but no risk. Where's the risk in going to college? Nothing. You're still a student. You're doing nothing. Lifetime students. I'm going to get my bachelor's, my masters, my PhD. I'm going to get my second PhD. Then I'm going to volunteer. I'm going to get another masters. What are you doing? You're hiding, pseudo productive. You think you're smart? You got no stakes in the game. You got no skin in the game. You know what? That makes you soft. It makes you weak. soft. Let me know what that's ever built. Pillows, quilts. Like the great illusion is that college is a safe bet. Where is college a safe bet? There are more broke college kids than anybody else in the world. But safe bets, listen, they're only safe if the outcome is guaranteed. Where's the guarantee? The outcome is debt, disillusionment, delay, doubt, fear, stress, destroyed credit, and it's all followed by a world that now views competence over credentials. So now what? Where you at now? The reason that most people, not just men and women, flinch from taking the path that they should is because it requires ownership like Joo Willink, right? Extreme ownership, like psychological ownership. No more structure, no more permission, no more handholding, no more spoon feeding. Just you and your ability to solve problems in the real world. You want to make a lot of money, solve the most expensive problems on earth. College is not going to do that. entertain or solve problems, you'll make way more money than any college degree. But that's too terrifying for most people because it forces them to put themselves out there. Like you guys, oh, I'm a victim of the system. No, you're not. You're a volunteer. You put your hand up and go, "Put me in. Put me in. I want to be part of that system." You signed up. You pay the tuition. Nobody else did or mommy and daddy did or you got the college scholarship. Think about that. They even give you an option that if your grades aren't high enough, you can voluntarily withdraw so it doesn't screw up your GPA so you can get into the next school. or the next program or the next course. What a racket. And then you guys clap at graduation like you accomplished something. Except now you're 26 and you got a $100,000 degree at least, if not more, and you got an Uber or a Door Dash side hustle wondering why the world that you were promised doesn't exist. It doesn't feel like it should. You know why? You sold your prime years to a fantasy and it's your fault. Here, I'll give you the solution right out of the gate. You stop making fear look responsible. It's not. How is fear responsible? Tell me. You pretending the easy path is the wise one. Well, you just I'm going to go to college. It's college is easy. I don't care if you want to tell me that. Oh, you don't understand how hard this undergrad class was. You don't understand how my program how hard it was, how difficult this was. It's college. Play D1 sports in college. It's harder. Still college, man. But that's harder than any class you're taking. Stop hiding from all the discomfort behind some dumb degree. Maybe start building some momentum. Get that motion machine going. Build a skill set that actually serves you. Build momentum powered, self-discipline, self-worth, self-respect. Build a reputation like your life depends on it because it does. Your life depends on what you are doing. You think your life depends on what somebody else is doing. Are you choosing the path you're on because you believe in it or because you're afraid of what people will think? What are you worried about? Tim down the street is going to judge you because you went to school with Tim. Tim's living a double wide right now still working at the movie theater. What are you worried about? Skills make you money. Degrees do not. You don't learn skills in college. You got a piece of paper in college. I learned more about being a doctor, a surgeon, a sports med, Cyro, all of it. When I actually started doing it, you throw me in the bar not knowing how to make any drinks on a Friday night, by the end of the night, I'll know how to make everything. Put me in school for 2 months on how to make all the drinks, including a seven layer push cafe. You know what it is? It is [\h__\h] hard. It's based on molecular weight of the alcohols you're putting in. It's harder than hell. You're going to fail. You're going to struggle and be stressed out. The book said it was like this, but it's not like that. That's right. Welcome to the real world, [\h__\h] Skills make you money. Real world skills. You guys listen to me. Certifications, degrees, you know what they do? They make you compliant. You got it. It's like the thought police, right? I just got to be compliant. You don't need a diploma. You need to bring value to the world and solve real problems, whatever they are. Invest in something like yourself. College is not an investment in yourself. It's an investment in the school, in the system. That's why it's deteriorating rapidly. You don't need some fancy, beautiful frame on your wall. I don't have any of my degrees up. I don't care. I'm almost embarrassed. I don't want my time back. I would have done so much more. I'm trying to help you so you don't make the same mistake. You want to be a doctor? Go for it. Do it. Crush it. And actually be a doctor, not a pharmaceutical rep with a medical degree. Then go out and be a doctor. Stop telling people there's such thing as side effects. There's not. There are only effects. Labeling them different doesn't change the fact that they happen. Telling somebody that an Advil reduces fever, eliminates inflammation and causes pain to go away. Yeah, it also causes acute renal problems, gastrointestinal bleeding, cardiovascular disease, liver failure, liver disease and on. But those are side effects. No, they're not. They're effects. The problem is if you labeled it as causes liver disease failure, renal disease, right? All of the things, glomemeriolphritis, gastrointestinal problems, bleeding, all of that's deterioration of the gastrointestinal mucosa, the lining, all of the stuff that it does, and you said side effects are reduces inflamm inflammation, fever, and pain. Nobody would buy it. Scrutinize your life. Scrutinize where you got the information from. Why are you thinking the way you're thinking? Why? You need your ability to develop a skill set. College doesn't teach you that. It teaches you to go along in order to get along. You need an ability to walk into chaos, solve a problem faster than anybody else, and get paid for it. That's what you need to do. If I stop there, I just solved your problem. You should pay me for it. You're paying me with your time. Like I told you, I set up the unbreakable mastermind people, I don't know, $1,500. Maybe test it out. Don't come. I actually talked about PE to my group today, the Spartan. I do a call every Saturday, Spartan Live. And I said, I'm going to stop doing yearly memberships. I only want lifetime commitments. Why? Because I want to change the world. But I really do. I want to change the entire [\h__\h] world and it's going to take my commitment to the world in order for the world to commit right back. You guys want commitment from other people before you commit. So, I'm going to only do lifetime memberships. It's just under five grand. You'll recover that in 3 months if you listen to everything that I tell you. Hell, you'll recover it in a month if you actually apply what I tell you. Most people just won't. So, don't blame me. Blame you. What have you got to lose? If you went, I'm going to give you $4,997. I'm going to get a lifetime membership to everything that is ever going to come out in the future as well. I got a decade of stuff in here. Thousands of calls in an archive in a library. Sales training, business training, branding, rehab, structure. No, there's no physical fitness. I had some guy go, I want I want to buy for the workout. I don't have follow my [\h__\h] online. It's free. Most of you guys go, I don't want to do that. Write me a workout. [\h__\h] you. I don't want to be your personal trainer. You know why? Because none of you guys listen. I'll put a blanket statement out there. You want me to be your personal trainer? It's $100,000 a year. No, I'm not kidding. You want me to be your personal trainer because you're so aggravating and you are so non-compliant and you are so disrespectful to yourself and me and my time. $100,000. Because the only people that can afford me are the people that are going to listen. I'll give you a whole year of training. You will do every damn thing I tell you to do. It's $100,000. Let's see who signs up for that. See, I got the body you want, but you guys are trying to get the body that you want by doing it the easiest and cheapest way possible. That's the same reason why I've paid coaches $100,000 or more because they have the life I want. So, I listen to them. It's 100 grand because I'm committed at 100 grand. When it's $1,000, I'm committed because I know my character, but most of you aren't. Imagine if you had to leverage your house to get a mentor or a coach to teach you how to have the life that you want, give you all the skills you never learned and you're being taught by somebody that has everything in their life that you want for yours. The ones on the bottom will go, I'm not paying that for that. Then you don't want the life. And the ones on the top are going to go, how do I sign up? I'll take out a loan. I have people in my group that went, I'll take out a loan. I had a guy in my group today. One of the best compliments I've ever got. This guy Josh, he's a Green Bright. He's deployed, working, married. He just got married. Right before he got deployed, he went to the bank, took out a loan for a oneon-one lifetime 50 grand, which isn't 50 grand anymore. End of this month, it's more. It's hundred after this month. $50,000. He borrowed it. And you know what he said today? Best money I've ever spent in my life. because he applies everything I tell him to do and he's committed. See, you guys will go out and you'll borrow 150 grand for a truck. Great. Does a truck make you money? No. Is it changing your life? It's a truck. It's a reliable vehicle. You guys are justifying impotence. Don't do that. If your dick don't work, fix your dick. Fix your mindset. You get what I'm saying? Don't just sit there and cover it up. Fix it. You cover up all your [\h__\h] your inadequacies with something shiny and then you try and validate it. Your wife's still going to be pissed off. If she goes, "Go to the drawer and get your tool." She's going to be pissed off. She's going to look at you and go, "Why don't you get your tool to work?" How about you stop eating like an [\h__\h] and drinking everything you can find and being on 17 different medications and 100 pounds overweight? How about you do all that? Magic. Your [\h__\h] just works. How do you stop eating stupid things and validating it and going, "Oh, but it's healthy for me because it comes out of a package." I have a 2018 Chevy Silverado 2500 diesel that I built from the ground up. I gutted it. Transmission, motor, everything. Did it all. This thing is a monster on the road. It still gets 20 m to the gallon. If diesels, you know what I'm talking about. Diesels are amazing. It's an L5P. Even Banks, Yale Banks says those L5PS are nuts. He did bolt-ons and got well over 900 horsepower and you just couldn't blow that motor up. They're just like a Cummins. They're indestructible. I built it from top to bottom in my driveway. Took me 3 weeks. I had to figure it all out. I know how to fix engines. I've been doing it since I was a kid and I know how to work on this stuff, but I'd never ripped apart a diesel. It's not the same as a internal combustion engine with a spark, right? It works on pressure glow plug. Learned a lot of lessons. Burnt myself, stuck myself, got covered in fiberglass from this wrapping on the downpipe coming off the back of the turbo. to use duct tape to pull the fiberglass out of my arm cuz it was itching so bad. It's Texas, 105° and 100% humidity. Didn't matter. I was out there sweating. My wife sat on a cooler. I put an umbrella out cuz she wanted to hang out with me. And I put a cooler out there with a bunch of waters and drinks and stuff in it. She just I just want to be with you. I have the greatest wife on earth. I had to take a sawzaw that I had to buy and I didn't have a long enough extension cord. So, I took my generator and I brought it outside. This is this how committed I was. plugged the saws all in and I had cut the catalytic converter out because it wouldn't fit and I had to drop the transmission in order to do it and I was like I'm not about to do that because it would have been a ton of work. So I just said [\h__\h] it. Wham, cut it off. It was still a [\h__\h] to do. I went through blade after blade and a sawzaw. I'm sure somebody's going to get in the comments there's a better way to do that. It doesn't matter. I figured it out and nothing got damaged and my truck is a beast now and it's so reliable. Right down to the ARP studs holding the head on like the heads, right? because it's a V8. You guys, I get asked multiple times a week, can you tell me I did that? Can you teach me? I could. I just don't want to. You guys need to develop real skills and stop looking to fix things by a frame on your wall or what everybody else tells you to do. I had people telling me, "Why would you do that? Just go pay to have it done." Yeah, I could have. And at the time, it didn't really matter, but I wanted to do it. And you know what? I got to share it with my son because he kept coming outside going, "Wow, is all this stuff the motor? It was all over the driveway. No, that's all the [\h__\h] that this truck doesn't need. That's what you guys are carrying around with your degrees. All the extra crap you don't need. It's slowing you down, not speeding you up. Become you become much more efficient with a tight skill set, a solid psychology, and nothing but obsession in the direction you want to go. Solve the problems faster than anybody else. And that's what gets you paid. go back to five grand for a lifetime membership of every single thing I have in there right now, which is beyond unbelievable and everything I'll ever come up with outside of one-on-one. And there is no personal training. Why? Cuz you guys don't listen. You want some fancy weird diet and the laziest easiest way to train. You are not going to train like me. So don't even bother. You want to train like me. I told you 100 grand I'll train you. Let's see who takes that and goes, "All right, I'm in." Solving a problem faster than anybody else. The bigger the problem, the bigger the pay. But solve it faster than anyone efficiently, effectively, and to the best of your ability, and to give them the outcome they want. That's what gets you paid massive amounts of money. It's what gets you respect, and that's what makes you free. College doesn't teach you that. Where does college teach you that? College teaches you how to show up on time, memorize completely irrelevant [\h__\h] and write 4,000 words about a book you are never going to touch again, follow instructions like a well-trained little intern. That's not greatness. You know what that really is? Grooming. It's grooming you to be an obedient little player in the game. grooming you to be an NPC. Be an obedient little employee in a world that now rewards those who can outthink, out sell, outreate, and out adapt. But it's telling you not to do that. Nobody gives a [\h__\h] where you studied. They care what you can do. Nobody [\h__\h] cares where you went to school. What's your alma mater? Nobody cares. Can you help me? Yep. I didn't ask the doctor, the thoracic surgeon that opened me up like a [\h__\h] filt where he went to school or what his grades were. I said, "Hey, am I going to be okay?" He didn't miss a beat. Goes, "I've done about 700 of these. I think you'll be all right." You know how good I felt when he said that? I didn't go well successfully. What were your GPA? I look down at his ostrich shoes and his kind of egotistical attitude and his the fact that it rolled off his tongue, 700 of these and he was the number one thoracic surgeon in the entire United States. I thank God for that. That's who showed up. Don't tell me miracles don't exist, by the way. I had all the faith in the world. How about this? Can you get customers? Can you make sales? How about build funnels? Write emails that convert. Can you build a team? Can you lead? Can you negotiate? Can you persuade? Can you ex execute without needing a pep talk? Can you actually do that? If the answer is no, your hundred to $200,000 diploma is Tinder for a fire. Just very expensive. People don't pay for potential. They pay for results. Performance outcomes. Performance doesn't require permission. Tell me where it does. Where does performance require permission? You want to be elite? Then you better learn things. Learn how to like, you know, how many podcasts I've come out here and done? Some of you might go, I hate these. You suck. You're terrible. But I'm still here and you're not. I'm putting in the reps. You're talking about putting in the reps. I'm going to win. Time is not even an equalizer. Time is a separator between those who win and everybody else because time, consistent output over time equals guaranteed results. If you're willing to put in as much time as required to get to the goal, it's not by a certain date. You just keep going until you win. The failure rate goes to zero because you'll just hit it. That's the guarantee. So, you want to be elite, be willing to pay whatever it costs to get to where you want to go instead of getting all the distractions that you guys keep chasing down. You need to communicate like a killer. I'm coming out here practicing communication. Yep. I'm gritty. I cuss. I'm edgy. I'm opinionated. But it's all in the right direction. It's because I actually care. You need to be able to lead when nobody's clapping for you. When there's all kinds of pressure leaning on you. You need to work like you are on fire. Like somebody just set you ablaze and you're like, I the only way I'm going to get water is by working my ass off. You need to execute with no emotion. None. You can't have any kind of a feeling when you execute. It just needs to be done. You need to be like ice water in your veins when you execute. You need to stack skills like your life depends on it. Because it does. I said that before. Your life depends on your skill set, not the diplomas. And diplomas don't give you skills. You're not broke because of the damn system. You're broke because you spent the last four years learning things that can't buy your mom a house. Does do you have a problem in your life that you could write a check for? Can you write a check for it right now? If the answer is no, you aren't wealthy. Learning everything you learned in college. Can't buy mommy or daddy a house. Can't fix your marriage. You can't build a brand. Can't save your soul. Go to church. You don't need a degree to go to church and get baptized and accept God. Where does the college degree come in on that? Your ability to succeed in this world is directly proportional to your capacity to produce value. That's binary. If you don't produce value, you don't deserve success. And value is not a function of intent. It's a function of applied competence. You guys think intent gives you value. This doesn't. It's worthless. I have potential. I intend to do it. So what? What's your applied competence? Have you done it? You must become a practitioner of relevance. like utility, function at least. What the hell did your degree? You guys do not go to college, man. Even if you specialize in craft, just be a generalist in function at least. So you can apply yourself, right? This is what separates the mediocre from all of the people that are exceptional. And everybody is born with the potential to be exceptional. Very few people engage in that. You guys, but I have a minor in anthropology. Great. You know what else does? Zoo exhibits, museum. The world is burning. The economy is shifting. And you're here trying to monetize a thesis on Mesopotamian pottery. Let me know how that works out for you. You know what it is? It's the bottom line. It's a very easy phrase. Everybody's heard it. Skills pay the bills. What skill set you have? Pump gas, serve tables, be a bank teller, do a little bit of simple third grade math. If you are 16, 17, 18, 20, 25, hell, if you're 35 and you're still asking, "What should I do?" Start here. Learn how to sell, how to lead, how to market, how to speak, how to write persuasively, how to speak persuasively, how to manage cash, crypto, people, systems. Stack these nonstop until the end of time and you will become unstoppable. You know what happens when you skip them? Welcome to Walmart. Stop getting offended. Like, what skill are you developing right now that's going to directly increase your income or at least impact you the next 12 months? What skill are you developing right now? Any you doing anything? I'll bet most of you are saying no. Your skill set is not posting on social media. That is not a skill set. The skill set is what are you bringing to social media to tell people about? By the way, AI is going to bury you if that's what you're doing. You really want to change your life? Listen you guys, you really want to change your life, you don't need a new major. You don't need to pivot. You don't need another degree. You do not need to go back to school. You need a mission. Because the only degree that matters is the one that you earn in the real world. This one out here. Tangible degree. It's not theory. No textbooks. No lecture halls with 300 sheep regurgitating buzzwords while you guys sit on your phones. The degree that changes your life, it's comprised of struggle, suffering, adversity, sadness, anger, pain, rejection, failure, creation, adaptation, all of those things. Primarily failure, creation, and adaptation. That piece of paper you got at grad, that's not proof you're ready. That's proof you paid. That's like a receipt. That just says you paid. That's literally all it says. You guys know that, right? That degree is a receipt. Thanks for the payment. And it should say in small quiet word, dumbass. How about you get to work proving you're dangerous? Start something. Start it. Max out. You guys are willing to leverage and max out your debt for a piece of paper that says you paid for the piece of paper, but not for the skill sets taught to you by somebody who is willing to teach them to you that has the life that you want because you're worried it might not work, but they're living the life. Ask any professor, "Show me. Show me your results. I want to see all of your money. Show me your bank account. Show me your investments. Show me your Oh, wait. You're hiding behind a big fat belly. Your marriage is gone. You sit at home and you yell at the television at football games. You have $2,200 in the bank, but you have a 401k that has $62,000 in it. That's pretty accomplished. No, it's not. You want to prove you're dangerous. You want to make the life you want. Listen, I don't care what age you are, but if you are 16, 18, 20, 20, whatever, you want to be dangerous, start something. Start something that scares the [\h__\h] out of you that you want to do and then fail. Start it. Be willing to fail. Be willing to bleed forward. Fail and then keep going. Figure it out. Teach everybody else. Find people that are doing it better than you and shut up. Pay them and learn from them. Build something that can actually move the world. I give a [\h__\h] about the next generation and you guys are throwing it all away. That's the real diploma. It's not handed out. It's forged. Your future is not built on permission. And it's built on all the pressure that is demanded of you to endure. So you either pressure yourself to level up, or life applies pressure later when you're broke, you're forgotten, you're upset, you're filled with regret, defeat, overwhelm, frustration, dependent, and stuck pretending that's what you always wanted. You didn't. Everybody wants status at some level. You want it, earn it. You want freedom, earn it. You want to be unbreakable, join my mastermind. This is what you're going to get. If you don't like this, don't join. Go into the world and start swinging if necessary. Because every time you choose fear over forward progress and comfort over learning a skill set, or if you choose delay because it's safer, you earn a different degree and it's not a good one. You earn a master's in [\h__\h] and weakness. You got a PhD in lies, excuses, and distractions. Maybe an honorary certificate and quitting like a [\h__\h] No. [\h__\h] that. You want the crown. You want the crown. So earn it. Just earn it. Earn it in public, in private, with pressure, with pain, with struggle, with silence, with adversity, through the daily war of becoming the [\h__\h] your younger self needed. And your future self is actually proud of because that's who's counting on you. Your future self is looking at you right now going, "Hook me up. Hook me up. Please, for the love of God, hook me up. Sacrifice for the future is the highest form of meaning. You guys, you think you're not here to inherit safety. You're designed to confront battle and chaos. Transmute it and make it conform into order by your conduct, your actions. Because in doing so, that's how you become worthy of the destiny you want. You guys are outsourcing your future to systems that can't see your soul or desires. It's stuff that blinds you. And you think that's okay because everybody else is. And you're so indoctrinated. Everybody shouldn't go to college. Don't go to college. There you go. I said it plain as day. Don't go to college. It is a waste of time and money. You will regret it for the rest of your life and defend that. You will you will defend it until you die going, "No, it was the best decision I ever made." Meanwhile, in the back of your head, you think, "If I would have just not done that, I would have this instead." Don't go to college. Build your own curriculum. Are you going to allow somebody to master you or are you going to master your calling for yourself? You going to look at the fear and you going to stand up and go, "All right, bring it." Teach yourself what an institution never will. Are you willing to do that? Teach yourself what any higher education institution is never going to teach you. That sovereignty isn't something you receive. It's something you claim. You don't need a cap and a gown. You need reason and a pair of [\h__\h] balls. Imagine if you start today. If you just started today, right now with zero permission and total responsibility, absolute accountability for yourself, four years from now, you got no student loans. You have all the skills. You don't need a resume cuz it's all you, baby. You got results. You've got receipts and proof behind you. You won't beg for job interviews. You'll be hiring other people's kids who followed the broken map that you set on [\h__\h] fire. Or you can be one of those kids because you went to college and now you got to work for somebody else. I got master's degrees and PhDs and everything. They all work for me. So, you go ahead and you keep thinking that's going to get you somewhere, but they're still employees. If you listen, please. I'm as serious as a heart attack right now. Please listen to me. If you treated the next four years like a degree in becoming the most valuable asset, the most valuable version of yourself, what are you going to study? And who are you going to learn it from? And what kind of life are you going to graduate into? Because that's what you need to look at. Because if you're just looking at your college, you're going to lose, man. You need to take your life seriously. Don't go to college, man. Don't do it. It's a broken map.