Every Sunday I do a webinar, invite people to join my unbreakable mastermind. Yep. I tell people to buy it, to join it. Same thing I tell you guys. And the barrier to entry is your commitment to the price that you pay financially and that's what allows you in the door. And if it's that good before you go, if it's that good, why why don't you let us try it out for free? That's exactly why I don't. Because all of you people that want something for free have already tried everything else for free and have bailed on it because you have no skin in the game. You surround yourself with people that aren't committed, so you don't have to commit. And I think the problem with that is is you guys are playing with the devil, man. Like you guys feed the devil daily. All of your comfort soaked weak habits, you need to drag It's Sunday. You should drag him into the light today. I told you you cannot fight the devil on his terms. He owns the dark. Drag him into the light. Listen. And when I say the devil, yeah, he's real, but I'm not talking about some horned redskinned cartoon with a pitchfork. I'm That's That's Looney Tunes. We're talking about the devil that you let into your life one excuse at a time, one lie at a time, one empty promise at a time, one validation of why you couldn't. One time you didn't keep your word, one time you made a promise to somebody and didn't keep it. One time you made a promise to yourself and didn't keep it. All of those times through comfort, the distraction, the delay, the vices, the weakness, the lies, the empty promises, the weak conduct, and the excuses. That's how the devil shows up in your life. Just one just one drink, one cookie, one missed workout, one just another couple hours of porn, just some booze, just a little Amazon Prime Video, some HBO. That's where he enters. That's the [\h__\h] in your armor. He doesn't come in with a roar, fire blazing. He comes in with permission. And the permission's from you. And if you think the devil is a myth, like some cartoon, and I get that from you guys. You guys are, "Oh, come on, man. Science." Yeah, God invented science, so we just stop there. But the fiery pit, believe me, hell is hot, but it ain't a creature with a pitchfork. The devil's real, but not in the way that you think. He doesn't show up screaming. He doesn't show up terrifying you in the dark. He whispers, "I know because it's happened to me. I made a post about it the other day about what do you do when you're stressed?" But he whispers, "Just skip today. It's not that bad. You can do it. No one will notice. You deserve this." One time won't hurt. Hey, you're doing better than most. Depression's real. You need medication. And you listen like a weak, lazy coward because you'd rather feel good than be good. I said it yesterday. Oh, the devil lives in hell, believe me. And hell is real. Hell is hot. And heaven is real. And heaven is amazing. But the devil in your life isn't in hell. He's in your home. He's in your habits. He's in your phone. He's in your excuses and your comments and your hate and your validations and your comfort and your calendar full of I'll do it later. I'll do it tomorrow. I'll do it when I get around to it. You know what? Maybe I don't need to do it at all. I'll just succumb to this impotent, weak, mediocre life and justify that not everybody wants to win. Except that's wrong. Everybody does. The devil's in that second drink. That third hour denting the couch with your big ass. That porn tab at midnight in the dark with a soft glow of your computer when your wife's asleep or your husband's asleep. The dopamine flooded Instagram Tik Tok binging that costs you your mission because you look up at the clock and you realize you've been doing it for 5 hours and that's 5 hours you could have been working on your mission. He is not coming for your soul all at once. He's coming for it one cookie, one scroll, one lie, one broken promise, one skipped workout at a time. That's how the devil shows up. And you guys listen. You guys let people into your life that make empty promises never follow through to them through with them. And you think that's not the devil. That's the devil. You think that people that show up and tell you how great they're going to make your life, but never act on it, that's not the devil. That's the devil. You think the person that says it's okay to stay fat because Harvard did a study that dad bods are more preferred by women, which is a lie by the way. There is no woman, there is no no reality that exists where the jacked fit version of you is more preferred by you and your spouse than the fat, sloppy version. None. That's the devil in your life. But you think, you guys think, you've seen too much Hollywood, you think evil looks like chaos. It's not. Evil is this orderless pleasure. It's weakness dressed up as peace. It's comfort that destroys all of your ambition, all of your drive, all of your goals and your dreams and all and just leaves only regret in its path. It's the science replacing God, not a chance. It's your tick- tock therapy, your fake BS therapy, replacing just the truth. It's being offended by the truth. It's calling the truth being oppressive. It's calling laziness healing. It's calling quitting self-care. It's validating doing less in your business because you think spending time with your children, even though you don't have the money or the business that you want, is more important because when they're gone, they're going to be gone living on their own and then you can get back to your life. But you won't. The devil is disguised as every single just this one time. I have a few more things to take care of. We're almost there, brother. You've convinced yourself was harmless. You You want to know where the devil is? I'll tell you. In every second that you lie to other people and you lie to yourself, he is the one that tells you it's okay to lie. It's okay to validate. It's okay to sleep in. He's the one that hands you excuse after excuse when it's painful, when it's uncomfortable, when it hurts. He's the one that says, "Hey, you've been through a lot, man. You should take a sad day today. Nah, that's not how this works. That's when you go to [\h__\h] war because if you don't, if you don't, the devil wins. And his win looks like your life in 5 years. Here's what I mean by that. Fat, broke, bitter, filled with regret, angry, addicted, and still blaming your childhood trauma. The devil is not hiding in the shadows. He's not. You You guys are so confused. The devil's not hiding in the shadows. He's right here, plain sight, looking right at you, sitting on your couch, handing you another beer, saying, "Damn right, you earned this." Meanwhile, your mission's dead. Your life's dead. Your body's fat and shot. Your bank account is hemorrhaging. You got one zero after the one, and that's all you've got. Your wife's gone banging her trainer, and you're wondering why your life feels like hell. Hey, let me help you out, bro. You invited hell in. You just called it comfort. Time off, caring, validation, excuses, justifying. You fed it every damn night with your phone and your snacks and your feelings and your lies. The devil is not chaos. He is seductive order with zero purpose. Get that straight. Chaos is not the devil. That is the result. He is distraction replacing discipline. He is a vice replacing virtue and singularity of focus. He is pleasure replacing all the meaning that you had that you let go. His price, it's not paid upfront. It's paid in regret in wasted years that you will never get back that you don't have to squander in the silent grief of untapped potential and success that you wish you would have had that you cost yourself. You do not sell your soul all at once. I'll say that again. You don't sell your soul all at once. You give it away incrementally. Every single time that you lie to someone else, to yourself, you validate, you justify, every time that you submit to what feels good over what is right. Yeah. It bothers me. My dad was a preacher 25 years, died at 67 years old. My dad was, for lack of a better word, he was a hero. He was a big old lumberjack of a man. Was a pastor in the most boring church on earth. Two wooden panels on either side in the sanctuary. Song hymn numbers slid in. Boring songs. You could set your watch by his sermon. But man, that guy could command a room. And his message was real. My dad and I didn't always get along. He was a rigid German man. But damn was that dude tough. And he was athletic and fast and powerful and strong. God, that guy was strong. He was just built like a gorilla. Like just a monster. and like calluses and thick human being. He would outwork anybody even when he was sick and even when he was tired and old until the vices and the excuses and the whisper of the devil got him and gave in to Advil, Tylenol to the tune of 16 to 18 a day to alcohol to distractions and it cost him his life because he went down the road of listening to the whisper. I'm here every day making sure that you guys don't make the mistake of costing you your life. Yet you guys enslave yourselves by hanging around the people that lie to your face, lie behind your back, stab you, gossip, give you excuses, validate staying less than you are, going down that path to become less than you are instead of going, how do I become more? Where do I invest my time, money, and energy into becoming the most elite version of myself? How do I get around people that are nothing but killers? angels of God, but you don't. But I come out here every day going, you need to because the soul that it's costing you is yours. So listen, here's the truth. The devil is he's not hiding, man. He's not. He's invited by you every single day. Every I'll start tomorrow. Ah, come on, bro. It's not that serious. Why you so intense, man? It's just this once. Hey, you don't understand. Something come up. I You know what? I know we were going to do it last year. I promise my word is still gold. I just have a couple more things to take care of. Every one of those. And you pay him with all of your talent and your time, your energy, and your soul. You guys do understand it's never too late to stop feeding him though, right? Like you can take away all that power and just go, "Not today, [\h__\h] I'm going to put you back in the ground." And it is never too late because the second that you recognize him, you can starve him. You can kill him. You can put his ass in the dirt where he belongs. Bury him under all the discipline, fire, and [\h__\h] execution you possibly can. That's how you need to do it. Because if you don't, again, the cost isn't to anybody else. No matter what it is to you. Because the devil doesn't show up with this forked tongue hiding in the dark sticking you with a pitchfork. The devil is the pleasure without your purpose. The devil is the easy path. When you go, "Yeah, but this way is easier. It's less than what I wanted." But that goal, that mission that you have when you went, I'm building the mansion. I'm building the life. I'm building the body. I'm building athleticism. I'm building the marriage. All of those are right. They're not when you guys go, "Yeah, but the mansion, how is that something?" If that is what is put in your soul, in your heart, why aren't you doing it? You want to have 50 cars. Maybe God wants you to have 50 cars. Maybe God wants you to have the means to get 50 cars because in doing that you have helped that many people and the byproduct is you have the money to do the life that you want to spoil the wife, the kids, the husband, whatever it is because of so many people's lives that you've affected. You ever think of that? But you don't. You look at it as selfish because some broke ass sack of [\h__\h] said being poor is righteous and noble. No, it's not. Being fat is okay. Being heavily medicated and brutally addicted is normal for taking days off is what constitutes a real training program. Tell me when nature has ever taken a day off. Nope. Devil shows up as that easy path. I had some guy tell me, "If your training program doesn't account for days off, it's shit." Then I looked at his picture. You know what? But that's why you look the way you look and I look the way I look and I move the way I move and you don't move at all. The devil dangles the carrot and says, "Yeah, come on. You deserve it." The comfortable option, right? Little indulgence that doesn't really matter. That's how he walks in. Soft hands, pretty lies. Just take the night off, man. You know what? I know you gave them your word, but you didn't say by when. So, you're still good, bro. Just tell them that it's going to take a little longer. You have other things to do. You told your wife that you were going to be home at 10:00. You can stop by for a drink. It's only one drink. You know, you're not getting it at home. You're getting what you need from this other person. You earned this. You deserve better. You deserve to be right where you are. By the way, everyone else is doing it. Of course, I'm going to do it. This will cost you anything. That's my favorite one. This is not going to cost you anything. Listen, that's his [\h__\h] sales pitch. And most of you guys buy it over and over and over again until the cost shows up a decade later. Oh, and you guys are like, "Where? Where's the cost?" your big fat soft belly, your numb soul, your impotent weak bank account, and your broken reflection asking, "How in the hell did I get here?" And you guys validate it. You're like, "Oh, listen to this guy. Another guy telling me that where I am isn't where I should be trying to motivate me. I'm not trying to motivate you. I'm telling you the truth. You don't like the truth because it hurts your little feelings. Quit being a [\h__\h] and actually man up and do something properly. Be the man that God commands you to be, that he expects you to be, because you're built in his likeness. And if you think for a second that his likeness is fat, sloppy, weak, impotent, with a room full of [\h__\h] concubines, and an empty bank account rubbing one off in the corner at 2:00 in the morning. Yeah, you welcome the devil in every day to get there. Every time you say yes to comfort, just to be clear, you're saying yes to decline. Like, listen, the devil didn't break your life. You handed it to him. You handed it over willingly. So, stop blaming people. Stop blaming things. It was the skipped workouts, the late starts, the lies about, "I'll get to it. I'm almost there. I got a couple more things, bro." You didn't fail. You crippled yourself because you slid all the way down the mountain. And you know what? That was paved with pleasure. Lies. And when I say pleasure, you guys are thinking rails of coke and [\h__\h] on a couch. No. Pleasure is feeling good because your excuses make you feel better for quitting. But they only sound good to the people that made them. You made a god out of comfort. If you really want to look at it, how about you break it down like that? Your god, false idol, comfort, and the devil sits on the throne that you built. You patted it, built it, covered it in gold, and all your lies. You think hell comes in one day? Uh-uh. It is slowly titrated into your life, dripped into your life. Every time you lie to yourself and anybody else and call it balance or I just got to handle this one thing. Every one of your opportunities or lies that you've told is the devil. You don't fall off, man. You fade. You fade hard. By the way, listen, you don't lose discipline. I can't stand when people go, "Dude, I lost my I lost all my discipline." You didn't lose your discipline. You traded it. You traded it for food to be fat, for porn to rubble on out and ruin your relationship, for your Netflix to be distracted so your bank account shrinks, for your lies that you tell so you lose your friends, for scrolling through people who lived the life that you were supposed to live with your hatred and bitterness looking at their success like mine. You look at my success and you get angry. Except that's the life you wish you had. You just didn't do it. Let me explain something. I've seen the devil. He doesn't look scary. He looks like your third cheat meal of the day during your strict phase. He looks like the remote you pick up instead of the book or the business. He looks like the voice, right? That stupid [\h__\h] ass voice that you hear that says, "Just take the weekend off, man. You need break. You're supposed to have break. You need balance. You need balance, bro. You need balance. You've been doing so good. You deserved it." Next thing you know, it's been five, six, seven years and your life, you wonder why it feels like a used napkin. That's why the most dangerous lies are the ones that can come out softly. By the way, the ones that just real soft, real easy, no force, familiar. Because you've said them so many times. I had I we had a guy in our life, Brandy and I, and his lies were just smooth. They were so familiar and it was always almost there, bro. Just a couple more things. Hey, man. We're so excited. Me and his concubine. We're in this together, man. We're going to help you. We're so excited. Just one more thing, bro. I just have a couple more things. I'm working behind the scenes. I got a couple of tigers I got to take care of. Familiar. And we were buying it every time. And then we started to look at our own lives and where do we say that to each other? Where do we say things like this is normal, this is deserved, this is healthy, this is expected, things happen, just taking a little longer. You push that date of fruition down the line, supposed to be in one year, now it's 10 years. Those are lies. That's the devil. The devil's strategy is it's not confrontation. You guys think that cuz you've watched too many movies. It is normalization. Understand the difference. He doesn't tempt you with horror. It ain't Freddy Krueger. You know who that is? He tempts you with all the comfort that erodess all the scaffolding and structure of your life. The pleasure that destroys just demolishes your virtue and purpose and all those choices that desecrate your entire destiny in life. That's the devil. You know what's wild? You know this. Here's the best part. You actually do. Stop. Just stop for a second and stop arguing. You know this. You know it. You felt it. You've lived it. And still you feed him non-stop because it's easy. It's easy. It feels good because the price isn't due today. But here's what nobody told you. Every time that you say yes to comfort and lies, you're saying no to your purpose and your calling in the life that you're supposed to have that you could be doing right now. Every time that you give in, you literally make him stronger. And not just on your time, but on who you are, on your identity. Like where I had to ask myself this question. Where in my life have I disguised the devil as I deserve this? It's too hard. I deserve this right now. This break, this balance. And what does it cost me in discipline, growth in my future? That was a very hard question for me to ask. Stop looking for the devil. Yeah, the devil is supernatural. So is God. It's a supernatural war, but it starts here. So stop looking for the devil in some horror m movie. He's not floating above you. not hiding in the dark or in the dirt. Son of a [\h__\h] is baked into your daily routine. The devil hides in all your habits, all your loose, weak conduct. He lives in your snooze, your skipped workouts, your fat meals, your cheating on your spouse, that third time you say, "I'll start Monday." The nine months later that you've lied to somebody about how you're almost there. You're almost ready to start. He lives in the justification that you use to post some soft ass mental health excuse every time your life gets hard. Like the devil is in every single act of micro quitting. That's how you need to look at it. All those little micro quits that you have, that's the devil. The ones that don't look like they're a big deal, the ones that don't come with this immediate punishment that you probably should get, the ones that you have normalized so deeply that you forget that they're killing you. Yeah. Until your heart stops. You want to know why you're weak? Because you've built your life around all of these daily negotiations with the devil. You don't have to like this. It doesn't change the fact that it's the truth. Every time you choose food over a normal diet. I really like this. But food, this is where we have fellowship together. This is food isn't just food. It's part of our culture. Is being a fat bastard part of your culture, too? Is being an unhealthy, disgusting human being part of your culture? Is being a lying [\h__\h] part of your culture? Is being a procrastinating dirt bag part of your culture? Is being what? Somebody that cheats and lies and steals and does everything for themsel part of your culture? Comfort over confrontation? Validation over discipline. Are those all part of your culture? You're offering up another piece of your purpose every time you do that. Just so you know, the devil doesn't take it all at once. He's patient. Oh, he's got more patience than you, man. He waits while you slowly kill your potential. He just keeps handing you stuff like that's it. Absolutely. Keep killing it. One skipped rep, one lie, one sales call that you missed, one email you didn't send, one message you didn't do, one call, one post, one one investment, one conversation with your son, your daughter, your wife, your husband, one extra hour scrolling, one more movie, one more episode in whatever series you're binge watching. That's how he owns you. You don't need demons. You are the [\h__\h] demon in your own life. You're the one skipping the work. Nobody else is making you do it. You're doing it. You don't think you could do it, but the day before a vacation, you managed to get everything done. But for the rest of the time, you have nothing but excuses to get any of that stuff stuff done. Like, you're the one that's lying about how hard you're going. If you're going so hard, why do your results suck? You spend a whole year going so hard, you have nothing to show for it. You're not going hard. You're achieving, you're confusing movement for success and results. Not the same. You're the one that's calling weakness self-care, sadness, self-care. Depression and anxiety beyond your control that you need to call in sad because you don't want to face how far you've fallen. That's the problem. That's why you're depressed. That's why you have anxiety. That's why you feel overwhelmed and frustrating cuz you're are frustrated because you're not willing to look at how far you've fallen based on the choices that you have mailed or made or failed to make. The devil ain't stopping you, son. You're doing his job for him. Like you guys, you wake up and feed him before you even brush your damn teeth. You know that with your lies all the time. Yeah, I got to call that dude, but I'll just I'll call him tomorrow. I got to make this post. I got to do this push-up. I got to do this workout. I got to change my diet. I got to go here. I got to go there. I have this conversation. Make this investment. Do the You don't do it. You feed him before you're even opening your eyes on the excuses that you formulated the nice the night before. your little soft thoughts. Micro quits. It's exactly what I said. Your micro quits. Tell you what, you want to see the devil? Check your [\h__\h] screen time on your phone. Grab your phone. Check your Uber Eats history. Look at your PlayStation purchase history. Look at your Only Fans history. Look at your credit card statements. Look at your YouTube history, your Google history, your chat GPT history. You got the devil on autofucking subscribe. And every time you say that's not that serious, he throws you another cookie, pats you on the back, gives you a hug, maybe helps you rub one out like a good little slave to your own apathy. Good job. You're winning. So exciting to see how far you've fallen. And you're proud of that. And then you say, "It's not your fault. It's all your fault." Evil does not require horns and fire. And by the way, evil will not stop itself. It must be stopped, which means you need to do the [\h__\h] work. it. Evil only requires that you consistently choose what's easy over what is required. And the next generation is going to suffer if that's not changed. The devil has no need to conquer a man whose habits already ensure his destruction. He doesn't have to do anything. He just sits by and waits for you to throw yourself at him every time you make a decision without confronting its consequence. Like, how many times do you even make decisions without even looking at what the consequence of your decision is going to be? You're participating in your own moral decay. That's what happens. Do you understand that? You do that long enough, you lose the very soul that you were born to sharpen. Like the devil doesn't live in catastrophe. Just casual destruction of your life disguised as your new lifestyle. You don't fall off with one mistake. You don't. You fall off because you built a system of habits that sabotage your entire world and you call it life. Now you're owned. You're not owned by some dark lord, but by your own refusal to call [\h__\h] on yourself. You guys get mad when somebody calls you out and say, "You don't understand my circumstances. I don't care about your circumstances." You're caving to all the things that you know damn well you would be strong enough to do if something else was on the line. But you guys treat your soul like it has no value. And until you name the devil in your habits, you're going to stay stuck, not in a pit, in a loop, non-stop over and over again. Maybe take a look at your habits and wonder which ones have you normalized that are actually sabotaging your entire life every day. And what would you do if you replace them with all the discipline that you talk about all the time? I'm super disciplined. Yeah. Why do you sleep in then? You fat bastard. You're just lazy. Yeah, it bothers me because I know you can do better and you're choosing to do less. Like you guys walk around. I'm under attack. You're manipulating me. You're attacking me from what? You're under attack from what? The government, the system, your past. You trauma from your childhood. The fact that you got [\h__\h] from your mommy and your daddy. No, you're not under attack. You're under invitation. The devil didn't break in. You opened the damn door. You showed him the couch. You said, "Come on in, man. I'll even make up a place for you. Stay as long as you want." Now he's in your routine, your identity, your relationships, your goals, and you're too damn scared to kick him the [\h__\h] out and put him in the dirt. He doesn't need to force his way in. He doesn't. He just needs you to compromise a little at a time. Like I said, I'll do it tomorrow. I got one more thing I got to do, bro. We're almost there. We're so close. Just hold on, man. Either you're telling that to your friends or you're telling that to the mirror. Ah, it's just this once. I've been good all week. I deserve this. I just need to reset. You know what? I only did it with her one time. Only did it with him one time. You're not resetting. You're disgusting and you're regressing and he knows it and loves it because every time you slip. I just slipped a little bit. Everybody slips. That's your justification. I don't slip and the devil waits for you to slip. Come on. That's okay. Jump. It's okay, child. Come on. Every time you slip, you reinforce the lie that your pleasure is more valuable than your soul and your purpose. Like you feed the devil with your language, your soft ass little phrases. I'm trying. I'm getting there. I'm doing my best. I can't stand that one, Mike. Your best. Your best. You're not doing your best. You're doing just enough to feel like you're improving without actually doing a damn thing. And you're making sure you share it on social media all the time. The devil loves that [\h__\h] because it gives you the illusion of progress while your reality just burns. It's like a massive confflgration. How about we just make it real plain for all you guys confused and going, "What is this guy talking about? You're not being attacked. You're being exposed." The devil is not He's not after your soul all at once. He's just collecting rent on the space that you gave him every time you told yourself that it wasn't that serious. That's what's happening. No, that's not it. That's not it. Spartan, you let him in the moment you stop demanding exceptional from the person in the mirror validating why not everybody wants to be exceptional. You don't need deliverance. You know, goes right back to what I always say. You need discipline and you need discipline in the right direction. You keep saying you guys, man, you keep saying that the devil the devil's working on you. Oh, the devil's working on me, man. No, man. He clocked out two or three years ago. You're just doing you're doing just fine. Absolutely demolishing and wrecking your own life all by yourself. He's got you so programmed and set up that you're just on autopilot. It's just running automation in your life. Self-hypnosis. couple of bags of Doritos every day, binge sessions, your late night scrolls, your in the dark rubbing them out, your skipped calls, your empty promises, your [\h__\h] up broken word that you can't keep, and your I'll fix it, I'll handle it next week, next Monday, tomorrow, and you never do it. You're not possessed. You're passive. And passivity. Oh, that's his favorite strategy, man. The slow, Listen, the slow erosion of integrity requires only one ingredient, just one. permission. You guys hand it over all day long like mommy signed the permission slip in sixth grade. Oh yeah, absolutely. Little Tommy, let's give him permission to spend his life with the devil. The devil doesn't thrive in possession. He thrives in participation, your willing participation in all his lies and excuses. Because whatever God creates center, Satan counterfeits and you believe the counterfeit over the creation because it's easier. Listen, most people aren't even victims of evil. No matter what you think, they're collaborators. You guys go, "Oh, I'll do that with you. Sign me up. Post it." And honestly, I believe that most of you guys don't seek destruction. I really do. You just fear the discomfort of truth. So you just go that way. Oh, I'm going to go that way. Why? Oh, that truth is scaring the [\h__\h] out of me. Why? Because I'm a [\h__\h] So what you do is you don't want to face the truth where you are and where you need to go and who you need to cut out of your life. Even if it's you, who you are right now, that person, you need to exercise yourself of that demon. So instead, you invite in the distractions and the escapes and the vices. And with it, you surrender dominion over your own life. You don't, how do I say this? You don't you don't fall. You know, it's wild. It's like I can almost hear my dad. But you don't fall to the devil. You feed him. You serve him. And you protect him because you think that's not what you're doing. And every time you avoid the hard conversation, you skip the workout. You run away from the work. You make up reasons why you're where you are and everybody else is lucky. And then you get mad at other people being successful in the very area that you said you wanted to be in and you can't cuz you're too [\h__\h] lazy. You hit the dopamine and you get the distractions and you do all the stupid things and you abandon your discipline. You're laying out another meal at his feet going, "Please, it's all on me." And he eats what you were supposed to become. Where have you given the devil access to your life through your compromise? Because compromise and people go, "Yeah, compromise is important." No, it's not. I never compromise. Ever. So, where have you just granted access full pass to my life through all of the compromise and what boundaries do I need to enforce? To evict that [\h__\h] right now, because that's where you need to drop the hammer. But you don't. Do you know what the thing is that's the most dangerous about the devil? He doesn't come for your money. He doesn't come He doesn't come for your money, your finances, your wealth, your intellectual property. He doesn't come for your muscles or your athleticism. He doesn't give a [\h__\h] about your reputation. He wants your purpose. He wants your purpose because that takes you away from everything else in your life. And you know what's sick about that? Most of you just go here. You just hand it over willingly cuz you're a coward. You're a coward. Like I told you, we had somebody in our life making all these empty promises now. I haven't seen a not a [\h__\h] thing. Nothing's come to fruition for over a year. We finally went, "I'm out. I don't even message a dude back anymore." Next step is block. Same with Brand. He's like, "I don't even want to talk about these people anymore." Why? because they're liars. That was the devil making empty promises, burning our time. When you subscribe to a narrative that never occurs. When you put time into something that takes you further away from your mission, that's the devil. And what's so disgusting about that is most of you guys hand it over willingly because you believe the lies. It's not a single deal. It's not with blood. It's not signed on a contract. It's not in fire. You give it up slowly, willingly. And every minute that you choose the easy path, the comfort over your calling, the pleasure over your principle, now over and over, forever. Forever. Some of you guys will ride this thing all the way until you're 90 or 100 years old, thinking you lived a great life, looking back that you never made more than $32,000 a year, and you grew your stomach faster than you grew anything else. And you've been through seven spouses. Your kids don't like you, don't want to be around you, and everything around you is a burning disaster. and you were filled with regret, but now you can't do anything about it. And you did it to yourself. You give it up. You give it up every time you mute your conviction and you chase convenience. Why? Again, just this once. That's Dude, it's not that deep. It's not that it's not that big of a deal. You're going too far with this, man. Other people do it, too, bro. Nobody's perfect. I'm just in my truth right now. Each one of those, that's your signed agreement on the paper. That's a signed agreement for your purpose, for your mission, for your [\h__\h] soul. That's the That's the exact thing that God built you to do. And you're disrespecting God because you're choosing to be the least, the weakest, the most impotent, soft version of yourself because everybody else is doing it, then everybody else is [\h__\h] up, too. The battle, your purpose is the battle you were born for. For the love of God, you have a purpose and you keep looking at it going, "Yeah, but it's too hard. It's supposed to be hard." The fire that you were born to walk through and lead others out of. Why do you think I show up here every day? Cuz I know my mission. I know that I'm supposed to be here because I've walked through the fire and it's my job to lead as many out as possible. You didn't lose any of that. You gave it up. You traded it for Door Dash and Instagram and Tik Tok and video games and porn and lies and Netflix and apathy and sugar and half-assed affirmations. You're not broke because you're oppressed. You're broke because you gave up on your god-given drive. You are not fat because of your genetics. Both of my parents fat. You are not fat because of your genetics. Both of my in-laws fat. You are not fat because Brandy isn't fat at all. You are not fat because of your genetics. You are fat because you stop fighting the daily war for greatness. Listen, you're not depressed because life's unfair because somebody has it out for you or somebody has it easier than you or you're just overwhelmed or you just can't take it anymore. You're not depressed because of that. You're depressed because you betrayed your purpose for years and years and now your soul is screaming for resurrection. That is why you're up. That's why you're depressed. And the devil, man, he's laughing his [\h__\h] ass off because you did it to yourself. He just looks at you and goes, "Yeah, dumbass. You did it. You think this is about missed workouts? You think this podcast is about missed workouts or making money? This is about war. And every time, every single time that you punk out, every time you call in sad or tired or upset or you need a meday, every time you skip the pain or the suffering or the struggle, you are telling your purpose, your drive, your soul to sit back down while your weakness drives. That's the devil's plan to make you think it's no big deal. Meanwhile, your legacy, your life, everything you want that you're too cheap to put your money and your time and your energy into everything that you want. Your legacy is dying from a thousand tiny [\h__\h] excuses, a thousand cuts. And you're the one holding the knife slashing away. You didn't sell out. You ate out every day. You streamed out. You numbed out. You drugged out. You porned out. You excused out. You lied out. Like at this point of your life, you need more than a savior. You need a [\h__\h] shovel because you need to dig your purpose out from underneath a graveyard of some days and almost. And we're almost there. And we're so close. And I just need one more day, another more week. We're almost there. It's almost going to happen that you've been piling on it for a decade. Because if you listen to me, if you keep feeding the devil, don't act surprised when your destiny doesn't show up. Don't act all shocked. Because the deepest form of damnation is not torment. It's waste. The slow, methodical, rotting decomposition of a man who knew what he could have become and chose comfort instead. The devil does not destroy you. He convinces you to destroy yourself incrementally, rationally, by choice, willfully. And one day you wake up in a life that looks like hell. Not because the devil took it from you, but because you built it with bricks made of lies and excuses and compromise. Listen, the devil doesn't need to possess you. He doesn't. He just needs to distract you and get you to look a different direction. He just needs you to delay. You move too slow. I'll buy it tomorrow. Even I even said this on my webinar. What are you waiting for? Today is the most amount of time you'll ever have to do everything you want to do in your life. My webinar gives you my mastermind a full year for 1,500 bucks. And people will find every possible way to come up with reasons why they can't. It's too much. It's too hard. They're not sure. They're going to do some more due diligence and waste more days. He just needs you to delay. That's what the devil does. And yet God put me in front of you for a reason, but you find a way to go, h, 1500 bucks, bro. What am I going to get out of it? What's going to happen to you if you don't? Go ahead, send me a message. Send me the word saved. S A V E D. I'll send you a link. I'll give you that same $1,500 deal instead of 25 grand. Even though, just to be very clear, I have people that have paid me 50 and 100 grand for one-on-one plus the mastermind. They've never missed a single coach call three a week. They've never missed. I've added coach calls. They've shown up. They've never missed. They don't pester me all day every day. I give them marching orders and they execute. The people that miss are the people that pay the least. What does that say about them? So, send me the message saved. Get around people that hang with God. 144 live calls a a year. You want to go for a lifetime, $49.97 instead of 50 grand, 5,000 bucks. Send me the same word saved. I'll send you two links. You pick one. I won't pressure you. Let God give you the signal. Which one do you want? I'm not going to sit here and Elliot and Grant Cardonia to death and sell the [\h__\h] out of you. I know how important it is for you to do that. To join a group of men and women who want you to win, who demand more from you than you're demanding of yourself and who surround you with nothing but God's armor and a sword to take every Goliath's head. You have to decide if you're going to do it. But if you're going to do it, then commit. Don't wait till tomorrow. Do it. The devil doesn't need to possess you, man. He just needs to delay you. And then again tomorrow and then again tomorrow. Just one more payday, one more excuse, one more, one more signature, one more thing. Next thing you know, it's a year later. He doesn't need to destroy you. He just needs you to get a little softer with your excuses and your validations. He doesn't even need to scare you. He just needs you to chase all the comfort until all of your purpose and all of your drive and all of your mission just hemorrhages out of you in silence and no one even remembers who the hell you were. I don't want to die like that. I have never missed a day because I give a [\h__\h] about you. This isn't about me. I don't care if one person saw this or a million people. I'm here because if one person sees this and commits to changing their life, then I've done my job. I want you to win. I want you to succeed. I want you to look up at God and go, "All right, let's do this." But in order to do that, you need to stop inviting the devil in. You need to commit. You need to ask yourself, "What part of my purpose have I traded? a part of my mission, my life, my drive have I traded for comfort, for ease, for safety, for the procrastination and lies, for failure to keep my word and and how do I start starving the devil? Burn, you know what? Not even ripping him from my life and burying his ass in the dirt where he [\h__\h] belongs and rebuilding my life starting right now. I got to go to church. I'll see you later. Never miss.