Today is one of those days where it just gets away from me, right? All of a sudden, I look down at my watch and I realize it's 20 after 4. And my unbreakable mastermind Q&A, the Campfire call I do every Monday is at 5. This is the call I stay on, by the way, if you guys have no idea what I'm talking about. This is the call I stay on for sometimes 2 hours, sometimes longer. Sometimes it's done in an hour. It depends. But that there's hundreds of people on this call. Like it's a packed call, but it's any question you can throw at me that you want the answer to, not just to test my knowledge. This isn't anything stupid like that. This is to solve your problems. But it's it's my favorite call of the week. I do three calls a week, right? 144 calls a year. And one of the one of the guys in the call, his name is Brian. He's an FBI guy and he's a solid dude. I've probably talked about it before, but he calls it Doctor on Demand. And I end up probably 60 to 70% of the call answering real doctor questions and giving people real solutions to any problem they have. Anything from seriatic arthritis to cancer to joint problems to tendonitis to the common cold, Hashimoto's like I just about anything. range of motion, herniated nucleus pulposis, it doesn't matter. I just come up with all the solutions because I've dealt with all this. I've been a doctor for 25 years and I've seen a lot. Like I've gone through well over a million patients successfully and helped a lot of people. But it's fun for me because I get to give answers to people and then see the results in real time and not just run them through this patient mill. And that's not even what this was for. I have people that ask me about lead genen and how do I create more money and how do I create an email campaign of 14 days with a drip campaign or how do I create a nurture list or how do I set up many chats or I don't know how to start my business where do I begin it there's all kinds of things I can't get my wife to sleep with me because you know why and there's so many aspects to this call but this is the one place that I get to give the answers that are going to help you level up in your life and a lot of people they'll spend all day on Google looking for answers getting some [\h__\h] canned answer that's not going to help they'll go and try it, fail, and blame the thing they're trying to solve, not the solution they applied to it, because they got it from the wrong source. And so, the reason I'm saying that is because, listen, I could pitch my unbreakable mastermind every second of the day, and everybody hearing this should join. I had one yo-yo yesterday on my webinar call. This guy shows up late. He's got 10 minutes left in the call. Is this recorded? I'd like to go over the last hour just to see what this is all about. I gave him the quick gist of it. Is there any more information? Can I maybe come back and watch a little more of this? Like it was just non-stop questions and I was like, "Dude, this is not for you." And here's why I'm saying that. The people that And this might be you. If you are this person, the problem is with you. It's not with whatever you've tried. You guys that ask for a 39 like the unbreakable mastermind coming in off of this webinar. It's a $25,000 mastermind. You're paying 1,500 bucks a year. You guys are going to buy a phone for more than that and do nothing but look up porn and play Candy Crush cuz you're not making money on it. I make money on my phone, but most of you guys get it cuz you want the latest tech so it can spy on you and jack your life. Like come on, man. But the people that complain and want 24/7 365 access to you are never the ones that pay me 50 to 100 grand. They're not. They're the ones that want to pay 30, 40 bucks a month, but they want everything. And anyone in business knows damn what I'm talking about because it's common. The person that goes, "Hey, it's $79 a month." Which I have nothing at $79 a month, by the way. So, can I get on a phone call with you like every day? Can you send me a reminder text every day? Can I ask you questions in emails all the time? What else are you going to do for me? Can you build my funnel, my website, my email campaign? Can you build my entire business? Can you teach me how to close? Can you teach me how to sell? Can you teach me how to be a doctor because I've never been one, but can you take me through med school for $79? That's literally the person you get. Those are all the bottom feeders that think, listen, if that's you are a bottom feeder. You are a bottom feeder lazy son of a [\h__\h] because you think the thing is going to do the work for you and that's what you expect for 80 bucks. You guys look for $80 solutions, but you want a rich life, a fit life, a successful life, an excellent relationship life. You want all of the best, but you want to look for the discount and the cheapest. That's why your life sucks. So, when I tell somebody, "Hey, it's 1,500 bucks," and they ha, and they like, "I don't know. I just What? What else can you tell me? Get the hell out of here. I'm not for you." I don't want your money. I want your commitment, but your commitment comes from paying the money. cuz I had somebody go, "Why don't you give it for free then?" Because nobody on earth that gets something for free has any skin in the game. It's what I talked about yesterday. So, just some food for thought. But honestly, and so let me because most people spend their life in distraction. They spend their life in escape and distraction and noise to drown out the life that they have created with all their spectacularly ridiculously stupid decisions. And then they get mad at everything around them, but they did it. I got to blow through this one quick because I never miss and it'S4:30. I will never I will literally cut this off at 4:59 and turn on the camera for my Q&A, my campfire mastermind. I Q&A today and end it like that. I don't miss What's funny is I have a client, his name's Andrew. He's a new one-on-one client. Great guy. Really great guy. Really like this kid. And he goes, "Son of a bitch." He goes, "It's awesome." He goes, "You really never miss." I don't. And here's what's interesting about that. I used to before I came out of before I went into the hospital, I was about 90 to 95%. Hit rate. But that 5 to 10%. When people go, "Everybody misses." No, they don't. You give an excuse by saying, You give yourself an excuse and a way out by going everybody misses sometimes. No, they don't. You do. And you want to justify why you do. You look for people that still miss. I never miss. I will stay awake till 4 in the morning and get up at 4:05 just to make sure I do what I say. I keep my word. Nothing bothers me more than a liar. Nothing. If you're going to lie and fail to keep your word, get the hell out of my life. I got nothing for you. But you should look in the mirror and say that, too. Kick that person out of your life. But honestly, here's the And I'm looking at my phone because it's starting to Greenville, South Carolina. I don't know anybody there. It's wild. I can hear this thing buzzing, making weird noises, right? So, here's a cold, hard, savage truth, right? If you actually loved yourself, you wouldn't need to numb yourself. You wouldn't need to hide. You wouldn't need the weed. You wouldn't need the booze. You wouldn't need the drugs. You wouldn't need the porn, the parties, the endless Netflix or Prime Video or HBO or whatever it is. You wouldn't need Tik Tok dopamine drip into your veins. You wouldn't need the endless whatever the hose you're chasing. You wouldn't need to escape your life because you'd be [\h__\h] proud of it. I'm proud of my life. I love my life. You're not. And you get angry and bitter when somebody points it out instead of going, "Damn, he's right. He's right. I need to do better." But you guys get pissed off. You guys get angry when someone points out the truth that you already know because you've been hiding behind your distractions. But the problem isn't with somebody pointing at the truth. The the problem is with who in the mirror and the life you have around you from all your stupid decisions. You're not proud of your life, man. If you are doing any of that, like I said, the weed, the booze, the drugs, the porn, the endless Netflix, the Tik Tok drip, all that stuff. If you were doing all that, you're not proud of your life. You're just better at distracting yourself from your own shame than you are at fixing the life that you built. So, how about this? How about I teach you how to destroy that fake [\h__\h] ass version of you? And if it hurts, I don't know, swipe right or good and do something about it for once. Because if it hurts, that means we're cutting deep enough to actually matter. And a lot of you guys are like, I don't like it. It hurts. I'm supposed to be anchored to my feelings. Your feelings are what are causing this problem. You want to start where it hurts. You don't love yourself. It's what I said. You don't. Deep down. You know it. And you guys get so angry about it. But you know it. If you did, you wouldn't be running from your own damn shadow every night. You wouldn't need weed to fall asleep. I had one guy go, "There's nothing wrong with weed." Yes, there is. I even said, "Dude, eating out of a trash can is better than licking a urinal. Both are weakness. Both are disgusting. You just do what? That's like saying cigarettes. At least it's not cigarettes. So what? It's still weed, man. But you don't love yourself and you know it because you run from yourself every night. you you wouldn't need the weed to fall asleep. You wouldn't need to drink just to tolerate yourself. You wouldn't need the porn to stimulate intimacy that you haven't earned. You wouldn't need digital fake worlds because you'd be too [\h__\h] locked in in building a real empire. You wouldn't need a distraction if you're proud of your own reality. Every vice you indulge, everything you do, every distraction, every 180 you do to run away from the life you're in is a confession. And until you look at it that way, you're screwed. But it's a confession. And it's you admitting, I hate who I am, but I'm too cowardly to fix it, so I'll just sedate myself. So, how about this? Ask yourself this. If I loved my life, if I loved my life, what escapes would instantly become irrelevant? Because if you're honest, most of your fun is just self-medicated regret and you know it. You call it living. I love when people go, "Dude, you got to live a little, bro." You call it living? Going to the club, popping bottles, lighting up, binge watching three seasons of Prime Video Trash in a weekend, chasing girls like a [\h__\h] alleycat in heat. You call that fun? You actually I'm a 52year-old man married to an incredibly gorgeous woman of 20 years. We're going on 21 years of marriage and she is hotter by the day. And I promise you when you do it right, when your marriage is put together, you both communicate and you're all in on each other 100%. You give each other the tools to absolutely obliterate each other knowing that you're not going to do it. And you don't run dialogue in your head and bandwidth in your head about all the things you can't say or want to say but wish you could tell her, but you're not doing it. You just go all in. You tell each other every single deep, dark, dirty, awesome fear, secret, whatever it is, and you share it all. That's when marriages kick ass. Because we have the wildest, freakiest sex, the most amazing communication, the most fantastic life. We push each other. How can you guys not understand this? You guys are chasing around influencers who don't have any of this. They try and sell you products or services that they themselves aren't even doing. They're not even living that life. And you guys buy into their nonsense. And then a guy like me comes out to tell you the truth. and you cry and whine. He's really mean. I don't like him because he's edgy. Because I tell you the truth, you guys are screwing up your life and you're calling it fun. I'll tell you this. I'll what you guys are doing. I call it running from yourself like a coward with a bottle in one hand and your dignity leaking out of the other. You're not living. That's not living. You're escaping. You know it. You're not celebrating life, you guys, in your yolo. You're medicating your disappointment with distraction. And every time you distract yourself, you extend the sentence of your own mediocrity another [\h__\h] year. I'll give you another question for yourself. If I stripped away every distraction, right? That's the question you want to ask. If I stripped away every distraction, what would I be forced to confront about the life that I've built? Because that's your real [\h__\h] life. And right now you can't even look at it sober. Think you can't even look at the life you're in running at normal. I don't mean between exceptional and normal. A normal or blazed out. How about you want to get savage? Your vices are painkillers. They don't heal anything. They just make the gaping wound of your wasted potential feel manageable. Porn numbs your loneliness. Weed numbs your anxiety. Booze numbs your shame. Video games numb your boredom with a life you're too soft to build. You're your own character in your own game. Why aren't you leveling yourself up? But that wound underneath all of that stuff, it is bleeding, hemorrhaging all day long. And every time you reach for another hit, another distraction, another escape, you're guaranteeing you'll still need it tomorrow. You need it because you do it. You're addicted to feeling better instead of [\h__\h] being better. Not the same. Ask this, if I banned for myself, if I banned every coping mechanism I use, what parts of my life would immediately become unbearable? Because that's the emergency you've been anesthetizing yourself for years. That's the emergency. You want to get surgical about this? Think about this. You don't love yourself because you've never earned your own respect. It's that simple. You want to love yourself? Stop jerking off and rubbing one out to affirmations and start stacking savage evidence for yourself, not against yourself. Discipline, excellence, loyalty to your word. Keep your damn word. Sacrifice for your vision. Daily war against all the comfort you keep chasing around. You can't self-t talk your way into self-respect. You have to [\h__\h] earn it. So, I know I'm popping questions off to you, but these are important. Most of you guys, you all of you guys should be writing these down. Most of you guys have been, "Oh, I don't want to listen." Okay, then don't then have a shitty life and keep looking for the next podcast episode to that you think is going to solve your problem for you. The person that's going to solve the problem for you is the reflection in the mirror every day that you're trying to run away from. So, how about this? Ask yourself, what is one savage decision that I can make today that would make me harder to recognize in a year? Because until you start moving like a man who's worthy of admiration, you're just a scared little boy hiding behind distractions and excuses. That's all you are, baby boy. You want the violent truth? Just the gut-wrenching violent truth like in your face punch you in the nuts. If you actually loved yourself or if you're a woman, I don't know, punch you in the stomach, whatever it is before you feminists and people cry. That's sexism. I You guys are all weird. Here's the truth. If you actually loved yourself, you would wage war daily, daily, hourly, by the second on anything that softened you. You here, I'll even tell you how. Man, I have given you so many solutions to fix your life. And I don't even know if you guys are doing it or not. Maybe somebody send me a message if you've actually done it. Cuz if you applied everything I tell you, I should write another book. Because if you applied everything that I tell you to do, you'd have the money, you'd have the girl, you'd have the cars, the house, the business, the health, the fitness, you'd have everything you want. But you're looking for the next thing instead of applying the thing you need to do because it's uncomfortable. You want to know what to do? Kill that escape hatch. That way out. Kill it. No weed, no porn, no numbing, no running. Just kill it right now. Start today. What about withdrawal? I'm a doctor. You'll survive. Unless it's a bzzoipene, you'll be fine. Benzoazipene is like Xanax or Val and stuff like don't quit that cold turkey. Just that is I'm not giving you health advice before somebody goes, "Oh, just don't. Bad things will happen." But kill the escape hatch. Make pain your medicine. That's what you need to do instead because it's what I do. It's what anyone successful does. You don't heal by numbing. You heal by suffering with purpose. Intentionally going the direction of all the things that are difficult, hard training, hard work, hard reflection, the hard questions you need to ask yourself that you keep running away from. Fall in love with friction. fall in love with just just gritty friction because softness will never save you. Friction. Brutal daily humiliating friction. That's the forge that creates the man that you keep wishing you were. Don't tell me you don't. You do build a ruthless standard that you never negotiate ever. I told you before I only have one goal that I'm the standard that everybody else seeks to achieve and not for a selfish reason because I get my standard from God and you can take it out however you want. I strive every day to raise my standard and I got high standards because I use the winds of yesterday as a standard for today and I've been doing that since August of 2021 when they rolled my ass out of that hospital. That would be the fourth thing you do. Build ruthless standards that you never negotiate. If you can negotiate with your own weakness, you have no [\h__\h] strength worth admiring. None. Here, I'll give you one. Because I love my dad. My dad was a strong man. But for a lot of you guys, how about this? Become the man you wish raised you. If your father didn't do it good, then you get to become the savage your bloodline needs. Nobody else's. You think what the next generation is going to do it? You taught them how to fail. I'll leave you with a question and then I got a little time and then I got to go because I've asked myself this, but if I died tomorrow, would the world call me disciplined and dangerous? Or would they say I was another soft, scared man who numbed himself to death? Because there's only two endings. You either dominate your demons or you die petting them. You guys know which one you are. And some of you guys get so offended hearing this. Maybe you should just grow up and do the work you're supposed to be doing that you know you should be doing that you keep running away from. If you loved yourself, you wouldn't need to run. You wouldn't need to sedate your shame. You wouldn't need to distract yourself from the empire you were. You're too lazy to build. You'd be too busy becoming this savage that doesn't have time for fake pleasures, fake escapes, fake happiness, fake entertainment. You wouldn't have time for that. your life would be your [\h__\h] drug. Why wouldn't you want your life to be your drug of choice? Because your result when you do that, when your life is your drug of choice, your results, that's your high. You guys are looking for something from the outside, but your high is your results. Your discipline is your peace. I had this conversation with my daughter. I said, "The more disciplined you are, the more you understand the way of the rules and how the game is played, the more freedom you get. the less freedom you have or you get less freedom when you are undisiplined. Some of you guys need to listen to that part twice. Every vice you buried would be just like if that's what you did, if you were just like committed, right? If you were just committed, if you loved yourself, every voice you bury because that's what you want to do. Just bury him. Don't even mark the grave. Bury him. It's just another [\h__\h] trophy of the man that you killed who needs to die. The coward who almost stole your legacy. You understand that? This coward that you keep sending out into the world, this phony representative who's a [\h__\h] That's who's stealing your life and you're choosing to do that. I don't know, man. Maybe ask yourself, am I building a life that requires no escape or am I still running from the man I'm scared to face? Cuz a lot of you guys don't want to face the man that needs the work because that's the man you need to become is the person that gets all the work done. You guys aren't doing it. Am I building a life, my life, that requires no escape? Or am I running from that man that I'm just too scared to face? The one that's suffering, the one that's struggling, the one that needs all the vices. You want the truth? Move, dominate, destroy, have violent discipline. Honestly, you're just stay a [\h__\h] nobody and get forgotten. It's your choice. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.