This is probably the most eclectic podcast anyone's ever listened to because I talk about just about anything. Honestly, whatever I feel like, whatever I'm learning at the moment. But today's going to be a little different. And how about I just welcome you. Listen, this is the Unbreakable Podcast. I'm Dr. Trevor Bachmire. Most people call me the Spartan for a number of reasons. The biggest one being my son. So today I want to talk about neuroplasticity and why people struggle to learn. It's a bigger deal than you think because if you go I have ADD, I have ADHD. No, you don't. And and I'll explain what you're talking about. Those are all manufactured labels. And you can get defensive and say my son has it, my daughter has it, I have it. If they had to label me when I was a child, it would have been a d. That's every kid. And I think most people think that they're broken, right? They walk around with these limp belief systems like they've got some permanent defect that's written in their DNA. And you guys, you say things like, "I'm just not good with money. I just I've never been good at working out. I've never been athletic. I can't stay motivated. I suck at relationships. I've always had a hard time learning." Since we're talking about learning, I've always had a hard time learning. Math isn't my thing. I just can't spell. I read things backwards. I'm dyslexic. All this stuff. No, no. None of those are true. And I'll prove it in a way that helps you instead of you going, "Oh, yeah." See, a lot of you guys, even right there, you have learned to be combative against people showing you a better way or that what you think you have a problem with isn't really a problem, but you're so addicted to your labels that when somebody points out the truth and said, "That's not what's going on at all." And if you just did this, you would solve all these problems. You guys get angry and defend the very position that you claim to hate. Yet, you don't. You like it because it allows you to stay where you are and it gives you a fall back. You don't have any of those problems. You don't You've just never learned how to learn. Your brain is is an incredible machine. And I took a lot of neurology and because I just I nerd out on this stuff. I love this. My wife, she says, "You're just the hottest nerd." And I'll take it. One of the things that my wife said to me when we first started dating was I I love listening to you speak. You're articulate and well read and it just made me feel good because my parents made me learn a word a day for I don't know how long and I read so many books it's there's a library inside this don't. But let me honestly this is like a cold slap to your ego. Your brain isn't the problem. Your behavior is and it's being taught to the contrary that it's a brain problem. It's a neochemical problem. But none of that's accurate because everything you do, everything you avoid, everything you practice or don't practice. It is all rewiring your brain right now. Even in this podcast right now, neuroplasticity doesn't care about your feelings. It It doesn't care about excuses, your story, or how many damn times you failed for that matter. It doesn't. It just obeys the reps. That's finite. That is as immutable as gravity. And look at break it down to simple things. The broke guy repped it. The fat guy repped it. the depressed, addicted, ragefilled, dumpster fired train wreck wrecked it. So when people say it is mental health month or there are a lot of men out there with mental health issues, a lot of women out there with mental health issues, that we are in the greatest mental health crisis of mankind. Not true. We are in the greatest celebrated label and condition crisis of all times. Because anytime something's wrong, people slap a label on it and then get married to the label instead of the solution. So they stop looking and they go, I have this problem, so I can just stay here because there's nothing anybody can do about it except giving me a pill or putting me in therapy or just tolerating me and demanding that everybody else accepts me. But what if that wasn't an option? Because all of those negative things, it's just like the millionaire, the elite athlete, the war vet who turned into and built like my my my buddy Ray Care, like Ray Cash Care. If you know this guy, man, he is a freaking stud. I love Ry. He is such a good man. And and this guy's he is a Navy Seal. The guy is a dangerous human being. And if you've ever watched him, he's as gritty as a gravel truck. like he is so gritty and so edgy and yet he's got such a big heart and he's a very good man and he's built an empire. All of these people, the millionaire, the athlete, the war vet, all of these people that have built something out of themselves have all wrecked that as well. Your life isn't the product of what happened to you. And that's the confusion of the world right now. It's the result of what you repeated. And so now you've got to decide what you're going to continue to reinforce. The same broken ass story or a damn new identity. You have to make the decision because that all of that is what neuroplasticity and your future is built on. Who taught you how to learn? Maybe you should just stop there because most people go, "I went to school. I was in first grade, second grade. I was senior and I graduated. I went to college. I got all these degrees. I'm super smart." Yeah, but you don't know how to learn because you have all these conditions and labels which tells me you don't know how to learn. And I'm not talking about that's why I'm saying it. I'm not talking about how you sit in a classroom and take notes like a parrot. I'm talking about how to transform for real. How to rewire. Yesterday I spoke about your psychology. How to rewire your psychology and intentionally become, for lack of a better explanation, a completely new human being through repetition and effort. See, the repetition and the effort have been put by the wayside because it's become toxic or it's too hard or you shouldn't have to do this. Shouldn't be uncomfortable. But nobody taught you to do that anymore. And all of you Gen Z people, instead of you getting mad because I saw some guy going, I look at Gen Z as the product of Gen X, which clearly tells you that Gen X sucks. Blah blah blah. Everybody's blaming somebody else. The problem is nobody's looking for the solution. They're just looking for the blame. But nobody taught you repetition and effort in the right direction. They taught you in school. They taught you to memorize. memorize for a test, regurgitate answers, pass, and then forget. They never taught you that every skill, belief, every habit is it can be coded right into your CNS, your central nervous system by practice. Because honestly, real talk, that your brain is a machine of transformation. That's what it's for. And it is always on. Always 24/7 365 on. Right now, even when you listen to this, your brain is rewiring itself to either reinforce your weakness or reforge strength. It is. It's that binary. It's black and white. It's zeros and ones. But here's the catch. Your brain doesn't decide what's good or bad. It doesn't know. It just listens to what you do. And so, let me explain that again because that's the key to your entire life. Your brain doesn't care what's good or bad. It doesn't know. It cares what's repeated. You tell, if you tell your brain, you tell it that you're a loser enough times, it believes you. You scroll Tik Tok or Instagram or Twitter or YouTube or whatever it is 7 8 n hours a day and it builds that that habit pathway even stronger. Like you keep avoiding the discipline, the workouts, the hard conversations and it makes the avoidance your normal. Like are you understanding? It's like neuroplasticity is completely neutral. You give the instructions and it obeys every like a well-cond conditioned savage soldier. It just obeys like training for whatever war you're programming into it. That's what it does. I think a good thing to ask yourself cuz I had to do this with myself is what behaviors am I repeating that are are shaping me into somebody I don't want to be? Because I'll make it simple. You are not built like a loser. You're programmed like one because you keep feeding your brain the habits of mediocrity and then you're crying about why you're not elite. But you think success is an accident? No, it's not. It is neuroplasticity weaponized. I'll say that again. You have created, you've tapped into neuroplasticity, which everybody is doing 24/7, 365, but you weaponized it against the very things that you want. It's training your mind to want what hurts. That's what you're doing. If your life is weak, your brain's been trained to love weakness. And you can argue, but it doesn't matter. The science, neurology, physiology, all of that, it's all on my side. Your thoughts aren't yours. They're not. They're what you've conditioned into yourself. So recondition the install a new operating system, reprogram, retrain, repeat over and over again. They start doing hard things and start breaking the pattern because every repetition is either making you stronger or making you completely irrelevant. And it starts with making you irrelevant to yourself. Like you want to talk about neuroplasticity, here's what it really means. Every time you quit, every time you skip or lie to yourself, you're teaching your brain just to be a [\h__\h] And your brain learns really fast. Like you don't become a black belt in jiu-jitsu by reading about jiu-jitsu. My son isn't a well-trained fighter by reading about it. I'm not athletic. My wife wasn't a pro alete by reading about how to become one. You don't get strong by reading about reps. You get strong by bleeding through them. And if you want a brain that doesn't fold when it gets hard, you better th start throwing yourself into the pain on purpose. Because you don't rewire your mind by being safe. You don't rewire your neurology by being safe. You do it by facing what scares you until your nervous system shuts up and obeys. It's the repetition it doesn't like at the beginning because it's new. Like you have to become stronger and the way you do that is by never missing. That's why I talk about this all the time. And you think it's just two words that I strung together because it sounds cute, but it's not. That's how I live my life. I never miss because I am always programming my brain. I am always tapping into neuroplasticity to my advantage, one rep at a damn time. Your entire personality structure, if you really need to process what I'm about to say, the entire personality structure you've got, what you believe, how you act, how you emotionally respond, that can be traced back. Listen, that can be traced all the way back to embedded behavioral patterns formed through repeated experiences. That's what I mean by neuroplasticity. Repeat, repeat. It is the blueprint for either development or degeneration. And you are the one that's driving this bus. And you've got to understand that your psyche isn't fixed. It's not immutable. It's not like gravity. If I fall off this chair, I'm going to hit the ground every time. It's not immutable. It's not you in some ultimate sense. It's a reflection of what you've consistently reinforced over and over again. Which also means thank God that you can change it. I wasn't always like this, but you weren't always like the way you are. You weren't always. If you're suffist listen if you are struggling and you telling yourself you're a loser and you're fat and you're broke and you can't get your business to work and your wife or your husband left there nobody listens to you nobody respects you nothing's working it's because you keep saying those things and you're looking for evidence to reinforce and support it. So it since you can change it because neuroplasticity the name alone tells you that it's going to change this is what it requires confronting the chaos that you've programmed by repetition in your past and I'm not saying your past I'm talking about the things you repeat you have to face the fear you've got you've got to deliberately act in contradiction to your most familiar patterns and that is incredibly difficult for people transformation is real but it's earned through all of the structure and sacrifice and investment and courage that it takes to do it. So like I hear people all the time, I'm just like this. That doesn't work for me. I'm not wired like that. You're not wired like that because you choose that. So let me get this straight. You spent 20 years doing nothing. Jack it just scrolling through your ex's Facebook, stalking the hell out of them, crushing Oreos like you think that's cardio. And now you're shocked that your brain doesn't want to hustle and you go, I'm not all about this hustle culture. I think that's [\h__\h] I'm not wired for success. Bro, your neurons are just doing what they were trained to do. That's it. That's it. That's why I say life is mostly training. Everything else is commentary. You didn't fail. You didn't. You succeeded at building a garbage program. See, do you understand? Like, now you want to act brave and and courageous, and you think that acting brand new after one week of journaling and halfass push-ups, that's how you're going to do this? You think you should have changed in a week, but you've spent 20 years building that disaster that you call a life. Come on, man. Your brain is plastic. It's not magic. It's not David [\h__\h] Copperfield. You You got to work. It's not Harry Potter. You got to work that wand, son. And don't take that. That could be taken so many ways. I don't even know if I'm going to leave that in cuz that's nasty. But either you keep pro It's funny as hell, actually. It It's the worst when you laugh at your own jokes cuz they're so dumb. So you either keep programming the excuses or you start installing discipline like like it's the matrix and you just wake up and you go I know kung fu and then you say I want more because that's based on that's what neuroplasticity is. It's not that it's easy and there's not a magic pill. It's repetition. That is all it is. Let's your brain is not a static organ. Let me just be very transparent about that. It is dynamic. It's an ever evolving machine. Every thought you entertain, every action you take, and every habit you form is sculpting the neural pathways. This magical phenomenon that people are going crazy for in the world right now, thinking that they're so intelligent because they know it, is life. Every living being on this planet does that. It's called neuroplasticity. The brain's ability to reorganize itself by forming new neural connections throughout life. That's what it's doing. You want to break it down to physiology, that's it. But here's the kicker. Neuro neuroplasticity doesn't discriminate between good and bad habits. That's what I said before. Because it's going to simply reinforce what you repeatedly do. So if you are constantly indulging in negative behaviors or thinking negative things, your brain is writing itself to make those patterns more autonomic, automatic. Except here's the flip side of that. When you flip the script, if you engage in positive, constructive, growthbased conduct and behaviors, your brain strengthens those pathways. So, it'll make beneficial habits much more ingrained. You are in control. You are in control. Nobody else. So, look at your habits every day. Just stop right now. Look at all the habits you're doing every day. Where are you enforcing things that are shaping your brain and your life? And are they bringing you towards what you want or away from what you want? That's why I tell everybody when you're about to do something, ask, is this going to bring me towards what I want or away from what I want? And don't validate or to come up with a cute little answer that's going to support it. Is it what's it doing? Because your brain, hey, you've heard this before, your brain is like a muscle. It's what it is. It grows and it adapts according to the stress that you apply to it. If you're feeding it garbage, mindless scrolling, poor nutrition, like just junk food, negative, negative selft talk is like my wife says, careful what you say. you're listening. Negative selft talk. Don't be surprised when it performs like garbage. It's just trash. You want to be this elite high performance machine. Then start feeding your brain high quality inputs. Read books that challenge you that actually teach you something. Stop looking on social media for things that give you a quick hack. Surround yourself with winners. Get around a group. Why do you think I made my mastermind? The unbreakable mastermind is only a group of winners. Nobody's in there complaining or validating or going, "It's too hard, coach. I just can't do it cuz I don't let them in. So, come up with $1,500. Send me the word beast and join. It's that simple. Actually, come up with $1,500 and send me the word unbreakable. Text it to me. Text it to me on Instagram and I'll let you in. You You need to surround yourself with people that are winning that demand success from you. Engage in activities that push your limits and your brain is going to adapt. But it's only going to do it if you give it a reason to. Stop being lazy all the time. And maybe just start being intentional. Like even this coffee that I'm about to pick up and drink or I picked up and I'm about to drink. I am intentional about drinking this coffee. If I stand here and I if I sit here and I hold it in front of my mic like I'm doing right now and just talking away and then I put it down, my brain is going to reinforce that pattern and then I'm always going to do it. You guys, it is so simple to tap into. But most of you guys have no situational awareness of your own life. And yes, I drink coffee right now. Do you think you're tired? You guys go, I I do it, but I'm just so tired. You think you've reached your limit? That is your mind lying to you. I suffocated myself intentionally every day for a minimum of 3 months. It was probably closer to six. I would get to a point where I was pretty sure I was going to die. And it's nothing courageous or heroic. It was a horrible feeling while the oxygen machine was keeping me alive because I kept putting myself into an incredibly uncomfortable position until I didn't need the machine anymore. Even though they said I'd need it for life. When's the last time you saw me with an oxygen machine? It's almost 4 years ago. I went for a run today in my workout. Lap after lap. 400 m. 400 m. 400 m. Almost 2 miles. They said, "I'd never run because I engage constantly every day." And it's not the physical. Yeah. Your body adapts when you push it. Your body also adapts when you don't. Your body and your mind are neutral. Like your brain, what you feed it is going to determine what it does. It's just going to do what you constantly repeat. So, where are you being intentional? Where are you being intentional? Because if you think you're tired, that is your mind just a bald-faced lie. Your brain is designed to protect you and keep you comfortable. But comfort is that's the enemy. That's the war you are waging against every day. That's the enemy of growth. Every time you push past that little voice that's saying, "Just quit. Don't do it." You're rewiring your brain to handle more, to be more, to do more, to become more. It's not about talent. It's not. It's about resilience. And I hear people, "Oh, I'm a resilience expert." Then why are you rewiring your brain all the time to [\h__\h] and whine and say you're defeated and talk about how bad it is and how you're just trying to stay alive and how you're stressed out and you cry all the time. You are wiring your brain to do that. pattern until you do the uncomfortable thing. I don't care how many burpees, push-ups, squats you do to break to to create pattern interrupts. Because if your fallback is always to go back to whining and complaining and validating anyway, you're reinforcing the wrong side of that equation while doing things once in a while to interrupt it just to make yourself feel better in the moment. You have to embrace the pain or that struggle or the grind. That's where all the growth happens. All of it. That's why I say never miss. The structure of your brain is not fixed. Not it is malleable and what shapes it are experiences and actions yours. So neuroplasticity means you have the capacity to change to improve to expand to push the limits of your extremes to grow. But it also means that negative patterns can also become entrenched if it's if they're left unchecked which is the habit of a lot of people right now because it's being tolerated. It's being it's being celebrated. It is imperative to take responsibility for your own development because you need to engage in behaviors that promote growth and challenge, not stagnation, laziness, and procrastination. Because when you engage in things that force you to take action even if you don't want to. By doing that, listen, you not only improve your own life, but you contribute positively to the world around you, to society. Somebody's watching you and they're taking notes on your life. Even if it's not written, they're taking mental notes. But you're telling me that you can't change because that's just how you are. Yeah. Yeah. You know what they say in Texas here when they're about to say something that just slaps you in the face? Bless your heart. That means you're an idiot. I just don't want to say it. So, bless your heart. That's the biggest load of [\h__\h] that I've ever heard. That's just how you are. Your brain is like Play-Doh. Whatever shape you give it, it molds to. So, keep feeding it excuses and it'll be an excuse-making machine, just a vending machine, spit mount, and the currency you feed it with are your excuses and it just comes out with even better ones. Start feeding it discipline and purpose and drive and direction. And then watch it transform. But hey, listen. You want to be a beanag chair that's sitting on a couch shaped like a potato with a PhD in lies and procrastination, by all means, be my guest. Just don't complain then when life just keeps passing you by and you keep coming up with reasons why it's not your fault because you live this fairy tale that they're more talented than you that somebody is more talented than you. That's a fairy tale. That's a Netflix special that you have bought into. You've been lied to your entire life by lazy people who needed an excuse to explain why they weren't great. You were lied to by parents who didn't want to push you too hard. Listen, I said it yesterday. You were lied to by culture that worship worships ease and laziness and comfort and feelings and resents what's required to become excellent and resents excellence itself. The biggest lie of all is that some people are just natural. No, they're not. No, they're not. You didn't lose because somebody else was gifted. You lost because you weren't. You weren't disciplined enough to become gifted. Rather, neuroplasticity does not care about your damn talent. It cares about your reps. How many times you think Tom Brady has thrown that football more than you? So why would you think arrogantly that because you spend an hour a day practicing, you should have a NFL contract? But that's the logic right now. Well, I did just as much work as them. No, you didn't. I actually just explained neuroplasticity to my almost 16-year-old son just before I came out here because he's, "What are you talking about today, Dad?" That's a cool question. My son loves to learn. And you know what? He asked, "My son listens to my stuff. How cool is that?" Hey, Dad. Wow, you're really smart. I think that's really cool. That's coming from my son and he's not, "Look at all your degrees." Cuz when I hear people go, I went to MIT and I went to Harvard and I went here and I Nobody cares about your degrees, man. People care about your results. It's like neuro neuroplasticity. Listen to me. It doesn't care about your talent. It doesn't. It cares about your reps. Your brain doesn't magically upgrade based on DNA. It upgrades based on how many times you hit the same task with this is important with focused and intentional effort with where with struggle with pain with adversity and you kept going. That's what your brain cares about. It does not care about it's it has nothing to do with your DNA. Has nothing to do with anything else. It is how many times you did it at the intensity required to change. People who succeed do not have better brains. They put their brains under more pressure more often. Period. That's it. You're welcome. There's a mic drop moment right there. Repetition is the king of wiring. The more you do something, the deeper that groove gets in your brain structure. I'm not talking about the sulcus in your brain, right? The more intense the focus that you have. That's why singularity of focus is so important. And most people chase down multiple goals because it's more entertaining. They want newness. But the more intense that focus, right, it's like a laser beam. the faster that groove deepens and the more failure you can endure during the process because you have a point to make to yourself, the more adaptive that wiring becomes. So this becomes it's an increasing machine. The more you focus, the faster the groove deepens, the more failure you endure because of that during the entire process, and the faster and more deliberate and more intense the rewiring becomes, which means the more you do it, the faster it happens and the better you get and the faster you get better. Does that make it easier to understand? But you know what people don't want to hear? You got to be frustrated. That's what growth requires. Frustration. whole lot of diff discomfort and a lot of pain. I shouldn't have to experience pain is not normal. No, pain is required. It is beyond normal. That's why people chase hacks. They cry about being burnt out after 4 days. 4 days of effort. I'm so burnt out, bro. I've been cranking all weekend. Four days. It's because they've never trained their brain to endure the heat long enough for change to take root. One of my buddies, Jud Wayne Hard, right? He's a great guy. Insane athlete. Like 265, 62, 63. Moves like a gymnast. The guy's built out of freaking springs. I have a lot of respect for him. NFL played for the Texans. Like great guy, right? Incred. If you ever want a physical training program, just buy his. Just buy his. Don't you might I want your workout, Spartan. Great. Buy mine, too. But I don't have a workout. I have a mastermind. You can just happen to do all the workouts I do. Most of you guys don't like them because I do 400 to 600 reps minimum in my workouts and your guys, your brains melt. What do you think I'm doing? Reps. But Jud, listen to this. He made a good point about training. I love this because he's he's spot on. You guys are really good at working out in short bursts, but none of that is what's required for life is a synopsis of how he explained it. Could you walk for an hour under load? Could you walk for eight hours if it's required? Could you carry a ruck for 10 miles? People go, "Totally could." I don't think so. Especially when you look at things like CrossFit. First of all, CrossFit is a joke. I have no respect for CrossFit at all. Not because of my past. If you want to go, of course not. I don't give a [\h__\h] They'll eat their own because that's how they are. They let a dude die because they don't pay volunt They don't pay people to watch. They give you a free ticket and let you show up. Of course, they're not going to do their job. They're too busy watching. That's ignorance. And then they buried it. Ignorance. But what I don't like is the mindset that they are the greatest athletes. They're not athletes at all. And it before you guys go, don't you do CrossFit? No, I just do functional training. I do all kinds of stuff. Powerlifting, athletics, like you name it. calisthenics, CrossFit style, hit distance, like long cardio, it doesn't matter. I just do whatever I feel like doing that's going to force me to be very uncomfortable and adapt. The byproduct is I can do a whole bunch of really cool things. And you guys get mad about that. Don't get mad. Don't get mad cuz I said I think CrossFit's a joke. Who cares? So what? I think hot yoga is [\h__\h] too. It doesn't matter if you like it. What difference does my opinion make to you? Neuroplasticity. You have programmed yourself to get triggered and upset. See, why doesn't it bother me? I don't care. You can insult my workouts all day for your entire life. Won't matter to me. Neuroplasticity. That's how everything comes back to you. But the reason I say CrossFit is a joke because it is. You take a level one and now you're a great coach. A level two, even a level three. No, you're not. because you spent a weekend with some folding chairs and you did Fran and you know the nine movements that you have to do and all the other nonsense. Get out of here. That doesn't make you a great coach. So to come full circle, you're not ever doing anything that's when you go, "Oh, we're doing a chipper." It's a minutes. Do it for 3 hours. Nobody has that kind of time. Neuroplasticity. You programmed yourself burned out. 3 days, 4 days, 5 days of effort. But that's what I mean. How long are you willing to stay in those reps? And I'm not just talking physically. I'm talking about the uncomfortable things to change your to transform your life because most of you guys have never trained your brain to endure that heat. You've never trained your brain to endure that long, brutally uncomfortable environment that's required for change to take root. you your your potential is not locked behind some genetic pay wall. It's locked behind a wall of effort that most people don't even bother to climb. They don't even try. They don't even try. So maybe public just stop right now before you start going off on CrossFit or whatever training you do. I don't care what training you do. Where like where in your life have you blamed a lack of talent when what you're really missing was just consistency and a little bit of grit? Like you're most of you guys are about as gritty as a vegan marshmallow. You got nothing. Like you really think winners sit around debating whether they're gifted? No, they don't. They don't. I promise you they don't. They just get to work. The weak are obsessed. Like the weak and the procrastinating are obsessed with labels. Talented, gifted, naturally this, naturally that, naturally better at math, naturally athletic. It's all just cowardice. dressed up as analysis. Let me explain how this works. I'm going to take some coffee first. I came out here with full intent to make this about a 20-minute episode, but this stuff is really interesting to me. I really like this. So, let me explain how this works. The man who shows up every day and suffers wins. I could stop here, too. That's it. That's all you need. But it's not because he was chosen. There's no magic light shining down on him. It's because he chose the discipline over the comfort. I wasn't born rich. Not at all. I wasn't born rich. I wasn't born jacked. I I wasn't born confident. I built it. I built all of this my entire life, brick by brick, rep by rep. And if you think that some 6'4 genetic freak who is genetically predisposed and to built for combat is the reason why you're broke. You are so delusional. You're so delusional. You want to just talk even you want to go right down the fighting. Go open those doors. Absolutely. UFC, the first one. I know Ken Shamrock. I know Gracie demolished Shamrock. And Shamrock, what I don't care what you guys say. Get in the ring with him and then talk. I like Ken. He is probably one of my most fun guests that I've ever talked to. And I got to know him like six years ago. But he's still a dangerous man. So is Gracie. You're delusional. And he and Gracie is significantly smaller. So stop thinking anything. You, my son, has always known. Doesn't matter how big they are. And I've watched him scramble against people that have him by a 100 pounds and pick them apart line by line. And I've watched him roll and scramble against people that are smaller than he is and he gets decimated. It's the reps. I asked him yesterday, I go, "How many times have you done this type of submission?" And I he's I don't know, thousands and thousands. I go, "Do you have to think about it when you do it?" He goes, "No, I it just happens." Next thing they're tapping out. I said, "That's neuroplasticity." See, you've got a brain. You've got hands. You've got legs. You've got feet. Use them. Use them. Wire that brain through brutal repetition. Make your habits so ingrained the new ones that you need that they are what become your personality. That's how winning happens. The enemy isn't your genetics. It's not It's not your genetics, your environment, your neighborhood, your job, your boss, your wife, your husband, your dog. It's none of that. It is your inconsistency. It is your inconsistency because you're consistent in all the areas that are training your brain, taking advantage of neuroplasticity at all times, but in a direction that makes you even worse. You think you're going to become a monster with halfass effort and cheat meals. You guys in your cheat meals, man, shut up and just do the work. Champions are born. Champions train every day. They don't talk about days off or overtraining or burnout or maintaining like they don't sit there and whine about remember to keep the Sabbath holy and sit on your ass and do nothing because I already said he Jesus said, "Hey, if your neighbors ox is and cart is in a hole, you get them out. It doesn't matter what day of the week it is." By the way, the Sabbath was Saturday, not Sunday for everybody, too. The champions are born. You're not born a champ. They're trained every single day. But while losers talk about burnout and overtraining and overwhelm and defeat and frustration and procrastinate all day long, winners burn the old version of themsel down daily. Like I I wasn't born with a silver spoon in my mouth. I was born broke, man. I was born with nothing. I looked at the house that I grew up in for a lot of my life and it's maybe 700 ft. Tiny little blue house. So what? It doesn't matter. But I wasn't I was born with like failure and like solitude and fio figure it out and according to some people abuse. No, I wasn't. Not at all. It's crazy discipline, massive work ethic. I went on with life and then I got labeled four years ago with a disability because I'm missing a cylinder. And I came out of my life so many times with a broken mindset. And you want to talk about talent? Yeah. My talent was staying alive. People are like, "Dude, Spartan, I get this almost every day from somebody." Yeah, but Spartan, you're just built different. No, I built different. Understand the difference. A flabby. No, I'll just go right to 48 years old. I'm going to start there. A flabby, weak, scared, broke, insecure, angry, bitter 48-year-old with nothing, struggling to survive, no idea how to make a business or even be a man anymore because I lost what I thought would define me as a man, which was I I thought it was just how tough I was and how much muscle I had. None of that means anything. That is the byproduct of doing things that define a man. that doesn't make you a man. Like I I failed so many things so many times and I learned how to build businesses, scale them to epic proportions just because I don't run around and flash money and everything. I It doesn't matter. I like my 911. People go, "It's just a Porsche." Yeah. What color is yours? I like my Richard Mill. I also I got a bunch of them. I also like my Rolex. I like the PC that I ordered. I like the Rev sitting out in the garage. I like all these things. But this is my life. So if somebody insults that life, it's never going to be from somebody doing better than me. But I built a life because I built different because I chose. And now I teach people how to do this. I go here. I will help you get rich. I will help your webinars work better. I will help your ads convert. I will help you write copy. I will teach you how to run a business that actually produces results. How to attract the leads you want. How to get out of your own way psychologically. how to fix your marriage, how to solve your health problem that you have. I will help you solve your life equation. That's what I do in my mastermind. And people go, I don't know, man. $1,500. That's exactly why you're broke is because you have been running. Your neuroplasticity has taken you down a path that goes, I'll wait till the next thing. I didn't get a miracle, you guys. I got up and I went to war with my excuses. I trained my brain in the fire of repetition every damn day. Your brain is going to do whatever you force it to do, but it's going to do that over and over and over again. But that requires you to be in control. That's the truth. do. That demands control that you're in control. Not your emotions, not your future predictions or any of that. Not your comfort, not your fear. You want to win. Then just get uncomfortable every day until that becomes your new normal. That's neuroplasticity. You guys are just using using it the wrong direction. Like you want a six-pack, just start there. It's a simple thing. I don't care. But if you should be that lean. It's not about the six-pack. It's being healthy. Okay? But people want the six-pack, but skip all the discipline required. They want the business, but skip the 5 a.m. grind. You don't have to get up at 2:30, but you got to be consistent. They want all of the exceptional and greatness, but they avoid all of the pain that's required to transform them because that's going to change their brain. And that's the neuroplasticity, the reps that the neuropl like you need to do to take advantage of neuroplasticity. You can't escape the suck. You can't you have to stay in it long enough to adapt. And that's how the brain learns. That is how the brain learns and that's how the body follows and that's how your life transforms because other than outside of that, it's not going to work. And most of you guys are using this to your own disadvantage. The idea that success, follow me on this, the idea that success is merely the result of talent is both psychologically convenient and fundamentally false that allows people to absolve themselves of responsibility for their own inadequacies. That that all you're doing is absolving your own responsibility. Yeah, I did take some coffee there. what research into neuroplasticity that I have done over and I have I love learning things and I you guys think I'm just some bald bearded cursing dude. I like to learn but then I like to learn and then teach other people how to do it. All the research into neuroplasticity what's pro what it's proven again and again it is irrefutable. What it's proven is that sustained effort literally rewires your brain. The individual who subjects himself to disciplined repetition voluntarily confronts all the chaos in a structured manner, not emotional, in a structured manner is going to develop greater cognitive capacity than the one who waits for talent to manifest. So you guys keep writing in your journal about your talent. I'll be over here putting in reps. It's through the repeated engagement with a task that all the competence you desire is born. And this is not it's not a metaphor. It's a neurological fact. The hippocampus and all of its associated structures adapt to the information they are regularly exposed to. Habits form these neural loops. And those loops, like I said before, they deepen with intensity. and the adversity and the attention. And the more you deepen the loop and the groove, the faster you improve. So it becomes a perpetual motion machine that is always on the accelerator. You're not limited by your biology. You're limited by your unwillingness to engage with the difficulty of meaningful tasks. That's a tragedy. It's a catastrophe because it means that most people are never going to become what they could be. But not because they can't, but because they won't. I hear this a lot. It's such a It's a copout. It's an excuse. Some people are born with it. That's like somebody going, "I was born with a beer gut and an attitude problem, so I guess I'm out of luck, right?" Hell no. Listen, I've seen I was a bartender and for a lot of years and even just talking to patients even that and I saw patients highlevel highn netw worth people that hide behind things that you could never imagine. But I've seen more talent wasted on vices than I've seen used to build anything great. wasted on excuses and procrastination then build all the exceptional and all the greatness that they want. You know what beats talent? Showing the hell up. Showing up sober and on time with your boots on, ready to outwork every single pretty boy with a six-pack and excuse. All of you polished, well-edited, pretty boys and girls that couldn't work your way out of your front door. You got no talent. You have an image and when the image gone is gone, you curl up and talk about your oppression. Listen, your brain is not magic. It's a it's a pattern sponge. It doesn't give a rip if you're repeating greatness or sabotage or garbage. It just does what you tell it to do. So, every glass of wine, every shot of tequila, every piece of carrot cake that you shouldn't have, every cigarette, every skipped [\h__\h] rep, every time you let your phone win, your brain, the pattern sponge, is learning and you're training it to be a bum. So flip it. Get up early. Lift heavy things. Read real books, not cartoons and some TV guide. Solve real problems. And repeat that for I It almost came out of my mouth. Like a decade. How about you just repeat it for 100 days? You'll look like a genius. Repeat it for a decade and the world's not even going to recognize you. Even if you don't have two brain cells to rub together. Talent is the fairy tale for folks who don't want to sweat. That's the easiest way to explain this. Neuroplasticity is neutral. And that should scare the hell out of you. That terrifies me because this thing we keep hyping, this ability for of your brain to adapt and grow and change and expand and become more isn't inherently good or evil. It doesn't care about your goals or your morals or your ethics or your code of conduct or your future. It simply follows orders like a good little soldier. Repeated thoughts, it wires them in so fast. By the way, like this repeated actions, oh, it turns those into that knee-jerk reflex. All of your failures, the self-hate, the junk food, the porn, the excuses, the procrastination, the social media scrolling, the Amazon Prime, or the HBO binging, guess what? Those are now embedded. You're either sharpening the weapon or you're dulling your edge. There's no middle. There's no middle. That's the lie. If you're not actively building the man that you want to become or the woman brick by brutal brick, your brain is quietly building this version of you that will hate your life, sabotage every single opportunity, and break down whenever life gets real. Your brain is constantly rewiring based on repetition and emotional intensity. That's what I was talking about earlier. That means every moment of self-pity, every emotionally charged failure that you replay in your head about how bad your life was and how scared you were and how awful your divorce was and what happened when somebody dies. Every time you quit something hard, all of those things that gets tattooed into your nervous system. It's a new pro that's that embeds itself into your operating system and starts corrupting every file you've got. You're not just going through something. You're not. It doesn't matter what it is. You're not just going through something. You're practicing being weak. And your brain is is just getting really good at it. How does this not scare you? You don't need a new life. You don't need a new life. You don't need a new opportunity. You need to stop training your brain to be a loser. That goes back to the war I talk about all the time. You're either commanding your brain with a purpose or the flip side, it's passively conforming to the culture around you, which means fear, softness, validation, escape, distraction, lying, procrastination, emotional instability, compulsive behavior disguised as self-care. Listen, neuroplasticity is not your savior. It's a sword. But it's only a sword if you wield it. What? Ask yourself, what repetitive behaviors are you allowing? Because you're doing it right now and you don't even know it, even listening to this podcast. But what repetitive behaviors, that's the word, repetitive, are you allowing to unconsciously rewire your brain into a weaker, softer, more frightened, lying, procrastinating version of yourself. Because people message me all the time, Spartan, dude, how do I become stronger, man? And my answer is always the same. Stop programming yourself like a [\h__\h] like a clown. The world wants you soft right now. Call it the matrix. Call it the world. Call it whatever you want. They want you addicted. They want you emotionally erratic because a man with no control over his own mind is very easy to control. I'll prove it. Think of every time you've ever gotten triggered and gotten pissed off and gotten in the comments. Every one of you, every time you felt that welling up inside you about you being angry and then wrote three paragraphs on somebody's feed about how much you hate them and all the proof you came up with and the hours you spent in Reddit and on Google and in chat GPT refining your answer, retyping it over and over again just to give a comeback to somebody who doesn't give a [\h__\h] about you. You're easy to control when you do that. I can get you to do anything I want just by tapping into your emotions every time. Listen, even right now if you're like, "That's not true. I'm in control." Then why are you getting mad? Every time you choose weakness, every time you scroll instead of build or cry instead of do the work and sit there and whine and complain and validate how bad your situation is over everybody else's, every time you procrastinate and delay instead of doing the things you should be doing, you were wiring your brain to serve that. You're becoming a slave to your own laziness. You're a puppet. You're a puppet. You think discipline is just about your body, just about working out. That is the most superficial thing I've ever seen. When people say that, I know one guy just goes all around talking about got to have a six-pack. Discipline is not just about your body. Discipline is psychological warfare. It's how you reclaim your mind from all the programming designed to make you dependent and average, fragile, turn you into an embarrassing mediocrity. Neuroplasticity is your weapon. Use it every I'm not going to say this. I almost said cold punch. Those are stupid. But every time, like every time you wake up and you don't hit snooze, you get up at 5:00 a.m., you do the work, you do a morning routine that serves you, you tell your wife you love her, you spend time with your kids, you work on your business, you make the sales calls until you make a sale, not until you have a certain number. Every time you do all the things, the grueling workouts, all of the stuff, every rejection you face without flinching, each one of those wires your brain for absolute dominance of your life. If you're not using it, you're being used. That's the simplest way to explain it. Like I see people training their minds to be cowards and then wondering why they can't handle any pressure. That's the bulk of the world right now on social media. It's because every time life punched you in the face, you curled up like a toddler. And every time the cross on your back got heavier, you quit. Every time it hurt and it was uncomfortable and you didn't like it, you came up with excuses. Called at work and said you were busy, but you stopped. And guess what? your brain remembered. Neuroplasticity doesn't give a damn about your goals and your dreams. It only remembers your reps. So, what are you repping? Honestly, what are you repping? Where are you putting your reps? Quitting, scrolling, crying, whining, validating, procrastinating, waiting for the right time? You're building a brain made to flinch. That's what it is. Like, I rep pain. I rep doubt. I re discipline and discomfort and pressure and I do it again and again until that is all my brain knows how to do. I don't need motivation. Neither do you. I got conditioning. So do you. It's in the wrong direction. Your brain is a weapon. But if you're not putting it on a wet stone, if you're not putting it through what's required to sharpen it, it's going to rust. It's going to crumble. It's going to dull. And one day life's going to test you and you're not going to be ready. And then you're going to blame your circumstances instead of the weapon you had in your hand that you didn't take care of. You're going to you're going to fall apart because you trained to fall apart. You put the reps in to learn how to do that very well. You know what's wild is neuroplasticity is not inherently beneficial at all. That's the fallacy. It's simply the brain's capacity to reorganize itself in response to a stimulus. Be it virtuous or destructive, it doesn't matter. If you continuously engage in maladaptive behavior, if you retreat from discomfort and confrontation, man, if you guys outsource your sense of meaning to some fleeting pleasure, booze, extra, porn, distraction, escape, binge watching, vaping, whatever, weed, your brain's going to adapt downward. It's going to become more efficient at weakness at being a [\h__\h] at which means being a coward and avoidance and you will come up with reasons. You will come up with this irrefutable logic to defend that's not what you're doing. This is the devastating truth that people will always refuse to avoid that it's that failure if repeated and emotionally reinforced. You need both of those components becomes a neurological pattern. It's not a lesson then it is a pattern. You need the lesson not the pattern. But you make a something happens once it's an accident. Something happens twice it's a decision and it's a decision to create a new habit or pattern and that's where you guys live. This is why discipline and repetition in the pursuit of what is meaningful right what the things that are difficult but good is vital. It's required because you know your neurobiology is sculpted by your behavior. We could go down the road of epigenetics and really pursue that but this just start with this because that sculpture that you are doing you are building right that's your destiny. You're not a static being you are a process and that process must be governed by responsibility and accountability and stress and duress and vision and voluntary suffering. Otherwise, entropy wins. Go back to your chemistry. Chaos wins. And that plastic brain of yours becomes the warden of your prison. You You can't scroll your way to strength, cowboy. Let me know if that works. You're sitting here wondering why you feel lazy and soft and anxious and stressed out and depressed while you shove an entire sleeve of Oreos in your bark hole and you scroll social media like it's a full-time job. Guess what? Your brain's watching and taking notes. Your habits are turning your brain into a pile of mashed potatoes. See, the brain doesn't give a damn what you feed it. I've said this at least a half a dozen times in this podcast. It's going to grow anyway. You can feed it reps of whining and quitting and validating and procrastinating and saying, "You don't understand. My situation's different. I had to handle this." Or you can feed it reps of getting your ass up and doing the real work, not the busy work where you're on the hamster wheel. The real work. Either way, it's building something. And either way, you're in control. You ain't special, son. You're programmable. And right now you're programming yourself to be a grown man or woman that needs balance in a safe space in a fidget spinner just to file his taxes. Neuroplasticity is a miracle and a menace because it's a thing that can turn a loser into a legend or a man into a walking talking muffin top disaster. Your call. You decide. But you you have to understand that the person in control of all this of your neuroplasticity is you. It's you. It doesn't give a damn what you want. Please understand it. You're looking I guarantee you some of you guys are going to look this stuff up and try and find a hack. It doesn't care what you want. It doesn't care about the hack. It cares about the reps. It's not your cheerleader. It's not your accountability partner. It's not your therapist. It's a machine. a relentless, ruthless, tireless machine that builds what you do, not what you say. So, while you're out there making vision boards and whispering affirmations into a lavender scented journal, getting on YouTube or getting on Instagram and making validation videos for how disastrous your past was, your brain is wiring itself around the actual pattern of your life. The actions that you repeat, all of those thoughts that you are allowing, all of the things that you celebrate and tolerate, you're not living every day. You're programming 24/7, 365. I said at the beginning, your brain is always on. And you either become the architect of the program, right? You are you're the coder. Or you wake up one day trapped inside a mind and a psychology that you built through all of your excuses and lies and validations and justifications and comfort and emotional jerking off. Your brain doesn't care if the behaviors that you repeat are destroying you. It just becomes more efficient, more skilled at doing them. So if you keep saying, "I'll start Monday. I'll invest tomorrow. I'll come up I'll use my program. I think this might help me. But you come up with all the reasons why it's not going to and you don't put the 1,500 bucks down or the five grand to get lifetime access. If you don't go to the gym, if you don't have the hard conversation, if you keep saying, "I need a little more clarity. Can I go somewhere to find some more information? I'm working through some stuff. I have a couple of tigers that by the tail that I just have to handle. I'm almost there, bro." Your brain wires that in. It wires in the delay. It wires in the delay, the fear, the hesitation, the procrastination, the self-support, validation, and the need for perfect conditions. Meanwhile, all the people that you're looking around with jealousy and envy, yeah, they're not smarter than you. They're sure not luckier no matter what you say. They just trained their b their brain to do hard [\h__\h] without hesitation. And the way they did that was they rewired themselves through repetition and resistance. It's leveraged neuroplasticity at its finest the and using it the way it was meant to be used. Brutal repetition of what matters the most. Stop asking how. And I know some of you go, "How do I rewire my brain?" I just told you. Brutal repetition of what matters most. That's how you leverage neuroplasticity in your favor. Stop asking how to rewire your brain. I just told you how. You're already doing it anyway. Every day you are tapping into neuroplasticity every second of every day. and you think you're not. Here, I'll say it. Every scroll, every negative comment, every hateful email, every text message you re you write and rewrite over and over again until you get it just right. Every time you don't squeeze the trigger, and you don't pay the bill, the time, money, or the energy. Every time you look for something easier, cheaper, and faster. every skipped workout, every dopamine hit, every cowardly embarrassing choice to wait another day either by someone else or by your own valition. You have been rewiring yourself to be mediocre. And now you are the living breathing result. And the best news about all of that is that you can start right now and reclaim the entire system. Hijack it. Just hijack it. be that malware that just goes in and destroys the operating system that you've got right now and own it. You don't need a neuroscience degree. You need repetition and pressure. You just need to do the damn reps in the direction you want to go. Not just physically though, but mentally, emotionally, spiritually. You need to get your psychology right. Rewire your pain tolerance and your discipline, and you end up rewiring your entire identity. One rep at a time. You're not stuck. I said at the beginning, you're not you're not stuck. You're not ADD or ADHD. You're stuck with being talentless. You're programmed to think all this. You are a walking talking computer and neuroplasticity is the sponge taking in every program you throw at it. And the programming can be rewritten by force. So pick the weapon back up because your brain is plastic. And that means you've got no excuses left. That's how this works. You feel me? I got to go. Never miss.