Welcome to the Unbreakable podcast. I am Dr. Trevor Bachmire. Most people call me the Spartan. So, how about we just do that? All right. I'm going to take a sip of this here coffee and let's get to work. Brandy and I were out in the gym working out. We train every single day. We have for 20 years. And if you don't know, my wife was a pro soccer player, extremely talented athlete, incredible mother, amazing wife, probably one of the smartest people I've ever met. And and she's my best friend. And you know what? We do really well together, raise our kids, and this is about ready to Oh, I'm sure this is going to ruffle some This is going to piss a lot of you guys off. Most of you guys suck at it that you're parents and you guys get so mad. You suck at being parents in your default setting where you say you didn't come with a manual, didn't come with a book. No, you dropped all your common sense. Listen, what? Just follow me because we were working out. We had a conversation with our kids in the middle of our workout and it made me realize some things. Randy and I are on the same page raising our children. We always have been. And that's what makes man, that's what makes raising kids fun. When you are always on the same team, they don't play Brandy and I like our kids don't play Brandy and I against each other. Whatever you say to dad, you may as well say to me, it's the same thing. Whatever dad says to you is the same as me saying it to you. Whatever I say to you is the same thing dad's going to say to you. We're always on the same team. You guys are screwing that up because you're too busy trying to be friends with your damn kids. But listen, what happens when you trade discipline for all the dopamine and entertainment and PlayStations and phones and Xboxes that you guys are handing off to your kids as a babysitter? I have to or two people have to work in their family. My wife has to work. I have to work. Otherwise, we can't afford to live. So, our kids have to go to school. So, you are compromising their entire future because you don't want to do any more work. That's what it comes down to. Don't you dare say it's anything else. You're compromising the lives of your children because you're lazy. Because you're using the school as a babysitter. And what they're doing is poisoning the minds of your children. And you are helping. You are a pusher and they're the dealer. You replace boundaries. And then when they come home, you want to bond with your kids. You guys don't know what bonding with your children even means. Like you guys have exchanged it. It is a sacred duty charged by God to raise children. And it goes further than that. It's to raise a leader. If you are not raising and if you say my kids, not all kids have to be leaders. Yes, they do. You do understand that children aren't listening to a damn thing you're saying. They're watching everything you're doing. And you guys are conducting yourself like a bunch of circus clowns. When you exchange that sacred charge of raising a leader for your selfish desire, and I'll get into this. Let me explain this because I see it everywhere now. Yes, I am probably a better parent than you. And most of you guys are going to go like fun you are. My kid can beat up your kids and not just physically, mentally. But when you trade the charge of raising a leader for the selfish desire to be liked by your kid, I'll tell you what happens. Listen, you got a generation of emotional diabetics addicted to affirmations and allergic to hardship and work and discipline and they are mentally crippled by the absence of applause. They're not resilient. You guys talking about how tough your kids are. No, they're not. No, they're not. I see your kids and both of our kids are almost obnoxiously tough. by design. I have a friend of mine, I've talked about it before. His name is Matt Bodro. He is an amazing man. And Matt and Heather, and we've known them for well over 20 years. They have great family, great kids, and you know what their kids do? Know how to fight, know how to work, know how to hunt, know how to fish. They're on a farm, on land, and they work their kids like little rented mules. They make their kids read and learn and do things. Do you know why? They're not trying to be friends with their kids. They're raising the next damn generation. What is wrong with you guys? Here's the problem. all of your kids that are and and some of you guys are doing it right and I applaud you so much for that. But for the most part, I see the opposite. Your kids aren't resilient. They're not grounded. They sure as hell aren't prepared for war because you go, "Well, it's not doesn't have to be like that anymore." And they're dressed in soft, frilly comfort, glued to screens and raised by your lies. Like you've got grown men right now with a testosterone level of bunny rabbit, grown women that are paralyzed, absolutely paralyzed by criticism words. And both of them are crying into some oat milk because someone didn't use the emoji right in their message. So they got offended. They used all caps and they went, "Why are you yelling?" Listen, the greatest scam ever pulled in modern parenting is the lie that more involvement equals better results. No, more emotional dependency does not equal love. Talking about feelings does not equal growth. More connection isn't that doesn't equal more preparation for the war and the battles of life. Let me be very clear. If your kid has never been told to go figure it the [\h__\h] out, drop the fbomb. But I'm just saying if they haven't been told to go figure it out, they've never had to solve their own boredom without a screen. I was an only child. I would go outside and throw a ball at a wall. A bike was my transportation and my kids grounding for me was being inside. Grounding for you guys is kicking your kids outside. If your kids have never been allowed to fail, fall, get skin, knees, fall, like just get thumped and beat up or or or even the feel of the sting of some pain, they're not growing. Please listen to me. You guys are going to fight this every step of the way, and you're going to [\h__\h] up the next generation, which you're already doing. You can see it. They're becoming groomed. And here's what they're groomed for. To collapse under the weight of being an adult. And you did it. You did it with your soft little hugs. And I'm not saying don't hug your kids before you guys misinterpret what I'm saying, but with your soft little cuddly nature all the time, your soft tone, your helicopter parenting, your hovering all the time, your constant FaceTime calls when you're on vacation to your kids because you missed them, not because they needed you, cuz grandma and grandpa were doing just fine with them until you called and [\h__\h] it up. You're not building strong kids. You're pacifying your guilt. You're raising future adults who are going to panic anytime the world doesn't hand them a a participation ribbon or trophy. Anytime they don't win, they're going to just be get crippled. They're going to get crippled by failure. This is not I'm not a gentle guy. I am a strong man. I will fight for women. I will listen. I'll go toe-to-toe with any bully who is bullying their own children or their wife or girlfriend. Dude, I will get in your way all day. I don't care how big you are. I don't care how tough you are. I don't care if you could beat me up. I will [\h__\h] fight and get in your way. Don't you ever bully somebody. I have hated bullies since the day I could remember 2, three years old. I've had my ass kicked plenty of times, but I've kicked a lot of ass. But I'll tell you this, I'm a man. I will stand up for people that need help. I will help people that need help. I will always do anything I can to serve, save, and protect. I will provide for my family even if with its even if it's my last breath. You guys have forgotten how to be men and women. So listen, this is I'm willing to be hated in order to raise kids who are unbreakable men and women cuz I don't give a [\h__\h] about your opinions. I know for a fact that my son and my daughter are going to own yours because you guys are sitting there going, "I got such a great connection this weekend with my kids. It was amazing. Your kid cries when the wrong juice is in their cup at dinner." You were sold a lie. Like this is called parenting right now. You're sold a lie. this shiny, well-p packaged feel-good lie that said, "The more emotionally available, the more present and gentle you are as a parent, oh, it drives me crazy. The more welladjusted your kids are going to be, I will translate what I hear. The more you coddle them, the more competent they'll become." Doesn't work ever. Never has, never will, never did. It's not going to work. But you're dumb enough to believe it because it made you feel. You get this. Good job, mommy. Good job, Dad. You get pat on the You get a pat on the back. It makes you feel like you're doing a good job while actively avoiding the hard parts of being a parent. Discipline, absence, structure, silence, and earned consequences. Not once have I felt that my mom and dad don't love me. Not once. My dad is gone. My mom is still alive. We don't agree on lots of things. It doesn't matter. I love my mom and my mom loves me. And I've never doubted that ever. I've never doubted that my dad loved me or my mom loves me ever. I got grounded. They had rules. We went to church. I had so many things. Structure non-stop. I can't thank my parents enough for how they raised me. You guys, you read books with pastel colors and covers. You follow gentle parenting gurus on Instagram like it's you guys are [\h__\h] up your kids. You treated your toddler's tantrum. Your little toddler just throws a fit. I think my parents would have killed me. But your toddler throws just a nightmare of a tantrum and you treat it like this sacred right. That's what they're supposed to. They're expressing their emotion instead of what it actually was. A warning sign that your child already knows how to manipulate emotions before they can spell the word responsibility. You're not training a an adult. You know what you're doing? You're nurturing a narcissist. And if you hear that and you're like, "Oh god, give me a break." Spell narcissist now. Spell it backwards because you probably can't even spell it because you're too busy living your double wide yelling at your husband instead of yelling at your kids and guiding them the way you should. Here's the And it pisses me off because this is the next generation. We are always one generation away from complete anarchy. And you guys are just throwing wood and gasoline on that fire cuz here's the kicker. You did it because you needed the connection. I see a lot of divorced parents like this, especially divorced dads. I'm sorry, but if your wife checked out and you're blaming something, but you were quote unquote financially successful, it's because you were an [\h__\h] or you were a s. Women do not want soft, nice men. They want strong, kind men. I adore my wife. I will protect my wife and my kids all day long, but I leave my house. But she knows, you know, my wife always says to me, and it's the greatest compliment anyone can say. I know. I know for a fact, you're always going to take care of me. Do you know how good that feels? She doesn't doubt ever. Ever. That's because of my conduct, not my words. If you are being hyper nice and soft and okay, honey, how can I do this for you? She's going to leave. Good. Cuz you're not a man. get offended. I really don't care. This is my channel. You don't like it, [\h__\h] off because I know I'm right. Yes, this bothers me because you your relationship with your children and the future is your responsibility and you're treating it like it's theirs. You nurture the narcissist in your child because you needed the connection. You can't handle the disapproval of your seven-year-old. [\h__\h] you can't stomach the thought of not being liked by your child. So, you became a slave to their feelings, which means now here's the part that you don't like and you're going to disagree. They're a slave to your feelings. Good job. Way to go. You want to know why your kid's emotionally unstable? Because you're emotionally unstable. You're a circus clown. Inside your head, there's just a clown pulling levers. You're trying to raise a king or a queen while you're operating like a peasant. You want them to command respect. You do. But you can't even control your own damn emotions. If you show your kid, listen, number one, if you argue behind closed doors, your kids know. So, so grow the [\h__\h] up. And number two is if you scream and yell at each other, you're a toddler. Grow the [\h__\h] up. Have discussions and debates and conversations. Show your kids how you treat each other. And then teach them to do the same accordingly when they grow up. You called your mom to vent about your daughter slamming her door. Listen, you think your son needing a screen break after 6 minutes of homework is being sensitive? That's what you guys think. No, your kids are soft and that softness has a source. You I'll make this is as brutally clear even for you myopic people right now. You're not their best friend. You're their leader. You're their leader, man. A leader doesn't care about being liked. A leader prepares the warrior for the next battle. I've said it many times. Life is war. If they don't know how to suffer, they're never going to learn how to win because they can't. Cuz they will be crippled by failure because you're busy giving them a participation trophy for everything. Let me tell you something about pain. Pain doesn't care if you love your kids or if you read parenting blogs or Reddit threads or follow some Insta guru about parenting, some soft, simpy dad or it damn well doesn't care how connected you are. What happens when that little boy grows up? What happens? What happens when that little boy grows up and the world smacks him in the mouth? You going to call mommy? Going to need a hug? Or is he going to handle his [\h__\h] Because that comes from you. That's the difference between winning and whining. Like I I'll tell you, I was an only child. When I was a kid, I had to figure it out. Nobody held my hand. Nobody looked at me when I tied my shoes and went, "Good job, Trevor. Oh, good job, little boy. Tie your [\h__\h] shoes." Nobody gave a damn if I was sad. Like all that pain and silence and some solitude once in a while, you know what it did? It built a beast right here. I'm not saying you don't cry. I'm saying you cry and you do things that need to be done. I'm not saying don't laugh. You laugh and get things done anyway. You don't sit on your ass and scream and yell and stomp your feet while drinking alcohol, letting your ass get bigger and [\h__\h] up your couch while you look at the biggest TV you can afford. You think you're loving them by protecting them from all the hard stuff. You're not. Could you like look at how the military was trying to do that? We have to let all these trans people and all these soft people in. Why? Because we want to be all-encompassing. DEI, get the hell out of here. All that did was screw things up. I can go on and on about I there are countless provable examples of how much of a disaster that kind of thinking is. You think you're loving them by protecting them from all the hardship, except that's all you're doing is creating a disaster. You're raising civilians in a world that demands special forces. Good luck. You either start stepping up or you are going to raise soft people. And the way you do that is by you becoming a little more rigid. Don't blame the world when your kid snaps and breaks and comes home from college with blue hair and a dress and he left a dude. I think parents confuse love with indulgence. Parents confuse love and indulgence. They believe that sheltering a child from suffering is virtuous. The reality of that is that's profoundly narcissistic. A child who is never left alone with their thoughts never develops that internal architecture necessary for their own resilience. You helicopter parents by rescuing instead of just saying figure it out, release them, you teach the child that the world is supposed to orbit them. All that does is lay the groundwork for entitlement, victimhood, and identity fragility. And that is an extraordinarily cruel form of parenting. Instead of preparing them for competence, you create psychological dependency. That's not love. That is sabotaging your own child. You know what my dad did when I got bored? Told me to dig a hole. Dig a hole. Didn't ask me how I felt about it. Didn't text me emojis from the kitchen looking out the back window. Didn't sit me down with an iPad and a fidget spinner and a weighted blanket. Pointed at the dirt. Make it deeper. Cut more wood. Chop that more. Cut the grass again. Go weedy. There's more weeds in the driveway. Go for a bike ride. And guess what? I turned out just fine. You idiots made parenting harder than it needs to be. These kids are so soft because you're soft. You're raising house cats. You're not raising lions. That's the problem. Raise lions. And then you wonder why they need therapy after losing at kickball. Listen, princess, they don't need therapy. What they need is the same thing I had a damn paper route. Winnipeg free press third grade paper route bundle came to the end of my driveway. Saturday papers I hated. I was too small to carry the bags. I was too short. So my mom tied knots on the end of either of the bags. I knew how to run a business before I knew how to run a business. I just knew that I had to pay for the bundle with my collections. I had to go to door with a punch and a two- ring little binder with everybody's name and little punch cards and I'd go knock collecting. And I had to ask them for money. And I had people ghost me, not pay me. I would just show up every day until they paid me. You know what it taught me to do? Be persistent and not be afraid of people answering the [\h__\h] door. And if you guys go, it's not like that anymore. People are kidnapping kids. They were kidnapping kids then, too. You're just aware of it now. I had to pay for that bundle in Saturday mornings. All the papers had to be out by 6:00. So there I was, third grade up at 5:00. The bundle was there when it was still dark. This is in Winnipeg. Bundle showed up. It took multiple trips that came with the strap on them. I had to put the insert in the comics and all the other crap. And the Sunday paper when I was that old, it felt like it was the size of a phone book. And I had to make two trips cuz I couldn't carry it. And I would walk and then I have to take a knee and let the bags rest on the grass as I was crossing people's lawn. And I would get so excited as the bags would get lighter and lighter because that meant I was almost done. Two trips on Saturday. Sunday was the best cuz it was this paper thin. It looked like it was like a TV guide. Most of you guys know what that is. Dave Seamco, if you know who he is, was on my paper route. His parents showed me the Stanley Cup ring. He was the guy that would protect Gretzky. If you know who Wayne Gretzky is, number 99, man. Greatest hockey player ever lived. I grew up with guys like Gilaf Flleur and Dale Howchuk, Bobby Ore, Wayne Gretzky. You guys are like, I don't know who any of those guys are. That's okay. I do. The point was I had a job. I had to pay for that bundle when the bill came. My parents never helped me do my Saturday or Sunday route. When they would help me, they'd drive me once in a while. I tried taking my bike one time. I ate [\h__\h] So, I walked all the time instead. 62 houses I had just past my school. That's how far it was from my house, just past my school. Paper roots were like gold. They got passed down from brother to brother to sister to brother. It was lucky that I got one that was just one street over. It was on Glenway. I lived on Emerson. And what's crazy is the only time my parents ever drove me was when I had some kind of event after school that I had to make it. Swimming, hockey, something, whatever. Then they would drive me so it was faster. But that's it. Otherwise, figured out I turned out just fine. You guys won't even let your kids go to the bathroom by themselves in your own house. You might want to ask yourself, wearing your own parenting, your great skill set of parenting, cuz you've read all these books. Are you prioritizing your need for validation over your child's need for independence, strength, self-realization, creativity? Where? because you're [\h__\h] them up. Like the uncomfortable truth that a lot of you modern parents choke on is that you didn't build a close relationship with your kids and you're not doing that right now. You're building emotional dependency. Like you're not give and now if they're older, they're 16, 17, man, you have ruined them. It's going to take so much to undo that. Not you didn't build anything. You didn't give them a stable foundation. You stuck an umbilical cord into them and you said, "We're never going to cut it." Why? Because you needed it. The toddler between you and your toddler is you. You needed them to miss you when you were gone. Put them on the phone. They don't They haven't said anything about you. Put him on the phone. I just want to see how little Timmy is. And now little Timmy is [\h__\h] for the next week while you're in Bora because now he remembers that mom's gone. Yet your grandparents had it handled. You needed them to call you because you were sad. You needed them to talk to you because you were sad. You missed your little four-year-old. You needed them to want you more than they needed to develop their own resilience. You trained them to believe that they couldn't function without you because deep down you couldn't function unless you felt needed. That right there, just to be clear, that's not parenting. codependency all wrapped up in a blanket disguised as love. It's not. You're a liar. Look at what Look at what it's done to them. Just look. They can't sit with any discomfort. Kids lose their [\h__\h] Just go to an airport and watch parents freak out because their kids losing their mind. You They can't sit with any discomfort. I had to I sat in a car in a captain's chair behind my dad in a giant Chevy van. my parents in front, no air conditioning because we know I'd never had air conditioning in anything we ever owned, including the house until I moved out on my own. And I'd sit there, my mom would go look at the scenery as we drove for 10 hours a day and my dad would iron man the drive through the Rockies in Canada, everything to go see grandma and grandpa or go to the east coast, go to Cape Cod, see my great aunt, all this stuff. So what? I would read books. If I ever got sick when we were reading a book, when I was reading a book in the van, I would sit there and stare out the window. Do you think my dad would stop? Once in a while, we'd stop and get gas station snacks. That was a big treat for me. I turned out just fine. But look at what your parenting has done. They can't sit with any discomfort. Can't compete at all. They can't complete anything. And if it's hard, you got to handhold them the whole time because they don't know how to do it. They'll fall apart if you don't reply back to them in the house or on a cell phone in 30 seconds. and they text you from their bedroom. You made them believe that if they weren't constantly plugged into your attention, their world was over. It was the apocalypse. What happens when life actually hurts? They're going to crumble because they never learned how to build a spine. All they know how to do is grab their phone and send a sad emoji. Listen, most of you parents, you don't even want a child. You want a fan club. You want a little fan club in your house that makes you feel valid because the world is just too harsh now. We're having the greatest history of mental illness. The biggest crisis of mental illness in the history of mankind. Mankind has become so soft that mental illness is what's labeled is adult behavior. It's just being mis mislabeled. Welcome to being a [\h__\h] adult. Now it's called mental illness having to deal with being an adult. You want a fan club. Most of you don't want a child. You want a fan club. That's why you check in every five minutes with your kid. I just got to check in on Tommy right now. I just got to check in on Madison, on Aaron, on little Naa. So clever. I spelled heaven backwards. I'm so smart. You're a twit. That's why you hover like a [\h__\h] drone around your kids. That's why you call them from your vacation to check on them. Yeah. You're not doing it for them. You've been doing it for you and you know it. And I hope this stings. I hope this pisses you off and you listen to the whole thing. And it is a long healthy hate that you have burning through your skull while you change your conduct and raise leaders. You want them to feel your absence so you can feel important. Here's the plot twist on this though. That craving for all of your importance makes you weak because it stops you from actually doing the [\h__\h] that's hard, which is letting them become independent. Listen, I miss my kids being two and three and just needing the hell out of me. Oh, I love it. I see. I genuinely see why people just have kids every two, three years. They have 10 kids. My wife would be like, "Not I'll cut your dick off in the middle of the night." Not going to [\h__\h] happen. But I can see why because it feels good. So does raising a leader that goes with a man's voice, "Thanks, Dad." So does your daughter when she looks at you and she goes, Thanks, Dad. The hard things, let them fail. Let them eat [\h__\h] Let them not need you. Because a real parent raises warriors who can lead themselves. Not a whiner who just needs applause to go take a piss. Raise a killer. You're supposed to. You ever watch lions? They get batted around by mom and dad once in a while. Not so much by dad. They don't learn how to cuddle on mom's nipple until they're a grown ass lion. Like you keep checking in on your kid like like your child's on life support, but they're not. They're not. The support problem is you. They're untrained. That's your fault. Yours. 100% your fault. They don't need more hugs. They need a whole lot more difficulty in their life. Listen, they do not need more of this screen time. They need more solitude. They need more time alone to figure [\h__\h] out. They need to learn how to delegate, leverage, and become better versions of themselves to expand themselves. And you aren't letting. They don't need your approval. They need to learn how to approve of themselves. You guys are so busy calling people arrogant and egotistical and cocky and you don't even know the meaning of any of those words when the problem is your narcissistic behavior that's [\h__\h] up your kids. Like when I was a kid, my dad was a savage. Oh, he was a savage. And I understand now why I do. Oh, there were plenty of days I was mad at my parents. Oh, but I understand why now as an adult. Because everything I do falls back on the discipline I learned when they were like, "Figure the [\h__\h] out. I'm not taking you there. You can go. You ride your bike." That man made me. My dad made me. Not because he hugged me every day. Yeah, he hugged me. But because he gave me nothing that I didn't earn. Your kid, man, doesn't need a lifeline. They need something that they could just They need the catapult and the runway and the jet. Just fire them off the aircraft carrier and let them go. Stop babying them. Stop it. Stop calling them from vacation. Let them figure it the [\h__\h] out. That's how what you need to do because dependency isn't intimacy. And that's you guys. Codependency, intimacy, you guys are screwing this all up. And yet modern parents confuse those as well. Dependence is being intimate. Modern parenting makes me think of man with a plan. If Matt Leblanc great series, it's actually if you are a parent and you are in your 40s or 50s, that is real life. Modern parents confuse the two dependence and intimacy. They believe that a child's reliance on them is a signal for a successful emotional bond. That quite honestly reacts to a or results in a failure to launch, right? To to quote a movie, but it's the truth. Lives at home. That's what reflects a fail failure to launch. Children are meant to grow away from you. It's okay. You're going to get your heart broken. Welcome to being a parent. You chose it. But children are meant to grow away from you. Not because they don't love you. Because autonomy is the tilos of proper development that's demanded of you. To make yourself perpetually indispensable is to rob them of the dignity of competence. They're not an extension of your emotional state. Kids turn into adults and they are designed to be individual beings. And if they don't learn how to confront pain or boredom or anxiety or sadness or feeling depressed or rejection on their own, they are forever enslaved to others who do. That's a tragedy of preventable proportions, just to be clear. And you're responsible for that. Preventing that or causing that's on you. like this new breed of parent. You can't leave the damn driveway without checking the baby 37 times and all the monitors they have and the kid is 10 [\h__\h] years old. Like back in my day, you went on vacation. You left. You just left. You didn't FaceTime from the damn beach like you were checking on a hostage. You think you think that kid cried when you called? Hell yeah he did. Not because he missed you, because you reminded him that you weren't there. You're doing this for you. I see this all the time. You're doing it for you so you can sleep better. So you can tell your friends what a great mom or dad that you are. Guess what, cupcake? Your kid doesn't need a best friend. They need a role model who knows how to disappear sometimes. Put the [\h__\h] phone down. Let them suffer a little. They'll survive. It's okay. And you know what? They'll be better for it. Where are you inserting yourself into your child's world? not to help them grow, but to soothe your own insecurity about being unnecessary. You're fragile. And now you're making them fragile. Like we've raised a generation that believes they're the center of the universe but can't center themselves in a conversation without melting down screaming for identity, crumbling under accountability, talking about their mental health and childhood trauma, adult trauma, work trauma. But their trauma is actually when they just got told no. That's traumatic. I got told no. Oh, my trauma. They they feel entitled to respect they have never earned and protection from a reality that they can't even handle. And who built this emotional roller coaster in the theme park of delusion? You did. You did. Modern parents. You guys. It's like therapized feminized dopamine reward obsessed grown-ups still chasing validation in the mirror of their children. Listen, instead of equipping your kid with a titanium spine, you gave them Steuart Smallley affirmations, no values, just augmented reality and some virtual access. No consequences at all. Heaven forbid we do a timeout. We have a we we talk. My dad didn't talk. I knew when I was in [\h__\h] I'll leave it at that. But no consequences from you guys. to give them excuses and coping mechanisms and some diagnosis and maybe a label. So now they're walking around some emotional time bomb wrapped in expensive shoes and a completely obliterated selfworth because of you. Not resilient, not durable, definitely not unbreakable. They're just loud, annoying, obnoxious, getting in the comments crying about it. And some of you parents are still kids because they were raised like glass trophies in a velvet [\h__\h] box but sent to a world built for stone warriors. Well done. Well done. Yeah, this pisses me off. Well done. Because you've built your child like this fragile little god. All image and no muscle. All validation and no results. All bark and no bite. Nothing. They've got nothing. Your kids are [\h__\h] I'm not talking down to kids. I'm talking to the parents. Your kids are a product of your conduct. You ever wonder why they can't handle a job interview? Because why when they quit, they freak out. They quit when it's hard and they get mad at what's hard. It goes back to what I said. They see the mountain in front of them and they yell at the rock. Why they cry on the internet about everything? You guys, I never once thought about making a video crying to my screen and then posting it. You're not brave. You're a clown. It's all because you never taught them how to win. You only taught them how to whine and complain and validate and how entitled they really are. They think the world owes them something because you taught them that. It's really It bugs me right now. Trying to stay calm. They think their feelings matter more than the facts because you told them they were special every time they failed. If little Tommy has a penis and he's wearing a dress, the only special thing he needs is some therapy because of your conduct, dumbass. You raised a false king with no kingdom. You might have done it with good intentions, but it probably came from good intent. But good intentions don't build legendary people. They don't build empires. They never build leaders ever. Discipline, resilience. You know what? Consistency, early mornings, earned rewards, chores, work, that builds greatness. Stop praying to God that they grow out of it. Just change the blueprint. That's all you got to do. Just change it. Nobody is impressed that your kid got a Tik Tok following. You know that, right? Like they're soft. All of them. Your son is 13, hasn't left his room, he may as well be a mushroom. It's dark and stinks. That's where your kid lives. And you're proud of that of all his followers. Put him out in the real world. He's going to die. That's your fault. Fix your kid by fixing your blueprint. Your kid got sad, so you let them skip school. I've seen this. Your kids's having a sad day, so you let them skip school. You know, when my parents have let me skip school, never. They go to football practice or soccer practice and they start to get overwhelmed. It's just too stressful. So, you let them quit. Our kids do not quit. You ride it out. Even if you hate it, you're going to finish the season. Why? Because we do not stop halfway through. When I was a kid, we didn't get to quit. Ever. My parents never let me quit. It wasn't even I didn't even cross my mind. My mom didn't give me a participation trophy. She gave me a job, a mop, [\h__\h] vacuum, shovel outside, chores, gave me rules, consequences, and a lot of expectations. You let your kid tap out every time life taps them once, and then you wonder why they're anxious and depressed. They're not broken. You guys don't know how to train your kids. You're scared to hurt their little feelings. I'm here to hurt your feelings. You're raising losers. Every day is a test, and you're letting them skip it. Listen, when you remove adversity, which is required, by the way, because that's the world. When you remove that from a child's life, you don't create peace. When you take that adversity out of your child's life, you don't create peace, you create fragility. And the the issue is that children now interpret comfort not as a gift, but as a standard. That's their standard. They begin to believe that the world should bend around their emotions. That difficulty is a sign that something is wrong. Challenge is viewed as oppression and that effort when it's uncomfortable, it's optional. We've confused empathy. I believe it. Empathy with indulgence. mistaken all these validations and justifications as being virtuous. You cannot create a functioning adult without challenge, without solitude or consequence. How is that possible? Children have got to experience struggle in controlled doses. That's the immunization for reality. You want to know? There it is. Let your child fail. Let them be uncertain and frustrated and let them wrestle with all that. Let them navigate what it feels like to go through solitude and silence and but struggling to comprehend. Let them do that or you're going to raise somebody who's loud and powerless, fragile God, demanding worship. That's why I'm saying it. I'm not saying take the place of our Lord. No way. There's one. But that's what you're raising. Someone who's loud and powerless, which would be a fragile God. Yeah. because they demand worship but are too weak to even rule themselves. That's why I say it. Like, good lord. Try and tell a modern teenager no. Just do it. Watch what happens. Try and tell a modern teenager no. They'll act like you just shot their dog and set their house on fire. I told one kid, not mine, take out the trash. Basically, the reaction I got was that it violated his nervous system. Nervous system, buddy. I got a nervous system, too. And it's telling me I need to get the [\h__\h] away before I'm going to go nuts on the heavy bag just to deal with your generation. We got a whole lineup of kids who can't do anything difficult because mommy and daddy did it all for them. Absolutely nothing useful. You didn't raise a child, you raised a symptom. That's got to suck because you got a boy who will cry. Really? I can't count the number of times I've seen this. I've seen it on planes, airports, hotels. I've never seen it in my house cuz if it ever happened in my house, that's the end of why I would smash the router, throw it in the garbage and say, "You can go outside and drive the tractor now. Enjoy." You You got a boy who cries when the Wi-Fi goes out and and then you need a girl who needs a bracelet made out of 20 crystals and a moon app to make a decision. Your fault. You know what we did in my day? We got up, we got out, and we got a bunch of [\h__\h] done. I didn't need a safe space. What you don't need are more parenting books. You need a belt and a spine backbone. You should look at your own parenting if you'd chosen comfort over challenge, knowing it would make your child more fragile instead of more prepared for the life that they will have to live. I hear so many parents, "Oh yeah, I'm raising a little leader." Yeah, but you treat your son or daughter like they're a house pet. Obedient in their litter box, coddled. You like you clip them of all those instincts they have to be great. You tell them, "Don't rock the boat. Don't make waves at school or cause any discomfort. Don't question anything, especially at the dinner table, if you even have dinner together." Let me tell you something about that. And number two is most parents today don't actually want strong kids. They want agreeable kids in order to get along, go along. They want soft boys who say, "Yes, mom." And emotional girls who don't get too loud. Real leaders push back. They question things, challenge everything, not to be argumentative, but because they really want to challenge it. because they think they might have a better way. They make you uncomfortable with their independence. That's terrifying for weak parents. Weak parents who measure their worth through their kids' neediness. That's you guys. Oh, my my value is because my son or daughter needs me so much. Your son is 14. I was driving when I was 14. Not that it was legal. It still was. You don't want your kid to be powerful. You want them to need you forever because if they don't, then what the hell does that say about you? You've turned parenting into a self-esteem campaign and you're just running it on drip all day. Now you guys are shocked when your 17-year-old can't make a sandwich, file a tax return, or walk into a room without some kind of phobia or social anxiety. You're shocked. And the irony of that is the more you protect them, the less protected they actually are. The world doesn't care about your emotional regulation checklist that you guys come up with. The world cares if you can get the job done. Under pressure, under stress, crying, angry, sad, sore, happy, doesn't matter. Tired, under fire, under expectations. You either build a weapon or you raise a baby that cries at the slightest pressure. You choose. You choose. Most of you guys are terrified of raising boys who become more powerful than you. I want my son to beat me, but he's damn well going to earn it. You want to be the alpha in your house, so you suppress the fire in your son. Dude, you you're robbing your son. You're robbing of of his destiny. He is supposed to beat you. He's supposed to become the next king. You tell your son to express his emotions. But the second he expresses anger or ambition, drive, frustration. You chastise your son, you scold him and let him know that it's not okay to do that. So what you want are tailored emotions. Designer. You want them to do the emotions that make you feel better. And you guys all talk about how you want your daughter to have confidence. But the minute your daughter starts speaking her mind, you guys are all over her saying quiet. Just be nice. Be nice. You're not raising future leaders. You're grooming your kids to stay beneath you so you don't feel inferior. That's not parenting. I said it before. That is sabotage, you narcissistic prick. You want your son to lead a nation. Let him fall. Let him make decisions and suffer the consequences. Stop rescuing your [\h__\h] kids for everything. You want your daughter to conquer anything, boardrooms, athletics, the world. Stop micromanaging her feelings like she's an emotional science project. Listen, raising children is difficult. And I'm a parent with two kids, 16 and 18 years old, and both of them are badass. I'm so proud of my kids. But raising kings and queens isn't easy. They're going to scare you. They're going to stretch you. But if they don't make you uncomfortable, you're probably raising cowardly little peasants. See, a lot of you guys don't want leaders. You want little dogs that sit on your lap. I have a shepherd. That's dangerous. You want little That's what you want in your kids. You want them to bark when you say speak and sit when you say stay. And then you call it love. I call that fear. You're training them to be like that. Fear that your kid that's but your fear. It's a fear that they're going to outgrow you. They're going to outshine, out hustle, outdrive, out ambition. They're supposed to. That's the whole [\h__\h] point. Your ceiling should be their foundation so they can go higher than you ever could. Like my mom didn't raise me to be a [\h__\h] sidekick. She raised me to be a warrior, a leader. And warriors don't need to check in every five minutes. You want to know why your kid is scared of failure? Because you never let them face it. That you cushioned and patted every fall and you solved all of their problems for them. And anytime life tried to teach them something, you intervened. You didn't raise a leader. You raised a kid with a leash is what you did. That's got to suck, man. Take the leash off. Let them fall. Let them fail. Let them get hurt, injured, scuffed up, beat up, banged up, lost. Let them run. Let them bleed a little. If they don't learn how to bleed, they're never going to learn how to fight. Yes, I think all your kids should learn how to fight, men and women. There's a girl, Kaye, in my son's jiu-jitsu class. She's a dangerous kid, man. And he loves rolling with her. loves rolling with her because she's savage and they get along and they laugh, but they go at each other like just cats and dogs on the mat and she's good. There's a lot of girls in there that are really good. A lot of guys that are really good. My son comes away from jiu-jitsu, Muay Thai, boxing, which is what he wants to do next. He came out one day and went 20 and0. This against adult. So all you adults that run your mouth about how tough you are and how he's not really that good and if he was at your jiu-jitsu academy, you would have folded him in half and caused him to tap out and cry like a little [\h__\h] Here's what I know. Anyone that's actually well trained in jiu-jitsu would never say that cuz my kid went up to the adult class at 14 years old and said, "I know I'm going to get beat a lot, but I'm going to learn. I'm going to learn so much more than here. I'm just beating everybody in this kid's class. Can I move up?" I checked with Mike, the owner, and he goes, "Yeah, that's awesome." He goes, "Pice is ready." He goes, "He's going to get knocked around." And he's, "Are you okay with that?" He goes, "Yeah." And he loves it. See, my son hunts for challenge whether and he hates losing. Oh, it bugs him so bad. But he doesn't hate it. He hates it. Goes, "I'm going to take you out next time." And he tries. He remembers where the screw- up was and he figures it the [\h__\h] out and he doesn't do it again. Real leaders aren't born out of compliance. it. They're born out of conflict internal and external because listen, a parent who cannot tolerate discomfort in their child will destroy that child's future. And you guys are doing it. Take it as an insult if you want, but I'm telling you the truth and you know that because of what I said, leadership is not, it doesn't come from compliance. The forge for all of that is conflict, brutal internal and external conflict. And by cushioning every single corner of your child's development, you rob the child of the friction necessary to build the fortitude required to excel in life. Parents who refuse to say no or apologize for holding standards, negotiate with their little emotional tantrums, are not raising leaders. They're raising hostages to emotional fragility. A child must be allowed to encounter resistance, push back. Not because suffering is inherently noble, by the way, because strength can't emerge in its absence. It's impossible. When you shield your child from challenge, you shield them from character. Without character, there's no leadership. Only loudness masked in incompetence and dependency. If you wish to raise a leader, buckle up. Be prepared to be disliked. Be prepared to endure a whole bunch of their disappointment. Leadership requires separation before connection. Demands solitude before any of the popularity that you see that you wish to have. And above all, you know what? It really requires pain. long before the power shows up. It requires pain. Listen, I get it. Okay? You see your kid crying cuz they didn't make the team. They didn't make the soccer team. And mommy goes, "I now his inner child is going to be scarred for life." Good. Good. Scarred. I'll be scarred for life. Let him sit in it. Let him marinate in that. Ruminate in that. Just feel that sting. It's called losing. That's how you become a [\h__\h] winner. You parents out there turning every scrape knee into a trauma event at every poor grade into a learning style mismatch. Listen, Brenda, your kids's just lazy. That's it. Not anything else. Your kid's just lazy. You're raising, like I said, lap dogs with designer collars and emotional support routines, and you want them soft so they don't bite back. You don't even want them to nip. But then you cry when the real world eats them alive. I'll say it again. That ain't parenting. That's pet grooming. You guys treat your kids like pets. My dad let me ride a dirt bike into bush trees. Eat it. He watched me race. My mom watched me race snowmobiles, arena cross, snowcross. They let me just rip. My dad let me rip into the trees, eat [\h__\h] because I didn't know how to ride this bike. It was a YZ80. I still remember. And then told me to get back on it. Get back on it. You parents today, you won't even let your kids cross the street without a reflective vest and a bunch of safety apps and a locator and probably some kind of meridian line or chakra alignment. The world doesn't care if your kid meditates. Just there's a hot tip. News flash. Okay, just to let you know, the world doesn't care if your kid meditates. It cares if they can produce under pressure. So, put the damn leash down and teach your kids how to bite back. [\h__\h] the barking. Like, where have you guys chosen obedience over independence? And how has that limited your child's ability really when you're not around? You got I hear so many times, I'm raising a leader, but you won't even let him sharpen his own sword, his own spear. Won't even let him carry the shield. You hover hover and meddle and answer every question for him and fight every battle for him. And then you wonder why this kid grows into a man who can't decide what the hell to do without checking if mommy is watching. Okay, go cut the cord, man. And some of you dads, you simpy dads are just as bad. This isn't about moms or dads. This is parents, just so we're clear. You dads have umbilical cords to your kids, too. I see it. Especially you girl dads, thinking that you have to treat them any differently. And you go, "Yes, it is different." No, it's not. Stop being gay. My daughter will beat the [\h__\h] out of you then because my daughter is savage as it [\h__\h] gets. And I'm a girl dad. Why would you treat your kids differently? You have to. Girls, men and women are different. My wife is just as much of a beast as I am. And when she needs to be all woman, she's all woman. But when she needs to be a leader or run something or get results, she does that. There's no difference between a girl dad and a boy dad. There's being a strong man and a strong woman raising leaders like a king or a queen for that matter isn't raised in this little padded play pen of non-stop reassurance that you guys do. chaos, pain, struggle, all of the stuff that's required that anybody that's my age has probably gone through. That's how you adapt and conquer and learn how to stand alone and figure it the [\h__\h] out. You You want to build a legacy, then stop raising dependence and start raising dominating kids that go out and do things, not watch things and complain why they can't cuz it's too hard. That means letting them figure the hell out. Let them fall. Let them sit in the weight of their own decisions once in a while. Don't swoop in some dumb Disney room with a snack and a TED talk to them about their emotions. I'm like, I know why your wife left because of you. You're a disaster and all you're doing is [\h__\h] up your kids. I hope she takes all that back and figures it out because you're screwing them up. No, I'm not going to say who it is, but it bugs me cuz they see it all the time. Your job isn't to make their life easier. It's to make them capable. Make your kids capable. The only way they're ever going to learn to lead is if they first learn to be alone with their own thoughts. Fight their own wars and their own demons and their own and then own own their own outcomes. Welcome to consequence. Stop raising a dependent. Build build the king. Raise the king. Raise the queen. Treat them like soldiers, not a cupcake. Snowflake. You're all special, little Timmy. Listen, your son needs pressure, struggle, problems, pain. He needs to solve his own [\h__\h] without your weak voice in the background whispering, "You got this, pumpkin. You got this, baby. Shut up. Shut up. He's going to figure it out. If you stop stealing his opportunities to grow, he's going to figure it out. But you need to shut up. Every time you solve it for him, you emasculate your son. You steal his power. You neuter your own son's ambition and replace it with his neediness. And you think you're a good parent. Do you think I became who I am because someone held my hand through hard times? No. And if you go, I hate who you are. That's because you wish you had what I have. A spine, if you want to know what it is. Oh, I'm not talking about a watcher money. I'm talking about [\h__\h] spine. I had to figure it out. I was left alone with my demons. That's not saying I didn't have support, but the support didn't swoop in. It let me figure it out until I asked. And that made me dangerous in a world full of extremely dosile men. If your kid can't take rejection, if he needs this safe space to recover from a bad grade or a breakup or a bad text message, all caps, congratulations. You've raised a liability. Good job. Let him fall. Let him burn. Turn him into a [\h__\h] phoenix and let them come out of the ashes and lead. That's how kings are born. Every parent wants a king and a queen. Multiple. Listen. The lullabibies are for babies, not for teenagers. You don't raise warriors and leaders with lullabies. You raise them by treating them like soldiers. And I'm not saying be this militant parent if that's all you hear. The problem is you're trying to take things out of context. You're the same person that reads the Bible and tries to use it to weaponize against everybody else. When you take weekends off and you say that's what God wants, but you're not living the life that you could be living, that you're supposed to be living, that the vision was put into your mind, your kids are not going to remember that. they're going to remember that you are a liar. You don't make your kids strong by making life easy. You make them strong by teaching them to carry the weight. Look adversity in the eye and then take it on and keep taking steps forward regardless of what it is and without anybody holding their hand. That's the [\h__\h] truth. If you can't do that, you're sabotaging your kid. Love is not protecting your kid from every challenge. Love is prepping them for it. When I was growing up, my mom didn't sit me down with a feelings chart and a color wheel. She handed me a shovel and said, "Get back to work." That work ethic that I have, by the way, if you haven't figured it out. I have an incredible work ethic and extremely high standards. And people look at that and go, "That's not healthy. That's not normal. You have to take a break. You need balance." You take balance. You take breaks. Me, I'm doing what God called me to do, and I'm leaning on the core values that my parents taught me. So that work ethic, the responsibility, the self-worth, that's love. That's what I got for my mom and dad. You want to raise a king? Give him responsibility. Demand accountability and ownership from your kids. Stop jumping in. Every time life tries to teach them a lesson, you guys get in the way. They're going to cry. They're going to bleed. They're going to struggle. They're going to falter. They're going to crawl around. They're going to be upset. They're going to be mad, angry, sad, depressed, frustrated, anxious, and annoyed, and feel defeated. But you know what? All of that, let them do that. Let them bleed all over the place if they have to. But never, ever let them quit. That's what you need to do. That's how you build a man who doesn't need applause, doesn't need permission, sure as hell doesn't need a [\h__\h] participation trophy. That's how you raise someone who can lead. That's what you want because that's how they can lead themselves. To raise a competent child, you have got to relinquish your need to be needed by them. It's one of the most painful. It is painful as a parent. Your kids are going to break your heart, but it's necessary. It's one of the most painful and necessary transitions in parenting. You have to step back, not because you don't care, but because you do. You've got to allow them to wrestle with the chaos. Real unfiltered chaos. massive adversity without you constantly intervening just to soften the blow a little bit. That's where strength is cultivated. That's where character is forged, which is what you need to demand of your children. A child who is never tested becomes an adult who is easily broken. You're not raising a leader by protecting them from adversity. You're raising a puppet. And puppets don't rule, they obey. See, leadership demands the capacity to act independent of certainty, just under complete uncertainty. It to bear all the responsibility and persevere through all the suffering, regardless of what it is. Those traits aren't taught, they're earned. And your role as a parent is not to insulate your child from the world, but to prepare your child for the world. That means stepping aside at the right moment, not to abandon, but to empower your son or your daughter. And only when a young man stands alone and truly alone, does that young man discover whether he can even stand at all. But that's based on you. You want to raise this great solid king or queen and stop acting like their assistant, like their butler, fluffing pillows and packing his lunch and calling the coach when your benched kid doesn't get enough play time because little Tommy is pudgy and can't run further than 10 ft without being out of breath. Your kid doesn't need a cheerleader. Your kid needs a challenge. You ever see a lion get trained with snacks and cuddles? said, "Patting, [\h__\h] no. You throw him in the wild and let him figure it out. He either eats or he starves. That's how nature works. That's why your kid is going to suffer because of your conduct. Because you wouldn't allow your son or daughter to suffer with you. They're going to suffer now without you, because of you. You keep calling the teacher, emailing the principal, rearranging the entire universe so your kid doesn't feel discomfort. That's not parenting. codependency. That's what that is. You wonder why he cries then when his favorite show gets canceled or YouTube doesn't work or somebody gives him a thumbs down or throws some hate on social media or the Wi-Fi tanks and he can't get Door Dash to make his emotions go away because his phone doesn't work. Raise somebody who can work all day and come home chest high proud. Raise somebody who can lead a family of their own one day, build a legacy of themselves and their life, carry the cross without folding like a flimsy ass beach chair. That's a king. Not this soft ass therapy loving Dunkin' Donuts dopamine dependent Instagram turd that you're manufacturing. Let it go and let them go do something. Listen, this is all stuff some therapist will never tell you. You go to a therapist to feel better about yourself, not to solve the problem. and you know it because your therapist wants you to feel better. I want you to be better. So, I'll tell you all the things your therapist won't. If you're still confused about how to raise a warrior instead of a weakling, here I'll make this really simple for you. You're either raising someone who can carry the cross, carry the weight, or someone who is the weight. And in today's world where softness is celebrated, victimhood is monetized, discipline is labeled as toxic, you're going to have to make a choice. You either raise a man who's useful or one who's useless but coddled. There's no middle ground. None. You don't raise leaders by giving them trophies for trying. You don't raise lions by making sure their bellies always full and they're never hungry. You raise them with standards, challenges, massive expectation. Oh, it's too high of an expectation. No, it's not. Your standards are too low. But more than that, you raise them with space. space to fall, suffer, like burn, trip, bleed, see adversity, obstacles, everything, and then space to stand the [\h__\h] back up. You let the world be the teacher and adversity deliver the lessons. That's how this works. Because that's the only classroom where leaders, real leaders, kings, are built. Listen, you don't I get it. You want your kids to get hurt. You just don't want to see it. Get comfortable because it still needs to happen. Some of you don't want your kids to hurt, so you cushion their life so much that when the real world finally just punches them right in the face, they fold and break and sob and cry and blame you and then they hate themselves. That's on you. That's on you. You are teaching dependence when you should be training dominance in their life. You are validating all of their feelings, celebrating their feelings when you need to be instilling resiliency and fortitude in your sons and daughters. You are worshiping presence like you think that's I just I was so present with my son or daughter all weekend instead of preparing them for the pressure and the struggle of life. I'll help you out. I'll give you a warning that nobody else is going to give you. I married 20 years, multi-millionaire in the last four because we had to do it all over again. amazing children, a ton of struggles. But let me give you a warning that nobody else will. If you don't raise your kids to be strong, the world will break them and then blame you. You think you're being kind by hovering. You're not. You're being selfish. You You're training your kids to be extensions of your insecurity instead of examples of your leadership. You guys are building boys who grow up to fear rejection, avoid heartwork, self-identify as victims of the system. Your fault. And you're building girls who define self-worth by attention and collapse under genuine responsibilities and mistake emotional impulsiveness for empowerment. You want to break the cycle? Stop asking your kids if they're happy. you you really want to do something, ask them if they're proud of themselves, of their conduct. Ask them if they're honorable. Stop worrying about whether or not they're seen. Worry about whether or not they've earned your respect and whether or not your respect is worth earning. Stop asking your kids if they feel loved. I just want to make sure they feel loved. Stop asking if they feel loved every second because you need to look at them and question whether or not they're ready to lead the family that you're going to one day leave behind because they're getting everything from you. If you want to fix this, you need to fix you first. Because your kids don't need a friend. They don't. They need incredibly high standards coming from you. They don't need you feel guilty every time they struggle. They need you to stand solid. Stand your ground. Stand firm so they don't become another adult sobbing, crippled, and incapacitated over inconvenience and blaming their life on Tik Tok trauma. Here, I'll give you a mantra. Raise a king. Not a jester, not a clown. Build warriors, incapable whiners, and lead with strength from strength, not from insecure need. How about from now on, listen, this is real because I'm a parent and I see what's going to happen and I love my children enough to demand high standards of both of them, which starts by demanding them of myself. So all you people that have low standards with children, you're [\h__\h] up the next generation. And I'll say it as point blank and succinctly as I can. You're a menace. Fix yourself or honestly get the [\h__\h] off this planet. Don't for your kids. Don't. Every time you want to call the coach or the parent or the neighbor or the boss that they have cuz they got their first little job and smooth out the edges and shield them from the hard thing. Don't. Because every moment that you steal their adversity, their struggle, you are robbing them of becoming exceptional. And you are not put here to raise happy kids. You're put here to raise strong, powerful leaders. They can shoulder a family. The ones who can look at the world, whatever throw it throws at them, and go, I got that. I got this. raise that. And you know what? Honestly, if you failed so far, okay, good. Now, go fix it. It's not too late. But you better start today. Honestly, raise a king and raise a queen, regardless of what you are in your own mind. Take your insecurities and throw them in the [\h__\h] ground. Burn them to ash, whatever it is. But raise a king or a queen, not a court jester. Go lead your family like it [\h__\h] matters because it does. I got to go. Never miss.