I'm going to drink some water before I get started. I don't know if you guys can hear the wind outside, but it's blowing hard enough that it's blowing my trash cans around outside. It's pretty intense. It's a good mic, but I don't know if it's picking that up. So, I was me, I'm always thinking and I'm always going through things that I'm 52. I've had a lot of life. I've seen a lot of things. And one of the biggest problems I see is people are so dogmatic about their viewpoints and what they believe. And usually it's in the wrong direction. So many of you guys get upset when you hear the truth. You can be upset all you want. It's still the truth. I made a a podcast or vlog yesterday about why your wife doesn't respect you. Nothing I said on that vlog was wrong. Nothing. I've been married 20 years. My wife is my best friend. I know what I'm talking about. I'm not one of those guys that's been married for 20 years. And for 19 of those, we hate each other. And yet, the number of comments that I got where people were just going off the rails because I called you out. It's the same thing why I said weak men will never know God. You do. You really think Jesus was this weak, mousy guy? Is that how you guys see Jesus? Is that how you see God? Because that's for you. That's not for God. God created everything. You think he's mousy? You need to read the Bible. Bronze skin covered in muscle, tattoo down his thigh, fire in his eyes. Fire. Not just an expression. Fire. Sword coming out of his mouth. That's Jesus. But you guys go, he's this soft little meek individual. And you know what I hear? I had somebody say, "Blessed are the meek. They shall inherit the earth." Get the hell out of here. The number of you guys that go out and cherrypick things out of context in order to defend doing less. Why would you want to do less? Why? Why? I really don't understand. Because I Brandy and I were talking about this and I told her I said, "You wouldn't believe all the people that got upset about how badass our marriages and how weak theirs are." And we called him out on it. Like my wife is as tough as they get. And yet I I got a comment, "God, I'd hate to be in a marriage with that guy. He sounds like an [\h__\h] I do on my wife. I adore my wife. I spoil the [\h__\h] out of my wife. And I lead my family. That's what a man is supposed to be. All you women out there running your mouth about how you can do anything a man can do. No, you can't. No, you can't. Just like a man can't do anything a woman can do. That's why there are two genders. But you women out there running like trying to big league men about how you can do anything a man can do and you don't need a man except maybe to do something like defend your house, carry something heavy. So you can't do everything that a man can do. I don't know too many women that are going to go out onto an oil rig and start running a bit into the ground covered in dirt and grease and all sleeping seven minutes a night, whatever they do. So, it bothers me because there's a lot of big lead talkers on social media. Social media has allowed people to send a representative out with no proof. I prove myself every day. Not for you. I don't give a [\h__\h] about any of your opinions. I care about my opinion, but how weak would I be if I run my mouth and I can't back it up. That's most to you guys. And you guys are okay with that. And you guys get mad when someone like me calls you out. I watch Gogggins. I have so much respect for Gogggins. That guy pushes human capacity further than me. And I push human capacity hard. And he gets hate. Oh yeah, but he's psychologically broken. Who hurt him? You're not supposed to function like that? Are you kidding? He's pushing limitation every day. Why aren't you people that are making a lot of money? You hate on them. Yeah, but what do you need all that money for? Because it allows you the freedom to do all the things that you want to do and you can do a lot of good with it. If you had all that money, you could have maybe saved your mom or dad cuz you could have got them better healthcare instead of the shitty place you sent them. You could have put them in a better home. You could have paid for their house. You could take care of your son, your daughter, your wife. Don't give me this nonsense about how you go, what do you need all that money for? You have listen here's what I'll give you the quick synopsis about money. You have to decide what rich means to you. But when it whatever that is, shut up about what rich means to somebody else. I don't care if you make 50 grand a year. I don't care if you make 100 grand a year. If you go, "This gives me the life. This is as I love this life. I can do all the things I want to do. I can go to the places I want to go to and I'm never strung out. I love my life." Great. Then that's rich to you. I disagree because if that's what you're making and you don't have anything saved up and you don't have a machine in place that generates income whether you're there or not when catastrophe happens, can you write a check to get out of it? And if the answer is no, you don't have enough and you guys get angry at that. But you're angry because number one, it's tolerated now because you can get on this thing and start running your mouth about all the problems you have and all the validations you have. But you have no capability whatsoever. Most of you guys have a capability of running your mouth and getting into comments, but nobody winning gets into the comments and throws hate. Nobody. Just you weak ones that hate your life. Like I I really I want you to think about this. When do you wake up? In the morning. When do you wake up? Not what time. When do you begin getting things done? They're not the same. A lot of people wake up at one time and start doing things at another. Sometimes never, but they'll tell you all about how early they get up. I get up at 3:55. How much you make a year? Why is your fitness so sloppy? Why is your marriage broken? Nobody cares when you get up. There is, just to be very transparent, getting up early and being incredibly successful financially or physically or in your relationship. They have nothing to do with each other. I don't care when you get up as long as when you get up, you start doing work that takes you the direction of the life you want. It's not when you get up. The question you want I'm asking you is when do you begin? When do you begin? Because when you say you don't have the time, what I hear is you don't have the expectation or the demand on yourself. You're waiting for somebody else to place that demand on you. And then when somebody does place the demand on you, you get angry. You have the time. You don't have the demand on yourself. Really, this is you don't make time. If someone were laying there bleeding and you're walking by them, life is just pouring out of them. Most people will drop what they're doing for the moment. Provide some kind of help. There's people out there, some of you guys would just walk on by going, I don't want to get involved. Wait, good Samaritan. You are not. I've been a doctor for well over 20 years. Above all, do no harm is part of my oath. But I don't just use that in the medical world. I use that in life. I use that in my family. I use that in my with my clients. I use that with my friends. I use that with myself. I use that with the public, with the world. Above all, do no harm. Some of you guys could read that and understand that and embrace it. Use it in your life. But if someone were laying there bleeding, most people will stop, drop, whatever they're doing to provide some kind of help up to a point and then they will walk away and go, "Well, I have to take care of myself." But if it's you and it's saving your life, doesn't matter. Doesn't matter who it is, which one of you guys it is, you will ignore every single thing around you. It doesn't matter who or what to save yourself, to keep that blood from pouring out. You'll make time. So, making time isn't the problem. It's you deciding that situations are valuable enough for your time. But that's psychology. That's in your head. You guys make time for distractions, but you don't make time for growth. You make time to go through. Listen, some of you guys, there'll be a a restaurant across the street with a drive-thru and you could walk, but you'll get in your car and drive, which will take longer, but to you it's shorter. You guys make time for the stupidest things and then complain about your life. You make time to go through social media to yell at people and call them all kinds of names and trash talk their life when your life is nothing to brag about. And then you get mad and defensive about your position at the bottom. Even though you hate where you are, it's because you're not making time. You're not doing anything to create the life that you want. I came up with something. Maybe I invented it. I don't know. I think I did. It's called the 1 hour window. Nothing else exists for one hour. And I just run this on repeat. The 1 hour window. Nothing else exists. No week. Listen. Multitasking lie. And before one of you soccer moms gets in here, yes, it's irritating. Regal. Oh, you can't multitask. Clearly, you're not a mother. You I do this and I do this and I do this, then you don't do them well. And if you do, most of those I've said it before in a podcast before, most of those are run on automation. You don't have to think because you've done them so many times. I'm not talking about automation. I'm talking about things that you do in your life that you need to get done to propel you forward into the life you want instead of staring at it, whining about you not having it, telling everybody else why you can't get it because you have some special circumstance that prevents you from acquiring your goals. You don't have a special circumstance at all. You're just a liar. But the 1 hour window, nothing else exists. 60 minutes, set your timer on your phone, and like I said, no multitasking. Multitaskers are failures. You can't do two things effectively at the same time. You can do two things mediocre if they're done simultaneous at best. The 1 hour window where everything outside of what needs to be done in that hour doesn't exist. And when you're done, repeat it for the next hour. Just keep going. That's how you get things done. You don't have any idea how easy this is cuz you've never tried it because you justify, but that's an hour. You don't understand. I'm an hour free in my day. I bet you have an hour at the end of your day where you're busy watching Game of Thrones or Third Rock or whatever the hell it is you guys watch. Most people will spend an hour justifying the last hour while seeking escape for the next hour. And you know what happens when you're focused? I get this from some of you guys all the time. You're labeled as angry or pissed off. What's Why is this guy so angry? Another angry bald guy. I'm not angry. I'm focused and I'm disappointed in humans. disappointed in mankind because a lot of you guys are so insanely lazy and you come up with excuses that say why it's okay. It's never okay. It's never okay. If your life were on the line and you had to do something about it, you guys all think that's okay. It is never okay to sit on your ass and do nothing and dent your couch and become overweight and complain about not having all the things that you wish you had and not do anything about it. I told you it's the biggest [\h__\h] move. But when you're focused and you're driven towards what you want, you're labeled as angry, pissed off, hustle culture, grinder, harsh, abrasive, mean, all these things, all of these are what weak people use to describe one word, truth. Because truth in current culture, when you guys feel your house of cards, your smoking mirrors are threatened, all that stuff you all the lies you live behind are threatened, you you attack everybody around you that are pointing out the truth. It's the truth. Listen, just cuz you don't like it doesn't mean it's not the truth. So, you attack, you ostracize, you hate. You know what the best part is? Real men don't care. I don't care. I don't have the time to chase down defense against people who know the truth and just don't like it and whose lives I would never trade mine for ever. Like, really, 30 seconds or 30 days? Think about this. How long would you prefer it took to find out you just won $100 million? 30 seconds, 30 days or 30 years. What you want to drag it out? All of you guys were like, I want to know right now. Except the flip side is you go, you should be nicer to people, Spartan. Dude, listen to this guy. He's so mean calling you out. If you're fat, the best thing your best friend can do is go, you're fat, let me help you. You're trashing your marriage. Let me help you. You're [\h__\h] up your business. Let me help you. You're screwing up your life. You're addicted to drugs. Let me help you. versus going, "Dude, we need to have an intervention and let's see if we can sit around and talk about it and let's we just got to come up with a plan when we're going to do this right now." The longer you wait to have the hard conversations, the harder it gets to solve the problem. If you think it's hard having all those uncomfortable conversations right now, you wait till you don't have them and see how hard it gets. You gain your own time to hide from the truth. So, you want the negative information that you need to hear to change your life, to get to where you want to go, to save to solve your problem, to save your marriage, to make more money, to lose the weight, to fix your health, all of those things. But you want that information to take 6 months. But when it's a victory, you want it right now, and you're pissed off when you don't get it. You gain your own time to hide from the truth that you don't like. When you get upset at something that was said, most of the time, you're not upset. You're exposed. Listen, you guys need to look at social media and look at who you're following, who you're listening to. Are you listening to people just because you want to feel better about yourself, about where you're not, and they're not there as well, and they justify? No. Would you listen to a fat, frumpy dadbod trainer or some skinny shouldered trainer? Or are you going to listen to a trainer that's got the body that you go, "Dude, I want to look just like that guy. I want to look just like that girl." And don't justify. Listen, a lot of you guys in your relationships, and I' I see this in my mastermind. I see this with one-on-one clients, you guys get mad at your spouse training and getting more fit and gaming up their life because now you got to raise your standards. You're worried that they're going to raise their standards. They're going to look at you and go, "You're not evolving at all. You're still a train wreck." Except they're asking you to come along. I'm not talking about some douchebag spouse that just trash talks you in your own house. I'm talking about someone that's I want to start working out. I want to take care of myself. I want to get better. And some fat frumpy dad or fat frumpy mom goes and gets pissed off at them for bettering themsel. You're a coward. I hope they divorce you. I'm not a fan of it. But dude, you got nothing. All you're doing is hurting somebody else because of your insecurities. If they're trying to help you, nah, get out of here. Would you listen to a a fat trainer? I got no I don't care. Fat trainers spend all their time trying to justify why it's okay that they're fat. Why would I listen to you? Would you listen to a broke business consultant? If I didn't make any money, would you listen to me if I told you how to set up an online business and make it successful? Of course not. I wouldn't. Would you listen to a divorced coach talk about relationships, about how you need to do this in your marriage when their wife bounced on them? No. And I'm not talking just marriage. I have an amazing man. I adore my wife. I've said it so many times. I love my wife so much. There's nothing I wouldn't do for Brandy. Nothing. I I said I would John Q myself. And as radically convoluted as that logic is, I would just to make sure if we were the same blood type, we're not just so she had a heart so she could keep on living and just protect the hell out of her from heaven. Oh, and I'd be that dangerous angel with a sword. [\h__\h] [\h__\h] up that got in her way like kids. It's interesting to think like that. You want to listen to the people that are playing the game better than you, not and not get offended by them because they're playing the game better than you. Most of you guys don't really look for a coach or a leader. You look for a cheerleader. You look for somebody that gives you permission to stay where you are. That's why you listen to the fat trainer. That's why you listen to the broke business consultant. That's why you listen to the divorced coach about relate. Let me tell you all about how to have a great marriage. Dude, your wife left. You don't know anything. Maybe you should take a class. You know why you don't listen to those people? If it grates on you because subconsciously you know that they can't even manage their own life, how can they manage yours? So here's you got you scroll Instagram and Facebook and Tik Tok. You guys do that. Looking for the dog is the best way to explain it. You guys scroll social media looking for the dog, right? And I'll explain what that means. You walk in the house angry, pissed off at your life, yourself, your lack of results, looking in the mirror, disgusted with yourself, loathing yourself, and you walk in the house and you kick the dog just for laying there. You come home and you rip into your husband, you rip into your wife, you rip into your kids, all of which have nothing to do with you. That's what social media is for the most part. Most of you guys, you're looking for the dog. They hate their circumstances, but the dog suffers. You hate your life, but anyone with a life you secretly wish you had suffers because of your insecurities and your inability to hold yourself accountable to all the things you said you were going to do before. Real men don't kick the dog. They don't come home and concern themselves with gossip. They're not sitting there spilling tea. They never leave negativity and comments. They're harder on themselves than any hater ever could be. I'll tell you that right now. I'm harder on myself than any of you guys ever could be. Real men are always trying to fill that one hour window. What can I get done in that hour? What do I need to cut off? What do I need to do? You scroll social media because you have time. You fill one hour windows with validations about the last hour and excuses for the next one. Real men do the work. Listen, if you're negative, you're a liar. It's not complicated. If you are negative, you're a liar. And you know that's why you're angry. That's why you kick the dog because you're busy going around in the world, real world, sending this representative out and wondering why your life sucks. And then you get home and you're exposed because you see everything and you open up your eyelids. I've said it before to the same movie every day. The movie you can't stand watching. Why do you keep watching? You change it. Where are you hiding? A lot of you guys are hiding. You be hiding behind your trauma. You don't have trauma. You're hiding behind fear. your kids, spouse responsibilities, you're hiding your job, your boss, your health, all these excuses. What you're hiding from is the truth. What you're hiding behind are your lies. Like you guys just hemorrhaging blood, right? Just excuses and validations and justifications, just bleeding out of every hole you've got. If it's them, most will stop and give them advice. Tell them how to do it up until some point. put their thumb on the bleeding spot for a little bit till they have to leave you. You demand everybody stops to help you. And when they don't, and when I say help, give you permission. Tolerate where you are. You're looking for justification for your life. You're not looking for improvement. You're looking for permission. Most of you guys, you have the time. Anyone that says they don't have the time, give me your phone. I'll look at your screen time. I guarantee you, you have two to three hours. Like I'm one of the hardest working men on this earth because in the last four years, I know what I've done in the time I have. I know what I've accomplished. Just under four years. In August, it'll be four years since I rolled out of the hospital in that wheelchair. Missing parts, one of my lungs in a medical waste bucket. But you can't hack me. You can't hack me like my results. You can't hack me. You can't hack the Spartan. I'm unhackable. You can't rent my results. You can't lie about me. You can't hack this. Listen to me. This is why I'm saying this. You can't hack discipline in the right direction. And that's being very quickly hidden, reprogrammed, and ultimately removed from the world right now. Can your world can your life be hacked? Because my results are real. Your results can't lie about your discipline in the right direction. You can be disciplined in the wrong direction, too. I've said that before. But you can rent cars, planes, boats, jewelry, houses. You can photoshop anything. You borrow your sister's kids to have some pseudo family for pictures. You can borrow credibility. You can wear expensive watches and you can and borrow them, right? You can have lease cars for a month and just that's your credibility. But when that's gone, so is your credibility because your credibility comes from something outside of you because you've never done the work. That's what's meant by the work instills the worth. You can't hack results from the work. You can't. I will never be hacked. There will there's never going to be an app for this. For me, for my results, there is no app, which makes me invaluable. Most people, they you guys don't want to go around the road. You guys don't want to go down the road that I'm on. You want the results. You want the Emerald City without the long walk because on that walk, you are going to expose a lot of things about who you are and who you're not. And most people are afraid of seeing the truth. You know, the ones that ask me why. Those of you guys that ask me why why go so hard? Why so intense? Why aren't you who you used to be? I remember when you used to post these Smashworks videos, bro. You were all like funny and goofy and you had all these things. That guy died. I'll help you out. That guy died because I wasn't winning when I was doing that for myself. I don't care what you guys think. I care what I think. Getting by and maxing out who you are are not the same. We're not the same. If you want silly and goofy, watch Netflix. You want to get results, listen to me. But the ones who ask me why, those are the ones who haven't built the psychology, the 10.0 version of themselves. Because those who have understand that once you've upgraded you, that new program that you're running will always hold you to a higher standard. the one that you've created always. My psychology won't allow me to stop the work. Can you still do more? That's what goes through my head. You should ask yourself, can you still do more? Then do. That's what my psychology says all the time. Can you do one more? Yes. Then do it. The psychology that I've created and doing what I've done makes me keep going. The psychology you've created makes you stop and validate and look for a support group to say it's okay. one rep, one step, one hour in the right direction, and before you know it, you're different. And you won't make sense to most people. I had no idea what I was going to become when I started this. And that I just started. I still don't know. But I know that I can keep going. And with every hour that I do that comes the psychology to say, "You can do another one. You can do another rep." And then I do it. When the creation comes from you versus anybody else, it can't be taken away because it changes your mindset because you know that you're on the path that you've created and you're doing whatever it takes. It's the same five words I tell everybody, whatever the [\h__\h] it takes. But if you're not willing to do that, then you have to go why and where are you focused? Because if you come on social media, if you go anywhere in your life and you feel the need to put negativity and hate on somebody, the problem isn't with them, it's with you. That means your platform is being challenged and you don't like where they are because where they are is challenging where you are because they're doing better than you that they're doing more than you. They're the version you wish you were because there's no other reason for that. None. Only a coward hates. Only weak hates. When you create the best version of yourself, you don't come home and kick the dog. You have to look at your life and go, "Where? What? What am I doing with my 1-hour windows? What am I doing? Am I trying to multitask? Wondering why I'm overwhelmed?" Of course you are, because you're trying to do everything at once. you know, people do is they look at the task in front of them and then while they're doing this one, they're looking at the next one. You're never going to get anything done here then. Because if you're looking at this task and you're working on it, but you're keeping you got one eye on this one. How can you put all your focus on this? You guys are doing that in your marriage, in your business, in your fitness, it doesn't work. Try playing basketball and having sex at the same time. I'd love to see it. Somebody's I could probably do it. But that's what I mean. You guys look for quick justifications to defend where you are because you don't like being challenged, but that's not the truth. It's not that you don't like being challenged. You don't like being exposed. So, you come back with negativity. You're that fear biting dog because you're so afraid of everything, you just lash out at everybody. You're a bully. My wife knows I can't stand bullies. My buddy Tom the Blass can't stand bullies. Crossley Greasy where I went for initially for jiu-jitsu at first. Can't stand bullies. You got to understand you. Half of you guys are bullies. Bullies get knocked out in my world. My son won't tolerate a bully. But you guys bully yourselves. You guys bully everybody else you find. You guys bully your family. You come home and kick the dog because you're pissed off at your life. Because you guys don't sit there and set up these 1-hour compartments in your day and just get things done and then move on to the next thing. In that hour, you're looking for all the reasons why the last hour didn't work and how you can run away from the hour coming up. Stop trying to justify where you are and create who you want to be. Because here's the best part. That target that you set for yourself, whatever it is, the money, the fitness, the marriage, the life, the dog, the training, the cars, the move, it doesn't matter, the business, whatever you set for yourself, the target that you see that you're moving towards, that's not really the goal. The goal is all the work that you do to hit that target because who you become on your journey to that target. That's the goal because then you can just write it on repeat. That's what I mean about your credibility can never be taken away because you created it. You go and you write a check for a car, you rent a car. If your value comes from sitting in that car, I don't care if I'm in a 77 Dodto or that Revuto. I don't care. I know who I am. I'm comfortable with myself and I know what kind of gangster badass I am because I earned this. I built this with myself. I You can't lie about my discipline. Look at me. Watch me. If you go If anyone doubts how I train mentally or physically, just watch. You can't fake it. And yet some people be like, "I don't know, bro. Follow me around. I'm exactly the same live as I am here." When creation comes from you as opposed to coming from anyone or anything else, it can never be taken because it changes your psychology. That's what you need to do. Create it yourself. Stop trying to borrow it. I got to go. This is where we fight. This is where they die.