I see people talk about how caffeine is so bad for you and it's inauthentic energy and all the other nonsense. It's not true. It has more benefits than anything you can imagine. You're probably less healthy if you don't drink coffee. No, I'm not kidding. Don't take my word for it. Just don't drink coffee. You guys carry so much negativity. You get so worked up about everything. somebody says something that disagrees with your narrative and your default isn't to to just keep going on the direction you're going on. It's to get pissed off and make sure that they understand your point of view and that they conform to your point of view because you can't stand when somebody disagrees with you even though a lot of the times what you're doing is wrong. You just I said it yesterday, you just got you guys just argue because you don't want to be wrong. Like I I think today I'm how about I just do a master class on eliminating negativity and rewriting your internal narrative, your dialogue and the questions you ask yourself and just calling out your imaginary problems that have no cure. Your emotional immaturity and all that weak peer reviewed or peer-reviewed that weak peer influence for what it really is. Self-sabotage. You guys all call it self-awareness. It's not what it is. It's self-sabotage. Your negative thoughts. Understand they're thoughts. Victor Frankle, man's search for meaning. If you have any negative thoughts, I fall into this category because I still get negative thoughts. And people always ask me, "How do you keep going? How do you do it? What how do you handle negativity when it comes into you?" Number one, if it comes from somebody else, I just I don't even acknowledge it. I don't care how negative you are in my comments, in my life, in my emails. You drive by, you give me the finger. I don't care what it is. I'm not paying attention to you because that stuff is sticky. I don't want you anywhere near me if you're negative. Nothing. I You are dead to me. There's nothing about you I want in my life. And if you go, "What if it's your son or your daughter, your wife, then they wouldn't be my son, daughter, or wife?" Because my kids and my wife, we all have the same standards, which means we don't tolerate negativity. If you have that problem, that's a you problem. And this isn't therapy. This is a war that you guys had going on inside your skull. And most of you guys, you're getting your asses kicked by thoughts of things that don't even exist. You've died a thousand times. You've had a thousand confrontations. You run the same thought staring at the ceiling over and over again going, "I should have said this. I should have done that. What would have happened if I would have done this? What what would happen if I would have done that?" But none of that's going to matter because you can't do anything. You can't unring that bell, man. Like, you're not being attacked. You're just not. You're reacting to ghosts and phantoms in your head. You're stressed out about things that might happen. Has it happened? No. What are you thinking about it for? All you're doing is praying for things to happen that you don't want to happen. You're afraid of what people might say, what people might do, how people might point at you. You're avoiding risk because of failure that hasn't even occurred. Really think about what I'm saying. You're not anxious. You're just believing in your own imagination. But yet when you're a child and some adult says that's imaginary, you shouldn't do that. But now you're an adult and you imagine and they're imagining great things, right? Be a superhero or whatever it is. You guys are imagining horrible things and it's called getting connected with your feelings and handling your inner trauma from god knows what. Listen, one of the most dangerous things that a man can do is confuse a feeling with a fact. Because once your mind can lie to you, right, and get away with it, your mind's lying to you all the time. But once your mind can lie to you and get away with it, you're conquered. Like, now you have a problem because you're supposed to feel things. You're just not supposed to let your feelings govern your conduct. So, you feel something. Awesome. Cool. A lot of times that's not even the truth. It's just noise. If you're afraid that something bad is going to happen, that's not danger. That's a fantasy that you gave powers to. Most of you guys aren't crippled by reality. You're crippled by your own mind spinning imaginary scenarios like a little [\h__\h] hiding in the corner of his own potential. You're all baldled up in the corner waiting for bad things to happen that have never happened yet, that will never happen. My future is filled with all kinds of horrible things that have never happened yet. There is no arrow flying at your chest from some guy in the bushes. You just think that there might be and then you stress out about it. And instead of moving forward, you flinch at shadows and you label it anxiety and go, "Where's my Xanax?" That doesn't help you com that doesn't help you combat negative thoughts because they're still there. You just numbed it and dulled it. But when that wears off, they come back 10 times worse because you never handled it. In fact, you handed them the keys because they go, "Oh, you run away every time something happens. We're about to screw you up." See, negative thoughts, they're not real. They're not. You made them. You fed them. You give them a voice. You give them power. You give them oxygen. And then sat down and you took orders from them like a servant, like a peasant. You just took orders from [\h__\h] you don't want to have happen and then you run that dialogue in your head everywhere you go. That's the first thing on your mind instead of what's in front of you. You guys don't get things done because you're thinking about what might happen that has never happened. That never will. And then you go home with relief going, "Thank God that didn't happen." But neither did the life that you want. You want to know how I eliminate negative thoughts? I don't negotiate with them ever. I outwork them. I outrun them. And I bury them under repetition and dominance in my own life. I demand control. It's not easy. And if people go, "It's not that easy." And here we go. This is some preachy 10step formula. No, this is just called being an adult. Because that thought that you think is truth, it's just weakness wearing some stupid costume. Like you you need to really define the enemy and it's not real. Yeah, I'm going to hold this haircut. A negative thought. It's not it's not fact. It's a hypothesis and it's built on emotion, not even evidence. It's just a feeling. Except the world right now, society is all about feelings. In emotional reasoning, the idea that something must be true because it feels that way. That's personal hell. That's the platform. That's the foundation to put yourself in hell 24/7, 365. The solution is not to trust your feelings. It's to test them. God, put them across from me on a table. Interrogate the [\h__\h] out of them. Break them down into logic and contrast and consequence. Because once you ask the right questions, this is why I say the quality of your life is predicated on essentially two things. The conversations you have in your head, the quality of the conversations you have in your head and the quality of questions you ask yourself on a day-to-day, hourby hour, minute-to-minute basis. Because once you ask the right questions, you a lot of the time realize there was no threat. There's no threat. Like anxiety, stress, it's not in you. It's not it's not in you. It's not in your environment. It is your perception to physical or psychological threat, which means it's not real. I just feel like something bad might happen, though, Spartan. Yeah. So does every six-year-old with a flashlight and an overactive imagination. Grow up. Be an adult. If you're feeding your six-year-old benzoazipines, number one, you're a terrible parent. And number two is you're teaching your child never to confront anything, just to run away, hide in their sleeping bag, grow up. your grown ass man panicking over stuff that has never happened, won't happen, and probably wouldn't kill you if it did. That's not emotional intelligence. That's brain rot and decay. You're not frustrated. You're not overwhelmed. You're not defeated. You're undisiplined, which is the bulk of the population right now. And all you have to do is get disciplined in the right direction. You guys are disciplined to defend your labels and your conditions that don't exist just because the Merc manual now has 4,000 pages. But in 1895, it had 108. Merc manual is a manual of all the diseases and conditions. You mean to tell me that we have that many more? No, we just have that many more definitions because it allows for that much more treatment, which means that much more profit. Maybe just ask yourself better questions. I do this in every episode. Which constantly recurring negative thought have I accepted as fact when deep down I know, damn, it's a lie that I just didn't challenge? Try that because you guys are so busy defending the lie. You don't challenge the lie. You guys won't even challenge your beliefs. And yet, which is what this is. You have beliefs about things, but you don't even know where the belief came from, but you never challenge it because you go, "It just that's the way it is." Why? My mom told me. What if your mom's wrong? Moms can be wrong. So can dads. So can I. So can all kinds of other people. But you guys just if it fits your narrative, you take it as gospel. If it goes against your narrative, you go to battle. The the biggest scam in oh man modern psychology is that most of your suffering isn't from real problems. It's from imaginary ones that you keep dumping energy into. You're not dodging arrows or bullets or knives. You're dodging shadows. The devil owns the darkness, right? Drag all your stuff into the light. Let God just rain all over you, man. But you guys stay in the dark fighting in the devil's domain, of course you're going to lose because every time you believe a thought that you've never tested. See, listen. You've never tested the belief and thought that you have, you've never challenged it, you've never gone over it, you've never dominated, you've never won. So now you're letting fiction shape your life and you read fiction and it's entertainment. So, are you doing this for entertainment or are you doing this for escape? I already know it's for escape. Because is that thing that you're afraid of that negative thing that you're afraid of? Because that's what negative negativity is, right? You're afraid. And if you go, that's not exactly accurate. It is 100% accurate. You want to argue because it deflates and diffuses your house. It knocks down your house of cards because now you don't have a condition. You don't have a label. You're just a coward. And instead of going, "Oh, I'm not just a coward just cuz I won't face my fears feel real to me." Still aren't real. If you're afraid of this coffee cup, and this coffee cup can't do anything to hurt you, don't argue the outliers. Then there's no fear. Regardless of how many times I keep showing you this coffee cup, you're afraid of something that isn't real. Is the thing that you're afraid of even happening? Is it actually happening? Because most of you guys aren't stuck. You're It's not You're not under attack. You're stuck because you're playing this catastrophic apocalyptic movie in your head over and over again about things that don't exist in the real world. And here's the issue though. Thoughts become things. So if you think it long enough, you start having issues in your life, but you blame your circumstances. You made them. See, you don't take action. Like you guys don't execute because of what might go wrong. It goes back to the episode I did about risk. Risk takingaking is security making. But you guys won't take risks. You guys won't take risks, but your life is a dumpster fire and you complain about it, blaming everybody else around you, but it has nothing to do with anybody around you. Has to do with you. What do you have to lo What? What do you have to lose? What? You can't lose something you don't have. Which means if you take the risk, do the workout, ask the guy, ask the girl, spend the money, you borrow a million dollars to start a business and build all this stuff and it fails, you're going to be bankrupt. And all of that goes away and you end up right back where you started. And it's the same shitty life that you know how to do already. What have you lost? Nothing. You don't understand. I've lost. And you look for things to validate to go, you did lose something. No, you didn't. You never had it. You never had it. You can't lose something you don't have. And that's what being afraid does is it makes you you think it's a loss. Society has told you that if you risk something, you lose things. No, you don't. You can't lose [\h__\h] you didn't have. If you didn't get married to the guy or the girl because you didn't ask and they go off into the sunset with somebody else and start a family and a life and they crush. You never lost them. You never had them. Oh, I lost that girl. No, you didn't. You were too much of a coward to ask. I lost the business. No, you didn't. You never started it. Oh, I lost that window to be healthy. No, you didn't. You just keep validating why you can't go to the gym, you pudgy bastard. You don't take action because of what might go wrong. What? because somebody might make fun of you at the gym. Call Joey SW then. The guy's a badass. I love that guy because he will call out any like just cowardly ignorant [\h__\h] who looks to harm other people because they're going to the gym. Listen, if you're not going to the gym and you're asking everybody to approve you being fat, sloppy, and unhealthy, forget it. Not a chance. Not going to happen. But if you are 600 lb and you're busting your ass in the gym to change all that, I got nothing but respect for you. But what are you worried about? You don't speak the truth because of what might be said about you. It's the truth. I come out here every day. I get hate from tons of people all the time because I tell the truth. You want to know what this podcast should be called? Truth. That's it. Just truth. Like you guys, I come out here and I have people throw rocks at me all the time. I don't care. You think I give a [\h__\h] about your opinions? I don't care. I love my life. I don't love your opinion of my life, so I don't care. It's wild. I have this one hair. If you're wondering what I'm doing, it's on my mustache. It keeps jabbing me on the nose. Listen, if you don't make the move, take the action, execute, whatever it is, because of what might happen, that's not playing safe. That's not protecting you. That's paralysis. And you damage yourself and it's 100% your fault. You're not under any pressure. You're not. You don't have any pressure. The pressure comes from your head. It's an illusion. You keep telling yourself, "What if it doesn't work? What What if What if they don't like me? What if it fails? Oh, okay. How about you ask us? Do you want to play that game? Cool. What if it does? What if it does? What if it works?" Because all the time you spend worrying about fake problems, that's energy that could have, God, that should have gone into reps to change whatever it is you're trying to change into effort, into war, into battle, into combat, into change, into mindset, into reading, into anything, upgrading your skill set, and you're sitting around in your feelings like they're facts. And facts don't give a [\h__\h] how you feel. Only cowards let imagination kill their future. You're a coward. If that's what you're doing, you're a coward. If you look at the psychological realm, most people are going to confuse a perception of a threat with an actual threat. It's what I said at the beginning. It's your perception, a physical or psychological threat. It doesn't exist. A negative thought, it becomes this malignant thing when it's just run on repeat in your head, just looped over and over again, and it's untested. And what ends up happening is you integrate it into your identity, and now that becomes you. You don't suffer because reality is harsh. You suffer because your internal framework has no damn filter. You don't know how to conduct yourself like an adult. Every emotion becomes fact, truth, because now there's not the truth. There's my truth and your truth. No, there's not. There is the truth. So, every emotion now becomes truth. Every every projection, you guys get triggered. Every projection becomes evidence. And every fear is a prophecy. And your life becomes a prison of unexamined mental noise. You ever been attacked by one of these negative thoughts? Have they ever climbed out of your head and attacked you? And if you go this one time, you don't understand. Shut up again. You are trying to defend why where you are is impossible to change, but you hate where you are. You should be you're putting into all this you're putting all this work into never changing to justify that where you are is an inevitability and unchangeable. That doesn't make you victorious. It makes you ignorant. Have you ever been attacked by any of your negative thoughts? Even labeling that is ridiculous. No, you haven't. There you are, though. You lose sleep, you lose progress, you lose gains, you lose time because your feelings threw a little costume party and you believe that the villain was [\h__\h] real. You don't need therapy. You don't I'm tired. Everybody's got therapist now. You You need a filter. You your filter. You need to start asking your damn thoughts. Is this real? Is this useful? Or is this just some emotional turd that I just forgot to flush? What you guys? Maybe ask yourself, I don't know. I If I climbed around inside most of your heads, I'd probably see a clown pulling levers. Maybe ask what failure in my life can I just follow that blueprint back to a fear that of something that never happened, but you treated it like it was real. Maybe look at that. See, you guys don't ask the right questions. Why am I afraid? Because you're a coward is what your brain says. Instead of what failure can I trace back to a fear of something that never happened, but you treated it like it was real. You did. My sister is driving me nuts this hair. If it looks like I'm picking my nose, it's cuz I'm 52. I can't. I'm grandfathered in. Understand that. I think for the most part negative thoughts, they're just reps in the wrong direction that you haven't overpowered yet. You just you haven't because just because a thought is uncomfortable, it feels heavy. You don't like it. You think it's permanent, but it's not. If you're 40 years old and you got your heart stomped on in the seventh grade and in the seventh grade when that happened and you thought your life was over and that was the one you were going to marry and spend your life with, go back to that. Do you still feel that way? No, you don't. But in the moment, you felt devastated. Your thoughts are habits and habits are forged by repetition. If you've got negative thinking, it's not because of your environment. It's not because of anything around you. It sure as hell isn't because you have this curse. It's because you've rehearsed them more times than the right direction. The positive ones. You don't get infected. It's not a disease. I can't come up and lick your face and give you negativity. You got conditioned. Remind me, I got to shave this mustache. It's driving me nuts. You know, I like I come out here and I tell you all the things that nobody else will. So, they just don't have the balls to do it. That thought that says you're not good enough. Here's one for you. You've just said it to yourself so many damn times that you believe it. You're not good enough. You're right. I'm not good enough. It's not the truth. And you get married to this. The problem is it's since it's not the truth. It's just that you've been running this on repetition more than the alternative. And repetition is the mother of skill. Repetition is the mother of reality. It builds reality. And most of you have built this negative mindset by running your weak mental reps on a loop for years. And then you wonder why you feel like [\h__\h] Why wouldn't you feel like [\h__\h] You keep talking to yourself like [\h__\h] You keep asking yourself shitty questions. You keep doing shitty things. You behave like an [\h__\h] Of course, you're going to feel it would be abnormal to not feel like [\h__\h] Thoughts are reps. That's it. That's it. Run the same thought on repeat over and over again. That will determine the direction and quality of your life. But you guys run the negative ones and then your life turns out negative and you wonder why. Every time you say you can't, that's like a squat for being a [\h__\h] It's like a curl to be a coward. You're building coward muscles. And you think that's funny, but you hate your life. And then you start running more and more of these reps. You go to the gym of how to be a [\h__\h] and you stay there all the time. And then you surround yourself with other people that are just the same way and you create a support group of why you should stay like that. Again, they recruited you into the largest [\h__\h] group in the world and you guys are okay with that. And then you look out at the rest of the world and go, they're lucky. I hate them. I resent them for their success. When secretly you loathe yourself and despise yourself for not having everything they have, for not having the life they have, for you not being that person. That's your fault. You're afraid. You keep doing squats for cowardice. Every time you say, "What? What if I fail, Spartan? What if I fail?" Man, that's just another set for anxiety and depression, man. You want to kill all this negativity in your life? Outwork it. Outrep it. Say something stronger. Do something harder. Those are the receipts behind you proving going, "Dude, that negative voice, you can go right to hell because I'll work you every day. Do something harder." You just do it over and over again. That's how I do it. Until that weak voice can't come up for error anymore because it's buried under all of your proof. You don't delete negative thoughts. You bury them with repetition in the right direction. It's like you have this record. If you guys know what records are, remember I have 52. And you just sit there and you scratch it up until it can't be played. Record doesn't go anywhere, but you can't hear it anymore. Just a bunch of noise. Doesn't affect you. Your brain is a pattern recognition, pattern creation machine. That's that's the mind map. That's the loop. And it builds these neural pathways that are based on whatever you allow to run of the longest duration, which means you let things run forever and your brain just reinforces path after path. So what happens then? If that has been if you run negative you create like your neurology gets built around negativity. So now fear threat everywhere doubt limits everywhere every nothing everything has a limit and brutal limits where you're like I could never even come close to I can't even think that and then you get mad and triggered when you see other people doing it. Limit comes from you strength man you begin to shape your perception around opportunity and sovereignty. You're costing yourself the life by clinging to negativity because other people are validating that it has worth. It has merit. Negative thoughts, number one, have no merit. They're number two is they're not permanent unless you just baptize them in repetition and just keep throwing them out there and just running them on repeat. Break the [\h__\h] loop and you break the lie. But that's how everything is broken. If you can't stop eating food and you are so fat and you blame your dad's side of the family, your mom's side of the family, you blame your environment, the water, the food manufacturers, your big bones, whatever nonsense you come up with, you'll start believing that. And then every time you go to do something, your brain goes, "Yeah, but you can't cuz you're an idiot and you're a loser and you're supposed to be fat because people like you and your family are fat." But you'll do that with money. You'll do that with relationships. You'll do that with skill set. You'll do that with intellect. You will do this all the time and you will run this repetitive like destructive machine and you wonder why your life sucks and then you question it and blame everything else around you when in fact it's an internal game. Control your neurology and you control your life. Like when you say I can't stop thinking this way. Sure you can. Sure you can. It's just uncomfortable. You've just never practiced anything else. You got to do this new type of thinking with little training wheels on because you haven't done it. You've trained your brain to binge on garbage thoughts the same way that most of you guys have trained your brain to scroll Tik Tok and Instagram for 3 4 hours and you call it self-care or research. If your mind is spun right out of control, that's on you. You don't need some crystal sitting beside you. You don't need a [\h__\h] Google calendar with a daily routine. You don't need a 2-hour daily routine that that you think is going to change your life. It drives me nuts because you guys in your routines, I could go off on this. What you need is some kind of a routine that beats your excuses into submission, not one that validates them. Most of you guys have a routine that keeps it going. What are the thoughts that you guys run on repeat in your mind? And what new thoughts could you ask yourself? What is the alternative to the thought I'm having right now? If I have a negative thought right now, what's the alternative? What is the new thought that I could replace that with starting right now, this second, right? Listening to this podcast, turn it off. What can you do? It's going to look funny when I watch this later. Me constantly moving my mustache out of the way. The reason that most people are stuck in negative thinking, you're not afraid of the thought itself. You're not you're afraid of how your circle is going to respond too. like you're afraid of your peer group. When you outgrow that thinking because if whether you like it or not, it goes right back to your circle. Most people are hanging with the wrong people. That's why I made my mastermind. It's a circle with people of only high standards. And some people go, I'm not joining that. Stay a loser. Doesn't matter to me. I'll be over here with all these people putting points on the board and zeros after the one in our bank account having kick-ass marriages and being fit and [\h__\h] savage. not afraid of our own shadow crawling around the floorboards until somebody turns out the lights like a cockroach. You guys get defensive and angry about that. Not everybody wants to be savage like you. You should because that's how you're designed because that's how you conquer things in your life. And man is designed to conquer. But a lot of times it's you got to conquer yourself because you're not afraid of the thought for the most part. You're afraid of the reaction of your peer group when you don't have it when you verbalize something else. Your peer group for a lot of you guys has become this mental leash. Your thoughts are shaped by their standards. And if you ever dare to stop hating yourself or evolve out, you stop playing small. You stop being relatable to these people. They're going to attack you for leveling up. Tell me I'm wrong. Most people say and do things just to maintain like good graces of their peer group. But you don't like where you are. Who gives a [\h__\h] about your peer group if they want to keep you down? The reason you're still thinking like a peasant is because you surround yourself with peasants who applaud. They cheer and they celebrate your mediocrity and they panic when you try and level up. They get so mad they attack you and they fill you with a bunch of doubt. Where do you think your beliefs are coming from if you keep listening to these idiots? Your thoughts aren't your own. They're filtered through the weak ass expectations of the soft [\h__\h] people around you. I don't care if it's your mom or your brother or your spouse or your friends that you've known since the third grade. You want to be free. Burn your circle. You guys get so defensive when I say it. I've had people That's not always easy. What if it's a relative? So, love them from far away. I didn't say don't love them. Don't be around them. Burn your circle down, man. If they're doing anything that inhibits your growth, burn. They are not friends. They are enemies. Get that through your skull. If they lie to you, enemies. If they have no fulfillment of their promises, enemies. If they procrastinate, enemies. If they validate, enemies. If they reduce what you want to do and grow in all the level ups that you want to have, if they reduce those or diminish those or attack those or try and talk you out of those, they are not friends. They are enemies. to get yourself around killers and stop fearing the rejection of people you shouldn't have been around in the first place. Like you feel stuck. Look left, look right. If the people beside you on either side are okay with you being broke, fat, scared, like just have this negative mindset. If they're okay with that, you're not in a circle. You're not even in a prison. You're in a [\h__\h] coffin. Like these are the people that laugh at discipline. They mock all the change and then they celebrate and reward comfort. So you just because they don't want you to change. I'll sit down and binge watch some stupid show on Netflix. That's not a support system. That's your penal system. That's a prison. And you guys think we have a meeting every every 3 days for 4 hours. We have a Zoom call where we all share our problems and the things we're struggling with. How many times do you need to do that till you stop [\h__\h] talking about the same dumb things that you just will never get past because you keep talking about them? How about you start being about things instead of talking about things and stop validating staying at the bottom and blaming something going, it cost me this. It took me costing it. It took this huge price. I lost my wife. I lost my business. I lost my husband. And that made me realize that I don't really want to be as successful and as savage as I thought. What are you talking about? Your job is to be the best version of yourself, not somebody else's version of you. And if you go, "What if your version isn't right for me?" Ask, "That's fine. Can you do one more rep in your health, in your wealth, and in your relationships?" If the answer is yes, you're not your best. You're just validating why it's okay to stay where you are because your peer group is filled with a bunch of [\h__\h] I don't care. You guys need to start taking ownership of yourself and actually becoming a better version because that's what God demands of you. If you are made in the likeness of God and you are fat, whiny, skinny, whiny, justifying why doing less is actually a win, all of that, you're insulting his image because God created everything. I promise you, he's not a [\h__\h] He is a savage, powerful, fearful God. Don't [\h__\h] with God. And you guys go. God's really gentle. He also has wrath. You think he's happy when you are deciding to do less because you're validating your little feelings. Most of the time it's because your peer group says, "Yeah, you're right." And you make sure you surround yourself with these [\h__\h] little peasants. You can tell it bothers me because I just don't tolerate that. Why would I want to hang out with anybody that lies to me? Why? If you promised me something and it hasn't come to fruition and every time I bring it up, you come up with another explanation as to why it can't happen yet. You're not a friend. You're an enemy. Why do I want to hang out with you? I'm not going to. If you constantly reduce the quality of your life by overeating, indulging in vices, and going, I just need these as a break. Why would I want to be around you when I would never do that for myself? If your mindset is going to reduce the quality of thoughts of my children or my wife or me and you're just nothing but validations and excuses, why would I want to be around you? If you validate doing less, like social conformity is one of the most powerful behavioral forces on earth. And you guys just dive right in. When a group normalizes negativity, you'll perceive positivity as betrayal. Stop for a second. That tell me, make that make sense. You victim people out here whining about your circumstances. You've never had anything bad happen to you in your life other than the [\h__\h] you've done to yourself. Own it and fix it. Stop looking for somebody else to fix the problems that you created. When the group worships self-pity, your ambition is going to feel like arrogance, which is why you halt everything. So, if your thoughts seem impossible to change, maybe ask yourself, are these even mine? Are these thoughts mine? Or are they a survival tactic to keep me accepted by all the people that I've actually internally that I've outgrown? And you guys, but they're my circle. But we played little league together. We go fishing trips every year. We go camping. We ran a marathon together. They're my friends. But I just don't know if it's really right. I That That's being prideful and boastful when you outshine people. Shut the hell up. They're not your friends. If they're clapping for your [\h__\h] weaknesses, how are those friends? You don't owe your past a damn thing. You don't owe your high school buddies your future. You don't owe your broke cousin your mindset. You owe yourself one thing, freedom. And the freedom starts where the approval ends. Because you you need to ask yourself really get greedy. Who in your life reinforces the your weakness as normal? And what would happen if you stopped needing their acceptance? If you just told them to go pound sand, right? You need to go to the jugular of all the things that are causing your problems. You guys in your I'm connected to my feelings. I'm enlightened. You're emotionally immature. You're not enlightened because you're Oh, I'm in touch with my feelings now. It's my safe space. You can't post anything without triggering somebody because everybody is so sensitive. Who's sensitive? Children, adults, grow up. Have a little emotional maturity. Like, you guys get triggered by almost everything. A meme, a post, a comment, a look, a tone, the truth. And instead of confronting your own immaturity, you disguise it as being sensitive or in tune with your emotions. Emotional sensitivity, I said it yesterday, not strength. Emotional control is strength. They aren't the same, so stop confusing them. Let me guess, that probably offended you. Listen to this guy. Insulting feelings. I have feelings all day. I don't let them determine what my life is going to be. And I don't let someone else's feelings deter what I'm going to do. And if you go, that's narcissistic. Spell it first and then we'll have a conversation. And second of all, that's not narcissistic. It's not narcissistic. It's not toxic. It's not sociopathic. It's none of that. It is called being a strong person. Never mind even just a strong man. You guys that are just feminine. The [\h__\h] is wrong with you? Oh, you're offended again. Good. Then you were never built for war anyway. You get hurt. If you get hurt by somebody's words, like a comment, like a Tik Tok comment section, a facial expression, and you think that's strength, that is weakness. It is weakness. Weaponized, woripped, and it's normal and celebrated. Now, you're not a victim of any toxicity. You're a victim of your own underdeveloped mind that thinks every emotion is worth a reaction. Really, your brain is so soft because you've never trained it. Gogggins will say, "Calice your mind. You guys that even put any hate towards him, you're ridiculous. You're ridiculous. There's nothing about that guy that you can hate. You can sit there and run your mouth all day long. He's calloused himself so he can keep going in adversity." Like, you guys are raised on cartoons and snacks and you think emotions are the end of the conversation. They're not. That's the beginning of a war. Most of you quit before the battle even starts. You won't you'll look at the arena from the outside and go, "Okay, I'm done. I'll tap out." You guys get triggered by effort, by discipline, by confrontation, by people trying to level up, by people succeeding, by those who are doing all the things that you quit on. That's what triggers you. You weren't built weak. You just never did the [\h__\h] work to be strong. I'll say that again. There's not a baby. See, you guys go, "Babies are soft." Babies are savage. Oh, they're so savage strong. You were not built weak. You just never did any of the damn work to be strong. You never did. Emotional immaturity is the ability to observe internal states without allowing them. Look at them, know they're there, acknowledge them, but you don't allow them to dictate external actions. That's emotional immaturity. So, if every time you get uncomfortable, you just have this volatile reaction, you're not free. You're owned by all your emotions. They drive. And if you guys go, I'm just a feeling kind of a person. I feel deeply. Not virtue, man. That's volatility. You're reactive. That's the difference between a man and a child. You're not This is the bad. I had somebody say to me, "I'm an empath." No, you're not. You're not an empath. You're just untrained. You're undisiplined. You you're not feeling the room or reading the conversation. You're absorbing drama like a [\h__\h] sponge because your mind is so fragile that it needs approval just to function now. It's like a drug. Triggered good. Maybe you'll [\h__\h] listen for once. Your emotions don't make you special. You know what does your control over all of your feelings over all of your emotions. Because if you are allowing your emotions to drive the bus and they're negative, your entire life sucks. Like you ever bothered to ask yourself what are the emotions that I still let control my thoughts, my conduct, my speech. And how just imagine how would my life change if I trained myself? If I did the reps to be the king, to be the ruler over that stuff instead of be the peasant that the king tells what to do and the king is the [\h__\h] emotions. What emotions do I allow to control my thoughts, my conduct, my words? Start there. And if you act get honest because most of you guys struggle with the truth. You get honest, you'll realize imaginary diseases have no cure because they didn't exist in the first place. Negativity is one of them. I got to go. Never miss.