You know what's wild is the hall pass that people think they have because they've gone through adversity. Adversity is part of being an adult. In fact, adversity is part of life. Somewhere most of you are convinced. You're delusional thinking that you shouldn't have any trauma. Your life should be. Or let me back that up. It's not trauma. You shouldn't have any adversity, any obstacles. It should just be smooth and easy, but yet you should have all of the benefits of going through hell. It's like saying, "I want to have, look at me, look at Brandy, and go, I want to have all of your level of athleticism, fitness, mindset, you know, bulletproof psychology, but I want you to do all the work for us, and then you guys want to reap the rewards." That's how most of you guys are. Like you guys need to torch the idea that trauma even that it's not called trauma. None of you guys have had trauma. If you guys start talking about I don't give a [\h__\h] if your uncle molested you in the barn. Are you still alive? You're not dealing with it anymore. All of you therapists out there talking about how you need to unpack repressed emotions. No, you need to teach people how to move the [\h__\h] on. You you think that trauma equals a lifelong hall pass for weakness, for quitting, for like I said yesterday, victimhood or this emotional constipation disguised as self-awareness. It's not self-awareness. You guys going, "My divorce made me aware of some problems that I was having." Yeah. That you suck at being a husband. My bankruptcy made me aware of some things that I some trauma I had about owning a business or being wealthy or my mindset about money. Don't you suck at owning a business. You should get people to help you. The problem is most of you want to do it all on your own. And I even said this about God. Lean on God. I give all my worry, all my stress, all my anxiety, any frustration, sadness, everything, I give it to God because he wants it. Because he's better at this than I am. And he's I got you, my son. And that's a different this is a different podcast, but you guys need to understand that this is like an assault on the [\h__\h] excuse culture. Yeah, I'm lit today with nothing but like the firepower of a nuke because you don't understand. You don't who cares what you've been through. Like you guys talk about you don't understand how devastating it was for me. Devastating for you. I'm missing a lung at 48 years old. I lost a lung. If your trauma listen if somebody touched you inappropriately. I don't care who you are. Losing a lung is worse. If you had to deal with an angry mommy or an angry daddy who made you do chores and made you actually grow up and have responsibilities and you call that trauma. Yes, there's something in my eye. If you're wondering what I'm doing in my eye and you call it devastating, it shattered you. It left scars that nobody could see. Good. That means you survived. That means you're actually built like a tank, like you're supposed to be. Listen, any doubt that nothing else in this soft ass world should scare you if you've actually gone through anything you say you've gone through, which tells me that most of you guys are liars. Most of you guys are liars. You haven't had anything that's been bad. You glamorize it because it makes you feel better so you get the attention because just so you understand, human beings are incredibly difficult to kill. And if you have any doubt whatsoever, go to Vegas. I was in Vegas one time. I've been to Vegas a ton of times. I'll never forget I was standing in this elevator in the Palazzo and this lady, she was 3:50. She got in the elevator and felt it move her and her friend and I'm standing, it was like 3:00 in the morning and she walked in both of them with these drinks that were about 3 feet. It looked like an upside down trumpet all purple with a giant straw in it and a cookie the size of my head and a cigar both of them. And I thought, "How are you still alive? You gross, fat, nasty, low self-worth human being. How are you still alive?" And that's when I realized human beings are incredibly difficult to kill because all of that ignorance packaged up in 350 lbs is still surviving. So all of you guys in your trauma, get out of here. Like you guys think like nothing, if you have actually gone through all the things that you say you've gone through, nothing in this world should scare you anymore. Nothing. And you should be like, I can overcome anything. That's how I look at my life. Dude, I lost a lung. I've been through cancer more than once. And my wife and I have taken on astronomical adversities. And we've come out the other side. Lesson, growth, strength. But that's not what you guys did with it, is it? That's not You didn't become savage. You sure as hell didn't become indestructible or even unbreakable. You didn't build an empire in like to honor that hell that you actually went through. No, that's not what you did. You made it a personality. Yours. You glamorized it. You turned it into a [\h__\h] brand. You guys and your trauma brands. And now every time someone holds you accountable, whip it out like a badge. I'm show you. Bam. Here's my trauma. It's trauma card. Can't be challenged. Can't be expected to execute. Why? Because I'm a [\h__\h] [\h__\h] [\h__\h] You got bullied. You got bullied. Lots of people say, "You don't understand. I got bullied. I got bullied in elementary school. It was traumatizing. Most of you guys don't even remember third grade." And regardless, cool. So did I. Lots of people. I grew up with a bunch of farm boys. You have any idea why I'm so scrappy? Is because all I did was get into fights when I was a kid. Because all of a sudden one day I snipped and I went, "Ah, you ain't going to bully me anymore." I didn't care. I got my ass beat plenty of times. But I got better. And eventually nobody ever challenged me because I could hold my own. But it came from me going, "All right, lesson learned or cower in the corner or throw handsick. So what?" In in fact, if you got bullied or picked on or whatever [\h__\h] you want to complain about, cool. So did everybody else who turned out to be incredibly dangerous. They've all gone through hell. You guys all need to look at Andy Forcella's story. That guy's a beast. That guy is a monster. That guy got stabbed in the face. That guy's been through all kinds of hell. Slept on couches in hotel rooms crammed full of dudes working on his company. And now, I don't know if you've ever heard of Andy Fzella's company or not, but it's called First Form. It's pretty badass company. Incredible supplements, by the way. He's got all my vote, 100%. He has 100% of my support. And because that guy is just he knows how to run a company. He's a dude, that guy's got edge to him for days and he's an intelligent man and he stands by his conviction and he takes everything that he's ever been through and uses it as a lesson and weaponizes it against any future adversity of similar ilk. But you guys don't do that. Like you had a violent parent, a broken home, some nasty uncle, a childhood that you wouldn't wish on your worst enemy. Oh no. So, so explain to me then how you survived all that. But your tough boss, a clean diet, getting up at 5 in the morning to work out, that's where you draw the line. You can't manage that. So, let me get this straight. You've got through you've gotten through hell, but you can't stop eating donuts like an [\h__\h] You just can't. I just can't lose the weight, man. Cool. You endured monsters. Okay. But you crumble when some when a girl rejects you. Oh my god, I'm devastated. She said no. You're fat and you're gross. So, of course, she said no. Listen, a lot of you guys, you you have your heart set and aimed at the 1%. But the 1% ain't aiming at you because you're like a three. Don't get mad. Do better. Listen, I don't care. Today, I'm in just one of those moods. You're an entitled prick. You don't deserve the 1% cuz you aren't. And if you're like, that's where I'm going to hold the line. That's why you're alone. Like, you lived through trauma that would annihilate most people. use it would have just devastated most people. And yet you act like somebody asking you to level up is some emotional assault. It's a personal attack. Come on, man. That trauma and trauma that alleged trauma that you've gone through should have turned you into a damn weapon. But you do the blade with ice cream, donuts, and excuses. That's what you did. I lost everything. I lost everything. I lost my self-worth, my money, my my health, my mindset, my business, everything. I lost all everything. And I didn't hug a cat and cry on TikTok about it. I trained mentally, physically, emotionally. I connected to God 100%. I rebuilt and I earned the right to say pain didn't beat me. I beat it. Whatever came to break me made me. That's how I look at my life. That's why I started every one of my companies. Do you know that? See, most people start companies to make a lot of money. Absolutely. I think everybody should make a lot of money. I think everybody should be a millionaire provided you earn it. I really do. And then if you go, it wouldn't be worth it. It wouldn't have any value. Wrong. Million dollars is still a million dollars, dumbass. Only poor people say that. But I think everybody should, but you better earn it. You're not entitled to it. If you're doing less work than somebody else, you deserve less. And wherever you are, that's where you deserve to be. Like it is 5:00 right now. I've had an extremely challenging day starting at about 5:30 this morning. So what? I had zero time to get in and do this podcast until just now. I don't care. I do what I say. Why? Because I've learned lessons from all the adversity I've had to fa face. But every one of our companies, doesn't matter what it is, every single company is in a position to help other people. That's exactly why I made it. Why do you think I made my mastermind? to help people. So, when people go, "Oh, dude, I'm not giving you 1,500 bucks." I wouldn't want you that. If you aren't willing to commit, I don't want you. Like, it's even that like it is a $25,000 a year mastermind. I'll put this out there. If you want, I'm not even going to let you. That's how demanding I am for your for a commitment. I don't even want you for 1,500 bucks. I want you for life. A lifetime membership in my mastermind is $50,000. I've said this way back when. 90% off. Absolutely. I'm plugging my own mastermind because it's that badass. It wouldn't be growing the way it's growing right now. Except for one douche. One guy. He joins my mastermind, stomps his feet like a [\h__\h] little girl. Gets in, gets pissed off that he doesn't have all the other links right away because he got lost in my spam folder. Absolutely my fault. I Brian Tracy that all day long. 100% my fault. Says, "You know what? I decided not to do this." and then doesn't ask for anything other than disputes the charges. So, I learned a lesson. I only take crypto now. You know why? Cuz I want you committed. Cuz the only reason people don't do that is because what if I don't like it? What if I want to scam you and get my money back? Then don't buy it. I've never asked for a refund on anything ever because I made the decision to buy it regardless. I think if you ask for a refund, you're a [\h__\h] coward. and you went in expecting to fail. Now, if you did something, if I bought this and somebody told me that it was a Coca-Cola and I cracked it open and it's filled with sand, I'm going to just go back and get another one. I wouldn't even ask for a refund. Okay, can I have what's supposed to be in here because I still want what's in here, the the original what's supposed to be in here. You guys are so based your consumer mindset is I'm entitled to better than what I paid for all the time. So if you don't do the work, it's like getting a trainer. God, you stupid idiots. You get a trainer who knows what they're doing. And if you're a fat trainer, you don't know what you're doing. So I don't care how much how many degrees you have. It's like a fat doctor. No respect for you either. But if you're a trainer, so get in my comments and give me thumbs down on YouTube for that because regardless that just tells me I'm telling you the truth because if I wasn't, it wouldn't get you upset. The only I 100% that's how it works. If it upsets you, it poked a sore spot on you. So that's on you, not me. I'm fit as [\h__\h] because I earned it. I'll say it all day long. You bet your ass I'm athletic and fit cuz I earned it. And if any of you have ever seen me train, you damn know I earned it. That'll out gun all of you guys. And you go, that's pretty arrogant. It's not arrogant. It's a fact. If you're saying something and it's the truth, it's not ego. It's not arrogant. It's a resume. I don't care. I don't need to prove anything to anybody. I prove it to myself every day. That's the important part. But if you go around and you ask for refunds for things or you halfass things, you don't deserve any success anyway. All that does is make you look like a coward and install into your brain, if it doesn't work, I'll just quit. And that's what you guys do. You guys get a trainer and you don't lose the weight, you don't get mus muscular, you don't become athletic, whatever the hell it is. And the trainer knows what they're doing. and you blame the trainer even though you don't show up, you don't eat right, and you conduct yourself like an [\h__\h] all the time. You blame the trainer because you can't look in the mirror. That is the problem with you never overcoming your quote unquote trauma. So, I'll tell you, I'll help you out. $50,000 is a lifetime membership. I'm going to do exactly what I did before. $4,997. And if you go, "Oh, [\h__\h] I don't have that kind of money." Don't join that. I don't want you. I don't want broke ass poverty people around me because I don't want to be king of the losers. Get offended. I don't care. I only want people that want to win and want to hang with me till the day God says it's done because I'm building an army for real. I'm not building some raw hype army where I make all these empty promises. I'll stand on you 24/7 365 to get you to where you want to go because I know what was required to get to where I am and where Brandy is, where our family is. I want other people to have that. You guys look for the $39 course and the $39 mastermind, but you want a Lamborghini and mansion life and a fit athlete life. You don't deserve it. You have no commitment. People fit so good. Where's your commitment to me? I've been here already. I proved my commitment in my conduct and my results. And I haven't changed. I haven't slowed down. My mastermind is growing for a reason. And it's only going to get more expensive. $4,997. you never pay me again. I'll tell you what, anyone that's new, I'll let you and your spouse join for that. Which means not only I don't do that ever. So if your spouse is in on this and your spouse isn't paying and your spouse is sitting in on my mastermind and she hasn't paid or he hasn't paid, you're stealing from me, man. Because that's like going, "I'm going to get one plate at dinner, but both my wife and I are going to eat on it. We're just going to pass it back and forth." Okay, that's great. But if we're both supposed to buy two plates because two people come in, we both have to pay for two plates. But I only go, "Oh, it's just me." Even though we both eat, I'm stealing. I won't do that. But you guys think that's okay. You guys will sit in the background and listen, take notes. That's like standing outside a course and getting a degree in college. If you went to college and wasted your time, but you never paid for it, but you still got the degree. See, I this is how I pay for my family. This is how I take care of everything in my life. So, $4,997. Both of you get to join for life and you have to be new. And if you're not new, you're already in my group. No, I'm not taking whatever you paid off the bill. You can pay that. But if you don't understand the value in what I just told you, it's 144 live calls a year. Three calls a week. One psychology, bulletproof your mindset, get over limiting beliefs, any excuse, whatever the hell is going through your head. We talk about God, everything. So if you don't like any of that stuff, don't join. The second call is on Sunday. Saturday, Sunday, and Monday are my calls. Sunday is business. I will scale and grow any business you got. I don't care what it is. I don't care what it is. Online. Oh, I'm real good at that. Brick and mortar. Real good at that, too. Because I have multi-million dollar business brick and mortar before it was trendy. My wife's quote, not mine, by the way. She said that. She said, "You had multi-million dollar business before it was even in style to post on social media." Yeah. I built the body in the last four years, the marriage, the life, the mindset, the connection to God, the desire and drive to help everybody I meet. And I prove it. I show up every day. Some of you guys might not like the truth, but it's still the truth. And that's for a whole year. Except now you get it for life. You pay once. So you go out and you go ahead and buy that big screen TV and your stereo system or you put a down payment on a car that you think you deserve for nothing or you come hang out with me. By the way, Monday is Q&A. So Sunday is business. Monday is Q&A. And I stay on that call till everybody's problem solved. We've had cancer, diabetes, arthritis, mindset, lead genen, closing, sales, new business setup, existing business tear down and setup, marriage problems, connection to God. I've done so many things in this Q&A. It doesn't matter what it is because that's my job. One of the guys calls it doctor on demand. He's right. It's what it is. Why? Because I damn well want you to win. But I get my instructions from God. So if you don't like any of that stuff, you're not going to like me at all. But if you want to win, good. $4,997. That's for both of you. But this is you need to commit. Don't ask me if you can make payments. Don't say, "Can I pay later?" Don't send me your DM excuses or when when does it expire? It expires on Monday. How about that? There you go. Monday. You have until Monday. And if you get it on Monday, that already tells me how you are. But I'll give you that. You just have to DM one message drive D R I V E. It won't be automated. I will send you a link with a payment option. The payment is you pay $4,997. Good chance I might even just send you the crypto wallet to send it to. But I'll give you a shot. Credit card you can use. But that's my offer. Is it worth it? It's worth it so much that you guys should borrow money to do it. That's how good it is. And that's not me saying it. I've been here for a decade showing up. I've never missed I've never missed a call on here. I've never missed helping anybody. My job is to help you. You guys have to take the help cuz come back to your past. Just there. There's my plug. $4,997 for your husband and your wife. I don't care if you paid anything before that. You're still paying that for life. You never pay me again. and you get access to everything. There's no weird secret areas. And nobody does this, just me. Because I really want you to win. Or you can keep shopping. So if you have a business you want to grow, join. If you have a mindset that's broken, a marriage that's broken, join me. If you have questions about anything, health, marriage, I don't care what it is. You have a problem, you guys are about to get divorced, doesn't matter. Join. That's how good this is. Don't take my word for it. Ask anybody that's in my group because let me back up. If your life, if your past was truly that hard, as bad as you like to claim, I would, but my past was so hard. I'm really traumatized by something, then everything else in life should just feel like child's play. Agreed? It should. You can't. There's nothing you can argue about that. If it was that bad and you're still here, it should be easy. But you don't want that. You want sympathy. You want attention. You want that easy way out. That easy way out that still comes with all the applause and the fake empathy from all the people around you that don't give a [\h__\h] about you. And guess what? That's unhealing. That's fraud. Emotional fraud. Like I said, you got touched by your weird, creepy uncle and now you're allergic to accountability. Grow the [\h__\h] up. Come on, man. Grow up. You survived something unimaginable. You know what that tells me? You should be unbreakable. You should be unstoppable. I've been through this, right? So, I know I'm not speaking from the outside in. I've been in the trenches. So, you should be unstoppable. But instead, you're here curled up in a [\h__\h] beanag chair posting healing journey reels and crying into your house cat making TikTok videos because someone asked you to work a 12-hour day. And that's trauma. It's bringing up repressed trauma. You're not traumatized. You're entitled. [\h__\h] You're weak. You're bored. Most of you guys are just bored. The true tragedy, just to be very clear, is not the suffering itself. It's the misuse of that suffering as an anchor rather than the platform, the foundation that you should be building off of. What do you think I did? What do you think anybody that's successful did? They took all of that trauma and pain and they built a foundation out of it. You used it to drag you right down to the bottom of the ocean. You've already endured the chaos you emerged from. You came out. And yet you refuse to become strong, for lack of a better word, because you're obsessed with the narrative of having been weak. So you're clinging to an identity of the past because it protects you from having to work in the future. That's cowardice. Dressed up as authenticity. All you guys and your authenticity words. [\h__\h] you. I'm so authentic. If you have to say it, no, you're not. No, you're not. I don't care. Listen, this isn't about minimizing your trauma. It's this is about exposing what you've done with it or nothing. And if what you've done is wrapped in hashtags or little quotes online or or talking about how much of a victim you are and self-handicapping mantras, then you are the only thing standing in the way of your entire future. Like you with all the [\h__\h] that you've been through, you should be ahead. What have you been through? Think about right now. What have you been through with all of that? You should be ahead. You should be dangerous. You should be a walking [\h__\h] storm. Lightning, just lightning and [\h__\h] coming off of you. Make Thor look like a [\h__\h] But instead, you're an echo. And and what I mean by that is you're the sound coming back of something that's already over. It's already ended. You've already been through it because you gave your past a crown and your future a leash. Okay? You wear a victim costume or you just burn that thing and you think it's cool. Let me tell you about how bad life is. Listen, if you really lived through hell, then why are you still scared of discomfort? Discomfort of all things. You're scared of discomfort because it's tolerated. You're regressing into childhood. You're going right back to being a toddler. Like you fought through abuse, poverty, allegedly, neglect, betrayal, loss, I don't know, go dark, rape, violence, abandonment. I get drug addiction. It doesn't matter. Alcoholism, catastrophic loss, and now you're telling me you can't get to the [\h__\h] gym. You can't build a business because you're I'm just overwhelmed right now. You can't build a business because a year ago your dad died. You can't build a business because you've been just trying to stay alive cuz you have markers that are saying I might be sick again. [\h__\h] You should be eating. I got no sympathy for you, man. You're paralyzed by a 10-minute phone call. A sales pitch scares you. A heavy squat terrifies you. Someone not texting you back, you lose your [\h__\h] And you text them 100 times. Are you out of your [\h__\h] mind? Really? You walked through the fire allegedly and now you're scared of doing a push-up, starting a business, fixing your marriage, talking to God. Maybe that's problem. You don't talk to God enough. Like you survived this war zone that you want to tell everybody about. Let me tell you, I'm a man or a woman that's rebuilt himself and you know that we're unbreakable. Then why are you still broken? Don't get offended. Quit being a [\h__\h] crybaby. Why are you still broken? Because if you survived this war zone and now Karen from accounting is triggering your nervous system, you didn't need a therapist back then. But now someone asking you to do something with your life sends you spiraling into your little comfort blanket. Buddy, you already fought the dragons and now you're crying over a fly in the house. You're crying over some ants on the floor. You made it out of hell, man. That's what you tell everyone. I made it out of hell. So, you made it out of hell. You made it through abuse, pain, loss, trauma, all the catastrophes. And now you can't finish your [\h__\h] meal plan because you're stressed. You can't grow your business because you're stressed. You can't handle your marriage. You feel defeated because things aren't working out the first time. You're stressed. That's weak. That's weak. What you went through should have built armor, but instead you use it. God, you use it to excuse the fact that you built nothing. Nothing. Like, let me be clear. If you went through that and you got through it, then you can get through anything. So, stop acting like you're broke it. just being lazy and entitled because pain is proof of power. I'm going to drink some of this first cuz my mouth is going to get if you suffered and survived. See, if you suffered and didn't survive, it doesn't matter. You're not listening to this podcast. More people need to listen to this. So, you should tell everybody to listen to this because it's going to call them out for the [\h__\h] that they're telling themselves about why they can't succeed, why they can't lose the weight, why they can't start the business, why they can't do anything. You can't do it because you're lazy and entitled. Because if you suffered and you survived, you're now more qualified than 99% of the population to succeed. Because you know what the bottom feels like. You know what agony tastes like. You know what pain is. So everything else should feel easy. It should feel light. Business, that's all. Okay, I'll make some sales. Easy. Sales. Even that really hot. I just suck at sales. So learn how it's easy. Weight loss, dude. Just eat less and move more. Stop being a line. [\h__\h] Relationships, no problem. You have already fought worse things than responsibility. So stop treating a basic adult function like it it's some spiritual event. Listen, pain, just go right to pain. Pain in its absolutely purest form is the refiner, the polisher of the soul. If you have endured chaos and emerged intact, then you've been granted an extremely rare gift perspective. But instead of using it, I don't know, to elevate your standards, you weak, selective, emotionally biased standards. You've weaponized it to insulate your mediocrity. Use it as a a wall. It's armor to protect mediocrity. Not to keep it out, to keep it in. You guys, go you say, "You don't know what I've been through." Talk to somebody that's been through more. They'll look at you and go, "Dude, I'm embarrassed for you." Cuz I do. I look at you and go. And then you go, "It's all relative." No, it's not. No, it's not. You are just soft. You don't know what I've been through. No, you don't seem to understand what you've survived. Perspective. Because if he did, you wouldn't be hiding behind it like a child, begging for sympathy and acknowledgement. You'd be standing on it like a king builds a [\h__\h] throne. The brutal truth just to gotten real straight to the point because I just want to slit throats today. The trauma you survived should make everything else in life such a joke. Not harder. It should it should make it easier. You get that? Like it should be make everything in your life easier, not harder, not more dramatic. Certainly not more complicated. You went through hell and instead of I don't know turning into a monster that conquers and rips things apart, you turned into a mascot for the weak person from your past. You don't need healing. I'm tired of it. All you guys in your healing journeys, you don't need healing. You need the truth. You need honesty. You're not broken. You're scared. You're scared of putting in the work and have being forced to raise your standards. You're scared of losing the only story that's ever made you feel important. And if you don't kill that story, it's going to bury your potential with a [\h__\h] headstone that reads, "Here lies a man or a woman who could have ruled everything but chose to be pied instead because it was easier." Listen, ask if you survived the worst already, what weak parts of your life are you still treating like they're too hard? Ask. And what would happen? And what would happen if you just started treating like a warm-up set instead? You survived them. I don't know. Just the thought because some of you guys just need to drive a nail through your skull. You're not healing. You're not on a journey. You sure as hell aren't working through it. God, I'm tired of you guys saying that. You're feeding off the spotlight and trauma is just your ticket to stay on that weak stage. But you're surrounded by all the losers going, "You're so brave." Your pain gets you sympathy. You know that your pain gets you comments. Oh, you love that. Your pain gets you validation. It gives you an identity, a brand, and a reason to just keep losing because people look your direction. Oh, my life was so bad. You're so brave, Nancy. You're so brave, Jim. You ever notice that the people who claim to be working through trauma are also the ones posting the most about it? They're also whining the loudest about it. They're screaming into the void about narcissists and boundaries and safe spaces and nepotism. because they can't earn [\h__\h] because they can't move past themselves. They're not healing. They're monetizing. They're milking. And not monetizing money. Monetizing the sympathy, the attention, the acknowledgement, the acceptance for being less, for being worthless. You're worthless. That's what you are. You're worthless. Take it exactly how I say it. You are worthless. If you keep leaning on what happened to anything, if it was yesterday, it's over. move the [\h__\h] on. But that's what these people do. No healing. They're milking the memory of their suffering for social media points instead of burying it and building something new. They're not making it a foundation. Here's what's wild. You made it through hell just to turn around and turn it into a content calendar. Cuz you get people looking at you, but the people looking at you don't have any respect for you. They just go, "Good. I see somebody else doing that and they're stuck where they are. Good. I can stay where I am. Every Tuesday another post about your stupid child or your dumb uncle or what can or even me if all I did was talk about going through cancer and having a lung take and that's all I talked about nothing else. [\h__\h] I used it and look at what I built out of myself four years later. I don't talk about it in a way that makes me go this is why I struggle. I go you have no excuses. You shouldn't struggle because I weaponized my past to give me something to conquer my future. You guys weaponize your past against your future. Every Thursday, a real of you fake crying with some stupid music playing over a black and white filter footage talking about inner wounds and another day I'm getting stronger. You should see with your like sparkly filters and your heavy makeup. You're not a survivor. You're a performer. You're an actor or an actress. And your audience, they're just as broken and [\h__\h] up as you cheering you on. So, they don't have to get any better either. Don't like it. It doesn't matter. I'm sure this Oh, I'm sure some of you guys are even getting the comments. Listen to this. I can't stand this. Somebody give him a bunch of thumbs down. Do it to my face. A lot of you guys are brave as hell behind that computer screen and a username. I liked you better when you were softer, when you were fixing shoulders. You didn't do it then either. Your shoulder still screwed and you were 80 lbs heavier. How about you just listen to what I'm saying and apply it to your life and all of your problems will go away because nobody who's winning is posting about trauma. They don't have the time. You know what they're doing? They're winning. They're building. They're training. They're selling. They're leading. They're dominating. And they've turned their pain into how it's a castle. It's a fortress. You turned yours into a stupid Tik Tok documentary. Here, I'll give you a test. If you had to stop talking about your trauma for 12 months, what would you talk about? There's your test. Nothing. That's the problem. You have nothing to talk about because you're worth nothing if that's what you do. You don't want to be better. You want to be noticed. Not the same. See, you survived hell and now cry because someone asked you to be consistent. Okay. You're not wounded, man. You're not. You're just weak from all the coddling that you've given yourself. Pain should have made you unbreakable, but you use it like a blanket. It's this excuse to stop trying. Listen to me. Nobody. Nobody. Even your mom doesn't give a [\h__\h] about what happened to you if you're still using it as your ceiling. I'm sure that stings. I had to walk through fire. I didn't bring a camera crew. I brought death. Why? Because you can see it. I have posted every single day. Yeah. So you go, "Oh, you did bring a camera crew." Yeah. I brought my camera crew, which was me and a water waddle. I don't even with my phone. Why? So I could prove to all of you guys who number one said I couldn't. [\h__\h] you. I just did. And number two, you're being selfish. You're doing this. You should take care of your family. You should be on the couch resting. Your kids and your wife, they don't respect you. No, they respect the [\h__\h] out of me and they love and adore me because I love and adore them enough to take care of myself and overcome anything that gets in my way like a [\h__\h] gangster boss. I don't know what you guys are doing, but you guys think men are okay to be soft and weak and in touch with their feelings. I had work ethic because I did it whenever. It didn't matter if it hurt. Didn't matter if I was tired. Didn't matter if I was scared, angry, sad. I don't care because I deserve better and they deserve better. What's your excuse for not doing it? cuz I'm pretty sure my trauma quote unquote was worse than most people listening. No matter how bad you want to label it, you never had an uncle touching your pee pee. Nope. But you're still hanging on to yours. I'm not. Listen, the subconscious, let's get real clinical. The subconscious is incredibly devious. When it learns, listen to me, when it learns that that pain, and look at, you can just look at social media to prove this. When it learns that pain equals attention, it is going to seek to preserve the identity of the wounded long after that wound is healed and closed, stitched up, healed up, it's just a scar, it doesn't matter. It goes, where is that? I need to go there. That's not healing. That's I don't know, identity dependency. You guys have become most of you guys that are doing this, you become so attached to your brokenness that the very idea of even becoming strong feels like a betrayal to the version of you that suffered. That you actually think you're letting that version of you down. And until you kill that dependency, you're never going to be free. Like you are a prisoner of yourself. You don't need more awareness. You need more execution and action. You don't need more people validating your pain. You need people challenging your weaknesses. If they're validating your pain, you're in the wrong circle. You don't need a louder cry. You need a [\h__\h] war cry. They're not the same. Your story is not your shield. Your story should be your sword. But only if you stop polishing it for Instagram and start swinging it to change your damn life. You guys just It just becomes your excuse. Trauma shield. Block any effort versus pain, struggling, adversity, trauma. chopped the head off of Goliath in front of you. Imagine. Imagine what would happen to your life if you stopped talking about your pain, posting about all your pain, how you rebuilt yourself all the time, and started producing results instead. You just shut up and started knocking out results. Imagine that. What would happen? What would your life look like? Cuz pain is a test. Pain is a test. It's the trial. Pain is a right of passage. Like it or not, that has never changed. Just like I said, survival of the fittest is exactly how life is. Just because you don't like it doesn't change that fact. It's not supposed to be [\h__\h] forever badge that lets you skip the next 40 years of your life because you had some trauma. You survived something good. Good. That was the test. Welcome to the next level. You guys will spend years leveling up characters for, I don't know, Fortnite, Call of Duty, whatever it is you guys play. But you won't do that in real life. You'll open up your eyes to a movie that you can't stand watching every day with the excuse that you can't change it because of your trauma. How many times you restart your character on a game, dumbass? You survived something. That was the test. That was the test. No, I'm not going to be sympathetic. And you know what? You should be glad that I'm not being sympathetic to that because I'm demanding more from yourself than you are right now. That was your test. What the [\h__\h] do you think it was? The pain and struggle and adversity. That was your test. You passed. You didn't die. And you're still breathing. Good for you. So why the hell are you still sitting in the same [\h__\h] classroom crying about the same stupid lesson like the test is still occurring? You don't need another You don't need another day, let alone another decade of processing. You don't need a vision board covered in triggers and trauma timelines, which I've actually seen this stuff. You need a clock and a cold, honest look in the damn mirror. Because the only thing that is keeping you in the same broken patterns, you if you have a mirror around you, look in it cuz it's you are the only thing keeping you there. You ever meet somebody that's been healing for 17 years, still journaling, still burning sage, still attending some group therapy to talk about their feelings towards their fifth grade math teacher? At some point, that ain't healing. That's procrastination in a disguise made out of yoga pants and just gay buzzwords that you guys have. You're not a student anymore. your grown ass man auditing the same life lesson because it's easier to stay hurt than to just stand the hell up. When are you going to put the work in for the life you want instead of standing there waiting to show up for you because you think your trauma is that shield. It's a [\h__\h] sword. That's Goliath. Take his head. You're responsible. You were supposed to walk through the fire and come out harder than steel. That's how you're supposed to be. But you stayed in the burn zone long after all those flames were out. Long after that thing was torched, not because you were still hurting, but because you were scared of the next fight. You survived it. Time to outrow it. Put your big boy pants on. Put your big girl pants on. Get the [\h__\h] out of the classroom. Stop flinching every time somebody tells you to push harder. Stop pulling every time life gets loud. That pain was the price. And here's the part you're missing. You already paid it. You already paid it. You've done it. You already paid. So go and earn the [\h__\h] reward again. The bill has been paid. Go earn the reward. Now the problem is you've glamorized all your losses. The breakup, the betrayal, the bankruptcy, the business loss, the abuse, all the stuff. You kept it alive because if you move on, you don't get to talk about it anymore. So you'd rather just repeat the pain than risk not being able to bring it up when someone gives you a challenge to your position. You want to have that. You want to have that. It's your version of an ace in the hole. Except you're winning nothing. Every time you pull it out, you lose. That's not healing. You You're a hostage. Except you're the only one tying the ropes, keeping you stuck to the damn chair. Let it go. Cut it the [\h__\h] loose. Cut it loose. Get savage. Get rich. Get fit. Get disciplined. Make your pain just this footnote. Not your stupid headline. God, it makes me so mad because I've actually been through real catastrophe. Not. You don't understand how Mrs. Smith from the third grade made me feel dumb. Mrs. Smith from the third grade probably ain't even alive anymore, son. What are you worried about? In three generations, nobody is going to know who you are and your headstone will have fallen over. That's what my attorney said that he said. Yeah, you're right. Your head will have fallen over. Yep, he's right. So, you're going to die anyway. What the [\h__\h] are you doing with your life right now? Clinging to trauma just so you get attention. Let me know how trauma puts zeros in your bank account. puts confidence in your heart, puts purpose in your soul, gets you connected to God, makes you fit, strong, healthy, and makes you an excellent man in your home to lead your wife and kids. Let me know how that works. It doesn't. You're a [\h__\h] and you know it. Your trauma was not the end of your story. It was the initiate initiation into responsibility. That is the hazing you need to take. It was life saying, "Here is your suffering. Now, what are you going to do with it? Show me what you've got." And the answer for most of you has been, "I'll wear it. I'll paint about it. I'll cry about it. I'll use it as justification to never step forward again. That's moral cowardice because you know better. Oh, you damn well know better because you know that pain should shape you, not define you. Yet, you only use it to shape your identity and keep it there. So, until you choose to be stronger than what broke you, you are going to remain broken by choice. Test is over, bro. Pain already happened. You made it. Like test is over. How you going to go back and keep taking the same test? You've passed already gone. You have walked through it. You can look behind you and it's done. So why are you still acting like you have it? Stop pretending like you're still in the [\h__\h] fire just because it's more comfortable than facing the world as a warrior with no more damn excuses. Your pain was the prep. Now act like you're ready. It's like staring at the weights knowing full well you can lift them because you lifted them yesterday but you got a little sore so you don't want to do it again because you got trauma. Fact. Like what part of your identity are you still trying to that like you're anchoring that you're trying to anchor the pain that you to the pain that you've already overcome? That's it. Like really, you were just thinking this is saying it alone. What part of your identity right now are you still locking up all like you're locking it up to that pain you've already gone through? What version could you be? That 10.0 version if you just finally cut the ropes out of tying you down. Could you do it? You already know the answer, but you're being a coward. Because listen, I'll say it again. You've walked through trauma and you're still here. You've already proven that you can do hardship, right? You already show the world, you already showed yourself in the mirror that when life kicks the door in, smashes you in the nuts, and drags you down by the throat, you don't die. You've proven it. So, you adopt, you survive, and you overcome. Welcome to being an adult. Welcome to being a strong leader, a strong man. That's your proof. You've done it. You This is the part that really pisses me out. You've done it. That's your resume. It's already done. You going to go back to high school even though you've gone through it again because you what? You just need to go through it one more time because it's safer there. Dude, high school's gay. You've already gone through it. Grabbed your throat, dragged you into the dirt, and you kicked the [\h__\h] out of it and got back up. There's your proof. It's already written in your damn resume. That's already your story, and that's your [\h__\h] batch of honor. That's your trophy. But instead of using it, like I said, like a sword, you wear it like a 11th place participation ribbon that little Tommy got that's too fat to make it to the bathroom. That's right down the hall is I need someone to help me cuz I'm too fat. Why? Cuz my parents suck. And they validate that I should be fat. Your trauma didn't break you. It revealed you. It exposed exactly who you are. And it showed you that you can take pain. I'm not going dark on this. I'm telling you. It showed you can take the pain that you can physically and mentally suffer. that you can lose everything and still breathe, walk, talk, and wake up the next damn day. And now you're crying over a calorie deficit. You're quitting business because the business is hard. I haven't made any money because you suck at it and you're not willing to do all the things required to do it. You're folding because what? Your girlfriend's mad. Your boyfriend's mad at you. Your husband's mad at you. You're stuck because I don't know what you're unmotivated. Shut the [\h__\h] up. I hate you. Walk through hell and now you're acting like a treadmill or a run or a push-up or having a hard conversation is going to kill you. You made it through the worst pain in your damn life and now an email inbox is what's going to stop you. A message, someone saying dropping hate in your comment section is what's going to stop you. Yeah, that's not pain. That's softness that you allowed back in because nobody taught you to stay hard, stay frosty, and stay strong when the storm passed. That's why. But how about I tell you this? trauma. If it was that real, then everything else should just be light work. And if it's not, that's because you stopped applying the lessons once the attention wore off. Oh, I bet that's going to get some hate. You just want the attention, toddler. You want to succeed and stop acting like pain is rare. Stop. Pain is normal. Welcome to the [\h__\h] world. Pain is everywhere. Everyone suffers. The winners use it. The losers display it like an art piece and beg people to validate it, which is most of you. get mad or get better. You don't think You don't think that I have pain? You think the killers you follow on social media don't have darkness? Dude, I'm so dark inside sometimes. That's be that's when I really lean on God because otherwise the pain would take me over. But we all have that. All of the killers that you look at, all of the killers like me that you follow or listen to, we all have that. But we earn the right to turn it into fuel. And that's what you're afraid of. You're afraid that if you use it, all your excuses disappear and then it is all on you. Good. Why not be happy about that? Let it be all on you. It's the only way out. Listen, you can't rely on somebody else to say to you, no matter how badly you want that, it will never happen. Look, you survived it. Awesome. Whatever the [\h__\h] trauma was, you survived it. Great. Now what? You gonna keep wearing it like a campaign slogan or are you going to put that paint in the trash or throw it on a leash and walk it like a [\h__\h] guard dog in front of you? It would be even better. Yeah, that's my pain. It's vicious. It's going to [\h__\h] up your [\h__\h] Why? Because I took it and I used it as fuel. I made it into a weapon. Because the rest of us are tired of hearing the dumb story that you guys are talking about. You know the truth. That's it. How about you just show us what you built? Listen, nobody gives a a [\h__\h] about what you've gone through, including me. Nobody gives a [\h__\h] about what I've gone through. Nobody. They care what I've done with it. So, I'll tell you that. All of your trauma, all of your whining and crying and validating why you can't spend the money, you can't invest the time, you can't output the energy, you need to go somewhere else because you're just a act like a toddler. When you're like, I'm not ever going to listen to that person again. What an [\h__\h] Cuz they told you the truth. Let me help you. The rest of us are tired of your stupid story. Nobody cares. Nobody cares. Shut up. Nobody cares. We want to see what you build now. How about that? Not what you survived. Don't give a [\h__\h] about what you survived anymore. In fact, what you build? Because the moment you survived suffering, you inherited a responsibility. And that responsibility is to ensure the strength earned from that pain isn't wasted. Most of you had to waste it. Because if you can survive the unspeakable, the horrible things that you guys talk about, but you can't commit to self-discipline, if you endured whatever trauma that you talk about, but you refused to take ownership of your own damn growth, then your pain didn't mean a damn thing, did it? You were given the gift of fortitude and you traded it for comfort and apathy and Instagram applause and acceptance and approval and a couple of hearts, maybe some nice words in an inbox. That's the greatest tragedy of all because you survived the pain to prove that you could. Now live with the power to prove that you've learned because you survived it. You got power, so prove that you've learned the lesson. Get your ass to the gym. Make a shitload of money. Yes, it [\h__\h] matters. I'm tired of you guys whining. That's not everything, you know. It's the freedom you get and the peace of mind you get when you have money. So, grow up. Get your ass to the gym. Become somebody that is just covered in strength and muscle and athleticism. Get your finances up to where they're supposed to be. Get your house in order. Get your standards set. Get your circle locked down. Cut out all the weak [\h__\h] If it is somebody that is procrastinating and say they'll do it next week sometime we'll connect. Go [\h__\h] yourself. I don't want anything to do with you anymore. I've had somebody in my life like that, Brandy and I, and we cut them out very recently. Just went, "I'm out, man. You're a liar. I'm done with your lives, man." Get your goals up on a [\h__\h] wall and burn them into your retina so you can't even stop seeing with your eyes closed. And then when life gets hard again, and it will remind you of who the [\h__\h] you are. You're the one that's already been to hell and you walked out swinging a sword because until you do that, you're going to struggle like what I have asked myself this and years ago. I don't do it anymore cuz I learned what would my life look like using my trauma as proof that I'm unbreakable rather than a reason to keep acting like I'm perpetually broken because that life you already learned a lesson. Now weaponize it to build it. Anyway, I got to go. It's date night. Never miss it.