Welcome to the Unbreakable Podcast. I am Dr. Trevor Bachmire. Most people call me the Spartan. And that comes from a nickname that my son thought of for me when he said that I look like the god of war. And it just stuck, man. Everybody calls me the Spartan. They've been calling me that now for years and years. Ever since I had a beard and no hair. But listen, I just had my webinar. I do a webinar every Sunday at 4:00 central. Welcome to join. Yep, I'm going to pitch you. Yep, I'm going to tell you you should join my mastermind. And yes, I think you should because you get it for a screaming deal. But that's not it. If you're looking for the cheapest, don't even bother me. Don't don't bother. Just show up and do the work. But I do it because nobody else is doing and they're not teaching you how to do anything. They're asking you for money on the premise that what they're going to teach you later is going to make you successful. I give it all. And then I in my mastermind I show you how. But I had a question and one of them was, "Dude, what's your morning routine? I need to get a better morning routine." You don't want a morning routine. You don't. You want the miracle that happens in the morning without the work. That's what you think the morning routine is. You want the magic shake, the cool viby playlist and some self-important influencer whispering affirmations into your ear while you journal your intent and your non-negotiables into a like a $90 notebook that you bought on Amazon because some podcast told you that it vibrates at a higher frequency. That's what you want. You don't want the discipline. That's what a morning routine is. You want the dopamine in a mason jar with some pickle juice, sea moss, and a lion's mane. What's your morning routine? Let me explain this. It's got to be at least 1300. It's got to be more than 1300 times I've had that because I get asked this question every single day. And every time I answer with the truth and I watch a grown man flinch like I just threw scalding hot coffee in his face because I tell him the same thing and I'll tell you right now. I will give you exactly what I do every morning. First of all, most of you guys aren't going to do it. But I want you to think about why I'm telling you all this stuff. So here's what I do. I wake up. I do the same boring [\h__\h] I crush it. And then I do it again tomorrow. That's it. There's no secret. There's no hack. There's no shortcut. It's reps and structure and sweat and sometimes blood and pain and aches and a lot of prayer and a slab of butter on piece of toast so thick. The problem isn't in your routine, you guys. The problem is in your resistance to it. You guys have been brainwashed into thinking that discomfort is dysfunction and that boredom is failure. You guys want the newness all the time. But boredom is that that's where all the greatness happens. That's where exceptional shows up. You guys are so desperate for entertainment and escape. You actually confuse those two things for success. The boredom is it's the crucible. That's the forge where men meet God and find all that fire that you want so desperately out of your morning routine. It's in the boring [\h__\h] that you're not willing to do and you're scrolling past it every morning looking for some shortcut you want. My buddy Brad Lee, I love Brad. He's a great dude. Incredibly intelligent man, witty. He's very insightful. What he said was when somebody goes, "What else do you have? Do you have something else?" because that's really boring or or I I don't want to do that. What else do you got for a routine, for coaching, for a consultation, whatever it is? And he goes, "Oh, you're looking for easier." Yeah, I haven't found that yet. But if you do, let me know. You're looking for easier. You're looking for easier. So, here's the deal. If you're ready to burn all your sage outside and just torch it, don't need it. Burn it to the ground. You don't need to flush all your stupid supplements and take your sound bowls and your Kenny G and your Enya and your chanting and your dancing and your magic Phil Wickham [\h__\h] CD. I have nothing against him. But listen, and if you're ready to finally build something that doesn't look cool but builds a king, then I got you. Buckle up cuz I'll give you the most dangerous routine in the world. I will and it'll work 100% of the time because it's complex but because it's so damn simple and a lot of times man I get fired up when I come off my webinar but your soft overstimulated nervous system is going to scream and run the other way for most of you guys and I can't do anything about that I come out here every day to help you go this isn't help you're too intense then go listen go back to Kenny G listen to that saxophone man and just sit there and dance around some candle in your living room. You don't want a morning routine. You don't. That's the brutal truth. You think you do, but you don't. What you want is a new identity without doing anything to deserve that new identity. But the new identity is forged in all the pain. Like you want to feel like a savage. I love you guys. I'm savage going dark. I'm recreating. No, you're not. You're a [\h__\h] You want the feeling of discipline without the demands of discipline. You want to go I feel let me tell everybody how disciplined I am. But you don't put any demands of discipline on yourself. And that's the problem. You guys have been sold this fantasy from because of social media that success comes from rituals and not reps. You got a backwards man. You think you need a 97st step sequence before you even earn the right to work. You occupy three hours of your morning thinking the morning routine is what's going to make you successful. You think because some YouTuber or Instagram influencer takes 45 minutes to dance around his bathroom and then blend seaweed, pray over it, like micro dose a little bit of gratit gratitude before, I don't know, reading a a paragraph of Senica that you should do the same. Most of you guys don't even know who that is. If you have ever even heard of Marcus Aurelius, like even that you guys don't. You do it because you saw somebody else do it, but there's no meaning behind it. You haven't earned the right. That's the kicker. You haven't earned the right to do the fancy [\h__\h] You haven't. You haven't even done 100 push-ups, let alone five, 10. You haven't held a promise to yourself for more than a week. And that's where you're struggling without unraveling at the first sign of boredom or some kind of friction or resistance to you. Or if you get a bad night's sleep, you guys hit snooze. You're not struggling with discipline. You're not you're disciplined to all your excuses and all the things that you want and all the reasons why you need a different morning routine or a different workout. 99% of workouts work and any morning routine that you do in the way I tell you to do it will work 100% of the time and get you to where you want to go. The problem is you're allergic to boredom and sness. Your nervous system is all tweaked out on novelty. It's stimulated to the point where boredom feels like this death sentence and silence is failure to you. Honestly, let me explain. The modern mind has been hijacked by this insidious lie that meaning is found in variety. Wrong. That's somehow order emerges. Routine provides stability. Stability breeds competence and competence produces transformation. That's the hierarchy. Routine, stability, competence. By rejecting all of the repetition, you're rejecting competence itself. How is this going to work? You're choosing chaos over order. And you're it's like dopamine is stealing all your dignity. And you wonder why your life has no structure. Like you think the hard part is the workout. You think the hard part is the every morning, like I said, I do 100 pull-ups, 100 squats, 100 push-ups, and 100 bicycles without fail. I haven't missed it in years. I haven't missed doing my morning routine since I came out of the hospital. So, it's almost four years. But the 400 reps in total every morning, I haven't missed for years. And you think the hard part is the workout? I get so many messages from you guys going, "So, that's your workout?" Oh, I don't even notice doing that anymore. And what I get from people most of the time is, "Oh, bro, come on. There's no way you do that much every single morning. That's bad for your joints, bad for your tendons, you're overtraining. That's unhealthy. How do you not How do you not get tendonitis? Why are you doing that? What are you trying to prove? Who hurt you, bro? Blah blah blah. Except here I am. Fine. The best part is I filmed it dozens and dozens of times full from cover to cover. I just got tired of doing it. I don't care. I don't do it for you. That's the problem. Most of you guys do things to prove to other people instead of prove to yourself, which means you aren't even proving it at all. You are just showing that you are in you are being controlled by the opinions and influence of other people. There's no morning routine for that. First thing you need to get control over is your [\h__\h] psychology. But you think the hard part is the workout. The hard part is showing up to do the same damn thing when there's no music, no applause, no camera, nobody's watching. It's dark, it's cold, and it's miserable. You want to win? How about you just start with push-ups? Do 100 push-ups every day until your soul doesn't beg for change. Until it says, "Give me another rep. Give me more. That's all the pull-ups you got. That's all the squats you got. Give me more." Like I I think honestly most men can't even handle their own routine. And you want mine? Like most men, they change it the minute it gets hard. When it stops giving them that dopamine jab, that little mainline of everything they want, you stop. Weak men chase stimulation. Strong men chase structure. Discipline is doing what works whether you feel like it or not. If your routine changes with your mood, you don't have a routine. You have a glorified temper tantrum. I was drinking coffee for those of you that are wondering why I took a break. Listen, I don't care if your morning routine takes longer than a NASCAR pit stop and it doesn't include any actual work. What you've got is a spa day for the spiritually unemployed. If that's what's happening, that's what you are. So, you can sit there and keep validating or you can just do [\h__\h] that gets things started and points you in the direction you want to go every single day. So maybe you should ask what part of the morning routine that you have is just performance disguised as productivity. You're just acting. You're putting this like I actually had somebody say, "Dude, are you just filming the same?" Like you just keep showing up and posting the same thing every morning. I'm wearing different [\h__\h] clothes. So I used to just post my whole morning routine, the entire thing, until I finally just went, "What? What am I doing? I'm letting these [\h__\h] in my comments dictate what I show them." Go [\h__\h] yourself. I know what I'm doing. And I look at myself and I look at these ass pounders that are coming into my comments and telling me I'm not doing what I'm saying. And I'm like, dude, you're shaped like a bag of wheat. You get caught in trying to perform for somebody instead of be productive for yourself. Here's what most men aren't going to admit. You don't just need discipline. You need direction. Right? It's like vectors and scalers. Vectors have magnitude and direction. That's what you need. You don't just need and even the consistency. You don't need consistency. You need connection with what you're being consistent with. I'm talking about reps with God. Like God is worth it. Because here's the cool truth. If you can do a thousand pull-ups a day, eat nothing but grass-fed steak covered in some kind of organic butter that you made from the cow's milk that you squeezed yourself and cold plunge until your balls freeze off. But if you are not aligned with something bigger and higher, you're a pack mule with no mission. You're not a beast. You guys in your cold plunges and go, "Let me tell you how tough I am. Get on the mat with me. Let's talk." It's not a challenge to be a tough guy. It's the fact that if you can't roll around with me on the mat for 5 minutes without getting tapped out repeatedly, I don't care how many cold plunges you do. You're like a dingo with a six-pack just running around straight everywhere, bouncing into [\h__\h] and eating garbage. The real morning routine does not begin with cold plunges and supplements. It begins with surrender to God. Every morning I hit 100 pull-ups, 100 squats, 100 push-ups, and 100 bicycles. But that's not the workout. That's the altar. That's where I sit in silence and have a conversation with the guy that gave me breath. There's no music. There's no lighting. There's no performative BS. It's just sweat and pain and a dialogue with God. Because the weights don't lie. Your body can't fake it. But it won't. And God won't play your excuses ever. Your body cannot lie about discipline. Your life cannot lie about your discipline. God won't play your excuses. So when I'm grinding through my reps, I'm laying it all down. All of it. The doubts, the rage, the fear, the ambition. And you know what happens? I don't get relief. I don't. I get resolution. Like I feel it. I feel the weight lift off. I feel the cross changing. And God's I got you, man. And you have to understand like what I'm talking about isn't just religious, it's structural because the human psyche needs something to bow to something that transcends the person, the individual. Otherwise, chaos invades and that's the issue. It all the chaos chaos is the backbone to a disastrous life. The routine that includes spiritual submission, it orders not only your time but your psychology, your soul. It orients your suffering, which is what is required. Without that vertical alignment, every horizontal action is just shallow. It's superficial. How can you operate without connection? I'm not out here talking to God like it's some Sunday school [\h__\h] picnic. I'm in pain. I'm sweating. I'm sometimes cursing. I'm might be bleeding. And that's when I talk to him the most because I know that in the grind I know for a fact God hears me clearly because I've turned down the noise of all the work. See you guys. God God doesn't care if I'm tired. He doesn't He doesn't care if I'm frustrated or angry or sad. He cares that I showed up and he cares that I give it all to him and connect. You want to grow spiritually? Stop waiting for a feeling. Start showing up and to do the reps and speak to God while you're in that suck. And don't beg him for relief. Talk to God. Like the ultimate control in life I believe is knowing when to give up control to someone greater. That's the control. That's the discipline. I train daily. I don't miss. But I know I am not the top authority. A real man knows when to bow to something divine. And the moment you stop thinking that you're your own god, that's when you become powerful. You were born that way. That's when you become powerful again. actually see a lot of you, this is my favorite. A lot of you guys, you enlightened folks. You think God is just an outdated algorithm, right? It's like your I don't know, your grandma's AOL that you got at Target and that weak CD that never gets off your computer, right? You walk around talking about the universe like it's going to just spit. It's like it's your sugar daddy, right? It just spits out success, but you won't give 10 seconds to shut up and listen for a real answer. You guys treat God like a genie in a bottle or like a vending machine, but you won't ever have a conversation. But let me guess, this is the best. When people go, I'm spiritual though. I'm highly spiritual. I'm not religious. Right. Yeah. Dick. You're just a dick. Now tell me how that morning yoga and turmeric smoothie or working out when your world's on fire and your wife's already out the door. Let me know. You're not doing it right. You're not like what would happen if you built your morning routine around hearing God instead of hyping yourself. You're not You guys act like you're confused. You say, "I don't have any direction, Spartan. I don't know what to do. I don't know how to do this. How do you formulate this plan? What's the blueprint? How? What do I do? What do I do? What do I do? First of all, join my damn mastermind to get around people that are successful starting with me and actually step up. Grab your balls. Put your credit card in the machine or swipe it or put the number in. spend 1,500 bucks and actually get yourself the life and the group of people, the tribe of men and women that want you to succeed, but will hold you there cuz you guys will spend that on a television or an iPhone or a porn subscription. It's the fact that you're not going to follow through and if you get around killers, we're going to demand it. Especially me. Good. Just rip the damn B. Like, [\h__\h] You're not confused. You're not You don't have to figure it out. You're not figuring it out or looking for the next thing or doing your due diligence or looking for the next edge. You're avoiding obedience. And what I mean by that is obedience to the things you already know you should be doing. Like you guys know that most of you, please hear me. You have turned your life into a damn science experiment and you play lab rat to every one of these gurus on Instagram trying to optimize optimize trying to optimize the last 2 to 4% of your life when you haven't even mastered the first 98%. Let me make you part of the 1%. Bro, you haven't mastered the 99%. You don't deserve it. You're out here counting molecules in your hydration protocol. I'm going to put powder in my water to make it more water so I hydrate better. You guys are clowns. You guys are buying into all the nonsense out there. You guys are out here trying to get your hydration protocol and your weird smoothie that you drink in the morning, but your marriage is a war zone. Your business is hemorrhaging money and attracting nobody and your testosterone is hanging on for dear life and has it's like riding a roller coaster. And they're all lows. Hey, just to be clear, hot take, most of you don't need another optimization protocol. You need a command. A damn command. You need someone to look you in your eyes and say, "Wake your ass up, shut your mouth, and do the work." No flare, no pens and gratitude journals. Force. Just damn force. Force. Fire. Aggression. ruthless pursuit. That's what you need need. Do the work. I learned the lesson painfully. When your house is burning down, you don't sit around researching the best angle to pour the water on the fire. You grab the hose and you go. I've had my life burned down. Remember, I rolled out of a hospital with nothing, including my no self-worth or ability or money. Nothing. Why does your life still suck and mine's amazing? I'm actually giving you the tools and you're busy arguing with a computer. Don't give me a single excuse that's valid because if you have two working lungs, you're already miles ahead of me. Yet, I am light years ahead of you because I do the same boring [\h__\h] every day to get me to where I want to go and that is all I do. You're too busy trying to do all kinds of other stuff while listening to some kind of Spotify station in your bathroom. Let me explain what obedience looks like. Training when you're sore. I was sore as hell today. You'll see when I posted the work was brutal. I can't even I don't even know why I'm sore today. Might be from those weird landmine pullovers that I started doing today. Thanks Jud's my boy. But you know what obedience looks like? That just train when you're short, when you're tired, when you're angry, when you just don't want to. when your grip hurts, when you got a blister, when your thumb hurts, when you got a headache, when you you have to make an appointment, posting the content, even when it flops, even when you no likes, no follows, no comments, or you get nothing but hate. Being kind, not nice, kind to your wife, even when she's just icy to you. Showing up as a leader when you got no applause, no fanfare, no recognition, nothing. giving. When you feel like keeping everything, when you just want to hoard it all, you just give anyway. Forgiving. That's one of my That's one I honestly had a hard time with for a while. But forgiving. When your ego says, "I'm going to burn you to the ground. Men forgive. Toddlers try and get revenge. It's weak." Obedience isn't glamorous, and you think it should be. It's honestly, it's gruesome, and it's the only damn thing that works. I think people mistakenly believe that optimization precedes discipline. That is that couldn't be more false. It's discipline that forges the clarity. How can you even get that backward? Like comprehension is a struggle for people that think that way. Obedience is the act of shouldering a burden without requiring a reward. Do you do that? By waiting for the perfect system, you are postponing all of the transformation. you keep talking about wanting that you're in the midst of, but you're doing it indefinitely. You're postponing it forever. The man who can't act without ideal conditions is not a man. He's a puppet of his passions and his emotions. Most of you guys are puppets cuz you act on your emotion. No matter what you say, you do. You know what people are that wait to feel good before they work out? I got to be in the zone, man. First, I got to feel good first. I got to be in this. I got to get my song going. I got to be in a good mood. I'm not ready to train you. I got to get my head right. You're a tourist. That's what you are. You're a tourist. That's what I That's what I'm going to call You're a tourist. You visit discipline like it's a vacation place to go just to see and check it out, sniff around. Discipline's war in your flow state. You want flow state, earn it. You want consistency, obey the mission. Like you don't need another ebook or PDF or book or course or something on your shelf. You know what what I needed to do was man the [\h__\h] up and hit the ground running doing all the [\h__\h] that I don't want to do. Those reps after reps sore where we'd been out on vacation or at events. We were in Utah, my wife and I. I couldn't find a pull-up bar. It was cold. We went outside, found an area on the back side of the hotel that had a like a big entrance way to porch and there was a piece of metal razor sharp along the top but it was rigid so rigid. So I drug over a chair, threw a towel over it and did my pull-ups there. While you guys are looking for excuses and reasons not to, I won't stop until I do. There's your morning routine. I would I had to wake up and hit the ground bleeding and running and suffering and struggling until my soul started bleeding respect for myself. You guys don't respect yourself. Obedience isn't optional. It's that's oxygen for you. Like I think you you guys are fail the motivation train that's going on in social media is unbelievable because it's a myth invented by weak people to justify in action and need to be motivated. You're a [\h__\h] You want to be king, but you act like a peasant waiting for some wizard to bless you with inspiration. Kings don't wait, they execute. You don't need clarity. You need command. You already know what to do. You're just too damn soft to obey it. You guys are dorks. You got five apps to track your sleep, four spreadsheets for your macros, you got a two wristbands to track your blood pressure and your cortisol, and zero in your bank account. nothing in your bedroom and your bench press is embarrassing. You ain't optimizing, son. You're masturbating to metrics. That's what you're doing. You are jerking off in the corner to things you think make you important, yet your life is irrelevant. Don't get mad. Fix it. Where in your life are you delaying all the obedience because you're hiding behind optimization? Where? There's no shake that makes you optimize. There's no workout. Discipline first. Discipline first. My grandfather was so tough. I told you 67 years old, maybe 64. He manhandled the [\h__\h] out of me. A snot-nosed 15-year-old kid thought he was as tough as he could be. He threw me around like a rag doll. Here's what's wild. Your grandfather was tougher than you. I don't care what you're about to tell me. And all you don't understand. Clearly, you don't know me, bro. My grandfather was an [\h__\h] He was an alcoholic. He could still kick your ass. He was harder than you. Not different. Not your blowoff of saying he's just from another time. He was harder, grittier. His mindset is what yours should be. You think your good old granddad needed a podcast or some aura cleansing dance or brush yourself with some sage or a playlist that draws out your energy. Grandpa didn't [\h__\h] it drives me. He sure as hell didn't validate his trauma. Grandpa got up before the sun, worked his ass off until his hands were bled and covered in callus, prayed over his family, prayed over his food, went to bed without whining about alignment, and got up the next day and did it again. He didn't need therapy. He needed results. You know grandpa needed to win. Do you know why? Because if he didn't win, people that were counting on him suffered. And now, yeah, you got men trying to self-love their way out of the self-hate they earned by doing nothing of value and becoming nobody of value and you guys getting mad going everybody is valuable. No, you're not. If you don't contribute, if you don't do anything, if you have the discipline of a wet napkin, if you can't do a [\h__\h] thing and you need motivation and inspiration before you get anywhere, you are valueless. You may as well have been eaten on the Serengeti. Get mad. I don't care. I'm right. Cuz the only people that go, "Ah, he's right." are the people that think the same way as I do. Everybody else is looking for excuses validating why they need another dose of Paxel. You don't need more softness. You need standards. High, obnoxiously high, non-negotiable, irrevocable standards. And what's crazy is this. Most of you are more equipped than your grandpa ever was. Most of you guys now have more access, more resources, more opportunities, but you guys are softer, weaker. You have rubber spines, no clarity, no fire because your grandpa's generation taught you the wrong lesson. That's the problem. Grandpa's generation taught you the comfort of success. Don't work too hard. Enjoy life. Hey, listen, Tommy. It's not worth the stress, man. Except you guys took that and made that a religion. You didn't look at everything. You just heard the words and made that your doctrine. Now you are a 44year-old diabetic, broke, pudgy, fat ass, stairmaster running, treadmill walking, unfulfilled, unfaithful, porn addicted, masturbating to AI generated fake women and medicating your conscience instead of fixing your habits. When the old traditions are discarded without any reverence, men lose their archetypes. Because a grandfather who endured, built, and led, he was more than a man. He was the map. That's your blueprint. You abandon that example. You abandon that blueprint. You drift into chaos, which is the very thing we are doing. This isn't nostalgia. It's the structure that you need. The moment that you elevate comfort above contribution, you become a liability to your entire life and everybody after you. Because right now, somebody is watching you and they are looking at you as either their excuse to [\h__\h] up and goof off or their reason to get up and do hard ass things. Most of you guys are the first. Like grandpa, my grandpa Lester, man, he was as tough as it got. didn't need to find his purpose. He was his purpose. Big ass farm. I never saw him sleep in. I always saw him work. He was strong as a grizzly bear to his 80s. Every damn breath was his mission for him. Everything he did had a purpose. He fought, he sweat, he bled. For you, to be honest, for you. Because somebody that my grandfather saw has trickled down and infiltrated your life in some way. No matter what you think. and you dishonor my grandfather. Every time you skip the workout, your grandfather, every time you skip the workout, you get all twitchy and upset and block people and cry when you get feedback. You scroll like a little [\h__\h] through Instagram hoping for life advice. But a podcast like this comes along, tells you exactly what to do, where you're screwing up, and then the path to fix it, and you go, "This guy's aggressive and abrasive, and he hurts my feelings. That's where you are. The problem is that you don't have any problems. You have patterns. You believe that you have problems. That's the issue. You have nasty, screwed up patterns. So, break them all. Violate them. Because the greatest threat, man, it's more. It's the greatest evil like to to any generation to any neighborhood, to any school, to any job, to any business, to bloodline is the weak man who inherits all the strength and squanders it age. Most of our grandparents, I'm 52, most of our grandparents fought in some kind of a war. You guys, most of you guys fight cravings and you lose to the refrigerator. My grandfather built barns and fix things with his bare hands and homes and like sheds. You guys go around layering. He built scaffolding out of excuses. You get mad when you don't get a five-star as a passenger in Uber. Where's your war, man? Where's your war? Grandpa had a knife. One bunch of guns. Grandpa had though one woman. He learned to love one woman for his entire life in one job. Become the best and give them the best. That's what his job was. You therapy dorks. You got nine therapy appointments every week. You've got 20 cold plunge reels on your Instagram. You've got a bunch of gym memberships online, offline, special gym, this kind of gym. And you've got three or four embarrassingly sexless relationships that you're trying to keep going in the background while you're married. And somehow you're so overwhelmed that you can't take action. I'm going to tell you, most of our grandparents didn't even know what dopamine was. And my grandpa, his life had more purpose per second than yours has had for the last decade. You're insulting to the people that have come before you. Look at your life, man. Don't hate on your past. Look at it. Look how tough they were. You going to honor those people? Are you going to run around entitled and expecting approval and people to lower their standards because you've already lowered yours? That's betraying everything that allows you to exist. You're embarrassing if that's what you're doing. Don't get offended. Change it. You don't need another guru. You don't need You don't need another coach, another consultant, another podcast, another program. You don't need another list of hacks. You don't need another secret [\h__\h] morning routine. You needed some execution. Like you already know what to do. You already know what to do. Wake up earlier. Lift heavier. Lift heavier than whatever you're lifting. You're not lifting heavy enough. Sell harder. Call harder. Push harder. Lead stronger. Have more truth all the time in your word. Speak with nothing but truth. Pray like it matters. And live like your time is running out because it is. You wait till tomorrow, but tomorrow you have less time than today. And if you're not doing it today, you think you're going to do more tomorrow, which is what is required. By the way, if you aren't doing it today, tomorrow requires more than today. But you wouldn't do it today because it was too hard. Tomorrow you're going to do more than today. Liar. Get off your ass. You have been exposed to more wisdom than any generation in history. And yet you act like you're confused. You're cowardly. Because when you listen, please listen. When you finally admit that you know what to do, it removes all of the excuses for not doing it. It's not an information problem. You don't lack any. There is no lack of information in the world anymore. It is obedience, direction, pain tolerance, and accountability and application. That's all the stuff that you're missing. So instead of building discipline, you build healing strategies and coping strategies and excuses. Just a [\h__\h] pile of excuses. Come on, man. You don't need You don't need therapy to know your marriage is a disaster and falling apart because you haven't pursued your wife like a man in year. I chased my wife I chased her ass around this morning. She had the best sex. Are you kidding? We We have sex like crazy horned up like in our 20s. Why would you not want to? You guys would rather look up weird AI [\h__\h] How about you just go into your bedroom, rock your wife's world, ask her all, give her all the trust in the world, just disclose everything, every fear, everything you've got, and then watch her do the same thing, reciprocate, and then just give her the best buck in life. You don't need a marriage hack. You don't need a therapist. You don't need a retreat on how to date your wife or be a couple. You don't need a PhD to know that all the processed food with bright colors in it and marry that to skipping workouts makes you fat, weak, impotent, slow, soft, and embarrassing. You don't need another 50 business courses to know that showing your face and making offers builds money and revenue non-stop. Just CTA, CTA, Gary Vee, Jab, right hook, value, ask non-stop. I don't want to sound salesy. Then be broke. Keep living in your dad's basement. What you need to do is act right now. Take action right now. No applause, no certainty, no guarantees, no permission. Just do it. That's what separates kings from all of the excuse makers like you right now listening to this. Modern men hide behind complexity to avoid responsibility. They bury themselves in research and frameworks and blueprints and mental models so they never have to face the mirror of their own inaction. But the truth is incredibly simple. It's your actions that are in disorder. It is your avoidance of all of that disorder that creates the very chaos that you claim to fear, that you keep running away from. You're allergic to the grind. And you think that you're a special little snowflake and you're different. You're not. You think you're that special little cupcake who needs this perfect plan and your perfect little box and the right motivation just to get moving. No. No. Reps. Rep after rep. You need the reps. You need the pain. You need to be as uncomfort the most uncomfortable [\h__\h] that you can possibly tolerate every damn day until you respect the man that you look at every day in the mirror. Get uncomfortable and then just stay there. Stay there and demand that you adapt. The problem is you don't stay there long enough. If you stay in the pain long enough, your body goes, "Oh, I guess you're not leaving." Your mind goes, "I guess you're not leaving. I may as well adapt and level the [\h__\h] up." Successful men, they act before they're ready. 100% of the time, before it's perfect, before they have any confidence. In fact, most of the time they're afraid. They are not afraid of being afraid. No king begs for confidence. They earn it. They get in, grab the shield, grab the sword, stare at Goliath after smashing him in the skull with one smooth stone, and they take his [\h__\h] head. You know what Jesus said? God told David he was going to be a king. He didn't give him a crown. He gave him Goliath. You guys are afraid to fight the giant, and you have a whole line of them in front of you that you have to take out. You're not failing because you're underinformed. You're not failing because you need a little bit more knowledge and another blueprint and one more conversation, one more book, one more course, a little more research. You're failing because you are underexecuted. Four years, we've had the same four years. You've been broke for 4 years. You've been overweight since like probably Obama. Your wife thinks intimacy means watching Netflix and separate rooms, but you're both laying in bed. And your strategy is grabbing a journal to write about why you're stuck. Son, you don't need clarity, man. You need a damn kick in the ass, and you need to grab your balls. The only vision that you need is the one where you get off your couch, shut your mouth, and start solving the life equation, which means solving the problems that you created. Who Who else did it? Nobody. Stop blaming. And that solves every problem you've got right there. What habit, what belief, what task, what decision are you pretending? You guys are pretending. What are you pretending to not be ready for? when you already know it's time. How much time do you think you've got? You already know it's time. Listen, you have exactly two lives. That's it. The one you're living now and the one that you refuse to claim. You choosing the wrong one. that second life. You think it's not waiting for your motivation or the right time or anything or the right conversation or the right cream, the right song, the right person in your life, the right job, the right interview, the right neighborhood, the right time of day, the right sunlight. None of that. It is waiting for you to finally grab your balls and or even grow the balls to suffer for it. You think that it was easy when I walked into my house after losing my lung and having my life completely dismantled? You think that was easy? Hardest thing I've ever done. Cuz not only did I lose that, I lost everything about me. I lost everything that I thought was giving me confidence because I realized I didn't have confidence inside. My confidence and my credit were borrowed. Now you can't shake me. You'll never break me. So, you can bet your ass I've earned everything I am. And you guys get mad about that. I miss the old Trevor. [\h__\h] you. The old Trevor doesn't miss you. You don't like that I leveled up. You don't like that I went, I'm going to burn who I was to the ground because who he wasn't strong enough. I opened my eyes and realized I was a prophet from God. And my job is to build my life as big as possible and put everybody else in it that is willing to come along and bring them to every success they've ever wanted just to fit every dream, goal, hope, aspiration, and anything they have. fit it in my life and take them there with me and teach them how to do it through all of my scars, all of my lessons so you don't have to. That morning routine that we started this all off with, that we talked about at the beginning, it ain't about fitness, kids. It's not about coffee or egg whites or toast or how much pull-ups you can or how many pull-ups you can do or how long it is or how far you run or what it is you are putting in your bar hole as far as supplements go. It is proving every single morning, just every damn morning that you are willing to suffer and bleed for the life God already assigned to you. You want a powerful life, do powerful [\h__\h] You want your kids to look at you and go, "That's my hero. I admire my dad." Then stop being the man who breaks his word to himself. Resurrect yourself first. Then pray with your spouse. Lead your home. Maybe be the reason she brags about you when you're not around instead of the reason that she complains where she is and she's stuck and she just has to stay there for the good of the kids. You want to make millions, billions with a B. All possible. But then earn it. Outwork everybody. Stay in the game and outlast everybody. Sacrifice more. Kill comfort like it insulted your [\h__\h] mama. And then stop. Please stop wasting hours watching other men live the life you were called to build and dropping hate in their comments like a [\h__\h] You're not chasing goals. You're chasing order. Listen to what I just said. You're not chasing goals. You're chasing order. A man without structure is a man devoured by chaos. Again and again, chaos keeps showing up. Your habits are either stacking bricks of destiny or they're digging your grave with a shovel and velvet gloves that you're supplying. That's it. You already know what pain tastes like. You've been through it. You've swallowed. You know why though? It's not the way you It's not what you think. Oh, I know. I've been so tough. No, you haven't. What? Cuz you ran a 5K. I ran my first marathon. If your wife's gone, who gives a [\h__\h] If you had to trash your business, who cares? Winning in one arena is not winning. It's a start. Don't claim to be victorious when you haven't won. You already know what the pain is. Do you know why? Because you've swallowed your own blood, tears, and disappointment for I don't know how many years. So why don't you use it instead of complain about it or swallow it and tell everybody else how great your life was when it really isn't great and you're embarrassed to put in the mirror, but you're lying. Become unfuckwithable. How about that? Because you earned it. every morning, all day, but mostly every morning when it's quiet, no audience except God. Like, you don't get a crown just because you want one, kid. You get the crown after the beatd down and the scars. A kingdom is built on violent consistency and like unstoppable, unbreakable discipline and structure and emotional maturity and control that can't be seduced. It can't be distracted. It can't be [\h__\h] with. It can't be manipulated. That's how you build this. If you still need somebody to convince you ain't ready, then all of this was for nothing. Because the day that a man decides to kill his weakness is the day he stops asking for permission to be legendary. So either get off your ass and go to war for your life, your one life. Go to war for your life or just keep being an embarrassing footnote somebody else's story and build their life every day. That's on you. But it's nobody's fault but your own. Wherever you are, it's nobody's fault but but your own. There's no magic morning routine. There's the morning routine that puts you in the direction that you want to go that you need to go that's going to cause you probably a whole lot of discomfort. But it goes right back to the life equation. Everything that you want here, all the adversity, struggle, obstacles, pain, suffering on this side, solve for X, all this stuff. Solve everything on this side. The outcome is always the victory because the prize hasn't moved. The reward hasn't moved. You keep adding baggage to this side because you are scared because it's uncomfortable. Buckle up, son. That's where the victory is. Like this. This podcast isn't Maybe it's just not for the masses. I don't care. This is for people that are made for more and they know it. You need to hear that ugly, blunt, punch in the gut, liberating truth. That's what this It's already inside of you guys. Everything you want is already inside of you. The only thing standing in your way, it's the person in the mirror every day. So if you're waiting for me to wrap this up and give you something, okay, so what do I do, Spartan? You already know. So get the [\h__\h] to work. I got to go. Never miss.