Man, you guys are so caught up in running your mouth about your opinions on what other people do, but your life is a dumpster fire. So, unless your life is perfect, shut up. Honestly, shut up. So, this is what it is. I've seen a couple of posts, and there's a couple of guys out there, they like to run their mouth about how they're girl dads, but that's a weird thing to say. You're not a girl dad. You're a man. you're a man. I made a post about girl dad apparently as some biological thing, but it's not. You guys are labeling it like that and you are jacking up society. You're a man, so just act like it. Like, we need to dismantle the soft fatherhood narrative because the collapse of masculinity is embarrassing. And honestly, I I think right now this is just a direct call out to men to to reclaim their rightful role as a leader, a protector, a provider, and without apologizing for it. You guys expect somebody to apologize for being masculine, for being strong. That's a toxic thing. But the only people that think that are women that wish they had external plumbing or men who ever moved their external plumbing or soft men who don't want to stand up, who aren't willing to stand up for being a man and leading their house. Like your wife doesn't want to be your mother. My wife is as alpha as it gets and yet she is as feminine, as sexy as you can imagine. But she has no problem being strong in the home. But she also knows that I lead the house. I lead the home. I firmly believe that women create the home and men protect it. I really do. And I think I just want to punch a [\h__\h] hole in the soft, neutered, embarrassing narrative that being a girl dad somehow rewrites your responsibility as a man. It doesn't. You're not supposed to become softer because you're raising daughters. You're supposed to become harder so they know what protection looks like, what leadership feels like, what masculinity actually is. Who the hell do you think your daughter is going to date? I look at my daughter Hope. My daughter Hope is so badass. And I want I want to know that when she leaves on her own, she has enough in her psychology that no bully, no soft beta man who's trying to be an [\h__\h] to her is ever going to take advantage of my child. But you can't do that if you're a soft just neutered male. You can't. She sees me take care of Brandy. She sees me hard on Pierce and love Pierce, my son. She sees me hard on her and love her. And my daughter came home one day. This is how much my daughter knows. And my Listen, if you've been following me for any amount of time, you can't fake how I am. This is how I am 24/7, 365. Love it or hate it, I don't give a [\h__\h] I am who I am. And I promise you this, I'm all man. I'll die to protect my family. I don't slap people into submission. I don't report people and write complaints like all you betas on here that complain about posts that make your feelings just go south. Grow a set of balls. And for all you women that are going, "Yeah, I don't think it's fair. Men should be more in touch with their feelings, you need to take away your balls. Let men be men and women be women. It's not sexist." All of the women that go out there and talk about how they could do any man's job are the same ones that go out there when a man transitions to become a woman and then gets in the ring and shatters your jaw in a boxing match. We're not designed the same. And and I'm just tired of women going anything a man can do, a woman can do better. You guys understand that all the dissent and controversy and confrontation that's being created in our current ecosystem is designed to separate everybody. It's not designed for unification. Men and women, there's no fluid genders. If that's what you think, you and I aren't going to get alone. Okay? God thinks you're disgusting, so I got nothing to worry about. You ain't going to be in heaven, so I'm not worried. You're not supposed to be soft. You're supposed to be a man. But my daughter came home one day and she's 18 and she's sassy. She's salty as hell. She's opinionated and stubborn. I wouldn't have her any other way. Like I love Hope so much. She's my first born and she's It doesn't matter first born, second born, 10th born, by the way, just so you know. But she was my firstborn when they said you were never going to have children. After we had hope, I went I'm going to have as many kids as we can. My wife said you can have two. So we have two. In case you can't figure it out, no deposit, no return. But she came home one day and she was real off when she walked in the door. I was standing at We had this big island in our kitchen and I was standing at the island and I actually think I had my laptop there cuz I stand at the island. It's easier. It's plugged in on the side. There's only Elvis around the outside of the island. She walked past me and I was like, "You just If you're a dad and you're paying attention and I'm not talking, don't be simpy. Oh, baby, are you okay, sweetie? Oh, come here." Don't do that, man. What kind of simpy [\h__\h] is that? And if you say that's what they need sometimes, wrong, wrong. They need to know what strength looks like. And here's what it looked like. She was putting stuff away on the other side of the sink and I said, "Hey kid, I always call her kid." I call my son boy and I call her kid. I said, "Hey kid, you all right?" All she did was turn around and hug me. And when she hugged me, she fell into me with all she had. You know what I did? I dropped everything that was in front of me and I wrapped my arms around her and I squeezed her so tight and I let her know she was safe. I didn't say a damn thing. I just let her cry and I said, "I got you, kid. I got you." That's it. I didn't try to solve her problem or go, "So, what's going on? What's going on with Tell me, hey, it's okay. It's okay. You can cry, sweetie." Nothing. I hugged my daughter and I didn't tell her how much I loved her and how much I was willing to do to make sure she was okay. I made sure she felt it. You guys run your mouth about how in touch with your feelings you are as a girl dad. The second you say you're a girl dad, you're a girl. That's not a compliment. When my daughter collected herself, I would have stood there for two hours if that's what it took. I don't care. She's my daughter. My son. No. See, and you guys will flip out when you hear that. Oh, I'll hug my son. I'll hold my son. I'll make sure he's okay and safe. And then we solve the problem like men. No, I'm not saying women don't solve problems before you guys misconstrue everything. You guys spend your days with color charts looking for things to [\h__\h] about. How about you look in the mirror, [\h__\h] about all that nasty fatness, whining complaint system that you have, the lack of customer service to yourself. But I asked her, "Hey, Joby." I call her Joby. Say to Joby. Yes. I said I call her kid, too, but I call her Joby. I said, "What's going on, kid?" Tear eyed, face all puffy. She told me all about it. She had just broken up with her boyfriend about two weeks prior to that, and she was still really upset. It's something just set it off. So, we talked it out, made some jokes, had some fun, made her laugh, let her know she was okay, and said, "Hey, you need to come knock on my door at 2:30 in the morning just because I'll get up. Dad's got you." See, that's what they need to know. They need to know that dad is strong enough to protect them and protect them in every possible way. You guys are so worried, thinking that exposing all your soft little feelings is what makes your daughter feel safe. What that makes her feel is that there's another one of her girl buddies that she can talk to, but she's got nobody to protect her. If you think for a second that your daughter or your wife thinks that your feelings make her feel safe, you're [\h__\h] dreaming. You don't raise strong women by being a weak man. You raise strong women by being the undeniable standard for what they should look for and what they should never settle for less than. See, I want to be the bar. I want to be the bar. And in fact, I expect to be the bar for every guy she ever sees and goes, "You're not like my dad. My dad would ruin you. You couldn't keep up with my dad. My dad's got one lung. My dad's 52. Look at my dad. He's old as [\h__\h] and he's still crushing it. My dad's strong. Look at what my dad does with my mom. They love the hell out of each other. You don't treat me like that. I took my daughter I used to take my daughter on dates all the time when she was a kid. One time I had this LP560 Lamborghini, lime green, of course, break. It was Ithaca Verde is the name of the color. And I remember I she was young, maybe six. Open the door, let her in. I used to take her out on a date every week. And I told her, I said, "If a guy doesn't open the door for you, you feel free to walk away from that guy. He's not a gentleman ever." And I've been drilling that into my daughter's head since day one. I opened the door, walked her in, dressed her up, spoiled her rotten, opened the door when the valet came with the car, put her back in. I've done that so many times with my daughter. So, she knows. She knows what a man treats a woman like, not a boy treats a girl like. So, you guys in your I'm a girl, dad. Cool. And you think that's a license to be soft, more emotional, more understanding, more passive? No. It's a license to become even more disciplined, more powerful, and more immovable. That's what your daughter needs. That's what your wife needs to see. You think your wife wants to step up and be the man in the relationship? Most of the women out there that are doing that feel like they don't have a choice because the man they married I'm trying not to use a word that's probably going to get which is even weird that I have to worry about what I'm going to say cuz oh heaven forbid you say something bad and it hurts somebody's feelings. Bunch of [\h__\h] little babies. They don't want they're looking at who they married and that is such a soft beanag of a man. It's not a man. He's a male. You don't soften your masculinity to raise daughters. You double down on it so they never confuse a weak man for a good man. Not the same. Like you're a dad. You're a man. Act like it. My dog Kodi. This huge. He's big. This giant Aussie. He's outside. He's about 85 pounds. Just a monster. He's barking away. So, I don't know if this mic is picking it up, but if he is, or if it is, let's go to You don't need to cry with your kid. You don't. You need to lead. You need to lead your kid. You don't need to get in touch with your feelings. You don't need to control your your tears in the way where they should see how soft you are. You need to control your [\h__\h] emotions so they see how controlled you are. You need to model what unbreakable looks like in a world full of breakable soft men. You've got sons watching porn. You've got daughters watching you fold under pressure. And you're out here talking about girl dad like it's some kind of parenting upgrade. It's not. That's a distraction from your real job. Listen, fatherhood is not the surrender of masculinity. It's not. It's the deepening of masculine order. What do you think a father is supposed to represent? The father has to be the symbol of strength, stability, sovereignty, or the entire family unit is going to collapse into confusion and chaos. What are you thinking? To raise competent daughters, the father has got to embody what competence looks like in male form. Code of conduct, clear, high standards, physical protection, emotional self-governance, strategic provision, disciplined action. And most of you guys don't have any of that. And you listen to this and go, "I'm not listening to this. He's just going to make me feel bad about myself." You make yourself feel bad about yourself. By who in the mirror, you [\h__\h] bean bag. You don't raise empowered women by becoming more feminine. Tell me how that makes sense. You raise them by becoming more of a man. You know, my daughter's proud. Like I catch her, she's she wears this 911 shirt, like this Porsche 911 shirt. There's no reason for her to get it other than she's like, "Yeah, my dad has one of those. It's cool." You know what else? She wears a Spartan shirt. She went and got it. Not one of my Spartan Army shirts or one of our Spartan Army shirts. She's I got it because of you. Do you know how [\h__\h] cool that is? Do you know how badass that is? My son wrote me a birthday card. My son's 15 and a half. He's going to be 16 next month. He wrote me a birthday card. You know what he says? You always have been and you always will be my superhero. Most 16-year-old boys aren't going to say that. That meant more than anything he could have ever done. He could have built it, sang it, drew it. I don't care that statement because it let me know I was doing my job. You're not a girl dad. You're a dad. Protector provider example. And before any of you little bettas starts crying about, "Oh yeah, I want my child to see that you carry a to see you carrying a gun and to hear you cursing. Oh, I'm sure that's a real role model." I'll bet you anything that your kid would choose me as a role model over you. How embarrassing is that? Because they look at me as a man. They look at you as some fat, sloppy accountant who has trouble getting out of the couch and who can't get off the park bench to play with their kid. Save your judgment. God's already judging you, man. He's judging me, but I'm doing everything I can to maintain the code of conduct he gave me. What's your excuse? Entitlement. That's your excuse. You found a reason to do less. So, you do it. Instead of leading, you're crying on Instagram. Let me tell you about my divorce. Let me let you the tr in on the truth. Let me tell you about what my kids really confess that they want. Put your kids in our house. If that's you're that crying person, I'll bet you 100 bucks they'll love being here and I'll still be hard on them. But from a place of love and they'll see the example in our children. Why do you think it's okay to do what you do and treat your kids like you're soft? You guys crying on Instagram, posting filtered selfies, and calling yourself a girl dad while your daughter, listen to me, while your daughter watches you flinch every time life throws a punch. You don't need more empathy. You need more testosterone. Like, you need to ball up a little bit and stop stop acting like being a father means you have to apologize for being a man. That's where we're at right now. Like I I was inside just so we're clear where this is even coming from. I was inside about 354 minutes ago and I said to Brandy I was trying to look at things and answer questions because I thought you know what I'm going to look up all the questions that people are asking in general about life, psychology, business, family, fitness, nutrition, health, anything. And if I have any knowledge that's worth imparting on anybody here, I'll do a whole podcast episode after it. And honestly, I sat here and I researched. Believe me, you guys think I just throw this stuff out like out randomly. I don't. And I researched and I researched Hour and a half, two hours, found all these questions and they were just so embarrassing. They were literally things like how to get my wife to accept my dad pod. How to explain that being obese is a medical condition. How to up your depression med medication without sounding like an addict. Like I you wouldn't believe h how to validate alcohol to your spouse. How to get your spouse to accept you for being overweight. These are the things I saw in the Google people also searched for also on Tik Tok. Are you guys [\h__\h] nuts, man? If my grandfather came back from the dead, he would beat the [\h__\h] out of most of you guys. It bugs me that much. And good for him. My grandpa was a badass. Oh, my grandpa was a badass. The farm boy lived into his 90s. He would manhandle the [\h__\h] out of you at 65. Oh, my grandpa was savage. So was my grandma. I never once got up before my grandma. No matter how early I got up, I swear to God, she had a sensor in her room somehow. And every time I got up, she was all like, "Go downstairs." She was already cooking. It didn't I would get up at 4:00 in the morning when I stayed with my grandparents in Pennsylvania. And I would come downstairs from the guest room upstairs. Well, they had a million rooms cuz they had a whole bunch of kids. But I'd come downstairs, there's grandma, lights on and everything. She said, "Oh, good morning." She said, "It would be 4 in the morning. Grandpa's already sitting there having coffee or he's outside working. I never saw my grandparents tired. I never saw them watch TV. They sang. They spoke. They went to church. They talked to God all the time. They loved their kids. They were hard on their kids. They worked on a farm and they ate everything that came from God. They didn't eat any processed [\h__\h] And my grandma could cook her ass off. What happened to all of you? We are one generation from losing men. women, strong sons and daughters, Christianity, God, and you guys are okay with that. You guys are apologizing for being a man. So, as I'm standing there talking to Brandy going, I'm frustrated because I just I can't get connected to a subject that I really need to talk about that's important. And my wife has so much faith in me, and I love that because it's equally towards her. I have faith in anything she does. I never doubt my wife ever. 20 years. I do not doubt a single thing about my wife. And you know what I said? I said, I work best when I just let God go. Here, you need to talk about this. So, here I am. And I think that's the problem is too many people are trying to come up with something instead of just going this needs to be addressed. Like where in your role as a father, and this is gonna I'm sure some of you guys are going to get so pissed off, but where in your role as a father have you softened under the illusion that masculinity and love are opposites? Like how dumb do you have to be? Like it is a cultural lie, a societal lie that daughters need soft men. They don't. They need fathers who are savagely strong and so stable and so resolute and completely immovable that the world feels safer just by being near them. That's my goal. That just being around me, you either can't stand it because my energy is so high or you feel safe. And if you don't feel safe and you can't stand being around me, it's the problem is with you, not me. You're not raising princesses, guys. You're raising future wives, mothers, leaders. And if you show up weak, they are going to marry weakness or become it. That better sit horribly with you because your daughter doesn't need you to become more sensitive. She needs you to be become more certain with yourself. She doesn't need you to understand her emotions. She needs you to show her what emotional control looks like. Because here's what you're not being told. She is watching every single thing you do. And you are either showing her how to trust masculine leadership or how to never trust a man again. And softness, the softness you've got, not going to save her son. Your strength will. You're worried about making your daughter feel seen. Really? You're worried about making your daughter feel seen. How about you make her feel safe? You don't create security with feelings. You create it with presence, consistency, iron, unshakable discipline, which most of you guys are lacking. You want her to grow up strong. Be the blueprint. Don't hand her a book. Show her they're not listening to a damn thing you said. If you guys understand children whatsoever, they aren't listening to a [\h__\h] thing you say. They are watching every single thing you do and going, "My dad, my mom, do that." So you can give them all the instructions in the world. Man, my son knows how to fight. And I mean fight. Like really fight. Not they wrestle around in the backyard. My son's a dangerous son of a [\h__\h] Some of you guys get all weird about it. Oh, what? So you're not a man if you don't know how to fight? No, you're not. Do you have any idea how many fights I got in when I was a kid? Holy [\h__\h] So many. And here's what's even better. 100% of the fights I ever Oh, I was a scrappy kid. What? I'm still am. 100% of the fights I got into by the end of the day, we were walking home together from school. You guys hold grudges like your life depends on it. How How much of a juvenile do you have to be? But if your son doesn't know how to fight, what the hell's wrong with you? He's going to get crippled. He's going to get smacked in the mouth by life and he's just going to fall apart and go running to the nearest therapist to get drugs 3 4 days a week for hours Muay Thai and jiu-jitsu my son since he was four. So if you go well what you're not a man unless you know some kind of a martial art listen I don't care. Take up boxing take up judo. Those are great. Don't sit there and tell me about your taekwondo black belt you [\h__\h] Don't I don't care who you are. I don't care. I've been rolling forever. I will go toe-to-toe with any black belt all day long. You all kick you right in the head. Dude, you're not going to have the chance. And it's not me talking big. You just know it. You know it. But even then, I got some friends that are boxers. Holy [\h__\h] these guys are fast and dangerous. And you think your little fancy JeanClaude Vanam kicks because you got your purchased black belt are going to go against a guy like Mayweather, he's going to hit you with so many lefts, you're going to beg for a right. But you go ahead and keep convincing. It's false security with your pumays and your stuff. Come on, man. You know what's funny is Brandy and I were talking sisters, right? Her and her sister. And my father-in-law, Jess, he's a roofer. That's gritty, man. When you're a roofer in the city, it is a billion degrees up on that roof, and he never came down until he was done. He's a hardworking man. I have a lot of respect for my father-in-law. I'll leave my mother-in-law out of it. But my father, I don't want to do that. So, just my father-in-law, he's a great man. He's a very great man. And and I have respect for him because he's a hard worker. He's a real man. What's funny? He was a girl dad. You know what? He never called himself a girl dad. You know what? My mother-in-law never called him a girl dad. The my wife and her sister never called her a girl dad. My my wife is a former She's a retired pro soccer player. She is so feisty and so tenacious. Holy [\h__\h] She will knock you out. And here's the best part. She even told me, my mother-in-law told me, Autumn, my sister-in-law told me, and they would just he would knock them all over the hall and just just go out in the field and bust on them all the time. And he is an awesome man. And then every once my dad was so mean my feelings he was so rough with me. You know how savage my wife is. In fact my sister-in-law too. My sister-in-law is no slouch. Autumn [\h__\h] She'll slit your throat. I I'm proud of my sister-in-law and my wife. They're both strong women. And I think the problem is they're strong women. Here's the reason they're strong women because they were raised by a strong family. If my father-in-law wasn't a strong man, they would have no no comparison. They wouldn't know what a strong man looks like. Who knows what they would have turned out to be. I you can't know. But I promise you this, it would be less than they are right now. But my sister-in-law, totally self-sufficient. She doesn't need anybody. She's married because she loves somebody. My wife doesn't need anybody. She's married because she loves me. And yes, I've said we need each other. Yeah, that's on a different level. That is soulto soul. God says, "There she is." God said to her, "There he is." But we raise strong children. That's the same reason why those two girls are strong. But you want your daughter to grow up strong, be the blueprint. Some of you guys just went, "I used to get so much static from some of our friends. I'd carry Hope around by her foot upside down. She'd giggle her ass off. I'd toss her on the couch lightly. People, you're going to hurt her. Are you kidding? My daughter is a beast. She wiped out on her bike the first time she I took off her training wheels and she it she ate it. She ate it so bad. Oh, it was so hard to watch as a dad cuz you want your kids to get hurt. That's just I know you guys just your brains just went what? You want your kids to get hurt, you don't want to see it. I'll say it again. You want your kids to get hurt. You just don't want to see it cuz it sucks. It was like when my daughter had her heart broken. It was the one pain I couldn't take away and it just it tore me up inside so bad. You think I could let her see that? No, I hugged her. I'd let her know she could lean on me anytime, 24/7, 365. I didn't care where she was. I'd come smashing through walls, get on a [\h__\h] plane. I don't care. Dad's got you. That's a strong man. I walked out way out into her field one day when she was out there and I knew she was crying. I knew it. I've told this story before and I said to Brandy, "I got to go out there. She's falling apart." Didn't tell. And Brandy was like, "Ah, are you sure? I got you. I know my daughter. She's a mess right now. It was like two days after she her boyfriend broke up with her. He was a dick anyway. So, it doesn't matter. It's not a dad just saying he was a dick. He was a dick. This guy was a soft [\h__\h] bluehaired. I can't decide my gender. What the [\h__\h] were you doing with this idiot? He was an ass clown. But first boyfriend, first serious boyfriend. Puts your heart in a blender and hits frappe. Right. I went out there and her face was all puffy and swollen, crying and all I did was hug her out in the hot sun. Didn't care. Bugs everywhere. I didn't care. I just hugged her. We started I just talked while I was hugging her. Then we started talking. I was out there for 2 hours hanging out with my daughter. I didn't care. I would have stayed out there till the twilight. Wouldn't have mattered. It's my daughter. If your daughter doesn't know that she can count on you to be strong when she's not, what [\h__\h] good are you as a man? You know, my job is to teach her how to be strong. It was the hardest thing to do because I couldn't take away that pain. So, I had to guide her through it because that's the best thing I could do for her. You guys all let me get you a drug and make that go away. Let me help you distract yourself from it. Then she's never going to survive. Strong men teach her how to survive without you. Show her what it looks like to be a man who never quits, who never lies. Most of you guys can't keep your word if your life depended on it. You keep your word with criteria, with conditions. You keep your word, but then procrastinated on the results. I couldn't do it yet. You guys will wait an a year to a year and a half before you make good on your promises that you made in 2024. Dude, I got no faith in you. If you make a promise to me a over a year ago and it doesn't come to fruition, I'm just cool. I don't even put any faith in anything you say anymore. I'm out. We can still be friends, but I'm not going to listen to anything you say. And we sure as hell aren't going to hang out that often. Show her what it looks like to be a man who never quits, who never folds, who never lies, who never leaves. That's how you protect her. That's how you lead, not with words. You need to be a warready example. Just a machine. Like the collapse of masculine strength has led to the psychological disorientation of an entire generation of young women. They don't need a friend. They don't need another emotional mirror. They need a solid pillar. Have you guys not figured that out? They need a man who holds the line, who builds order regardless out of chaos, builds order, who maintains composure under that same chaos so that they can learn to navigate their own storms without worshiping their emotions like you guys do. The stronger you are, the safer they feel. I'll say it again. The stronger you are, the safer they feel. Not because you soften them, but because you don't require them to carry what you were built to hold. You don't raise a strong daughter by crying every time Disney drops a new princess movie. You guys, you raise a strong daughter by showing your daughter that men don't quit. Men, not boys. Men, if you quit, you're not a man. I don't care what you say. I don't care. You go until you [\h__\h] drop. You don't quit. You know why I say never miss? Cuz I don't. And my kids damn well know it. When I rolled out of that hospital, I came home. Even if I would have died, god forbid, they would have seen that their dad never quit right up until the last second. Would you rather see that or that dad quit and took pills and sat on the couch and watched reruns all [\h__\h] day? You raise a strong daughter by showing her that men don't quit, that men stand up, that men protect, that men build, lead, sacrifice, and provide. If you are a broke, poor man complaining about the job that you have that you don't have enough, and you're not taking care of your family, you're not a man. You're not a man. There is no excuse to not be absolutely wealthy and rich in your life. And if you go, "True wealth is my family that loves me." Cool. And then when your daughter and your wife and your son all see you struggling and freaking out and have anxiety and take pills and downgrade your life and sell out on all of the dreams and goals that you had that you secretly spoke about that they heard you talk about that your wife heard you talk about when you first got married. All of that stuff all they do is look at you and go, "You aren't a man. You're a liar." And you are teaching them to do the same thing. I will spoil my family absolutely rotten and make sure they damn well know where it all comes from. Not without any I don't just hand them stuff. You guys, you got to stand up and be a man. Not because it's trendy, but because it's that's the job. What were you thinking? God put you in charge. So lead. So keep your tea parties. That's fine. Keep your recital. Keep your little trampoline in the backyard, but for the love of God, bring the thunder when life gets real because one day your little girl's going to grow up and choose a man. And the only question is going to be, did you show her what a real one looks like? Because are you modeling the kind of man that you'd want your daughter to marry or just the one that you think makes you likable? Cuz that's what you guys do. You need to end that identity crisis you're having. Let women be women. Do your job as a man. I'll say it again. Let women be women. Listen, my wife will cry. She'll hurt herself. Something will happen. She'll fall. She'll some will make her upset. She's emotional sometimes. She also knows how to keep going. I've watched her cry and steal herself with the tears and still keep going. My wife has no quit in her and she'll outlift, outperform out anything athletic, most dudes. I love watching people at gyms try and keep up with my wife and she just murders the [\h__\h] out of them. All 120 lbs, 5 foot2 wife just destroys these people. And she's not cocky. She just knows. You realize that's every woman, right? But you know why she's like that? Because she had strong men in her life. Her dad coaches me. The masculine role has been diluted. It's been mocked. It's been erased and inverted. And fathers are now more worried about being emotionally accessible than being spiritually grounded, physically present, and mentally unshakable. You want to protect your daughter? Stop trying to be both parents and start being the [\h__\h] father. You want to be a good dad? Because the answer should be hell yeah. Then be a great man. Stop trying to carry both energies. Stop it. She doesn't need you to be soften. She doesn't need you to be soft and safe. She doesn't. She needs you to be stable. She needs you to be savage. Let women be women. Let them nurture. Let them lead emotionally. Let them create a home. Your job isn't to match that. It's to protect it. If she sees you weak, she questions all of it. Look, you want to you want to cry because being a dad is hard. Oh, being a dad is hard, but you want to cry about it. Cool. Cry in private. Don't share your little tears with your daughter. Let me show you. Disgust me. Cry in private and then get your ass back in the arena. She doesn't need a dad who matches her feelings. She needs a dad who's conquered his. Do you know why though? So she can see what real composure looks like. So she can see that storms never ever scare strong men. You want her to grow up strong? Then how about you stop being scared of your own [\h__\h] role? Because every household, you understand, every household runs on these unspoken agreements. Whether you like it or not, that's still a fact. When the father abandons his post as the leader, as the protector, as the builder, the entire structure begins to dissolve. Masculinity creates the container, femininity fills it. I say it again. Masculinity creates the container. The femininity, that's what fills it. But if a container cracks, everything collapses into chaos and disorder. Let your wife be soft, nurturing, and expressive. You be the firewall. That's your job. That's not oppression. That's divine balance. That's the only time in your life that you should have balance right there. Not with your job. Not with te-ball in the park. Right there. Masculine feminine. You're not her best friend. You're her [\h__\h] father. Your daughter's not supposed to see you sobbing over Tik Toks and quinoa recipes over what you saw. Busy watching episodes of Murder, she wrote. She's supposed to see you hold the damn line while the world goes soft. Let mom love all over her. You need to show her what steel looks like when everything else bends. Whether you like it or not, she is looking at you. Because if she's not seeing that in you, she doesn't even think it's possible. And when some little punk ass, just some little soft blue-haired [\h__\h] tries to date her, you won't have to threaten him because the shadow of your discipline will already have spoken. And that boy, he's not going to come around too much. How about where in your household have you muddied the water, blurred them your masculine role instead of embodying it? What's that confusion costing your family? Huh? You ever think about that? Like you need to crush the fantasy that your daughter is just a little pink princess. Your daughter ain't porcelain. She is walking talking potential. Your job isn't to shield your daughter from discomfort. I think you guys are confused. It's to prepare her to conquer every single ounce of it. You're not raising a princess. You're raising a woman. What? And the version of dad that she sees will either become her standard or her silent trauma. And she'll carry that with her for a long time because of you. So which one is it going to be? Stop calling her princess and start calling her a future queen. I get you guys. I'm tired of guys calling their wife a queen. My wife is a queen. She's a savage, dangerous beast of a queen. That's what queens are. If you're tired of it, it's cuz you ain't a king. You're just a peasant. You know why? Because a princess waits to be rescued. Queen builds a kingdom with a king. And if you keep babying your daughter, you keep babying her, you keep overprotecting her, you keep softening your tone so you don't hurt her feelings, she is going to grow up fragile, fake confident like all the crap on social media and she's going to be lost. Your job isn't to keep your daughter soft. It's to make her strong. You know how she does that? By modeling. Your strength is not your safe space with your feelings. You want to keep her safe. Stop making her soft. You don't I have a daughter. My daughter's a badass. I wonder how she got that way. Cuz her parents are bad asses. Cuz we have high standards and we've never wavered ever. You don't prepare a daughter for life by buying her glittery backpacks and pretending the world ain't brutal, son. You prepare her by being the [\h__\h] example of how to take the pain eat pressure and come back harder every single time. You teach her how to get back up. Your job should be to make damn sure that she always believes in herself. That your ceiling is her foundation so she can go higher and further than you ever did in your life. You want her to believe in herself, then show her what it looks like when when a man handles business no matter how he feels. Our kids have seen me handle business no matter what. See, a woman's power is it's often shaped by the men who made her feel either safe enough to grow or uncertain enough to shrink. I was trying to think of the best way to say that, but that's it. Did you make her feel safe enough to grow? Or did you make her feel completely uncertain so she shrank? Because if your daughter doesn't respect you, if she doesn't trust you, if she doesn't believe in your example because you don't, she will seek out validation from men far less qualified. And let me help you that that's not because she's flawed. It's because you were. She was underled. Lead now. Lead now. Get off your ass. You justify your fat belly, your broke poor job, your empty bank account, your shitty relationship with your spouse, the crappy house, crappy car, just low-level, impotent, disgusting standards while you yell at football games on TV. You guys justify that. Lead your family. Lead your daughter or watch her look for structure where none exists. And then what? You going to blame her? You ain't raising Snow White. Stop thinking you are. You're raising a woman who's going to live in a world where people lie, cheat, manipulate, and dominate. So instead of teaching her to sing to [\h__\h] animals, how about you teach her to spot a weak man and avoid him like a like the plague, like some toxic drug. Stop calling her your little fairy princess like she's entitled to magic. Listen, this might come out harsh, but your daughter ain't entitled to [\h__\h] What she gets is what she earns. And what she earns is built on what you created. It's on your shoulders how she turns out. Maybe this you guys should ask yourself, am I preparing my daughter to be powerful, principal, and protected, or just pampered and emotionally dependent? Your daughter will measure every man she meets by the man who raised her. I'm damn well setting that bar so high most guys that show up at the house are terrified. And somebody's going to go, "That's not healthy either. Why would I lower my bar for who walks through my door?" So if your daughter grows up with a father who's soft, indecisive, passive, apologetic, always seeking approval instead of asserting leadership, she won't respect men. She's going to either dominate them or resent them. Oh, I promise. Because the scan the standard that you set, it's not what you say. Your actions and your words don't match. You run your mouth, but you don't back it up with action. You got no receipts. It's what you model. You don't want your daughter to end, listen, no dad does, but you don't want your daughter to end up with some soft emotional codependent man male. You're not a man if you're like that. Stop being one. If that's what you don't want, then stop being one. She's watching. She's learning. And she is absorbing every She's taking notes on your whole life. And when she's old enough to choose, she's not going to pick what's logical. She's going to pick what's familiar, which is you. And if she grew up watching you chase validation, apologize for masculinity, and lead like a coward, which isn't leading, then that's what she's going to accept. Or even worse, that's what she'll become. You You say you want her to respect herself, you guys all talk about it. All you girl dads, stop calling yourself a girl dad. You imagine what your son thinks if you have a boy and a and a girl and you go, "I'm a girl dad." What does your son think? How many of you men go, "I'm a boy, dad." You're just a dad. How about you be a man? You You want her to respect herself and give her a man worth respecting? How about you stop drinking? Stop validating your fat body. Stop validating one zero in your bank account. Don't get offended about it. Do something about it. You are in a world that you can learn any skill set required and change your psychology so you actually apply it. The problem isn't the blueprint, by the way. The pl the problem isn't the information for all you broke poor people out there. The problem is your lack of implementation. I started broke three and a half years ago. Stop sitting there and validating why it's different for you. It's not. I'm a 52year-old athlete now. If you go, "Oh god, here we go. This guy's an athlete." Listen, I can run, jump, change directions so fast and juke out, and break ankles with my son all day. That's an athlete. Why? Why would I not want to be proud of that? Listen, you guys get offended when somebody does something that you aren't because it's holding up a mirror to everything you've quit on. What do you think your daughter sees? Give your daughter a man worth respecting. Stop drinking. Stop being a disappointment. Stop disappearing. Stop making excuses for why you're fat, frumpy, and gross. Stop making excuses for being out of money. Stop making excuses for why you never have time. You want her to believe in men. How about you show her a man that gets the job done? I don't mean once in a while either. If you go, I do. Sometimes, every time. A daughter's blueprint for male energy comes directly from her father. There's no variable there. She doesn't need you to be perfect. She needs you to be anchored. Don't start talking about being present. She needs you to be immovable, solid, and anchored. Anchored in purpose, anchored in principle, anchored in power. If she sees you collapse under pressure, apologize for strength, and seek emotional rescue every time life gets hard, she's not going to respect men, she's going to run from them. Or worse, she's going to become one almost out of necessity because of you idiots. Let me be real clear. You don't want your daughter dating some clown and joggers and a septum ring. If that's if you don't want that, then how about you stop being a clown in a hoodie with a beer gut, no drive, and no leadership and nothing but excuses. Be the [\h__\h] standard and make sure the standard's high. You're not just her dad. You're her first definition of masculinity. What are you doing? And if she grows up confused about what a man should be, that's on you, brother, not her. How about you ask this? Would my daughter grow up respecting men? because I modeled it or in spite of me. Cuz if you dig down that hole, you're going to see exactly who you are. Stop being a [\h__\h] You're not a girl dad. You're a dad. You're a man. So [\h__\h] act like it for once. I got to go. Never miss. This is where they die.