Man, it's been a hell of a day. It's already 6:30. I was inside talking to Brandy and we talk about all kinds of stuff and she's my best friend. If you don't know, now you do. If it's your first time here, thanks for being here. If it's not, you already know. But in all of you guys listening, thank you for giving me your time. Thank you for giving me your ear. And if you're putting into practice anything I'm telling you, I appreciate that. The whole point of my life is to help and save as many people as possible. I firmly believe that and I've believed that since I opened my eyes after surgery and nothing's changed and it never will. It's my job. But yeah, listen. You want to know the truth? And I thought about it today when Brandy and I were talking. I'm like, delay of gratification has cost me more than anything else in my life. And everybody talks about delay of gratification. Man, it has screwed up my life so bad. And it has also created more victories. And I can c Let me explain. Every failure, it it can always be traced back 100% of the time. Same with you. Everybody, every failure I've ever had, every 52 years, it's always going back to the same thing. I didn't delay gratification long enough. But you have to be willing to look at that. And it's not because I was lazy and I or talentless or it sure as hell wasn't because I didn't want it. It's because I wasn't patient enough. And I think a lot of especially nowadays, you look at social media, right? I wanted to feel the progress. I wanted to feel that I was actually accomplishing something. What I really wanted was the proof before I even got it, right? I wanted the proof before the promise. And that that's it's a disease right now. And it's cost me millions. It's cost me relationships. And it's cost me time. As much as I'd love to sit here and talk about how savage I am, I'm still 52. And had I done this at 22, my life would be radically different. But I can also say at 52, if I go, and this is the mindset a lot of you guys have, by the hell with it. At 52, missed my window, man. May as well just go out with a bang. And then you become a Walmart greeter at 65 because you made a bunch of stupid decisions and you didn't delay the gratification. And like it, the delay of gratification almost cost me my life. It definitely almost cost me my self worth, who I was. But but here's the other side of this. Once I actually understood, I really understood it, every single thing in my life changed. It it is it's the most formidable force in the universe. Delayed gratification isn't just some fancy nice idea on social media that I don't know, some soccer mom with a coaching certificate all of a sudden thinks she's Anthony Robbins. That's not what it is. It's not just this discipline hacked or some productivity tool because you guys are always looking for something. It is the most powerful force in the universe when it comes to winning because it's the root of every empire. It's the DNA in every single legendary person that has ever existed in the history of mankind. It's the one common trait between every world changer that you admire, that you guys look at, and every outcome that you want. to be honest, the difference between even something simple as money because money is easy. Money is so easy if you're willing to delay gratification and you're actually looking at what can I give, not what can I take. And I I'll use myself in his as an example. I come out here every day because I go, what can I give? Absolutely. I'm going to promote my mastermind. But first of all, at $1,500 for a year, I think it's suicide not to do it. And I do it at that price point cuz people go, "If it's so good, why is this so cheap? Working one-on-one with me is a hundred grand." So, it's not cheap. It's inexpensive because I want everybody to have access. And if people go, "Not everybody has $1,500." Everybody can find $1,500 for a year. Anybody can find it, borrow it, beg it, create it, manifest it, sell a kidney. You really don't know. But you have to decide that is it worth it or not. Because even at $4,997 for a lifetime, you can you'll never pay again for anything. I have grown in the last four years so monumentally, not just with myself, but in in this company. And we've built like companies have been built off of this company and like Elite Biogenics. You want to know how big this peptide sarm company's going to be? Buckle up. I give it two years and we will be getting offers to buy our company. People will looking and we're talking nine figures to buy the company. I'll guarantee it. I'll say that right now and I'll speak that into the universe. Nine figures, 10 maybe even because nobody's doing anything like we are. My business partner Sean and I are. We're going to change a world doing this and healthcare for that matter because we've both had catastrophic circumstances, him and his family and me with me. And so that's a pivot. that all of these companies that we have or or that I have and then with my partner like Brandy and I built empires together because of delayed gratification. But every lesson I've ever learned are lessons that you never have to have. You could just take the you can just take the results and just apply them to your life. You don't have to go through the hell $1,500 a year, 144 live calls a year, three calls a week with a person that actually gives a [\h__\h] that wants you to win. Everybody looks for the easy way and that's why you won't win. Because like I said, even if you have to spend a year paying off a $1,500 credit card, why wouldn't you? If you get one thing out of it that changes your life because you applied it, it's priceless. Think about one piece of business advice that actually made your first sale that you can now replicate. Think about one piece of advice that you get that saved your marriage that now you can replicate. One health piece of health advice. I give out I don't dole things out with an eyropper. I just like fire hose of information. That is almost the most common response when people get into the VIP areas. They It's like drinking from a fire hose. This is insane. I had no idea this there was so much behind you. That's all the offline content and the content that's just in my VIP area. It's thousands of videos. There's so much stuff in there. Whether it's sales or business or branding or mindset or psychology or fitness or injury, it doesn't matter. It's all in there because I'm building the greatest mastermind in the world because I want people to win. I want to help people. Everything I do is predicated on helping. I might come out angry and bitter and gritty and just not bitter, just angry and gritty and rough. It's because I'm disappointed in mankind because I want everybody to win. But it comes back to the most powerful force in the universe. It it's delay of gratification like it is the root of every it is in it is the DNA inside me that has changed my entire life that everybody else has inside them because that's why you're alive. It's the difference between broke and wealthy. Just like I said at the beginning with money delayed gratification 100% of the time because if you can't delay gratification you can't because people I thought compound interest was the greatest force the the eighth greatest wonder of the universe or whatever it is but you can't apply compound interest without delay gratification. Do you see what I mean? It's the foundation that all else all other things are built on. So the difference between broken wealthy, delayed gratification. The difference between fit or fat, delayed gratification. The difference between chaos or peace, delayed gratification. Do you know why I think most people, and I say this with resentment for the mindset that you have that's costing you the life you wish you were in, which is you know why most people are broke, they're weak, they're bitter, they're soft, and they're screaming like they're just whailing and screaming into comment sections on social media, Tik Tok and Instagram and everything. It's because they can't do the simplest, most savage thing. wait. They can't They can't wait. They can't wait. They can't delay. They sure as hell can't grind. They talk about it. Another grind day today. Yeah, but you're at home hitting snooze, drinking your third latte. They can't obsess. Even though I already explained what obsession is, and it's required. Obsession trumps balance any day of the week for success. You can't have balance if you want to be successful. If you want to be exceptional, you cannot have balance. I said that yesterday or the day before. they can't do the people that are in your comment sections or in your life that are hating and screaming and pissed off and writing paragraphs about justifying their position or going against yours. It's because they can't wait and go without go without seeing any progress whatso I didn't see progress for weeks, for months, for years in certain things for as long as it takes. You need to be able to do it not a timeline. No timeline exists. Just for as long as it takes. If you want a guarantee for success, I 100% guarantee. Suffer with a smile, baby. Suffer with a smile while everyone else cashes out early for just crumbs and garbage. Because people go, "Why don't you stop, man?" I had somebody yesterday because I said my average workout is 400 to 600 reps. And then I get inundated with all these fragile adults and their questions about and their comments, "Bro, no wonder you're injured." I address them all in my post. I don't need to talk about them again. But I don't train for you. I train for me. But do you know why I don't stop? Because I've already seen what it costs when you quit and when you quit early. I've already seen that. I've been down that road. And some of you are in that road. I've seen what it looks like like what it feels like. And I've seen the results, the chaos, the disaster when you sell your soul, your legacy for a damn cookie or for a like or for a heart or for some hit of dopamine or taking your sad day because it's a mental health break that turns into 6 months of absolutely nothing because you can't pick yourself up off the floor. You don't get to be resilient if you fold at the first moment. Gratification isn't instantaneous. I know people personally, I don't associate with them anymore, who called themselves resiliency experts who would send me messages about how their marriage is falling apart and how they can't get things done and they're not making money and their business is failing, then you're not resilient because real power, real results are built in the dark. The only reason I even came out and showed everybody every single day when I was doing this was because my life sucked and I wanted people to see it because I knew where I was headed. I knew it. I knew I was going to be here and I already know where I'm going to be in 10 years. It's at a level that's so high some of you guys can't even comprehend it because I'm going to help that many people cuz I want to because I want you guys to win so bad. But in order for you to win, I have to be resilient. I can't quit cuz if I quit, you're believing in my future. You're not believing in what I did yesterday. You're not believing in all the I'm not going to polish my trophies of yesterday and tell you all the things I did that polish all the turds I have from yesterday and go look at remember what I did. You're never going to buy into that. I wouldn't buy into that. What you're going to do is you're going to buy into my vision and my soul that's going, I'm going over there. You coming? And those are the people that go, "Yeah, you bet your ass, Spartan. Let's go." Because that's the power. That's the legacy that's built in the dark when you show up when there's no applause, no likes, no proof, and you still put in the damn work. I see right now the disease is Come on, bro. You only live once, man. I'm living in this 44th floor in Dubai with this stuff. Yeah, but you're leveraged to the max and you hate your life and you can barely afford your life, but you look rich. There's a lot of gurus dropping off right now because they went to look rich because they didn't delay gratification. I still got it. Might listen, I'm not insulting my 911 or anything else we have. I love that car, but that's I haven't bought anything since then really other than that Rev, but I haven't gone nuts. You You can sit there and look at my watch and go, "How's how much is that watch?" Doesn't matter. I've had it for a long time because I have a bigger mission. I have a bigger expense that I'm going to have to take care of. I have a bigger life that I want to live. So, when you guys go, you only live once and it's not relative. Yeah, if you only live once, then listen to me. Maybe stop living like some Tik Tok zombie hooked on vape pens and instant Amazon deliveries, right? Some Uber Eats that shows up every 2 hours. You don't need some epiphany. You need a damn backbone, most of you guys, to stay in the game and hold your game face no matter what. I don't mean stay in the game and cry and sit in the corner and point at everybody else that's winning because everybody who's pivoted after life kicked him in the balls was never really committed. Right? If you made a pivot when you got just punched in the stomach, you weren't committed. You're a tourist in a game. You're not a player. You're in the stands and you're way up at the top yelling at people that can't even hear you because they're too busy winning. Don't tell me your trauma changed your values. You need to tell me that your values survive the trauma because the highest expression of psychological maturity is the ability to subjugate your present comfort for your future potential. And it's getting worse every year. Which is why I come out here every day and I go, "Nah, you need to do better." And I get so much static from this. But I'm right. Y'all are just getting soft because the man who can sustain delayed gratification over a long enough time develops and not just you're not just a master, you develop character and depth and power and you actually transform because you're no longer ruled by feelings. You're governed by aim. I'm going there. What's getting in the way? Nothing. Nothing. Because right now, society is telling you to seek pleasure. Even with just looking at your phone, how many times a day you look at your phone? You want to know if you don't have any extra time, you can't get your [\h__\h] together, look at your screen time on your phone because that's we own online companies and I don't check my phone a ton. Societyy's demanding that you seek pleasure. You chase all this comfort. You you buy the thing that has no long-term value that gives you nothing just to feel good and then relax because you deserve that break. That's the lie that's killing it. You want that life that you just you secretly talk about, right? You scroll, you look at everybody on social media, you go, I wish I had that. Yeah. You want to win in a way that makes history. Then here it is. I'll tell you this is the most binary blueprint on on on the planet and it's 100% guaranteed to work. Learn to wait. Don't smolder. Burn. You sit cor burn blaze burn on fire and learn to suffer with singularity of focus. Not suffer randomly. Deep dark ugly suffering in the direction you need to go and delay that reward for long enough that the honestly the universe has no choice but to pay you what you're owed. Because otherwise what you're going to do is you're going to say I tried for so long and I never got any results so I quit. Then you didn't try long enough and you wasted your time. See, it's a waste of time. If you go, I made 100 sales calls. How many sales did do you make? None. But I made my 100 calls. You wasted your time. May as well. Really? If people go, you got You try and expand out some value to it. Come on. That's not true, bro. You got practice. You don't think that doing a 100 bad reps is better than doing one? No. You do it until you get the good rep and then you practice those good reps over and over again. So, they're ingrained in your brain, neurologically, in your psychology. You don't stop until you get one good rep and now you know what it feels like. Now keep going. Why would you stop until you get at least if you tell yourself you're going to make one sale a day and every day you get in touch with a 100 potential customers, prospects, and you never make a sale, you're wasting your time. Go out and cut loans. At least you'll get paid. I'm not kidding. Go and cut loans on. At least you'll get paid. I guarantee you I could create a landscaping business that'll do a million a year easy. And I could do it inside of two months. And if somebody, some landscaper's on here going, "Oh, [\h__\h] bro." Challenge me. Send me a message right now. I'll even build it for you. But you're signing a contract that says, "I keep 90% because you're so stupid and you're arrogant." Because you're too busy justifying why you can't instead of going, "All right, I'm in. Let's do it." Because I guarantee you, if it's a million dollars and I keep 90%. You're still going to get more than you're making right now. Stop looking for reasons to validate why you are where you are. Just fix it. Because every time you pick up a a now, right? You pick you pick now. Whatever it is, now over the future, you're robbing your life. The only person stealing from is you. Whatever it is, it's always that stupid dopamine hit on your damn phone. Or easy. People go for easier goals just because they're easier instead of going, "Yeah, but that's what I really want." Or your cheat day. What the hell is a cheat day? That's a weird invention because I eat the same every day except Sundays I have donuts. But that's not a cheat day. I've just been doing it for 20 years. Oh, that's your cheat day though, bro. It's not. It's honestly part of my diet. I could go with it without it. I It doesn't matter to me. I eat two dozen cookies every Saturday. What now? I have crazy food and like we're talking like you steak, shrimp, burgers, fries, gravy, you name it. Mashed potatoes, cheese, all of it. On Friday with my wife on date night, I'm going to go inside. I'm going to eat a ton of fish tacos with cheese and sour cream and pico de gallo. You just like guaca, you name it. You guys, the thief is your inability to stay in the game long term. Right? Like I said, the cheat day. Why? Did you get the results? No. You didn't deserve it. Then the Friday off, you go home early. That's the villain. All of those things. That's the villain. And you're not a victim of it. You're You had your partners. You're a villain, too. Most people don't lose to a catastrophe. You know that, right? They don't lose to trauma. They don't have some massive tragedy. They lose to themselves. the desire for something easy and your need for results before you're even ready, before you even earn it, they lose because they need to feel good right now. And that's promoted. I think what ruins most people comfort I it goes in every capacity. It's probably a little more than that. Comfort, convenience, click to ship it right now. Instant relief. Feelings over facts. That's my favorite. You guys and your feelings. Those are more important. Your fact checkers are all based, they should be called feeling checkers. You're addicted to being soothed. But the flip side of that is you have this, it's like an anaphylactic reaction to being great, to being exceptional. The universe doesn't reward people who need comfort. It rewards people who can walk through hell, spears thrown at them, demons attacking them, everything going against them, and they never blink. That's who gets the reward. So, just accept it and and start walking because you want millions. Let's just stop there. You want millions. Yes, everybody should go, "Yes, I do." And not for the money, for who it makes you makes of you as a person, who you have to become as a person in order to earn it. And then the freedom it gives you once you have it gives you options. If you want millions, you want it get comfortable without getting paid for a really long damn time. You guys come out going three months, I want to be a millionaire. I know people that couldn't stick it out for a year because they had some catastrophe happen. Somebody passed away. So what? People died. Listen, I'm not discounting that. I lost my dad. My world didn't stop. It sucked. But I still kept moving the exact same pace. And if your response to that is not everybody's like you, then you should be. It didn't mean I It doesn't mean I didn't grieve. I went to his funeral. I sat there. I baldled my eyes. It was horri. It still bothers me. It's been 12 years. I miss my dad every day. But the world doesn't stop because the Spartan is sad or angry or upset or tired. When I was in the hospital for months and months, I didn't see my family. I'm being carved up like a Thanksgiving damn turkey. And none of you guys stopped. Did you guys all stop your life and go, "He he's down for the count. I'll wait." You didn't. So why would you expect anything else to stop? You guys are expecting something from when you're not willing to give to you want the body like millions don't get paid then for a long time. It's okay. I didn't make money for well over a year. Nothing. In fact, I was believe I have a client Tom Commerce 14 months nothing. A million dollars in zero. Next thing $200,000 weeks. But he had to be willing to go 14 months without making a dime and go a million dollars in the hole. Almost 980,000. He's in our group. He is a one-on-one client. I love this guy. Him and his family, his kids, everybody. But he listened to what I told him. Go figure. You want the body? Get comfortable with zero compliments while you have that pudgy stomach. Still, nobody's going to call, "Oh, are you going to the gym? You look the same." Okay, you want the empire? Get comfortable watching everyone else succeed while you're in the dirt building something so legendary that when it happens, everybody's going to call you lucky. Oh, you just blew up overnight. Yeah. Working feverishly and tirelessly for a decade. Overnight success. That's how you guys look at it because you don't see the work behind it. Delayed gratification is a single signal that you've got the damn balls to hold the line because everybody else just cave. You guys fold. Here's what I mean. They buy the Lambo before they have the foundation. They party before they've earned anything. It's always the easy route, right? They preach about this stupid realignment just to cover up the fact that they quit. Ah, I just I'm got this realignment. I changed my position because this happened. No, you didn't. you quit and you're trying to make yourself feel better for quitting by convincing everybody else that's what you're doing even though everybody else can smell through your [\h__\h] except the idiots that you recruited into your circle. You don't need another plan. You don't. You need a whole lot more time in the suck because every everybody wants the outcome, but nobody wants to be the one who trained for 5 years with no claps, no awards, no victories, no praise, no movement, and still woke up and did it again every single day. That's delayed gratification. That's savage. Yeah, that's what I do every day. You want You want to know why I train like I train? Because of that. I'm just going to keep showing up. That's why most people will never make it because you guys want evidence. I don't need evidence. I am the evidence. Like I I tried a program for this is what people say. I tried a program for I don't know like a week or two weeks. Even the 90-day programs, you guys in your week 90-day programs, I just didn't see any results. Yeah. Really? That's where you're going? Cool. And I drank booze for a month. I didn't see any abs. And I didn't shave time off my run. And I didn't get stronger either. That's how stupid you sound. I ate cake and cookies and ice cream every day. And I didn't see my abs get muscular. It's the same as you. I tried it for 90 days and I didn't see any results. You guys want 90-day results. You want 10 year results in 90 days. You won't even see anything in 90 days. How about that? You ever just try shutting the hell up for a year? Just shut up for a year. Shut your mouth for a year and just execute. Tuck your head and go to work. Get in the trench and go to work. No matter what people say, no matter what kind of hate or complaints or people pointing at you going, "Oh, it's not working." You know, haha. People do that, too. It's weird, right? Like when you don't succeed right out of the gate, all the people that want you to fail are the ones that go, "I told you." But they're still in the same life they've had for the last 10 years serving popcorn at the movie theater wondering why they make 19 grand a year and they struggle to survive and they're double wide. I don't want that life. Nobody wants that life. Every time you bail on a process because it didn't give you the I don't know the concert fireworks exploding out of the stage in the first 10 minutes, you just told the universe that you don't deserve a damn thing. That's what happens when you bail. You tell God in the universe, I'm not worth it. I don't want it. Because if it was that easy, every inst every one of you Instagram influ influencer influencers, let me try that again. influencers would be a billionaire married to some supermodel with a six-pack, a yacht, a private jet, and a fleet of Bugattis and Lam Lamborghinis. But you're not because you all need results now. So, you spend 10 grand a month on a car when you're only making 8 grand a month. And you leverage your house to make yourself look rich till your house goes away. And now you're living in your mom's basement, but showing pictures from last year. Show a picture of your mansion from last year. not your little [\h__\h] bucket that you live in right now because your life collapsed. You're a coward. And there's a lot of you guys out there. I I show exactly where I'm at. My garage, my wife, my training, my cars. That's me. But we built this. See, the man that can't delay gratification is a slave to his environment. He's a slave to his own impulses. Man, that is the lowest dimension of your character. You know that, right? when you're a slave to that knee-jerk reflex. That is the lowest frequency, the lowest dimension of your character. Delayed gratification isn't merely about success. It's about the integration of the self, you, the self, into something powerful and ordered, noble, right? Legendary. And until a man can willfully suffer, and I mean suffer in service, not just stand there and boil in a pot, but I mean suffer in service of some higher aim, something that you're desperate to achieve. He will continue to suffer at the hands of short-term choices that feel good but destroy you over time. That's how it works. All like that man, that's what will happen. Those short-term choices, they'll feel great, but they'll destroy that man over time. I've been that man. And some of you are still that man. Now is not your friend. Now is your test. Man, that's good. That's true. Huh? But the test, it's your ability to resist it defines the entire architecture of your future. Can you resist now? How about this? Stop asking how long it's going to take. I stopped asking that the day I opened my eyes after the hospital. didn't ask. I just went, I got to get to work. Ask if you're willing to go as long as it [\h__\h] takes. See, it doesn't. There's no date. If you're willing to just keep going, you'll win. Most people fold day one, maybe week one. The winners 10 years, 15 years, no applause, nothing. Except then they own the whole [\h__\h] game. People call them lucky. my phone. This makes this weird sound when it's sitting here. For all of you guys listening, what I just did is my phone was making this weird noise. This is a glass right here. It says tempered glass my desk. My phone is sitting here next to me. It started buzzing. It was wigging me out. Where are you choosing short-term comfort or the life you want being exceptional? What's the price? You ever ask him what's the price you're paying for that trade? It's more than you should be paying, by the way, because it's costing you your future. You know what nobody wants to hear? That you're not failing. You're just quitting too early. How many of you guys right now think you're failing? Liar. You're quitting too early. Or you're believing in other people that tell you they're going to come rescue you. Do it yourself. [\h__\h] them all. Build it. But you're not failing. You're quitting too early. You're not incapable. You are incredibly impatient and you're not unlucky, which is the mo, oh, I'm just unlucky. No, you're not. You have no discipline. You haven't stayed in the game long enough for all your outcomes to materialize. So, you don't suck that bad. You suck at being you, but you don't suck at whatever you're doing. Because if you stayed in the damn game, imagine if you did, you'd be unstoppable because you stayed. everybody else. Just stay in the game so long that everybody else that's competing against you just drops off and you're the only one left. The one variable that nobody talks about is time. It more specifically, how long can you go without any validation is what I should probably say just so I clear up all because oh everybody has time. How long can you go without being validated without any results? No applause, no hearts, no likes, no account, no nothing, no money, nothing. That's what separates the exceptional from the people nobody remembers. All the forgotten. You think you've been working hard. This is what I love. You think you've been working hard that you've been giving it your all. And if you've been doing it for 90 days and you're still whining about not seeing results, then you're not giving it your all. Just to be clear, you're giving until it hurts. It always hurts. You want to win, then you give it until it works. No timeline, no date of fruition, no backup plan. Definitely no backup plan and no expectations. If you're chasing something, listen, you need to look at what you want out of your life. If you're chasing something worth having, you delay the world. You delay everything. every secondary goal, every option that shows up. You delay everything that resembles even a fraction of that reward until the outcome you want bends to your will. That's the only way to do this cuz that's the guarantee to win. Like, do you have any idea how many days I trained without seeing anything, without even being able to run, without seeing a single shred of muscle? Still being hooked up to a stupid machine? How many days I put that together? how long I worked out and did and built this company and this business without a dollar, without anybody saying, "Dude, you're a badass." Without and I don't do it for that, but nobody even looked my direction. I didn't even see progress. Nobody gave a damn uh years. Oh, some of you guys are like, "Oh, dude, you're just savage. You just keep going." But I was still skinny and gross hooked up to an oxygen machine. So, I didn't see the progress. People were just saying, "You have resolve." But I kept going. That's why I'm still here. In fact, that's why I am here. I don't need external permission to keep moving. Most of you guys do. You guys quit because nobody notices you. Because your wife didn't say, "Good job, honey." Because your clients didn't respond right away because your bank account didn't just pop off after 60 days of trying. 60 days, it's still at five grand. Yeah. 6 years, all of a sudden, what are you going to say? Oh my god, it's A-50 million. What happened? What if he would have just get All you he had to do is try, man. But it doesn't. You guys get your ass handed to you the first 6 months year out of the gate and you stop walking. You just turn around. You bailed. You know, you're bailing on though. You're bailing on the damn goal. That's why you lose. You guys in your I've been consistent for a couple of weeks though now, bro. You should see something. Listen, I see other people. No, you see what they want you to see. Listen, cupcake. that when you see nothing and you're grinding away, that's called planting a [\h__\h] seed. You want the forest built right away. You can't microwave success and results. You want the money, the body, the marriage, the relationship, the legacy, the business. Then get your head around this. Time is the greatest multiplier on the planet. Everything great is earned on a delay. Where's your delay? Because the man who delays gratification becomes immune to all the chaos around him. Because while everybody else is driven by all their emotions, the man who has absolute resolve is grounded by his purpose and his vision and he knows what direction he's going regardless. He doesn't need to see the results. He knows where he's going because the discipline isn't tied to some external locus of control or even dopamine, which is always the thing with you guys. It's tied to direction. Most of you guys don't have any. He doesn't fold under silence. Doesn't collapse under his own doubt. Hell, I throw my doubt and my silence to God because he's stronger than me. this guy that wins. Men like me and men like you want to be. You walk through the fog because you trust the structure you create. I don't need to see. I know where I'm going. But let me be very transparent. That man is rare. And rare men are the ones that change everything. So buckle up, princess. Look, if I could stay out here all night and talk about this. If you can delay gratification longer than the average man, you win. It's not even that hard. This math, it's psychology. It's inevitable. The world gives up. You don't. You want the edge. That's it. Just keep walking time. You want proof? Here. Watch what happens to a man who works towards a singular outcome for 5 years. Just go 5 years without missing a beat. Nothing. without letting off the skinny pedal throttle. Without needing any damn permission or accolades, he gets everything. Health, wealth, impact, power, peace, everything, everything. Because he outlasted the phase where everybody flinches because he chose faith. Faith over feeling. You guys choose your feelings. Look at your life, man. Where are you abandoning all your goals? And imagine what it would look like if you would just recommmit until the result is guaranteed. not recommit until you you get close until you have it, which has no timeline because that's the you need to light yourself on fire. Let me explain. You want to be dangerous and the most dangerous man in the room, it's not the richest, it's not the loudest, it's not the most ripped, the most well-trained, the most followed, the most hyped. It's not even the most skilled person. It's not the most dangerous man. The most dangerous man is the one that needs nothing right now. Nothing. Do you need everything? Because the man who needs nothing is the most dangerous one. Doesn't need you to clap. Doesn't need your applause. Doesn't need your money or your permission or your stupid social media comments. Doesn't need a [\h__\h] cookie to stay in the course. Doesn't need anything. He's married himself to the process and cut the head off of every shortcut. That's a lethal man. Look in the mirror. Is that you? Because that's a man that can't be bought and he can't be broken. Most of you guys, your goals are purchasable. Because if you still need instant feedback, you're not free, are you? How are you free if you always need instant feedback? You're an addict. You are a prisoner to your own pain and reward system that you've got. In psychology, you only move when people are watching and train when you feel inspired. And you build only when all the likes come in and not when you have I've made so many posts where I get zero comments, couple of taps and likes and like nothing. Just [\h__\h] crickets. So what? I don't post for the likes and the follows. I post because it's the truth. You do it because you need to feel inspired. And when people are looking, that's the only You will delete things. You will stop working out when somebody you quit all the time. That's why you lose. The man who delays gratification is already free. He's already won because he's free from any emotional control from that stupid society's validation loop that's going on right now. And the weakness, the weakness disguised as balance. That man needs nothing so he can create everything. And if you try and get in his way, he's going to mow you the [\h__\h] down. You know what I've learned? The most unstoppable men are the ones who don't flinch when the progress can't be seen. Right? It's invisible. You feel it, you don't see it. Train in silence, run in the dark, work without praise, grind without applause, without recognition. They're already in the fight. They're already committed. They're at war. And it's always with or without the [\h__\h] world behind him. Most of the time the world's against him. I don't ask. I I don't ask is this working. I just made the decision that it will and then I just keep going until it does. You guys in your I I get these messages, bro. You can't grind and beat. I used to do that. That's not healthy, man. What you need to shut up. I don't want to be you. I am not telling you to be me. I'm telling you what works. And it has worked across history. And if you are looking for the outliers to justify why it didn't work for this one or this one, there are far more that it worked for than it didn't. So when you go, you got to reward yourself sometimes, bro. Awesome. How about you reward your fat ass when you've won? When your bank account actually doesn't look like a disaster area. When your wife actually wants to be with you and can't wait to get the [\h__\h] away from you like she does right now. But if you're throwing parties for just showing up, that's what you Look at me. I showed up. Showing up is half the battle. Showing up is none of the battle. The battle is the battle. You guys post selfies after every workout. Oh, half the time you guys didn't even work out. See that guy? He dumped water all over himself, takes a picture, and then somebody else films him doing it. What a [\h__\h] waffle. I just about murder myself in my workouts. I I got so tired of some of you guys because you're so weak with your own. You're so insecure. Bro's not doing any of these reps. Bro's not doing this. I have this one guy. It was AI don't even want to I probably get sniped if I say this. So, it's just some weak beta male that made this comment. Oh, bro got pretty good at stitching videos together. You can still see that those are all looped. Yeah, because of what? My past. If my past, if you look at my past and try and bring it up to use as ammunition or a weapon against me, the problem isn't with me, it's with you. Because I grew up and evolved, you didn't. You're trying to keep me where you still are. Sorry, [\h__\h] I'm way ahead of you. But I posted a whole workout where I did not 350 380 pull-ups along with another 300 like cleans, squat cleans, snatches, like it there was the rep the workout was 800 plus reps. I posted the whole [\h__\h] thing. I speed posted it on Instagram because it only fit in a minute and a half. And then I posted the full thing on YouTube, but not because I needed to prove it to anybody because I just went once in a while. I'll show you what what really goes on here. Most of you guys couldn't keep up. And then you come up with all your validations why you wouldn't you shouldn't have to. You wouldn't want to. Cool, bro. Goes back to the you got to reward yourself sometimes. That's why your life looks terrible and mine doesn't. Like you guys post your selfies after workouts as if you trained hard, but you have to train. Post a selfie after you just left part of your lung on the ground. Not everybody wants to train like that. No, but you want the results. Like you guys celebrate mediocrity like it's the Olympics. You guys are getting gold medals for it all the time. You're not dangerous. You're a Christmas decoration. That useless one that they hang on the back that one of your kids made that you're like, "This is really cute. What the [\h__\h] is this?" Yeah, that one. Listen, I have kids. I love my children so much. But sometimes kids make stupid things. It's okay. The dangerous man is really hard to read. That's what you need to remember. It's hard to read because the dangerous man is focused. The discipline's ugly and he doesn't need any of your approval because he approves himself after doing what 99% of the people couldn't handle for 10 minutes. Because when a man listen 708 already. Wow. When a man reaches a point where he no longer requires external validation to remain in pursuit of a meaningful aim, not just because, oh, I just think it's the right thing to do. No, what you want to do, he becomes terrifying because that man's now ser sovereign, right? Because he has escaped all of the tyranny of the present moment. You need to really understand that concept because he this a man like that is not ruled by whim. He's ruled by his own character and will because so a man can endure unbear I've been that man. I am that man. Un you can endure unbearable conditions and still move forward. Not because it feels good but because the reason I do it is because my identity is not negotiable ever. That's what delayed gratification produces. That's the That's what it truly creates in a person is a man governed by purpose, not pleasure. But listen, if you want to be powerful, stop needing so damn much. Stop being so [\h__\h] needy. Train without cameras. See what happens. Train without cameras, without music, without anybody watching you and cheering you on. Build in silence and bleed when you're behind the curtain, when the screen isn't even on. Let the world choke on your [\h__\h] results when you show up a year later 10 feet taller and light years ahead of everybody. That's what you need to do because ask yourself, what am I still depending on to feel good? What what are you still depending on? What are you so dependent on to feel good? What if you detached from that and just stayed focused on any on all the [\h__\h] you want anyway? You ever think of that? You instantly become in control of yourself, not controlled by something outside of you. Because you know what commitment looks like? It's keeping the same damn pace when everything around you is being torched. Think of you guys. You want to know if you're really all about it? Check your cadence when life punches you in the balls or smashes you in the vagina if you're a girl. Just so I keep both sexes in this. I imagine that probably hurts. That's why I'm saying it. Check your cadence when life hits you. When somebody dies, when your dad dies, check your cadence. Did your life fall apart? Sorry, you're not committed. Not when it's easy. Not when you're winning. Sunny day psychology, man. Not when the comments are rolling in and everybody's cheering you on. Check your pace. When you get hit with the divorce, the bankruptcy, the cancer, the death, the betrayal, the losing the business, losing everything, the house, the car, the bank, like your entire world goes chaotic, losing your breath, a lung, losing everything you thought made you. Oh, people just know me for my body. then you have no value, man. Check your pace. When your life burns to the ground, look at how you move. Because if the rhythm changes when that storm shows up, you were never really in it. I'm You can argue all you want. I'm still right. You were never in it. I'm proof. I proof of concept. Look at me. When have you ever seen me bail? You never have. When have you seen me miss? You never have. Ever. I never miss when I and people go, "Everybody misses." I don't. You know why? Because I always go, "God's watching me. My wife is standing beside me. Even if she's not right here, she is standing beside me. My children, I will not miss. I owe the world my best. How can I change everybody's life? How can I shake the world? How can I help as many people as possible? Save as many of you people as possible if I miss." People say, "I'm going through something." And so is everybody. Champions don't change their goals just because they're having a bad day or a bad week. They don't let the world dictate their discipline. They keep moving. And the irony is this. That's exactly what heals them. It's the grind. It's the repetition that's healing. It's therapeutic. It's the fight for the future because you never deviated from the target while everybody else lowers their target to match their mood. Men like me, we raise our execution to match the [\h__\h] storm. Bring it. That's what you got? Bring it. And I got a badass [\h__\h] next to me. It's my wife, Brandy. You'll never win against us. You honestly think that my cadence didn't get tested over the last even four years? Let's not even go back any further than that. The last four years, my cadence didn't get tested. I've been in the hospital hooked up to machines keeping me alive, dragging my ass around with one lung, holding back vomit while working out in 105° while my wife stares at me knowingly thinking this guy's going to die, but he's never going to quit [\h__\h] loving. But like my kids looking at their dad, a shadow of his former self, starting with no money, lost my house, every penny we had to keep my parents alive. You think I come out here because I'm going, "Give me $1,500 for my mastermind. I'm coming out here because that $1,500 you're going to give me or the $49.99 for coming in for life is all of the pain. It's all of the times my cadence was tested that you won't have to endure that I will show you." That's what it is. Because I never changed the beaten. Not once. My cadence was always the same. Always the same. Never change the beat because once you change it, you start letting the world dictate how you move. You become a slave to circumstance. Most of you listen, the pace you hold when it's hard, who you are, like when [\h__\h] goes ugly, that exposes you, your true character. That pace that you hold when your life is burning to the ground, if you feel defeated and just shut down, that's who you really are. Not me. Most of you haven't found that man yet because you keep tapping out before he shows up. Just before, too. Yeah, but Spartan, I had this XYZ happen. Yeah. Listen, Karen, life always [\h__\h] happens. You think you're the first person on this planet to lose something? 9 billion people. You think setbacks are unique to you? Nobody cares. That's the truth. Nobody cares. You can cry. You can collapse. You can complain and whine and hate and get bitter and validate and justify or you can lock the [\h__\h] back in and keep swinging because pain is not a permission slip to drop your pace. That's the reason you increase it. I told you it is therapeutic. That's where the healing happens. Let the world wonder how you're still [\h__\h] standing and then let him choke on it. That's what you should be doing. Because listen, and I realize I'm I was trying not to get wraed up, but it's just me. Like a man's character is not revealed in his ambitions. It's in his ability to remain unchanged by adversity. If catastrophe causes you to renegotiate your values, then they were never values. They were preferences. Some of you guys should listen to that part over and over again because you changed your life because you got divorced. And if you go, it's not always possible for everybody. Yes, it is. Delayed gratification requires a level of spiritual and psychological maturity that transcends all your emotion and your trauma. It says, "I will never ever change my pace even if the world is on fire because the aim is higher than the pain, man. And the rhythm is sacred. That's how you have to function." So listen, let me put a bow on this because like I said, I could stay out here all day. Stop changing your pace. Stop changing your cadence. Stop adapting your drive and your just even not even ambition, your attack. Stop adapting your attack to your feelings and stop lowering your standards when things get difficult and dark. That's when you hold your game face. That's when you own it. That's when you show the world you're not some reactionary machine. You're the [\h__\h] architect of your own damn outcome. Listen, you want to ask, I'll leave you with a great question. Where in your life have you let pain or situations or circumstances slow or deviate your pace to a completely different direction? How can you look at yourself right now in the mirror and recommit to moving forward at whatever the cadence you had that's required to get to where you want to go no matter what? How can you do that? Because that's where you need to be right now. I got to go. I love you guys. Never miss.