man. Oh, I was just inside. I just saw my wife real quick before I came out here to do this vlog. We are vlog 92. So, if you've been watching since the very beginning, since January 1st, thank you. Really, I appreciate that. And before I go any further, I just want to take a second to say if you have been just showing up all the time and you get any value from this, anything that I post, follow, subscribe, share, just bust the algorithm because otherwise we're never going to get heard by anybody. And I promise you what I tell you is the truth and it works. It's going to help you. You might not like it sometimes, but the fact that you don't like it doesn't change the facts. It's going to work. So, I I had a conversation, Brandy and I, we talk all the time and we were talking about how many people nowadays self- diagnose or are given a diagnosis of depression. You feel a certain way and therefore you get a label of depression. Oh, this is going to if this is going to trigger you, guaranteed if this is if you are someone that believes you have depression, this entire episode is going to piss you off. But here's what happens. You feel a certain way. Just let me explain neuro neurochemistry. I've been a doctor for 20 plus years. I know what I'm talking about. But and no, I'm not a psychiatrist. I'm not a psychologist. I'm better. But what happens is you feel a certain way and therefore this chemical cascade occurs which causes you to feel a certain way. That's the problem. It's never ending, right? You see something, it causes you to feel something. When you feel something, your endocrine system, your neuro, your neurological system, your brain, your CNS, everything changes in reaction to what you think to the perception you have of whatever it is that you're focused on. In which case, now you have these feelings because of the chemistry occurring in your brain and your body. Adrenaline, norepinephrine, whatever it is, it doesn't matter. Serotonin, dopamine, it could be all kinds of things. But now those cause you to feel something. You associate that feeling with something. You start, you create a monster. It becomes this perpetual motion machine. And it's never ending. And I think you need to understand this because the issue is if it works in one direction, it absolutely works in the other direction. It is ridiculous. Absolutely ridiculous to hear doctors talk about looking for a cure for depression. They're always looking external. I am a doctor. They're always looking externally for a cure for things. And yet the cure is in what you're thinking and doing. Every day we're asking ourselves the same three questions thousands and thousands of times a day and they run subconsciously most of the time. And like I said, no, I'm not a psychologist. I'm not a psychiatrist. I'm better. But you don't have to be for any of this. You need to have common sense and self-awareness, both of which are in extremely short supply nowadays. And yes, I'll tell you what those three questions are because once you get a handle on these questions, you can direct your entire life. Why would you not want to do that? I'll explain that, too. If depression was a real disease, it's not. It's just not. I'm sure that's going to piss somebody off. I don't care. The fact that it's offensive to you to say for me to say that it triggers you because I say that it makes you mad because I say that doesn't change the fact that I'm still right and it is fact. It doesn't change the truth. You can disagree all you want. You can hate gravity. It can piss you off. It can be all kinds of things to you. Doesn't change the fact that gravity still exists. This is the same. It's as immutable as gravity. If depression was a real disease, then it would have a specific cause. It would have a precise mechanism of action. But it doesn't. It doesn't. And the response to that is that people say the human brain is very complicated and we don't know all of the ways in which it does things. Okay? But you wouldn't understand Spartan. That's what they'd say. You wouldn't understand Spartan. You're just a regular doctor. You're not a neurologist. You're not a psychiatrist. You're not a psychologist. Okay? it. You will always find a way to explain away when you have no explanation. Why has depression skyrocketed? Why has anxiety skyrocketed? I'll tell you why. Because when you give something a clinical label backed by pseudocience and bought and paid for research to create some cure or even a relief for it that involves nothing more than a daily pill, two things happen. people will subscribe to it because it's easy and it like I just said, it explains away everything without actually looking at what's causing the problem. And you can charge people massive amounts of money to solve that problem without really ever solving the problem. Because if they've solved the problem, why does it keep showing up more and more? It is not better detection. It is more indoctrination. If Jonas Sulk, Jonas Sulk, the creator of the polio vaccine, the disease, which incidentally was already on the decline, had in fact created a cure for polio, which he himself said he didn't do. He said he didn't do it because once he came up with this thing called a vaccination, he said, "I fear that I've created a monster." If he cured the disease, then how is it that DDT is 100% proven to be the cause of polio symptoms? And yet they're afraid that by not giving the polio inoculation, polio is going to make a a comeback. You cured it. How is that possible? Where's it hiding? It's like an extinct animal that just decides to show up one day. Never going to happen. How is that going to happen? Explain that to me. I'll wait. We know what caused the polio issue, DDT. How about just don't do that. I could do this with so many things, but that's not what this episode is about. If anyone can tell me the precise vector that transmits depression or anxiety or any of the other [\h__\h] the exact mechanism of action, the exact replicable physiological cascade of events that occurs in the human body, I might be interested to hear it. It's still a lie, but I'll entertain your theory. You can't. You can't. You cannot come up to me with your depression, sneeze on me, drink out of my cup, touch my counter, lick my face, and spread depression. It's not possible because it's not a disease. It's not a pathology. The only ones arguing against this and me right now, I'm sure some of you guys are just going to get in the comments, get all pissed off, I don't care, are the ones clinging to the identity of having depression, which then allows for them to hide and not actually look at where their focus is. Go. It allows them to not go into the painful places that they don't want to look and do what's required to fix the cause of the problem. And the other people on the other side of this equation that are arguing against it as well are the ones making all the money off of those people with their stupid commercials, chemical creations, and the giant damn couch that you need to lay on for 10 years talking about your problems. Repetition is the mother of skill. Why would you talk about something that is going to make things worse over and over again? Just explain that to me. Whether doesn't matter what theory you use. That's the problem. When you take anything that messes with brain chemistry, you now are physiologically altering who that person is. I'm talking things like Paxel, Prozac, all those things. These are terrible chemicals, man. Hiding and muting the problem doesn't mean it's gone. It means it's covered up. If you have to continually take anything, then the problem was never solved. I'm not saying people can't be depressed. I'm saying that there's no such thing as depression as a disease. Obesity isn't a disease either. Neither is type2 diabetes. The list of this is endless. I could do this all day. Those aren't diseases. They are the result of many poor decisions stacked one on top of the other until the dam breaks and you just can't keep up with the destruction occurring in your own body. Nobody has woken up one morning 100 lb, 200 lb, 300 lb heavier. Nobody has woken up with type 2 diabetes. Nobody has woken up with depression. They woke up sad, frustrated, pissed off, whatever. And what they did was nothing. They did nothing about it. So, every day they stack more and more on top of that initial problem. Constantly thinking about themselves and how bad things are. I'm talking about this right now. And even this is making me depressed. Like, just talking about this, oh, it drives me crazy. Success loves speed. Failure loves inaction. Both of those are decisions. What happens is that everybody looks at the things from from the wrong side of the equation. Right? If you follow me for any amount of time, you know that I'm always looking to solve for the variable in the moment. Right? I'm always looking to solve my life equation, which is what all of you guys should be doing. And in fact, you are. It just depends on what side of the life equation you're following. You're trying to solve for. Which variable? The side that is the win or the side is the loss. Let me explain. The life equation, for those of you that don't know, is the life you want. I mean that you deeply want right into your soul on one side and all of the obstacles, adversities, catastrophes, all of the struggles and pains that you must overcome in order to balance the equation and solve. Right? That's what you need to do. What people do is they say that where they are is the result of what they are. Except what they are is the result of what they've done or not done. I'll say that again. This is why people struggle. What people do is they say this. They say where they are is a result of what they are. You're not a what, you're a whom. Because what they are is what you are is a result of what you have or have not done, which can be proven over and over again. You could throw anybody at me. I will prove it 100% of the time. If you think being fat makes you depressed, that doesn't even make sense. You knew that you were getting fat. The more you gained weight, the more you knew it. It's not because of somebody saying, "Hey, you're fat." That's not making fun of you, by the way. That is simply a true statement. And when people say no, you should be nice. That's what's caused most of the problems in our world right now. Being nice is tolerant. It's being tolerant. And being tolerant is lowering the standards to appease those who've already got low standards. Explain to me how that has or ever will make anything successful. It can't. It won't. It's impossible. People blame the result of their actions for the current state that they're in. You're depressed because you're obese, but you ate to relieve the stress. So, you became obese, which means you solved nothing and added a whole host of new problems to your life and the and to the lives of those around you, by the way, because now most often you demand that they tolerate your history of cons like just consistently poor decisions. You're handing over the accountability for yourself to a label created by people who don't care about you or who don't want to do the work to change their circumstances. That's what's going on. You aren't broke because you're depressed and you can't get a better job. You're depressed because you're broke because you're unwilling to do whatever it takes to change your financial situation. You could do this with anything. You don't have a bad marriage because of your depression. You're depressed because you suck at being a good husband or wife. You don't have a weight problem because of depression. You're depressed because you can't control your impulses and everyone else tolerates you blaming external circumstances. Listen, I've been a doctor for a really long time. Just to talk about weight really quick, I've never seen big bones on an X-ray ever. And I've seen well over 100,000 X-rays. Never. Not once. Not once. Listen, I have good friends, deep close friends who've had seriously catastrophic things happen to them. Myself included. Listen, if any one of you guys would willingly go, I would take I would go through the catastrophe you did. Bro, wasn't that big of a deal to have a lung carved out of your chest and watch your wife get escorted out of a hospital, finding out later that she was hysterically crying outside, thinking she was never going to see her husband again because I was going to die in there alone and then wondering if I was going to survive for two months over and over back in and out of the hospital connected to a machine going, "This is my husband. He is ruined now for life and he is everything to me. If you think that isn't a serious catastrophic event, listen, flushing your guppy isn't a catastrophic event and it's not all relative. I'm tired of people labeling everything as trauma, but I've had good friends that have had massive catastrophes happen to them like this or worse. They've seen their best friend die right next to them in combat. They've been my wife locked out of a hospital, right? But these are people that have been locked out of a hospital when their spouse is on a ventilator and they died. They've had real trauma. Those are men and women with genuine traumatic events. That's not what I'm talking about right now before you guys start arguing about the wrong thing. And like I said, no, it's not relative. When Snipples, your beagle dies, you don't need therapy for a year and a lifetime of prescription Prozac. You need to be an adult. I love our dogs. when Gizmo he was Giz or Gizmo was our our Shih Tzu that Brandy bought for me when we had no money and look Gizmo looked like Gizmo the gremlin. We had no money had no business buying this dog and I saw this tiny little button of a dog like the size of my hand. They made him smell like a cookie. And I remember when I said if the dog's there the dog's there. It was at this little pet store out in Discovery Bay. And we went we went went looked at the dog and we drove home and I said, "If the dog's there, when we call and it's meant to be and not the way you should do things, by the way, but this was right at the beginning." This is well over 20 years ago. And it called, the place was closed. The next day, I was like, I guess this is how it meant to be. And I went to bed. The next day, Brandy went. She says, "Hey, I got to go to my sister's place and pick something up." And she was gone forever. She's gone for 3 hours. I'm like, "What the hell? Where's my wife?" And she comes home and she goes, "Hey, can you help me get all this stuff out of the back of the car?" And she had this little Honda Civic at the time. And I start taking things out. I'm like, "There's a lot of [\h__\h] back here. What the hell did you Oh, my sister wanted me to store some of this stuff because our house is bigger." I'm like, "Oh, that's fine." I go, "Why is there a dog crate back here?" And she goes, "Oh." She asked if we could store it. It's for their dog, Vegas. And so I was like, "Okay." And I pick it up and it shakes. And I went and I looked inside. I go, "There's a dog in here." And she gets this big teareyed smile. She goes, "Yeah." She goes, "That's what took so long. I went and got the dog for you." When Gizmo died, I didn't think it would be that big of a deal. I've had dogs almost my whole life. I didn't think it'd be a big deal. When Gizmo died, she always waited at the bottom of my stairs and for me in the morning, I'd get up at 4:00 and Brandy would still sleep and then she would get up at about 5:00 and I would be gone to work to my clinic. And when Gizmo, so she'd wait at the bottom of the stairs, I'd come downstairs and my Giz and I'd see my dog and then I'd go to work. When Gizmo died, she heard me get up. Oh, it sucks. This is a terrible thing. Like, I didn't think it was going to affect me so bad. It bugged me for almost a week. And if you go just a week, man, I cried the whole way to work. And I had to leave my front desk because I was so upset randomly throughout the day. And I asked my buddy who's a vet, "Why the [\h__\h] is this dog making me so sad?" And he said, "The most profound thing." He said, 'Because they become part of your daily routine, and when it's gone, you realize how much they were there. I son of a [\h__\h] Nick, you're right. And Nick's a good dude. He's the best vet I've ever seen. Nick is by far, if you're in California and you need a vet in the Bay Area, you call me. I will get you hooked up. Nobody does it better than this guy. He is as gangster as it gets. But that morning, I came downstairs and I was like, "Huh?" And I saw Gizmo just off to the side of the steps laying down. And I took two steps and I knew. And I went and she wasn't feeling well the night before. She was acting real weird. And she knew. She knew she wasn't going to make it. If you doubt that, then you don't know dogs. But she knew. And she knew that morning. And when I came downstairs, I walked down the stairs going, "Oh no." And I put my hand on her and she was still warm. She had just died. She waited until I woke up. It was the hardest thing I'd ever seen as far as an animal. But you know what? I didn't need Prozac and therapy and all kinds of stuff. So that's why I'm saying before you guys go, you're heartless. No, I love my dogs. But that's not a traumatic experience. You need to be an adult. You knew that when you bought the dog that you were going to outlast the dog when you brought the dog home from the pound. We have all our dogs are rescues now. I'm talking about Joe next door who won't cut his lawn because he doesn't want to go outside in the heat and doesn't have enough money because he makes poor financial decisions. He doesn't have enough money to hire a gardener. But when his neighbors say, "Hey, Joe, your yard looks like crap." He falls back on the depression diagnosis that he pulled off WebMD. Being lazy has now been obscured by depression. In fact, I saw an ad. It was on uh YouTube. This is Riverside, but I'm pointing here like it's here, but you'll see this on YouTube. It was on YouTube where it said, "Procrastination, it's not laziness. It's a form of depression. Get out of here." That's what I'm talking about. You guys are being indoctrinated with nonsense. Why weren't my grandparents depressed? Why didn't they take handfuls of medication? Why didn't they wallow in self-pity and act like a victim? Because they had [\h__\h] to do. And they always had [\h__\h] to do. They have a life to live. They were always marching forward towards the horizon, towards the kingdom that they want. Then they lived well into their 90s. Now, this is the problem. Now, people say, "Bro, you should take a break. It's not healthy to work so hard and all the time." And then they try and guilt you by saying, "God wants you to take Sundays off. You're disrespecting God by working all the time." Except that's not what he said at all. The Old Testament says, "Remember the Sabbath and keep it holy." And the Sabbath was Saturday. for all of you pseudo theology experts and in the New Testament Jesus very very clearly states if your neighbor's ox has fallen in a pit would you not help him like you guys will take anything you can to support your labels and validations to do nothing but you won't do the same thing on the other side of the life equation you'll pour energy time money into the side with the obstacles and struggles not to overcome them to stay in them to explain why you can't what the [\h__\h] is wrong with you people. You will accept a label, a diagnosis by someone who goes home at 5:00 every day who more than likely would never label themselves the same way, would never take the same pills that you do. They would like the ones that they gave you, right? They would never take the same pills. And the only reason that you accept the label or that diagnosis is because it absolves you of your accountability to yourself to do what's required of you in every moment of your life, which is to be the highest version of yourself. Listen, I could do this all day. If you were starving and the only option were to take the bow and arrow and go and hunt for food so that your wife and children don't starve to death and die, you're telling me that if you actually love your family the way you say you do, that you're going to you're going to say, "Honey, I have depression. I can't stop crying. I have massive fatigue. I'm so upset and distraught. I can't go hunt for food. I'm sorry." Those are the people who are trying to say that they're men, by the way nowadays. If that's you, you're someone who should have been eaten or swallowed. I have no sympathy for you because you not only destroy your life with your self-pity, you destroy other people's lives and show them that it's okay. So now others emulate you. It's like it that's the disease, the mind virus. That's the disease. The problem isn't with being sad or upset. It's that now you believe it's the only way to exist. It'll never go away and you can't escape it. Therefore, your life it's over unless you alter your neurochemistry. And now you've been given a way out that isn't a way out because it's making you feel sad be right. It's not a way out because what's making you feel sad is still there. The problem is still there. If you take a pill, problem's still there. That's like saying, "I can't see anything because like it's not there because I'm covering my eyes." That's as ludicrous as you can get. Stop taking the pills. Yeah. Exactly. If you stop taking them, your brain chemistry goes batshit crazy and haywire. Now you actually do have a physiological condition. How convenient. I've had I've had patients where they have accidentally stopped Paxil. One of my patients, Dan, stopped taking it. He ran out. He just didn't reup his prescription. Two days he was spilling coffee over himself. He couldn't figure out what was wrong. And we I went down the rabbit hole. And of course, you have to figure it out what the problem is cuz he didn't know. And we finally came back to Paxel. I go, "Have you t is there something missing? What?" He goes, "Paxel, I haven't taken it for two days, but no big deal. I don't really feel like I need it that much." I said, "Go get that prescription refill." right now. He did got back on it and he said, "Holy [\h__\h] it was the craziest thing in the world." And he said, "That scares me." And he weaned himself off of it over four weeks. That's how bad it is. So, stop thinking that there is a pill that's an answer for why you're sad or depressed. Find out what the problem is and fix that. If you believe in the permanence of being sad, then you will stay that way. Same goes for anything else. If you if you refuse to believe in the permanence of a circumstance that you know there's going to be a future without any pain of today, you will have a future without any pain of today. Belief determines results. If you refuse to believe that where you are, if it's negative, you can do this or positive too, which is where most of you guys live. You choose to go, I don't believe in the fact that it's going to stay this way and this wonderful and this epic forever. It's going to turn bad. Of course, it turns bad. You speak your entire life into existence. Belief determines results. Right? Listen, it's this simple that we go skydiving. You and I, whoever's listening to this, we go skydiving. And let's just say before you get your ego all tied in a knot, we go skydiving. And let's say I love skydiving. Let's say you've never been skydiving. And you're terrified. You're like, "Holy [\h__\h] we're going up to 10,000 14,000 ft." And that door is going to open up and I have to jump out of a perfectly good aircraft. I don't know if I can do this, Spartan. Two people, you and I. Same event. We're both skydiving. We both can even jump tandem. I have someone jumping for me. You have someone jumping for me. We're just going along for the ride. That's it for me. I'm excited. I'm like, "Oh my god, dude. This is going to be epic. I can't wait to jump out of this plane and just fall and just going to be so epic." And then serene while we just gently float down to the earth. And I'm producing interferon interlucan powerful cancer fighting chemicals for you. You are terrified. Your your stomach is in your throat. You're just about ready to throw up a kidney. And you are producing adrenaline, norepinephrine, epinephrine, cortisol. powerful, damaging in these amounts. Cancer-causing chemicals, same event, different experience because of what you're focused on, different experience because of your perception. The definition and emotion you give an event becomes the event that goes every direction. Which is exactly why you cannot define a specific catalyst or vector that causes and carries the depression bacteria or fungus or virus or parasite. It's not a pathology. It's not a pathology. You are asking the same questions all day. I said this before. I never said what they were. And these are why people are feeling what they feel, good or bad. These are the three. I'll give them to you right away. You look at these and you actually pull these apart in your life. It'll change your life. That's how fast this works. But you have to make the decision to do the work instead of going, "Fuck it. I'm going to take a pill." Because you know what that's the other side of that pill is? Nothing else in your life is going to get better. You just can't see it. The questions are what am I focused on? What meaning do I give? Whatever that is, and what actions am I taking as a result of that meaning? That's it. So, when you're told by an authority figure, like a doctor, like me, I would never say this, but you're told by an authority figure, not me, that you're depressed, you believe them. When your friend tells you, "Bro, you have depression, man. My sister had it. My mom had it. My dad had it." You start believing them. But now, all you do, all your subconscious is doing is looking for supporting evidence all day, 24/7, 365. You are subconsciously searching for anything that you can to use to support why this is. How are kids so happy? They're only looking for things that bring them joy. And no, it's not because they don't have adult responsibilities yet. It's because right now there are kids, listen, I'll just say this. Right now there are some kids in some third world country somewhere on the world on the planet. It's a big world who are seven, six, seven years old who know how to hunt, fish, cook, sew, climb, drive, ride animals, draw, paint, create, build just about anything, and they're just fine. Here in this country, there are grown ass men and women who at 40 years old believe that it's somebody else's job to save them, to do everything for them, and it's someone else's fault for their life, and they are psychologically immobile because they believe they are. I I can't imagine handing over all of my personal power to someone else who will take it, reduce it, and then design my life for me. I had people tell me that I would never be physically capable of being an athlete ever again after they took out this long. I had people tell me that I would be on 12 different medications after that surgery for life. I had people bet against me. People like you betting against me. I had people hope for my failure. I still have people who spend all day waiting for me just to screw up, fail, or die. so they can laugh. I'm never going to be there because I'm the one that's driving this reality. I'm the one driving my life. I am the creator of my world. God has given me the power to do that. It's not me. It's him. I'm simply acting according to his demands. When you choose to do nothing on account of your depression, you're acting against God's demands. Your world isn't my world. My world isn't your world. But the principles by which we govern our reality is the same across the entire planet. focus, then feelings, then actions. Where are you looking when you're feeling depressed? You keep looking at the same dumb [\h__\h] It's the most selfish thing you can possibly do. It's all about you. You want to get rid of feeling depressed and sad. You want to get rid of anything. Start doing work for other people. Start helping as many people as humanly possible. All of that will go away. You might ball your eyes out at the beginning and feel terrible. It'll go away. It's never going to go away sitting there staring at it, telling the same story over and over again. I promise you that I can take anyone, any single person who's talking about their depression. And again, I'm not talking about real trauma where you saw some horrible things or you've been through horrific things. Those are real. I'm talking about people who play the depression label as their identity in order to avoid doing the work and change their circumstances. I'm talking about the ones who cling to that diagnosis because they think it absolves them of what deep down inside they know they should do but are trying to convince others that is someone else's responsibility. Those people I can take any one of them and there are hundreds of millions of them. Anyone any one of them and I can disprove their depression because I will find out what their beliefs are and where they're focused and that'll expose everything. The only way it won't is if they're lying or amplifying the most minimal of life adversities. Like we are in a world right now where trauma is the descriptor of doing life as an adult. [\h__\h] You don't have trauma. You don't have trauma. You have these lies that you're telling yourself that are supported by the rest of the low frequency people in your circle. Change circles to a higher level and all of those lies will fail. I promise. Listen, this is you can tell I'm lit. Depression isn't a neurological problem. It's a focus problem. It's you refusing to demand you should like to demand control over your own psych your own psychology. Because right now you can think of the most horrible thing that's happened in your life. Go ahead. Really, I want you to do it. Take a second right now and pause this if you have to and think about the most horrible like the most awful memory you can possibly like something that is so bad and just see it all. Feel it. Imagine every detail. the one you're like, I just try and bury this all the time. Think about that. You'll feel sad and upset and you know, damn, I'm right. What's also occurred, just like jumping out of that airplane, is that your neurochemistry has just been altered. Nothing happens in the mind. I'll say it again. Nothing happens in the mind without it happening in the body. Why do you cry during a sad movie? Was it you? Is it you in the movie? No. Why do you laugh? Oh, it was funny. That's different. That's what you guys will say. Hypocrisy at its finest. If a pendulum if the pendulum swings to the left, it also swings back equally as far to the right. It's that one side is supported by the masses and the other side is just anecdotal. Could you imagine if they had a pill for happiness? Cuz now happiness is labeled as a pathology. Let's just say, could you imagine? Let's go down that road because this is the kind of [\h__\h] that I live for. So let's say they have a pill for happiness because now happiness isn't labeled as a massive it's a disease. It's a pathology. How stupid does that sound? And I'm not talking about some manic person. I'm talking that you went and saw old school Eddie Murphy. You laughed your butt off and then they diagnosed you with chronic joy and happiness and that you need treatment. You guys don't ever take time to just zoom out and look at the entire equation. Like depression is all about you. I It's aggravating. It's selfish. It is all about you living inside yourself for yourself at the expense of everyone and everything else around you. Of course, you're going to be sad. You can't create anything when all is why you can't create anything. You're deciding that you can't solve problems when you're chronically being told that you're depressed. Listen, look around. You are chronically being told that something is wrong with you. And you have a guy like me coming out here who's been through massive adversity telling you there's nothing wrong with you and you are arguing to stay where you are being told that something's wrong with you because it absolves you from doing all of the things that you know damn you should be doing to change your circumstances. This way you don't have to. You can sit there and wallow and be a victim and go, I was just trying to survive and stay alive all year. You don't understand. I had a fight with my husband for the last six months. You don't understand. Nothing's worked. This hasn't worked. I tried that. None of that is accurate. You aren't doing the work. It comes back to that all the time. You aren't willing to stay where it's uncomfortable and do the work. You think it should be done for you. And when it's not, you stomp your feet and whine. If you've watched The Amazing, excuse me, if you watch The Amazing Race. So, my wife and I and our kids, we watch. The Amazing Race is actually a pretty fun show to watch. It's borderline soap opera though now. But I don't know which episode it was or which season, two or three. It was a long time ago. And there was a couple trying to be a couple. He was in love with her. She friend-zoned the [\h__\h] out of this guy from the second they started and was trying to bang one of these Wonder Twins, these models, Drew and Danny or something. But anyway, it was Zo and Zach and Flo. And Flo, God, if she ever watches this, I hope she does. My entire family just wanted to punch you. You're the most whiny, self-righteous victim. I can't do it for me. You should do it. And they won. And they won 100% because of Zach. She did nothing. She did two things. Jack and [\h__\h] But she was the example. Complete drama. Every time something didn't go her way or it got frustrating, it was this. I know. Just take me back to JFK. I don't even want to go anymore. That was the [\h__\h] she would do. And Zach, poor bastard, dealt with this from start to finish. And I guarantee you by the end of the 28 days on this trip, he went, "Oh yeah, I don't want to be around this woman for my life. I'll be friends with you." Absolutely. And he said it. She'll always have a special place in my heart. which is his way of going we ain't going to be together and at the beginning he was trying like how douchy is it that when you were going to try and sort out your romance which is what they even said at the beginning I realize this is on a pivot but understand that's what they said she's hunting down some other dude sleeping next to him in a bed I'd be like what the [\h__\h] are you doing you go ahead and you know what jump on whatever it is you want to do all your ho stuff that you want to do after we're done this thing get your head in the came, but all she did was whine. Non made the poor guy carry all the backpacks and everything. She did. She couldn't even paddle a boat. Like, I've never seen someone so useless. By decision. By decision. Cuz I've watched little old people just destroy that. So, that's what I'm talking about. Living inside yourself for yourself at the expense of everyone and everything around you. Of course, you'll be sad. You can't create anything. because she was chronically in a depressed state of mind by decision because it panned out. People would pander to that all the time. Even there was even these two dudes, they went, "God, Zach, your back's got to be you got back's got to be tired from carrying her around all the time." Yep. The world is filled with people like that. You can't create anything when all is why you can't create anything. So, of course, you're going to be depressed. That's here. That's not your environment. You can't solve problems when you're constantly being told you're depressed. It's what I just said. Look around. It is everywhere. You're constantly Here's why. Just from a neurological state and a physiological state, you're constantly in fight, flight, or freeze. So, you can only function to survive, not to create. You can't. Your brain is going to argue with you and it's going to win in this case because you're going to be constantly bombarded with like your brain. It's like when you have to do something and you're nervous and you just blank. That's what's happening. your brain goes run, hide, escape, or fight or just don't move and it'll all all go away. That's why you can't solve the problem when the teacher says go up on the board because you just blank out. Yet, you knew it right before that. That's why you blank out on tests. That's why you blank out when you talk to people because your brain turns off because you're believing something that isn't true and you're you you go fight flight freeze. You're welcome. Like, you go to some It's unreal. You go to some village of Aboriges in the outback of Australia, you're not going to find a single case of depression. Not one. If you could communicate what depression, what it actually was to them, they'd think you're crazy and probably send you to the shaman and drill a hole in your head to get the evil spirits out. Watch television, depression. Social media, depression. News, depression. Podcasts, depression. They are constantly telling you what's wrong with you. But here's the solution. Find me the examples where you are told how powerful you are, how unlimited you are, how there's nothing that you cannot do, and that within you lies the power to create anything that you could possibly conceive. And then find me the examples that say you're limited, sick, weak, incapable, where you have a condition, a problem, a disease, where it's all the fault of everything else around you, but there's a special cure for it. Just take this pill. Just get this surgery. Just do this thing. Go on this treatment. The bad will outnumber the good by a massive number. You've got to understand that the more you accept that you are incapable, the less life you live, the more low frequency you become. When you take I'm trying to give you examples that you guys actually understand. If you took two brothers, let's just say two brothers, they both come from the same alcoholic father, absentee mother, abusive home, and one, this is manufactured before. It's not meant to be like you guys. So, two brothers, twins, even. Let's go. Two twin, like twin brothers, identical twin brothers. Exactly. In every shape, way or form, right? Who come from the same alcoholic father, absentee mother, abusive home, just broken, destroyed, psychologically nightmare home, and one brother becomes this massive success and the other brother becomes this depressed, broke, obese addict, and they both blame their parents and their upbringing. Okay. Why aren't they both identical? Why aren't their lives the same? Same three questions. Focus, emotion, action. One focused one way, had this emotion about it, and took actions this direction. The other one focused this way, had this emotion or these emotions, took action that way, or took in action. So, you go ahead and get in the comments about how I don't understand the details of depression. It doesn't matter to me. You're fighting to keep yourself down blaming something that doesn't exist that you are in absolute control of. And the only reason for that is that it's tolerated and labeled and now is your identity. So you don't want to let it go. Because if you were to ask, listen, if you were to ask what would be the conduct of someone who's confident, powerful, positive, focused on success, walking with God, always active towards their goals, what would that person's conduct be? It won't be the conduct of anyone who's just clinging to the label of depression when you aren't willing to go allin on the life that you want or that you've just start maybe you've just started that road and it's just it's hard it's uphill it's painful you've hit nothing but obstacle and struggle you've drained your bank account you work 20our days you're exhausted you have a family it doesn't matter it's very easy to blame something that takes away all the demand that you had initially placed on yourself or others have placed on you that you keep pushing that stone up the hill. It is very easy to take that all away and say this is why I can't I have this condition except you aren't special and you don't have a unique set of problems. You guys, you don't. You are focused on what you can do to quit the difficulties presented to you that you are required to overcome in order to solve your life equation. That's why you feel depressed. But you cannot catch depression. It's not a disease. It's not a pathology and I'll stand toe-to-toe with anybody that wants to argue that and I'll win. Listen, hope you got something out of this. I'll see you tomorrow.