If you saw that video that I posted, I don't know, it's been about an hour now, social media about solving problems, your problems. I actually looked and I got a lot of responses from you guys. Thank you. I'll give you everything I've got. I there's no guarantee. I'll give you the solutions. You got to do it. But somebody asked me, "How did you do it, Spartan?" And a lot of people asked me that question, but this one felt different. So, I'm just going to talk about that because this what I'm going to tell you right now are it's the most important thing, the most important decision, the most important thought process that you're ever going to make is what I'm going to tell you on this vlog. Because it wasn't how'd you do it, it was how'd you do it and then a paragraph about just relentless odds against you and losing your lung and starting over at 48 and doubting yourself and having no money and no fitness, no life, no nothing, no knowledge. Like I I lost everything three and a half, four years ago. How'd you do it? because they went on to say, "I've been in the same place for 20 years and I haven't had any of the problems you've had to deal with and I can't do it." And that really bothered me. Not in an angry way, but it really bothered me because I started thinking, "But you could." And so I thought, you know what? How'd you do it? How'd you do it, Spartan? And this is by far the most important vlog you'll ever watch. the most important podcast you'll ever listen to and the most important decisions you'll ever make. We have over 60,000 thoughts a day. That's not the problem. That's not the problem at all. The problem is that most people are thinking the same thing today as they did yesterday. And 80 to 90% of all that they're negative. They're thinking the same thoughts about themselves, about their spouse, about their money, about their business, about their health, about their entire world. And that's why people never change. That's why people never move. They never escape where they are. That's why most people never change anything in their life because they keep running the same program. If you wake up every day and you're overwhelmed, you're frustrated, you're scared, you're angry, you're defeated, you're sad, you're depressed, you have anxiety, but you have this incredible spouse next to you, or you've got this hundreds of millions of dollars, or this world, you're this worldass athlete. None of that matters. Because if you wake up overwhelmed and frustrated and scared and sad and disappointed and defeated and miserable and filled with doubt, your life is overwhelmed, frustrated, scared, angry, sad, defeated, filled with doubt. Just your life is that. Please understand this. You got to get this because it's going to change everything that you do in your life, but only if you keep doing it. Like when I woke up missing a lung, I was everything but excited and happy that I was alive. And and in that moment, I realized that I'm still here and I can do something about it. So, I got to work because I realized I'm living in a place, an emotional place I don't want. I like when I opened my eyes and when the doctor told me everything that actually transpired in surgery and what was missing and how bad it really was, I realized I like all my emotions I got flooded with. Hatred, bitterness, sadness, overwhelm, depression, anxiety, frustration. I was just all of them. None of them good. And I did. I realized I don't want to be here. Not on this world. I don't want to be here in this place, in my mind, in this how I'm constructing everything in that moment. And that's what allowed me to change it. Listen, and I've said this before. Please, you need to get this. You need to get this. This is more important than anything else I've ever taught you. The This is Please listen. The quality of your life is predicated on just two things. Just two. the quality of conversations that you have with yourself and the quality of questions that you ask yourself on a minute-by-minute basis every single day because those two things control your emotions. And whatever my default series of questions and conversations are, I'm always going to go there. I'm going to fight to get there because they're comfortable. And until that changes your like my life, your life, it doesn't matter. We all do this. Until that changes, for the guy that's listening that asked me that, your life is going to be nothing but problems because your life is going to be whatever your answers are. Your life is going to be whatever you feel because of those answers. And listen, let me explain something. Like my mother, okay, she's in her early 80s and my mom is a pretty gangster woman. We don't always see eye to eye, but I love my mom. Like she's a badass. But she lives in the middle of Winnipeg where the winter is 40 below. Blizzards, frozen cars, frozen everything. You can't go out of your house because your skin freezes in less than a minute. They have something called windchill factor and it's usually over 2,000. And I used to ask Brandy all the time, "Why doesn't she move? I don't get it. Why doesn't she move?" And it was more a question for myself than for my wife. But my family is in Pennsylvania. But just under 12 years ago, my dad passed away. And my dad is buried in Winnipeg. And her entire life, her entire life is in Winnipeg. My dad is still in Winnipeg. So it's her home. So, it's easy for me to see her from this side of the equation and wonder why she doesn't move. Because I'm going, why wouldn't you move? I live in Texas. It's beautiful. It's 85 degrees here today. It's sunny. It's clear. But when I look at why from her side, I see it. That's her default setting, Winnipeg. It's what she's known for, I don't know, 30, 40 years, 50 years. over 50 years actually because I'm 52. It's her home. That's how you are with your psychology. It gets burned in there and you don't even know you're doing it. Running repeat every second of the day. Same as yesterday, same as the day before. And people have this default that they constantly go back to. I've been through some really bad things in my life and they've caused a lot of scars and I've learned a lot of lessons and you know what I've realized is that it's very easy for me to solve everybody else's problems very because I've experienced a lot of life. It was a lot harder for me to solve my own psychologically. That's why I do this. That's why I'm out here for you guys cuz I genuinely care. I don't want you guys to go through any of the hell I have ever. So, if I can do anything to help prevent that or get in the way or give you some information or tool or strategy or mindset or psychology to not do it and bypass what I had to go through to build an even better life, I'm looking at my life as going use my life, my experience, my lessons, as the platform for you to go from so you don't have to go through it so you can go higher than I am because my ceiling should become your foundation so you can just keep going. That's why I do this. Like, I've gone through financial disaster. I've almost lost my life for real. I've woken up and wanted to end my own life and tried twice. I've gone through massive relationship chaos. And all of those things, they put me on this this quest to solve them all for myself because I never wanted to go through any of those ever again. So, I said, "No, never again. I'm not going to do this again, ever." And I did, which is why I get so many messages and phone calls and emails. Keep them coming. And I promise you, I will give you something that will solve your problems, whatever they are. But I get so many dozens and dozens a day, because I have the ability to help a lot of people because of what I've learned. Listen, I know a lot of people that post on social media talking about this great life and this massive success and inside they're in the darkest, ugliest place they can possibly live in because they're asking the wrong questions and they're having the wrong conversations. But on the outside, you'd never know. But it doesn't matter because what did I say? You could have everything. But if what you're feeling and the questions you're asking lead you to be frustrated and overwhelmed and sad and depressed and anxious and angry and miserable and upset, that is your life. So because they're asking these questions and having these negative conversations with themselves, they're feeling the worst things which creates the worst life possible for them that they're in because they're constantly going back to the same things that they always ask because their default is to go where they know we all do it. These are the people in people like this. They're always depressed no matter what happens. Here's a million dollars. It's not two million. It's like hanging around with Eeyore. They're the ones who are always angry and miserable no matter what. They're they always think that something bad is going to happen. So, they brace themselves for disappointment. They're stressed out and worried all the time, which then causes all kinds of bad things to happen. All of those, by the way, are contagious. All of those neg like I said, negativity is sticky. It's so sticky. you don't want to be around it, but if I can help you get out of it, I will. And all of those are conditioning. Those are all programs that they're running. I lost a lung. I was mad. I was depressed. I was sad. I wanted to give up. I just didn't. And I said, every day I get dozens of messages from you guys, from people asking me how I did it. Please help me. How did you do it? That's why I built my mastermind. Some people are like, "Just I don't know. It's a place to make. You just want to make money." Yes, I do. Absolutely. But I want you to make money. So, I teach you how to do that in my mastermind. I don't care what business you have. I'll help you grow it. I want people to be fit. It's not a workout program, by the way, but I'll hold your feet to the fire to demand that you work out and I'll give you all the advice and tips I can. You can follow my workouts all you want. I'll give you the nutrition. I'll help you get over every psychology block that you've got, every mindset problem, every little festering program in your head that's keeping you from going where you need to go. I will solve it. That's what I do. But that's why I built it because I don't want anybody to go through this that any through all the damage and chaos and catastrophes. If I can get in the way and prevent it, but it's either people asking me how I did it, but you have to be invested in it, by the way, if you want the answer. But you guys ask me how I did it. Or people will say, "You have money, you know, you're fit, you've got these things, you have a company or multiple companies, you have this great marriage, you have all this stuff, all these things." I don't have any of that. Neither did I. I woke up and when they told me I'd never be anything that I wanted to be ever again. Listen, never fit, never successful, never be able to do anything I wanted. They told me I would never even be able to run. I saw my wife standing in front of me with that cell phone right there video going, "Hi, my babe." Big smile, huge smile. And I felt it. I was weak. I was skinny. I had tubes coming out of me. I was I looked like a mess. I was gross. I I was still sick. I had no idea what was even going on. I knew I had nothing. And I knew I was a liability. But Brandy believed in me. And in that moment, instead of going back into all of the conversations I was having before that, about even before I went in, all of those conversations I was having about how miserable I was, I started new ones. And listen, even without somebody in your life, you can do this. Because otherwise, one of you guys is going to say, "You had brandy. I've done this by myself, just not nearly as effectively because I didn't believe it. Everything changed when I didn't." Listen, a lot of you guys, you're waiting for the money to do it, to have a better conversation, to have a better life. It won't. You're waiting for the money, it won't. You're waiting for your spouse to do it. They won't. You're waiting for something to start or something to stop. It won't. Nothing outside of your mind is going to do it. I promise. I promise you. 48 years old, I had to start with nothing. No home, no money, no business knowledge, no self-worth, no fitness, no health, nothing. At 48, I just changed my con conversations and my questions. Listen, there is only one thing that's going to change the world and the life that you're in. Just one. You make a decision. There's no raw. I'm not going to sit here and blow a bunch of sunshine up your ass. I'm not going to sit there and do that. You have to do this. I can't do it for you, but I can stand on your throat and I can hold you accountable and I can show up every day for you and make sure that you keep doing it. you come into my mastermind and I will show up every single day, every call and I will stand on your trachea and demand that you do it because I want you to win and I don't want you to hurt. I want you to have all the money, all the fitness, all the most magic in your relationship that you possibly can. But you have to show up. I will always show up. You have to up. The only thing that's going to change everything is that you make a decision. the decision that you're going to do whatever it takes to live exactly how you want to live and have the most incredible life you can imagine and do nothing outside of that. Like nothing outside of that life is an option. Nothing. That's the decision. That's regardless of how bad it is right now or how broke you are, how sick you are or how alone you are or how depressed or how angry or how frustrated or how defeated you are. That you're going to go allin on the life that you want and demand more from yourself than you ever have before and more than anybody else ever could. and that you're going to wake up every day and choose to ask better questions, to have better conversations with yourself. Because everything that you're experiencing right now that you don't like is a result of the training that you keep putting in all of those reps to continue looking at it and talking about it and subsequently living it. You have the habit of worry. You have the habit of stress. You have the habit of being angry or miserable or scared or whatever. And every day you do it, you're reinforcing it. You can change the entire world that you're living in by demanding new questions and having new conversations with yourself. And if you want to know what questions, you got to come up with most of them. But what do you want your life to look like? What do you want your life to look like? Not validating where you are or that you just want a little bit. All of it. The purpose, the fulfillment, the drive, the magic, the money, the fitness, the relationship, everything inside. all of it. What do you want it to look like? Start coming up with reasons why you want that. Why? Reasons drive behavior. Reasons drive conduct. Reasons create new actions, new character, new results. Start talking about why, not how. Why? Start controlling the conversation. So it's only in that direction. Why? Why? What do I want? What do I want my life to look like? And more importantly, why do I want it? Like, you have a choice every minute of every day to allow your habits to keep like just talking you into the default settings, right? If that's producing, listen, you can keep allowing those habits to take you into those default settings if that's producing what you want, but it's not. Think about it. The conversations and the questions that you're having right now are taking you into more of what you have. If you complain, you get more of it. If you're resentful, you have more of it. If you're miserable, more of it. Angry, more of it. Defeated, more of it. Frustrated, more of it. So you can keep allowing those habits to take you right back into that and keep making that left-hand turn, right back into the same settings that you've got, running the same program and keep putting more and more reps in and getting more of that. Or the other choice is you just getting really uncomfortable and asking better questions and having better conversations with yourself and then rewriting everything in your head. That's how you take control of your life. There's no magic. It's that that is the magic. It's date night. I got to go.