I I hear a lot of people talk about time, right? And even I've said it and I started thinking about it. How time is your most precious resource, but that's wrong. That's not exactly it. And I'm going to sneeze. Excuse me. Boy, I should leave that on the video. See what you guys think of how I sneeze. Probably get all kinds of people laughing at that. Just a trail of comments of people going, "Dude, that guy sneezed. Check your shorts. That was an intense sneeze." But as I had to put this down because I probably dropped the Coke Coke Zero, which is I don't know what's worse. But I I used to think because listen, I was laying in a hospital bed and I messaged my wife that this is I'm not going to make it till the morning. And it was very real. It's not this dramatic crescendo of events where I reach the climax in a movie and all of a sudden it's like the hero emerges. I really thought I was going to die and it was very real. It wasn't I'm not feeling so well. Something inside me the switch flipped. I didn't feel good at all. Like I I thought it was over. It's the most horrible feeling in the world to think that, you know, I'm not going to spend the rest of my life with my wife and children because I got sick. But I think the more I go through time and what its value really is, it's not time that's the value. Like the self-help world, the personal development world, I honestly think lied to you. I think it lied to everybody, including me. Because you've been told, and I wrote this in one of my posts earlier today. I said, you've been told that time is your most precious resource. And I've said it. You've thought it, but there's more to it than that. Time is only it's only valuable in proportion to the skills, discipline, energy, and strategy that you bring to it. Right? And most men are just wasting their lives. Men and women, people in general are just wasting their lives. Not because they're short on time, but because they're short on capacity, if that makes sense. Right? So, if you look at time and you think it has value, this is what happens. Because everybody out there that's idolizing time like it's the key to their kingdom, right? It's I just need more time. If I had a little bit more time, time is money. You can't get more time. You can't earn more time. I've said it. I've said you can't. It's the bank account. the one bank account that's forever getting smaller that no matter what you cannot put another deposit into it. Except that's [\h__\h] from this perspective. That's [\h__\h] Time is not your problem. In fact, time isn't even your asset. Time is just this blank canvas. You're the brush. Like what you do with it. You're the [\h__\h] brush, right? You understand that the world has sold you this false god, this idol. time is your most valuable resource and it's you have to protect your time, designate and delegate and all the things that you do. You've heard it a thousand times and it all sounds very wise and very profound, but it's all wrong because time I had just whacked the mic with my my coke. Time is only valuable like I said before in proportion to what you can do with the time because if you're just sitting around on your couch, time has no value. Please follow me. This is important because most people they do very little because they are very little and people get mad like their skills are underdeveloped, their minds are completely distracted, their energy is diluted and their discipline is non-existent. And so what do you think their time is worth? Their time is worth absolutely nothing. But you say you value your time. Ask yourself this. I'll pose this question to you guys. You say you value your time. Show me your day. Show me your day. Because if I follow you from sun up to sun down and all I see is scrolling, hating, negative, trolling, snacking, starting, quitting, planning, and avoiding, and all the stuff that you guys do, you don't value time. You waste it because you don't respect yourself. And let me make it clear. If time were your most precious resource, God, you would treat it you'd treat it like gold, like Bitcoin, whatever you want to call it, but you treat it like trash. Like you you burn hours on opinions that don't matter. You waste days with people that just they're energy vampires. They drain you and you'll spend weeks thinking and planning starting. Time isn't scarce. There's tons of it. Execution is scarce. Like right now, this is time. You're using time. And if you're like, "Shit, he's right. I got to go do something." Great. Then go do it. But time isn't the problem. Execution is. And until you level up your skills, right, your discipline, your network, and your mindset, and all the things that will make time more valuable, time isn't going to save you. It's going to expose you. Because I need to take a sip of this. In fact, I don't know. I might just leave all this in here. Usually my editor takes this stuff out, but I blow my nose on a towel because it's softer, right? These tape, paper towel, Kleenex, all that stuff. This is just softer. This is a microfiber towel that I got from I think I got it from Home Depot. Put that in your mic. When you have a mustache, I'll tell you this. Here's a hack for facial hair. Check it. Check it after you blow your nose because usually there's all kinds of gribblies and nonsense in there. My dad when I was a kid, he used to get ice. I realize this has nothing to do with this podcaster or vlog, but he used to get ice, right? Cuz we lived up in Winnipeg and I'd see him just be like he looked like he was like a hobo out in the winter cuts and he had all this ice all over his face and I just I don't know, he just looked gritty and rugged. But my dad, if you listen to yesterday's vlog, he was a lumberjack, basically. He was I've never met a tougher man. And I don't know. I think I'm pretty tough. That guy, man, he was a machine. But just to come back to time, you ever seen a guy and just heard him, he just talks about how he needs more time. Except they they binge Netflix, they eat Door Dash, and they Google how to stay motivated, right? It might maybe it's even you. You don't need more time. That guy doesn't need more time. He needs a personality transplant is what he needs. That's not your time's not your problem. Your problem is that you haven't earned the right to do anything valuable with it. So you have this empty space, but you have you haven't earned the right to do anything with it because you don't have any skills or discipline to do anything with it. Your discipline is in the wrong direction. It's not how much time you have, it's who you are when the clock is ticking. And that's really uncomfortable. And that's an uncomfortable truth that I guarantee you. No guru, no insta coach, insta course selling, I don't know, I'll make you rich, I'll make you millions cuz I flex my nice car all the time. Yeah, I talk about the Porsches we got or that Lambo or anything like that, but I don't flex it as in if you listen to me, you'll have this, too. I don't I just like cars. I've liked cars since I was four years old, since I had Matchbox cars. I've liked watches forever because my dad liked watches. Nothing's different about me. I'm the same. It just so happens that now apparently it's trendy. Although I think I'm not going to get a Richard Mill next time. I've got a few. I've got I've got four. They're clunky. Honestly, I've walked past my island in my kitchen and I've banged this thing. I can't tell you how many times. But I like I'm a Rolex and I like Rolexes. They're just tough. I have three of them and I beat the piss out of these things and they just take abuse. It's like a G-Shock to be honest. That's one of my favorite watches. And some people like, "Oh, here we go." Dude, my G-Shock, dude, I can beat this thing like a rented mule. And it just goes, "That's all you got, man." And it does the same thing. It just doesn't have the financial clout. And it doesn't remind me that my time is valuable, which is why I have this watch. That was initially why I bought a very expensive, they're called time pieces at this point, but because I wanted to always remind myself that I'm going look down at it. It wasn't the time that I was looking at. It was that my time is valuable and I need to leverage it properly by leveraging my skills. And that's important because like I said, the uncomfortable truth that no guru is going to taste tell you is that it's not how much time you have, it's who you are when that clock is ticking, right? You don't need to you don't need more time. You don't need more time in your day. You don't need an extra hour. You don't need to have a 36-hour day. all the stuff that you guys say, you need to become more dangerous with the time that you already have. Listen, let me ask you this. Ask yourself because I do these things. I ask myself self-reflection questions all the time because they help me organize my life and keep my vector in the right direction, right? Because otherwise I'm my my vectors are all over the place because I'm not asking myself the right questions. Remember, it comes back to the quality of your life is ultimately determined by the quality of conversations that you have with yourself and the quality of questions that you ask yourself. So ask yourself this, what what have I been blaming on a lack of time? That's really just a lack of skill, clarity, or courage. What have I been blaming? Because a lot of times it's those three things, right? One of those or all three. Lack of skill, lack of clarity, and lack of courage just to do it. Let's make it really clear. Time isn't valuable. You are not the same. Time has no inherent worth. Where's the value in time? It's a neutral resource. What gives it value is what you can convert that time into. Right? A billionaire's hour worth millions. It's just common sense. A billionaire's hour is worth millions. A broke, unfocused man's hour worth a couple of pennies, couple of cents. A distracted, soft man's hour worth negative because he's digging deeper into a hole. So stop pretending that time is this sacred magical thing. It's not. It's only leverage if you are worth leveraging. Like I've had 3 months in and out of a hospital. I've had 24 hours on on my deathbed for real at 48 years old. 24 hours hooked up to machines keeping me alive while my wife is locked outside because they wouldn't let her in. 24 hours thinking I was going to die. You know what happened and what changed when I got those hours back is maybe this will give you some perspective everything because I earned the right to use that time. Most of you aren't running out of time. You're just wasting it because you haven't made your minutes mean anything. You're not dangerous with time. You're lazy with it. Like you say your time is valuable. Prove it. Prove it. Don't show me your calendar. I don't care about your calendar. Show me your output. What what did your time produce? What did your time build? What did it impact? Who did it impact? What problem did it solve? What enemy did it eliminate? If your answer is not much, then your time isn't very valuable. You're just emotional about being busy, which a lot of people do. They confuse work with being they like real work productive in the direction of where they want to go and they get busy and they say they're very they work very hard, but they're getting nowhere, which means you're not busy at all. You're wasting time. I've had countless clients that I've had to explain that to and about 90% of them get it and about 10% go, "No, you don't understand. I'm really busy. I have so much to do. My entire day is swallowed up by the things I have to do." But you're doing busy work to tell yourself that you're busy. But if you look at your progress, you move millimeters while somebody that's efficient and smart and make leverages their time to the max is moving miles. Like the people that say, "I'm too busy." Too busy doing what? Too busy doing what? Watching a three-hour podcast on how to be productive while you ignore your own goals. You've got time. You just ain't worth [\h__\h] to yourself right now. That's the hard truth. And you can dislike it. You're not overworked. You're under prioritized, underskilled, and probably overcaffeinated. And there's nothing wrong with caffeine. In fact, caffeine is probably one of the best things you could. It's a supplement. Stop looking at it as a drug. Only people that say it's a drug are the same people that say nicotine is a drug. Nicotine is not a drug. 1994 they began lying to the public that nicotine is addictive and it's a drug. There's nothing addictive about nicotine. Nothing. Nothing. Cuz if so, you'd be addicted to eggplants and nightshade vegetables and white potatoes and all that stuff. You're not. And you have nicotinic receptors in your system. I can get into this all day. Nicotine is what triggers the immune system to actually work. It's what tells cytotoxic the killer tea cells to actually do their job. Your heart, your pancreas, your lungs, your brain, they all have nicotine receptors in them. You're design you're designed by God to use nicotine. 1994 they went, "Oh no, we can't have that because it actually makes people healthier." Nicadine is not the problem. The 15 pyroines that they put in all your tobacco products, that's the problem. But that's a whole different podcast. There is an existential cost to pretending that you're a victim of time because that story, that lie, it's what you tell yourself to protect yourself from that painful truth. I haven't become the kind of man or woman who can do something meaningful with the time that I've been given. But if you face that truth, you can change your entire world. Everything. When I came out of the hospital, I changed everything because now I leverage my time so much. And not even just to talk about money, but I've made more money. I've earned more money in one year than I earned in 10 as a doctor with my own clinics seeing a ton of patients. I've become more fit training better properly, more effectively, more functionally with more focus than I did with 20 years of lifting weights at a global gym. I've honed a much more incredibly passionate, beautiful marriage by using my time to communicate effectively and listen effectively than it 15 10 15 years of marriage prior. Those are all the things I learned after I came out of the hospital. You can change everything rapidly, permanently, and exponentially. Right? So, if someone else, as this, if someone else had full control of my calendar, would they be able to build something I've been too undisiplined to do? If they had full control over yours, your calendar, would that person be able to build all kinds of things that you want to that you've been undisiplined to do? Because I guarantee you the answer is yes. It's almost a rhetorical question. Time doesn't scale. Leverage does. You get that, right? If you want to build a meaningful life, you don't need to do more. You need to create systems, skills, and assets that do more for you. And and I think the illusion is that when I'm doing a bunch of things, and I've been trapped by this, where I've gotten very busy, but at the end of the day, I go, "Boy, I didn't really move very far, which means you're I'm confusing movement with achieve achievement and results." And that's a very common disease, especially on social media. People talk about, "I've been I've been grinding 18our days and I'm going to get there at some point." Yeah, perhaps. But make sure the direction that you're grinding is actually taking you where you want to go. It's not just fooling yourself into the fact that you're so busy and you're still your bank account still has the same number of zeros in it, which is maybe one. Your fitness is still the same. You still got a dad bot and you're still driving the same crappy car that you wish you didn't have in the same house you wish you didn't have. You're in a marriage that has not improved whatsoever because you're too busy using your time to tell everybody how busy you are, including the person in the mirror. If you want to build a meaningful life, you don't need to do more. You don't. You need to create systems and skills and assets and leverage everything to do more for you. Here's why. Listen. One man works 12 hours and maybe this is you and earns a 100 bucks. Another man works 3 hours and earns 100 grand. It's not the difference in the time. It's not because of the time. It's because of the leverage. And the people at the bottom will say, "Yeah, the person that got a h 100red grand for that same amount of time or for 3 hours even is conning people." That's not true. Their time's worth more. If I give you one piece of advice, one, and it takes me 10 minutes to give you that piece of advice and your marriage is about to implode, 20 years, best friend, everything you've got, family, kids, the whole world, and it is everything that you've ever wanted and you just screwed it up. and you guys don't know how to run your marriage and I give you one piece of advice over 10 minutes and it saves your marriage and you 6 months later are holding hands and having the best sex of your life and so connected to each other and your kids see it, your family sees it, everybody knows and you feel like you are living this miracle life and I give you that one piece of advice. 10 minutes and I go, "That's $100,000." The smart man or the smart woman goes, "I'm in." The idiot goes, "Where's the $39 version of that?" then you have a $39 marriage because you don't have value for where you are and you don't want to build value where you are. You want to look for the cheapest ever, which is exactly why you squander your time, right? If the person that earns a h 100red grand in a couple hours is because of their leverage. You need to become that person. And this is just about money. It's about all kinds of things. But if we're talking about money, his skill, his this is a person's skill. If it was me, my skill is leverage. My money is leverage. My team is leverage. My content is leverage. My discipline is leverage. My environment is leverage. My network is leverage. Time just reveals the gap. Right here, let me make it simple. If you can't control you, you don't deserve leverage. And maybe that's a triggering statement to you guys, but you don't get you don't get to build a business and lead a team or automate your results until you can dominate yourself first. Why? So many people, they come there like, I want to start this business, Spartan. I want to do it. I want to join the mastermind and I actually want to do it cuz I want to build a business. Great. All the resources are in there, including me. I will answer your questions on the Monday Q&A all the time. I don't care how bad they are, how big they are, how trashed your business is, or what wild idea you have. If it's viable and there's a market for it, I'll help you build it. But you don't get to build that business or lead a team or automate anything through many chats or anything you're going to use until you can dominate your mindset first. Until you can dominate you first. Because it doesn't matter what I hand you. If you are like a squirrel, you just chase shiny things. You're never going to be successful because leverage doesn't come to weak men ever. It comes to the men who earn it through this this just ruthless consistency and focused execution over and over again. You want to multiply your impact? Then stop being distracted and start being lethal. And and I really hope you understand the difference because you don't need more hours. You don't. I've been that guy. I used to think, God, if I just had more hours, it's not the hours that's the problem. It's what I was doing with them. You need to stack the right skills and leverage them ruthlessly, right? Skills. I'll give you I'll even tell you what the skills are. copywriting, sales, marketing, branding, presence, masculine frame, emotional control, financial maturity. Master those because every one of those skills is a [\h__\h] money printer if you know how to use them properly. But instead of building skills, you guys build I said this today, you guys build to-do lists and is instead of acquiring leverage, you scroll non-stop. That's why you stay poor in every area of your life in your health and your wealth and your relationships. You're not leveraged. You're leaking. You're hemorrhaging, right? You don't need another app. You guys with your apps that track your time and your Google count Google calendars that are just non-stop colors like a [\h__\h] rainbow. You don't need that. You don't. How did people become successful without it? How did people have great marriages without apps? How did people become fit without apps? You don't need it. That is an illusion that you tell yourself so you have something to blame when your [\h__\h] doesn't work. You need a life worth tracking. You don't need an app to track it. You need a life worth tracking. I've seen guys with color-coded calendars who haven't done anything meaningful for a decade. And guess what? Being busy is not the same as being effective. And being tired isn't the same as being valuable. You want more out of life? Stop working harder. Start working higher. Do higher value things with your time. Listen, leverage is what allows a man to escape the tyranny of this linear progress, right? One skill, one system, one decisive improvement can change everything. And yet people chase businesses with all kinds of moving parts. They chase lives with all kinds of moving parts. But you can't even manage the parts you have. What do you want more for? But all of those things work, right? Like one skill, one system, one decisive improvement. All of those things, they only work if you stop clinging to the comfort of brute effort and start embracing the discomfort of strategic evolution. Because otherwise you're going to think you can outmuscle time. Never going to happen. Never going to happen. Ask yourself, where in my life am I relying on just brute force muscle instead of just building leverage? If you're listening, I just drank some more Coke. Here, let me give you the cheat code because you guys are going to just spend all day looking through Google or trying to figure out what I'm trying to explain, even though I've already given the answer about a dozen times. Success is oh it's not about how long you've been at it. It's not and you know it because people that have been successful in three months and people that 30 years have been grinding weight the same thing and they haven't made anything. They haven't done anything with their life. In fact, they've been failing for three decades. And what the people at the bottom again say is the people that did it in 3 months were lucky. And they'll say it's an nepotism and all the nonsense that comes out of the world right now, but that's not accurate at all. They leverage their time much better. Period. There's no long-winded explanation to that. So, let me give you the cheat code. Success is not about how long you've been at it. It's not. It's about how fast you learn and then take action on what you learn. If you take 6 months to do what another man does in 6 hours, you're you don't have intelligence. That man that does it in 6 hours is much more intelligent than you. And that is so offensive to people because if I learn something, we both read the same information and people go sometimes people just learn at a different rate. Exactly. You're not as intelligent as me. Or if you learn faster than me, you are more intelligent than me. So what? If it takes me two attempts after learning new information to get it right and it takes you 200, I'm smarter than you. And people will get mad, but only people that are dumber because you're you don't know how to effectively use your time or you're too busy thinking of other things while you're trying to learn something. This is what people do. They have one thing going on right here, but while they're focusing on this, they're also trying to figure out what's going on here. One thing at a time. Singularity focus. Singularity of focus. Right? If you take six months to do what another man does in six days, I promise you this, six hours even, you're going to lose every single time. The highest performers, they're not the smartest. They're the fastest at collecting data and information and making decisions and then executing as hard as they possibly can. And the reason that you're stuck is honestly a lot of you guys, you move like your life doesn't depend on it. It [\h__\h] does. Listen, I laid in a hospital at 48, past midlife, just so you understand that time is not on my side, but time's not on your side when you're five either. The minute you're born, your clock is ticking. Max it out. Like you say, you're waiting. That's what people do. You guys say you're waiting for what? For what? What are you waiting for? Permission, the right time, the stars, the planets to align. No, you're just scared. You're scared of committing. You're scared of failing. You're scared of doing something that's irreversible. You're scared of spending the money. God, you cheap people. You guys buy You guys want to buy the cheapest [\h__\h] and then you get mad when it doesn't work. And you blame them for being a scammer, but you're the idiot that bought the program that has nothing of no value. It's funny when I tell people about the Unbreakable Mastermind and they go, "Yeah, I'll think about it." I don't want you that. I don't because if you want to execute and have the life that you so desperately talk about, then you're going to execute. My my results speak for themselves. Anybody in my mastermind will blow your mind because they'll be like, "Holy shit." And my mastermind is constantly evolving. I don't regurgitate cookie cutter nonsense. I actually solve problems. Today is Monday. Monday is my Q&A call. It is my campfire Q&A call. last week, two different cancers, candida, lead genen, breaking $100,000 a month, some injury resolution, some personal development, an OB/GYN question, like I I could probably about four or five dozen in total things that I solved over the course of almost two hours and I actually know the answer. They're applicable because they're all things that I've become an expert in by experience because I've leveraged my time. So, it's constantly the same lesson. I had a coach. It was the same stupid lesson. And this guy was so dull and so boring. And he was such a good salesman. That's the problem. And it was this Cairo coach that I had. God, I stayed with him for almost a decade. It was a waste of my time. And I'm at fault. Nobody else's fault. I kept staying there for a multitude of reasons. But it was today we're going to go over day one visit. Today we're going to go over report of findings. Dude, your [\h__\h] is old and dated and nobody is doing that anymore. And anybody that's succeeding has far surpassed that. I know because I make more than in a month than this guy makes in a year now. And had I listened to this person, listen to me. This is why I'm saying it. Had I not leveraged my own time and gone, "Nope, I'm out. They cut that off finally and realized how much that was a thumb on my head, I would still be there in a little itty bitty chiropractic office, sportsmet office, not growing anywhere miserable with the life because I was doing things I didn't really want to do. So you have to look at the life you want and then go, how can I leverage my time to get everything out of that? Ring every ounce of juice out of that and build a life that I want. Whatever it is, the house, the bank account, the fitness, the marriage, the body, the dog training center, the cars, the planes, the jets, it doesn't matter what it is. You could live in a yurt in the middle of Venezuela. I don't care. But it has to be your life. And if where you are and what you're doing is not making you progress there at an alarmingly fast rate, you're wasting your time. you're not leveraging because you're scared of committing. You're scared of failing and you're scared of doing something that might just be irreversible. Which comes back to people that go, "I don't know, man. It's a mastermind. What What if it doesn't work?" I will give you a guarantee. The guarantee is that if you keep waking up every day doing the same thing you're doing right now, you will get the same results or worse. I guarantee that if you don't prospect, you will not change the lives of anybody, including yourself. Yeah. I guarantee that if you do not do anything to grow the business, start the business, expand what you're doing, level up in your company, whatever it is, you will never earn any more money and you will wind up spending more than you earn. I guarantee if you do not have the conversation with your spouse that needs to happen to change and resolve and fix and learn how to communicate and reinvent your [\h__\h] marriage, you are going to be divorced alone or two people that sleep in separate rooms and separate beds for the next 40 years hating each other. All of those things, those are the guarantees. I absolutely guarantee that you're going to fail if you don't do anything different than you do today. The reason your brain goes, I can't do this. I'm too scared to spend like it's a discounted rate, man. It's 25 grand for my mastermind. It's 1,500 bucks. Like, I do it because I really want you to win. If I didn't want you to win, I would be like, I don't care. Pay me 25 grand. Too bad. Bye. If that's not one-on-one, by the way, before you guys go, can I get you on the phone? No. I will never talk to you on the phone for $1,500 ever. Don't even send me a message outside of the Q&A. Don't even talk to me cuz I won't answer it. If you want one-on-one to ask me questions, then pay for the one-on-one. And that is actually very fair. Because if I give you a little bit of one-on-one for 1,500, then what's the point of having one-on-one? One-on-one is having me in your hip pocket. And my buddy Brian, who is a one-on-one FBI guy, him and his wife Jenny, uh they call me doctor on demand. And I promise you, I can't count the number of messages that I fielded between him and his wife for all kinds of things, whether it's business, injury, health, doesn't God, doesn't matter. That's what one-on-one gives you. And I've resolved a ton of problems. And I've built businesses for people with people. But $1,500 to join a that's $410 a day. You guys spend more than that on a Starbucks that gives you nothing. But you get 144 live calls a year. Three a week with me. psychology, business, Q&A, like holy crap. Plus a thousand plus calls inside the mastermind and all the online and offline content, all the libraries, all the archives, all the stuff that I've done for 3 years. There's nobody that does what I do as well as I do. Like, it's just I'm not And I get it because people go, "I've been conned and scammed." Yes, you have because you listen to idiots. Absolutely. I know because I have to. Absolutely. That's why I built it because I got tired of it. But that's why my barrier to entry never changes and my standards never change. I don't try and sell people. I don't have various prices. I don't have any weird sliding scales, nothing like that. You want one-on-one, it's one price. You want lifetime, it's one price. You want to pay yearly, it's one price. The end. That's all I got. But you guys are scared of commitment. You're scared of failing in whatever it is. And you're scared of doing something that you might not be able to reverse, but you already know how to do the life you're in. You know what's worse? Just so you know, sitting still while your damn dreams rot and die in front of you in your own brain that you are choosing to do. You don't need another plan. You need violence of action now. Right now. Speed. Oh god. Speed is everything. You want to build a business, change your body, fix your marriage, then move with purpose. Move like it matters. Losers think in terms of time. Winners think in terms of speed. You might want to pay attention to what I just said. Losers think in terms of time. Winners think in terms of how fast. They don't ask how long will it take. They ask how fast can I go? which I had to learn because now it's how fast can I do this? How hard can I smash that skinny pedal into the ground and when they fail they get the [\h__\h] back up immediately. That's what a winner does because hesitation is the death of any progress, especially masculine progress. Like I've seen guys take 3 months to make a $99 decision on a course they know doubt they need. You know what that tells me? You ain't trying to win, son. You're trying to protect your comfort zone. You want to move fast? Grow a titanium spine. Make the call, spend the money, ask the girl, ask the guy, take out the loan, borrow every dollar you've got, hire the one-on-one, join the mastermind, do whatever it is. Take the hit and build the [\h__\h] momentum because nobody's waiting for you, least of all your potential. Honestly, moving like a turtle, if you guys slow and steady wins the race, haven't you ever heard that? The turtle won over the hair. Listen, anybody that moves like a turtle, other than dollar cost averaging for investments where you just keep putting it in every minute, stop trying to time the market, outside of that, nobody's winning moving slow. Slowness is not wisdom. That's a lie that you guys have been told. It's fear wearing the mask of thoughtfulness. That's what it is. It's the avoidance of action dressed up as a strategy. That avoidance, it comes at a severe moral cost. Because listen, every minute that you delay, every hour that you stall out, you abandon the life that you want to and you were born to create. You guys that say speed is recklessness, it is not. Speed is it's reverence for the opportunity of life, right? Ask really where this is what you guys do. So ask, that's why I want you guys to answer these questions. Where in my life am I mistaking hesitation for a strategy? And how is that costing me every damn thing in my life? Because it is. And here's the scary part. A lot of you guys will validate why it's not necessary. It's actually a strategy that's costing you. You have no more time than you do today, right now to get to where you want to go. Tomorrow, you have less time. It'll take longer. Excuse me, I was about to sneeze. It'll take longer. It'll cost more money. And it'll be less likely that you'll succeed tomorrow. You don't lack time. You lack the willingness to sacrifice. You want an extra hour in the day? Cool. Cool. Love it. Delete the app. Cut the person. Drop the hobby. Wake up earlier. Work while everybody else sleeps. Commit. Because you're not going to get your time back by wishing for it. You buy it. You buy it with pain, man. Sorry. You don't find time. You carve it out with a blade. It's not the same. You don't get more hours by journaling and manifesting with Rhonda Burn. Listen, the secret playing in the background. You get it by cutting out the [\h__\h] The nights out, the comfort meals, the stalls, the excuses, the delays, the I need to think about it. I need to pray about it. I need to talk about it. Let me see what my wife says. Let me go ahead and sit down and have a little seance about it. The sleepins, the emotional drama, the meaningless [\h__\h] habits. You want time, kill your distractions, kill your softness, kill your average, right? There's no enough with your balance because the balance is what gets very frustrating. You guys go. You need balance, bro. Nobody winning has balance. Tom Brady didn't have balance. Pton Manning didn't have balance. Phelps didn't have balance. Gogggins doesn't have balance. I don't have balance. I want to win. People that want to win have two things. A very healthy ego and the desire to only win. That's it. That's all they see. And they do not get distracted by anything that gets around them. And they move as fast as humanly possible and even then divinely if possible. There's no balanced at the top. Only men who sacrifice more than you, right? More than you were willing to. I really hope that part hits because I've bought back more time by being more ruthless with my energy than anybody else. That's how I've done it. Because most people, they want time without a cost. They want the results without blood. You can make time, but that requires, as harsh as it sounds, it requires murdering the weaker version of yourself that keeps begging for later. I'll do it later. I'll do it tomorrow. You say you don't have time. [\h__\h] It's just [\h__\h] And you know it. You don't have the You don't have the guts. You You 4 hours of net Netflix. You've got 3 hours of scrolling and messaging people on Instagram about advice, right? You got 2 hours of winding down. It's zero hours of [\h__\h] progress. You want more time? Unfollow some of these ass clowns. Cancel a few subscriptions and quit worshiping comfort like it's a religion. Time expands in proportion to what you're willing to give up. Really get that. Time will grow in proportion to what you're willing to take away. The the day is still the same. It's what you fill it with. It's not passive currency. It's earned. It's earned through deliberate elimination of everything that no longer serves your highest aim. Where's your highest aim? Stop praying for time. Start sacrificing for it. That's what a king does. You guys sit around, they go, "God, just give me more time. God's going to give you more work. God, just I if I had more opportunity, you have more work show up." You guys that talk about how you would just kill for an opportunity to change your life and then the opportunity shows up dressed up with a bill that you have to pay financially, a bill that you have to pay physically and a bill that you have to pay emotionally and you go, "I don't want to do it. I need more time. I can't do it. Can I think about it?" You're wasting time. That's what you're doing. Stop praying for time. Start sacrificing for it. That's what a [\h__\h] king does. Either you're a king or you're a peasant. Ask yourself this really. I'll leave you with this. What comfort? What lie am I clinging to that's stealing the very time that I claim to want that I keep chasing? What is it? Cuz when you answer that question, it's going to expose where you are hemorrhaging all your priorities. Cuz it's not a time problem. It's a priority problem. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.