Welcome to the Unbreakable podcast. I am Dr. Trevor Bachamire. Most people call me the Spartan. There's a whole lot of reasons why, but the number one is that's what my son calls me. I was outside working out with Brandy and we were talking. We talk all the time. It's one of the best things about being married to your best friend is you actually have real conversations and we both said the same thing. Everybody's looking for the next thing. Brad Lee, he's got a podcast called Dropping Bombs. If you don't follow it, you don't listen to it. You should. He's a good dude. He's a witty and incredibly intelligent and a very successful businessman. If you need to learn anything outside of what I'm teaching you, he's a great second source. he knows what he's doing and a great salesman, but he said the same thing, too. He says, "People are always looking for the next thing." And what they're actually looking for is something easier, right? Like, you're not You guys are I hear the same dialogue all the time coming through my Instagram, coming through here, all the comments, everything, even emails. You're not stuck because the world's unfair. You're not. You're stuck because you're refusing to outgrow all of the weaknesses that you're clinging to like they're your identity. You've created this psychological prison and most of you guys don't even know it. It's built entirely out of your own excuses, by the way. And sometimes you throw some Instagram quotes, some Tik Tok memes in there, and then this new age therapy talk that makes you guys feel better for staying average. You're weaponizing your own language against you. like you're looking for the next app, the next hack, the next trick. I have a business academy inside my Unbreakable Mastermind. That's one of the most fundamental primary things that I do is I teach people how to actually get their business right, how to use AI, how to build a company, how to start from scratch, how to generate leads, how to create an Instagram account that actually works, how to do things to make money instead of trading time for money. And what's interesting to me, it's all included, by the way. 1,500 bucks a year and it's all included. You guys out there paying a hundred, $200,000 for these programs, that's great. Listen, if they are oneon-one and they know what they're doing, like my one-on-one program is a h 100,000 per year and that's me and you get my cell phone and we go through what's called an ops call and we break down everything where the problems are and then we solve those and come up with a game plan and then you execute and if you have any problems you message me and you have a direct lifeline to me at all times and that's a big deal because I've done this a lot. But for $1,500, you get a slightly lower level version of that where you can still ask me questions every single Monday. Real questions. They're not canned and not, hey, I don't have time. I just stay on the call till everybody's questions are answered on Monday and I don't care what the questions are. That being said, you can doubt what everything is because it it comes with a price tag, but what you're really doing is doubting you because you don't like the price tag. Whether the price tag is the money, the time, or the energy, it doesn't matter. which is exactly why you're looking for the next app, next trick, the next [\h__\h] biohacking guru to whisper the shortcut to greatness into your ear like it's a bedtime story. That's not coming. It's just not. It doesn't matter because even if it was, you would just scroll right past it looking for something easier. Like you guys all run around thinking the plan is what's broken, but the plan has never changed. The blueprint is forever the same. Find a problem, solve the problem. This is just for anything in your marriage, in your fitness, in your business. Find the problem, solve the problem, and then for business, get paid to solve that problem for other people. You think it's macros or the funnel or the niche or the algorithm or your coach. That's always the funny one is when I see people blame their coach. Now, listen, there are some really funky coaches out there. And I'm not going to talk poorly about people that aren't here to defend themselves, but do your due diligence. But at the same time, if the coach gives you a plan and the problem is you not executing on the plan because you don't like it, the problem isn't with the coach. It's you. You're the one sabotaging the whole thing. Whatever it is, you're the one with the weak, distracted, pleasure-hungry psychology that's allergic to the work, the discipline. Okay? So, you bought another program instead of showing up for the one that you already had. I've told people they go, "Hey, I want to buy this. Should I do this?" I had a lady, she bought my program. And then she got into one-on-one. She gave me a great review. She's a great person and she killed it. Keratin was her name and or is her name. And you know what? She asked me, "Hey, I have this other program I bought. It's monthly. I still have another three months. It's x amount of dollars per month. I I'm not really learning anything." And I go, "Did you commit?" And she said, "Yeah, should I stop paying?" I said, "No, you committed." And she goes, "You know what?" She goes, "I figured you'd tell me that." She goes, "Okay." And she wrote it out. You know what that says? I'm committed. I own my [\h__\h] I've never returned anything in my life ever. I bought it. So if your mentality is to constantly return, test the waters, dip your toe, see if it works, buy the cheapest, that's exactly why you're failing because you get as you give. So if you sell, people buy from you the way you buy from everybody else, whether it's your fitness or your business or your marriage or anything like that. And so you guys keep looking for the next thing because you're afraid to give all of yourself. You hired another coach so you could blame someone else again, not so you could do the work. You binge another podcast, you grab Tim Ferris and you listen to him or Patrick Bet David or Bedros or anybody that's very success and you you listen to the next podcast about morning routines and everything that you have to do in order to be successful is if stacking crystals and chanting in a cold plunge is going to make up for the fact that you're lazy as hell when nobody is watching. And maybe that stings. So what? It's true. The results you want require a psychology that doesn't exist in you yet. The problem, the foundation is not the program, the work. Every workout works, every diet works as long as you're in a caloric deficit. You guys have to understand the problem is the reflection in the mirror. Because the psychology that doesn't exist in you yet is the issue, right? Which means until you rebuild the operating system inside your head, it doesn't matter. Every single hack, every workout, every single relationship and business, everything you do, every move you make is going to be filtered through the same broken lens of weakness and looking for easier, right? So maybe instead ask yourself better questions. I keep giving you these questions because they help. Where in your life do you keep blaming something outside of yourself for something that is 100% the result of your own inaction? your own blaming somebody else. My dad died, that's why I couldn't. I went through a health crisis, that's why I couldn't. My marriage is struggling, that's why I couldn't. My website's not converting, that's why I couldn't. My Instagram isn't growing, that's why I couldn't. I'm not getting engagement. It's always something else, but it's not. It's you. The delusion that your problems exist outside of you is the root of your prolonged suffering. It's psychologically immature to believe that circumstances are what keep you trapped. Really, responsibility is not a burden. That's the key to all of the power that you crave and you want and you tell everybody that you don't have. Your mind has been programmed to seek evidence to support your biases. So you believe you're stuck. So your mind creates a world where that belief feels true. Except the moment that you flip that narrative and you begin assuming all responsibility, your brain goes to war finding solutions instead of all the scapegoats you can find. Responsibility is, for lack of a better explanation, the psychological firewall against helplessness. The world is going to build your identity for you. So, h how about this? Let me ask. If you were dropped, if you really follow me, just stick with me. If you were dropped in the jungle right now and told to survive, you going to start journaling about your trauma? No. you would [\h__\h] move. But the jungle of modern life still the same. You freeze. You blame your parents, your sister, your brother, your neighborhood, your childhood, your school. You blame your coach, your leader, your director, your business, your Instagram account, your social media, the algorithm. You cry about your neurode divergence, and you create a Pinterest board of all of the things that make you special instead of doing the only thing that matters, the work. You don't need another [\h__\h] course. You need to wake up, lift heavy [\h__\h] stop eating like an [\h__\h] get focused, and learn to suffer with pride. That's it. You don't need another breakthrough or let me confess and be really transparent out on social media. You look like a s when you do that. You need a backbone. You want to feel ready. Good luck. The enemy doesn't give a [\h__\h] how you feel. Not at all. But neither does the barbell, the business, the public, the bank account, the zeros, none of it. nothing like that business that you're building doesn't give a [\h__\h] about how you feel. You think I want to wake up and train every day? You think I want to run with one lung? No. I do it anyway because I know for a fact that old version of me is always trying to survive. And the new version of me has already been born and it's growing. And if I allow that old version to come back, I kill who I am. You're trying to birth a new life without going through labor. You're trying to birth a new life without going through any of the labor. You want six-pack abs, eight figure deposits, but the moment it hurts, you tap out. I've said it before, I'll say it again. Stay in the pain. You're not dying. Stay in the pain. You're not You are shedding all the weakness and excuses that you've been clinging to that you think make you special. Because listen, really, you're telling me that the diet, the coach, the course, and the god of all that's created are conspiring to screw you over? You really think that you special little snowflake? That's not adversity, princess. That's your lazy ass refusing to sweat. You ever notice the people that say, "I've tried everything." Usually haven't tried hard at anything. You didn't try everything. You tried juicing for four hours, drank some cayenne pepper water, got bored, went back to stuffing your face with gluten-free cookies while googling your horoscope. Your problem isn't that you're broken. The problem is that no one's roasted you hard enough to snap out of the fantasy that you're living in every day. Welcome to the roast, [\h__\h] You know what's worse than failure? blaming the result on the method when it was your psychology that poisoned the execution. That's way worse. God, that is so much worse. And you guys know it because most of you guys are running billion-dollar lives on Dollar Tree mindsets. You expect wealth, respect, love, admiration, adoration, strength while operating with the psychological maturity of a depressed raccoon. And then you wonder why your life looks like a trailer part after a tornado. I wonder sign up for a coaching program. Let's do that because people always get mad at coaches. I am a consultant/coach slash many other things. Doctor, if anyone ever gets mad at me because the program didn't work, I'm going to send them a [\h__\h] mirror. I had a guy one time, this guy Dan, wasn't going to say his name, but I slipped out anyway. And I said, "Do this. Do you have anything else? Because I'm not about I'm not about doing that [\h__\h] man. Then starve. While I'm making 5 to 10 grand a day minimum, you're struggling to do five grand a month. And I'm trying to help you. That's blaming the coach for the things you're not willing to do. So, you sign up for the coaching program. You hire the fitness guru, the trainer, whatever you want to call him. You pay for the mentorship. you pay for the mastermind and you finally get access to the blueprint and you still fail and instead of saying this, which you should say, maybe I didn't show up like a professional. Maybe I showed up like a [\h__\h] amateur. Instead, you say the program didn't work for me. Oh, so let me get this straight. It worked for a thousand other people, but the universe conspired against just you. No. And I'll never accept it. Neither should anybody else listening to this. Because if you have the results, let me explain this. If they don't have the results and they're telling you they can get you the results that you want, but they don't have them themselves, liar. But if they have the results, they got the receipts behind them, and you didn't do what they said. The problems with you, not with them. You did it halfway. You quit when it got hard. And then you gas lit yourself with all your excuses. Your psychology is for the most part so fragile it needs a safe place from its own reflection. Listen, you want to know why you're broke? Because your thoughts are cheap. That's that is as basic as it gets. It's the same reason why you're fat because your habits match your feelings instead of the standards that you're required to have. The reason you're alone, nobody wants to spend time with you or your wife is sleeping in another room and the last time you had sex was Obama's presidency. It's because nobody respects somebody who's looking for a parent instead of a partner. You wonder why your wife wants nothing to do with you because she's your mother. She didn't sign up to get another child. Like where when it's actually your commitment or your lack of consistency or your [\h__\h] psychology that failed because that's what it is. But it hurts. So most people go that's not it. My situation's different. So you're different snowflake but everybody else is the same. Got it. You walking on water too. You are the architect of the psychological lens through which you see every single circumstance in your world. If you assign blame externally for your internal decay, internal corruption, you are going to die in a prison of your own construction. That is absolute fact. And you could see it time and time again. Responsibility is what gives meaning to suffering. without any meaning. Nihilism leads to self-destruction 100% of the time. The most dangerous man in the world is not the one without options. It's the one who refuses to recognize that he is the option. You guys understand that the way out begins the moment you start telling the truth. Most of you guys are so busy lying, you can't even get your facts straight about yourself. You're lazy. You guys refuse to tell the truth about your laziness, your jealousy, your envy, your envy, your cowardice. getting into the comments and throwing hate, your resentment. You guys are resentful for [\h__\h] that you wish you had. And then you lie yourself. That's your lullabi. You lie yourself to sleep at night. And all of the things that you're telling yourself is what's keeping you broke and depressed and anxious and frustrated and alone when the sun's up. And then you want me to feel sorry for you. I get messages. You're mean, man. You don't understand what some people are going through. No, I just don't care. I give you the solution. You've got unlimited information in a cell phone. You've got unlimited food, access, technology, and unlimited opportunity to do anything. If you guys would have put a dollar into Bitcoin in 2009, every one of you guys that's complaining that went Bitcoin is a hack would be worth well over $und00 million. But you're still [\h__\h] on Bitcoin. Hey, dumbass. I've done tens of millions of dollars in profit in Bitcoin. But you go ahead and keep telling yourself that. So you wonder why you're still broke. It's not a tragedy for you, man. That's your choice. You architect. You're you create choice architecture in your own life to make sure that the choice you take, good or bad, always makes sure the results are terrible. You you know what you need? You need therapy's evil twin. Discipline. probably the triplet consistency. You got emotions like a woman on a hormone roller coaster who forgot to put the hormone patch on. You let your mood determine your effort. You skip the gym because you're upset, tired, angry, sad, frustrated, or you just have some [\h__\h] that you got to handle. And you eat like an [\h__\h] because you're stressed. Imagine being so mentally weak that your feelings tell your actions what to do. That ain't power. That's emotional slavery. You know what the real pain is? I said it a couple of days ago. It's not the workout. It's not the diet. It's not the grind. It's not the business. It's not showing up. It's not 16 hour days. It's looking in the mirror every damn day and seeing the man that you could have been and knowing you were just too weak and arrogant to become him. That's pain. Cuz if I looked in the mirror and I knew I could have done something about everything I see and I don't, I couldn't live like that because the man that's looking in the mirror is counting on that man and so is my family and everybody that sees me. You think [\h__\h] burpees or squats or pull-ups are hard? Try explaining to your kids one day why their dad never built anything with his [\h__\h] name on it. Like I fast 186 Brandy and I every Friday to Saturday and people go that's too hard. I couldn't do it. You think that's hard? Try try starving for a purpose while stuffing your face with food you didn't earn. How about that? You guys do it every day. And discipline is not too extreme. Here's extreme. Waking up in your 50s, overweight, diabetic, on multiple medications, bitter, broke, and absolutely forgotten by your family, never mind everybody else, because you wanted to feel good in your 30s and 40s. Okay, listen. I like math. So, let's do some math. So, let me back up because I've heard this. You've been trying to lose weight. Let's just use weight loss because this is my favorite one because it's easy. Anybody can lose weight. If you tell me it's because of your hormones, your system, your menopause, your graves, your genetics, your bones, whatever the hell it is, your environment, the problem is that you are not eating in a caloric deficit. There is no other explanation. They have all had pe but they all caused people to lose weight because they didn't eat enough. And you know what people's explanation is? Yeah, but that's not healthy. But you want to lose the weight or not? So, you've been trying to lose weight for six years. I've been trying. You don't understand. You've read all the books, watched all the videos, you've taken every fat burning supplement and everything you can pos everything that Brea has told you to take. You've done. You bought all the gear, but you still jiggle like a busted ass water bed every time you move. Just you're disgusting. You've been even that you guys. I have somebody in my group been building their business for 10 years, a decade, still broke, still clueless, still blaming Facebook ads, the presidency, and the economy, and they just gave me a shot. And then I give them homework to do, and they go, "Yeah, I tried then. You didn't do it. You tried." It's like the people that are working on their marriage. So, let me get this straight. You had one awkward date night, posted about it on Instagram, and expected your spouse to fall in love with you all over again. Come on. You're not in a rut. That's denial. You don't need a new program or a new book or a new video or a new spouse or a new business or anything. You need a new psyche. I'll say this as clearly as possible. It's never the plan. It's always the man. You have better results. Get better psychology. It is always the same. That is the foundation for everything. It is always your psychology. And you only get that through violently honest self assessment and honestly put yourself through pain every day. Well, that's really sadistic. No, it's not. That's where growth happens. Pain, discipline, and no cheerleaders, by the way. Blame is not a coping mechanism. But like I said, you do you. I know for a fact blame is it's a chain, man. It's like a leash that keeps you [\h__\h] Every time you say I can't because of you bow to the very thing you claim is oppressing you. You take a knee. Let me be clear. That's what slaves do. I'm nobody's slave. You're not explaining your situation. You're declaring your servitude. Like this is what you guys come up with these explanations. It's my ex. It's my boss. It's my my mom that died. My dad that died. The algorithm. my business, my industry, my website, my husband, my marriage, the practice I have to do, my busy schedule, my hormones, my trauma, the system, the presidency, the economy, the time of year, my age. No, [\h__\h] It's you. You want to change your life? How about you change your pronoun? It's not them, it's me. That's what I mean. You're never going to succeed ever. Like, where are you blaming somebody or something else? What do you think would happen if you just owned it instead? What have you got to lose? Your life is already a dumpster fire. Just change it. When you blame, you outsource your agency. Right? That's why I'm saying this. You allow all of your suffering to be meaningless because you attribute it to forces that are outside of your control. How many times do I have to tell you that's psychological suicide? The more responsibility you assume, the more power you accumulate. That's the truth. You gain power over emotions, behavior, future, all yours. And if you find yourself resisting that responsibility, it's because your identity is still welded to your wounds. Most of you guys are more loyal to your excuses than to your potential. Why? If you're blaming anything outside of you, I already know two things about you. You're weak and you're broke. Change my mind. I've never seen a strong man point fingers ever. Strong men point mirrors. Your marriage sucks. Fix it or [\h__\h] leave. But shut up about it. If your business isn't working, okay, either adapt or accept that you suck at what you do and you're okay with staying there. But stop whining about it. And if you're fat, here, I'll make it easy. Eat less, move more, caloric deficit. There's no emotion in any of that. There's no softness. It's just ownership. The man or woman who blames loses always. 100% of the time. Even if the world did screw you. So what? I've been screwed over so many times for millions of dollars. You're still the only one who can fix it. If you are waiting for somebody else to do it for you, you are going to weight yourself into the grave. You know what the truth is? That nobody wants to admit, but they know inside it's the truth. Every time you blame somebody else, you rob yourself of that exact suffering that's required by you to grow. And you wonder why your life hasn't changed because you're avoiding the pain that would make you unbreakable. You I go through pain every day. I don't like it, but I know that's what's forging me. You don't want to sweat or cry or break, but that's exactly what the [\h__\h] you need. Blame is a drug. It is so addictive. It numbs the pain just enough to keep you at the bottom. If you want to kill blame, then do the work that makes you bleed and feel it and struggle all for your results because it just gets snapped every time you talk about being unlucky. You're not unlucky. You're blaming. So like I your life sucks because of your daddy or your mommy or your neighborhood or the hardship you went through. Listen, your mom hasn't packed your lunch in 35 [\h__\h] years. Your business failed because of an IG algorithm update. Listen, I promise you this. Zuck didn't personally bless your post about candles and your divorce and some affirmations with a minivan in the background. And I promise your marriage did not turn to ashes. and the dumpster fire that it is right now because of your trauma. I'm trying not to laugh. Your marriage didn't fall apart because of your [\h__\h] trauma. The trauma you talk about is that your mom didn't let you have a second juice box during recess and that's trauma. Give me a You're not special. Stop telling the world that you're I'm not special at all. You're just really loud about your problems and really quiet about your accountability and responsibility. So here, I'll give you a fun game. Go an entire week without blaming anybody for anything and see how fast your life starts to change. I challenge you. Just a whole week. That's all you got to do. If you can do that, you can do anything. Here's the truth and it's as simple as hell. The scoreboard doesn't lie, man. Life doesn't lie. You're you're Duza. He's a crazy jiu-jitsu fighter. He's a great friend of mine. He said, "Your body, your results can never lie about your discipline." He is absolutely right. The scoreboard doesn't lie. If you're winning, it's your fault. If you're losing, it's your fault. You see what I did there? If you're waiting for the world to apologize before you move forward, you're going to die in the exact same spot that you're standing right now. Yes, I'm checking my watch cuz I want to make sure I have time to do this cuz I keep my word. There's this weird modern gospel about how special you are. You're just special, Kim. Listen, Johnny, you're special. Um, not because you've built anything or endured anything or earned anything, but because you feel like you should be. That's why people are special. Now, you know what that is? That's a religion of entitlement. It's a delusion. Absolute delusion. You guys believe that your existence, just being here, should come with a reward. Dude, a lot of you guys are like that. And you guys aren't sipping the Kool-Aid, man. You are swimming in lakes of this [\h__\h] And you think any of your struggles are unique? Like, I've heard people talk about how daunting and insurmountable their obstacles and circumstances and situations are. Where goes right back to the mountain. You stand in front of the mountain and yell at the rock because you're not climbing. Start walking. Your failures aren't due to some crazy conspiracy against you. Nobody is. You're not unlucky. You're stupid. You're coddled. And you think that's okay. And social media caters to that. It gives you guys attention for being the most traumatic soft version of yourself. And you go, I'm winning because look at all the likes and followers I have. Entitlement. You need to understand this. Entitlement is a dangerous thing. It's a psychological defense mechanism because it's there to shield you from the truth. a very painful truth and that is that you haven't done anything. You haven't done anything. That's what entitlement is. By convincing yourself that you're owed Oh, I'm trying real hard to not be pissed off. By convincing yourself that you're owed success, you avoid confronting all of your inadequacies. But this intentional avoidance, all it does is create resentment. And resentment is oh god, that is poison. It is the acid that destroys the vessel it's stored in. There is only one antidote to that and that is responsibility. Listen to Joo. Listen to Joo Willink. Extreme Ownership is you don't even need to read the book. You should you should read his book. His book is incredible. I've read it twice. But just the name of the book. Take ownership of your life. Grab that struggle and try and hump it into submission. Embrace it. What are you worried about? If the struggle, if you don't overcome it today, overcome it tomorrow. Get up and keep doing it. So, you get punched in the face today, tomorrow you learn how to slip and throw one back. Find meaning in all of the effort that you were avoiding because without any of the responsibility, I've said it so many times, there's no growth. It's not possible. And without growth, you cannot be fulfilled. So, you seek escape and distraction instead. You're not a victim. You're lazy. The world doesn't owe you anything. Respect is earned. Wealth is done by working for it. And you want some love, then deserve it. Just stop [\h__\h] whining. Because the only thing standing between you and all the greatness and the exceptional outcomes that you want is you and your psychology that you are using against you. Because you know what entitlement gets you? Nothing. You think you deserve success because you want it. I want all kinds of things. I don't have them yet because I haven't earned them yet. The end. You think you deserve success because you want it. because you dreamt about it and it came to you in a little vision when you were laying in your in some what vape induced stuper in your bed. Dreams don't mean [\h__\h] without any action. No suffering, no grind, no bleeding, no no obstacles, nothing to overcome, no adversity. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. All of those things where the growth happens. That's where you change character. That's where you become the version of you that is that earned it. will solve every single problem that you have. Every one of them. And people go, "What? So all I have to do is get I had a real estate guy say this on my post the other day. He says, "What? So all I have to do is work out every day and get a six-pack and all my problems go away?" You missed the point, bro. If getting jacked and fit and strong and powerful and healthy doesn't solve your problems, the person you must become to become jacked and fit and strong and healthy will. Either way, training will solve your problems because in the pain and the struggle and the sacrifice and the commitment, the consistency and all the things, that's where the growth happens. That's where you build character. Stop feeling sorry for yourself. Just do the damn work. Tomorrow's going to happen whether you like it or not. So, you can feel sorry for yourself from today till tomorrow. And you can say, "I'm not going to spend the money. I will later." And all of those things will add up to you never doing a [\h__\h] thing and staying where you are and dying in the same position you are today and blaming everything else for it when deep down inside you knew you could have just done the thing. Like you're special. Really? Yeah, that's cute. You got a you're special because what? You got a participation ribbon or trophy, but you also have what? Celiac disease and gluten allergy. And now you think you're a hero because you're posting about your ulcerative colitis. You're not special. I'm not special because I'm missing a lung. If anything, I'm labeled as disabled. Okay. What you are is just some entitled just another one actually. Just an another entitled whiny snot-nosed [\h__\h] brat who thinks the world revolves around them. Here's a thought. Maybe try earning something for once. It might just change your life. might blow your mind. You might be like, "Holy [\h__\h] I have the Lambos I wanted. I have the fitness I wanted. I got this crazy ass marriage that I never thought I would ever have. I have these kids and this dog and this house and this life and I'm powerful and I'm recognized and I have all the things that I ever dreamt about. I don't know. Just the thought, nobody's coming. I can't be any more transparent than that. Nobody's coming. Nobody's coming." And you've heard it before, but I when is it going to sink in? Nobody's coming. It's it not AI or your coach or your parents or your friends or the algorithm. Not your next course or you know what Shopify purchase or your next diet ridiculous business idea that you're doing or you're heading towards when you haven't even done the one you're thinking of right now that you're trying to grow. No one is showing up to save you until you do. The more you show up to save yourself and become that person and build the character you that's required to do all the things that you want to do and have all the success you wish you had. The more people show up. You're expecting them to show up, but people don't show up for losers. They show up for winners. Celebrities, athletes, pros get all kinds of stuff. People want to help them because everybody wants to help a winner except the haters at the bottom. When I say haters at the bottom, if that triggers you, that's you. When you look at somebody's life and you hate their life, what are you really hating on? They have nothing to do with you. You don't like them, don't follow them. You don't like what they posted, swipe past it. But you have to stop and interact because it triggered something inside. What it triggered was that you're a [\h__\h] and it called out your subconscious and your subconscious rose up and said, "Here I am." And you didn't like it. Nobody is going to come and save you until you save yourself. A and even then, honestly, they still might not. I've had so many promises from people that are coming to save me and help me and invest and do this and that and they haven't done [\h__\h] I don't wait for them. I don't sit around and go, "Okay, tomorrow they're going to show up." That's suicide. That's like waiting for somebody to do the workout for you and wondering why you're still fat and diabetic. This life does not hand out rewards for practice or attempts or effort. It blasts points on the scoreboard for results. That's jerking off to motivation videos and thinking you're making progress. Results are earned when it's quiet, when it's painful, when it's dark, underload, alone. When you push past all of the comfort, and you just keep swinging. You want an answer? Here, I'll help you. I will give you the answer you need. It's you. It's always been you. You are the problem. You are the delay. You are the reason your marriage sucked. You're the reason she [\h__\h] her trainer and she left you. You're the reason you're broke. Your business failed. Your ads aren't working. Your Instagram account sucks. But here's the twist. You are the problem. You are the solution. When you finally grab that steering wheel and no more excuses or blaming or talking about your situation, your past, your trauma, or all the little things, the little micro [\h__\h] that you come up with, everything is when that everything starts changing fast. We're talking like it's been you spend four, five, six years trying to make a decision. And once you make that decision, bam, 3 months, and you have all the results you wanted and you go, it took me 6 years. No, it didn't. It took you 3 months. Took you 6 years to get off your ass and do something. This isn't about Steuart Smallley positive thinking. It's about relentless doing. You don't need another damn mindset course. Reps in the right direction. That's what you need. Reps in the right direction consistently every single day. Nature does not take days off. Only you do. You need discipline to keep going. And when it hurts, when you're tired, you need accountability and you need God every day. Lean on God. He is stronger than you. And most of all, you guys need to keep your word and to stop lying to yourself because as long as you blame something outside of yourself, you're never going to fix what's in here. So, let me give you this. The world isn't broken. Your business isn't broken. Your marriage isn't broken. Your fitness isn't broken. Your house isn't broken. Your kids aren't broken. Your wife isn't broken. Your genetics aren't broken. Your past, your trauma, your future, none of that's broken. Your psychology is. That is everything is predicated on your psychology. And until you fix that, you're going to keep downloading new programs while your life runs on the same broken operating system. You want out. You want out. Burn the old identity to the ground. Take all of your beliefs and throw them in the trash. Start with a clean white piece of paper and build the [\h__\h] that you were born to be. Because the longer you wait, the heavier that regret's going to hit. I promise you, regret weighs more than any discipline and consistency ever will. I know because I've been on the other side of that. So, how about you just go and do the work? Go do the [\h__\h] work in the direction of what's required, not the excuses you desire. It's your fault. It's your shot. It's your time now. Go and earn it. That's what's required. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.