52 years. I have been married God, this is vlog, what are we at? 106 podcast 106 vlog 106. I've been married for over 20 years. Brandy is my best friend without a question. We've been through all kinds of hell together. When she met me, I was given less than nine months to live. If you know the story, you do. if you don't. But I had stage 3D non-Hodgkins lymphoma and I was broke. I was on my I was desperate, man. Like I sat in my apartment on with crappy furniture and no money and I blew over a million dollars in three months. because I thought if I'm going to die the hell with it. I'm going to go out with a bang. And then what started to happen was, sorry, I got this hair tickling me for my mustache. If but I thought, holy [\h__\h] what if I survive? And then I realized I had nothing and it was my fault. And I'll tell you something, when you spend a million dollars on you and everybody else around you, you have a lot of friends. And when you don't have the money, you have no friends. who you are or who they are. It's exposed in times of trial, not in times of victory. When you're winning, everybody wants to be your friend because they want a piece of your win. Most people aren't going to celebrate with you. They want some of what you've acquired. When you're losing, who's in the trenches with you? Those are the people that matter. And honestly, it's been brandy non-stop because I sat there and I looked I was mad at God. If you guys know, I was mad at God. I hated God. I hated my parents. I hated everybody. I was I thought it was everybody else's fault. And I thought God was trying to kill me. And I said, "Fine, God. You know what? I'm not going to let you win. Give me a reason or I'll do it myself." And I chambered around. I put a gun to my head and I started crying and I was going to try I was going to end my life. And I fell asleep. And I woke up the next day on the floor in the same spot looking out my patio window on my little second floor piece of [\h__\h] apartment. And two days later, I met Brandy. And the very first date we went on, she said, I I had to tell her. And if you know the story, you do. But I I don't really care. I'm going to tell you again. But I had to tell her cuz I couldn't be that guy that goes, "Ah, you know what? I no big deal. I won't tell her." I had to be the guy that told her. I had to be a man and say, "Listen, I got to take the chance of her walking out of my life." I was in love with Brandy the second I met her. And I've been in love with Brandy my entire life because when I saw her, my soul went, "There you are. and she's everything to me and I love her so much. And I said, "I got to tell you something, Brandy." This is our very first date. Nobody in drostanolone, just the two of us. Lunch. And she goes, "Is it about cancer?" And I said, "Yeah, that's how do you know? That's weird." She says, "Oh, people at the gym, they've seen how bad you are. They've seen you cough up blood. They've seen bloody towels in the gym. they've seen you come in and get real sick and I never missed. I trained anyway. And I said, "They didn't give me a lot of time. They gave me less than a year, less than nine months to be very transparent." She said, "I don't care." She said, "Trevor, I don't care. I want all your time. I'm your angel. I'm supposed to save you. I know that." Two days, two years, two weeks, two months, she goes, "I don't care." She goes, "I want all your time." We both started crying. And three months later, we were engaged. And 3 months after that we were married. 20 years. I can't tell you how much having the right person in your corner matters, but I can't tell you how much you being a man matters. How much you being a man in your marriage, in your life, in your business, in your mindset matters. Because like my wife respects me because I'm reliable. I'm powerful. I'm undeniable. I am unbreakable. But she sees it. I never miss. And anytime I slightly believe less in myself, she believes enough for both of us. But a lot of you guys, your wives don't respect you because you're soft. You're this unreliable, simp guy. I'm glad your wife left you. If your wife left because you try and blame it on your business, it wasn't your business's fault. It's not your quest for wealth or your business growth or making million-dollar months that cost you your marriage. It's you. You're a [\h__\h] girl. I I'm not going to be nice because I go through hell and I come out the other side. I still have a great marriage. In fact, my marriage is even better. My wife is my best friend. We do everything together. She's watched me come out of a hospital with a wheelchair. We My wife was pregnant 19 years ago while I was going through chemotherapy, puking in a bucket, and I still did all the work. I never missed a day of my job. I'd be covered in bruises, losing weight, walking with a cane. She's building a person. We don't quit. That's what a man does. That's what a family does. That's what a husband and a wife do when they're in the same frame of mind. When your psychology is aligned, when your hearts are aligned, when you're doing the right thing. A lot of you guys look for escape, and then you look for blame. I was disconnected and that's why, and she was mean. Listen, I'm not going to waste time. She doesn't respect you. If it's your wife, this that's what this is. Entire podcast is about that. She doesn't respect you. She doesn't crave you. She doesn't even trust you anymore. And it's your damn fault because I've always been the man in my marriage. You used to be the man. Now you're just this roommate with emotions. You're a provider. Maybe you got no fire. You got you have a predictable agreeable shell. That's what you are. Who she happened to marry. So now you aren't doing life together. You're doing life beside each other. And listen, this vlog isn't about her. It's not about your marriage. It's not about fixing your relationship. It's about resurrecting the savage that she used to submit to without any question. And I think you guys don't get that because some woman's going to hear that. And if you're listening, my wife is as alpha as they get and real. Not one of these manufactured alphas. I'm not going to say any names where I'm like, "Oh, I'm an alpha woman, too. Let me tell you, I'm freaking great." No, you're not. You're not an alpha. You're not. My wife is a former pro alete. She doesn't need me. She craves me and she wants me and she loves me. And the same is true on the other side. But she still lets me lead the family. That's what a man is supposed to do. For all you people going, I don't need men except maybe to kill a spider or something ridiculous like that. No. a family. The best thing you can give your children, just to be very transparent, is a home with a mom and a dad, original equipment, not cycling through spouses. Let me ask you a question. Who were you before she met you? Who were you when she met you? How about that? Who were you when she met you? Let me guess. Let me see if I can put this together. You had drive. You had vision. You had fire. You had options. You had presence. You had strength. You had charisma. You had power. And now you're soft. You talk things through. You sit down and you watch Pitch Perfect. You've traded intensity for empathy. You become emotionally available and completely unstable, but physically, mentally, and sexually unavailable, unattractive. Listen, nothing's more irritating than when you go when if your wife asks you this. Hey, so where do you want to go for dinner? I don't know. Where do you want to go? S. You ask her what she wants for dinner because you forgot how to decide. You wait for her feedback because you lost your certainty. You're trying to communicate better while ignoring the real issue. You're not the man anymore. Don't get offended. Fix it. You don't move like a man. You move like a child who doesn't want to get in trouble. Women don't respect weak men. I'll say it again. Women do not respect weak men. They tolerate them until they don't and then they leave. your your woman, your wife, your spouse. And a woman, not some trans unicorn. Your woman doesn't want another girl in her life. She wants a leader. God, listen. She wants a [\h__\h] killer, a protector, a predator, a dangerous man, a decision maker, a war ready savage with discipline in his eyes. She doesn't want somebody soft. Ask yourself this. When's the last time that you being around her turned her on before you said a single word? Or she's just, man, that's my man. When's the last time that you made a decision that she followed with no questions asked? How about when's the last time that she looked at you like you were the [\h__\h] truth? Not the safe option. Your woman doesn't want a best friend. She wants more than that. She wants a king. She wants a dangerous man who's dialed in. She wants a man who doesn't need her permission to lead because he expects her to follow. And if you guys take this as something offensive, you're insane. If that triggers you, you're exactly who I'm talking to. She doesn't want to lead you. You need to lead your home, man. And you start by leading yourself. You think she's nagging you, she's controlling you, that she's being unfair. She's testing you. Every argument, every eye roll, every you never listen moment. It's not about It's not about what she's saying. It's about what she's trying to feel. Can this man still protect me? Can this man still lead me? Can this man still defend me from chaos? Can this man build the empire that I want to be queen in? Is he as strong as he was or did I outgrow him? And guess what? Every time you flinch, every time you fold, every time you go, what do you think? Every time you respond with emotion instead of force, you fail the test. Most men now are liabilities. Emotionally unpredictable, physically average, mentally foggy, disgustingly mediocre. Women do not stay loyal to liabilities, and they shouldn't. They tolerate them until something more certain shows up. Listen, you want the truth? How about you sit your ass down and you answer some questions? Because I was thinking about these. When I walk with Brandy, I will move her to the inside when there's somebody walking by. I will defend her. I'm always carrying. She knows that I can take care of my family. I will get in the way of anything, anyone, any time to make sure my wife and family are safe. I build finances. I build an empire. It's not for me. for her because my job is to make good on every single promise that I made to her when I stood in front of that priest and said, "I do." Which means every dream she has, every goal she has is my responsibility to ensure happens along with my own, but we build this together. Like when you find someone who goes all in on you in the trenches and doesn't give a [\h__\h] if you're broke or rich and works their way up with you all the way to the top, you marry that person and you never change who you are. You become a better version. You don't get soft and sloppy and simpy. And and maybe this is going to offend somebody. It doesn't matter. You guys are looking at first of all a lot of you people look at women as I don't know an object sexual gratification. I've been married 20 years. There is nothing we won't do in the bedroom. You know why? Because we trust each other. We have the wildest, craziest sex. We have the most passionate amazing loving connection. We walk holding hands. We always do everything. I hate being away from my wife. like it hurts. I love doing things. We will work outside. We will train. We train together. We build our company together. All of them. We raise our children together. We do not make decisions apart. We do things as a team. Anything you want, babe. That's our response to everything. And she has the tools to destroy me. I have the tools to destroy her with a trust that neither one of us are going to do that. We don't run any bandwidth in our head about what we can and can't say. we communicate. So maybe this just maybe sit your dad bod big ass down or get off your couch and start pacing. Maybe if you weren't married to her, how about ask this. If you weren't married to her right now, would she even want to be with you? Would she want to [\h__\h] you today? Somebody's Oh, that's really crass. What the hell do you think it is? Listen, I promise you if you've ever seen any Eddie Murphy special where he's No woman wants to a guy that's going to go, I want to make love to you. She wants somebody that goes, I want to [\h__\h] you to make you feel good, connect with you deep heart. Nobody wants you. Don't I don't care who you are. So stop lying if you're that guy. I don't know, maybe you're gay. I don't know what to say. But if you weren't married to your wife right now, would she even want to be near you, let alone go have sex with you? If your son became you, would he be a leader or would he be a little boy just playing adult like you? What decisions have you avoided? That's the big one. What decisions have you avoided for 90 days? The last 90 days, what decisions have you avoided that have made her lose trust? You want to have some real fun? If your woman had a camera crew watching how you lead the house and exposed it to the world, would the world call you a king or a coward? Would you follow you? How about that? Would you look at you and go, "I would totally follow that guy." I bet you wouldn't. You can't hide anymore. She sees you. You see you. You look in the mirror and you go, "Yeah, I'm nothing like that." And now so do I'm looking right at you. You either rise into the leader that your bloodline needs. God wants you to be a leader or you rot with the rest of the soft passive yesmen generation that's been brainwashed by comfort. Here's what you need to understand. You don't get her respect back through words. You get it through action. You get it through war with yourself. You rebuild by becoming this und undeniable man. You lead with strength, not sensitivity. That doesn't mean you don't connect with your wife. It means you're strong. Like you become physically elite, mentally, psychologically violent, emotionally controlled, unapologetically certain, operationally precise. You become a dangerous man that's incredibly violent under control. As Jordan Peterson says, you need to be a monster under control. Strong men don't go and shoot up schools. Weak cowards do. You don't need to explain your plan. You just need to execute. and she adapts to you because she is going to follow you if you're a leader. She's going to walk away from you if you're not. Cuz if she doesn't if she doesn't follow, that's her loss. Stop chasing her around with your tail between your legs because all she sees is a little boy. You're not changing your standard to keep someone who's stopped respecting it. You're not saving the relationship. You're saving the man, the man she fell in love with that she thought was gone. The one you [\h__\h] buried under softness and emotional weight. Bring him back. That's what you need to do. Bring him back. You want to fix your marriage? Fix your leadership. My buddy Bedros Koulian, he always says it. Leadership is the problem. Leadership is always the solution. He's right. Fix your leadership. Fix your discipline. Fix your presence. Fix your identity. She doesn't need need more of your emotions. She needs more of your execution. She needs a man who moves mountains, not one who journals about moving them every morning, every night. I've said it before. You know why I made Unbreakable? I had one guy in here, his name's Leaf. He's a great guy. Three kids, really good dude, wife, married, like strong man. And he said, "This is a group I need to be in because I'm around men now. I have women in here, too. But that's why I built it to create a group of high-standard people, right? Not some place to give relationship tips. That's not what this is. I don't coach you to talk about your feelings better. You need to be the most dangerous man in your zip code. The kind of man your wife respects, craves, aches for, and submits to without being asked. You rebuild yourself from the inside out. Your psychology. And if she doesn't follow you, you walk because you'll be a [\h__\h] king either way. That's how it works. But the decision is up to you. So go back and ask yourself those questions. And if those answers are disgusting, fix the man. Fix the man. Fix the leadership with yourself. Fix your discipline. Fix your presence. Fix your identity. That's what's going to fix your relationship with your wife. I got to go.