Man, I'm out here late tonight. Listen, welcome to the Unbreakable podcast. I am Dr. Trevor Bachmire. Most people call me the Spartan. And that name came from my son. I've said it before and I'll say it again. He calls me his hero. And little does he know that he's mine. My son is a 16-year-old badass and he's a good kid. A lot of why I come out here is so he understands and he has something to listen to for the rest of his life. He gets me, but one day I'm not going to be here. And I think the hypnosis of social conditioning and the indoctrination is it is dangerous. It is absolutely dangerous and it is costing people their lives because what's happening is a lot of you guys are falling for labels and you guys cling to these labels so desperately as if they are they're your life and then you embody them and you treat everything and everybody around you as if they have to cater to you. The biggest scam of the 21st century is that depression is a disease. That's the equivalent of saying obesity is an actual medical condition. You can't shut your pie hole. I am I'm tired of people going, "You don't understand what I have to deal with. This guy's too harsh. He's toxic. He's shaming. He's abrasive." No, I'm honest. I'm telling you the truth. That's what depression is. They are It's a lie. Depression isn't a disease. It's a diagnosis used to sell escape. And if that offends you, it's because you have built your entire identity around a lie. I don't I don't have any apologies for this. I don't care if you are a psychiatrist. Psychiatry is the biggest [\h__\h] profession. Psychology. I love looking at social psychology and understanding human behavior. But treating a thought problem with a medication, you are screwing with neuro neurochemistry. And the problem with that is is when you stop taking the pill, the problem's still there, which means you never solved anything. I have no apologies with this. If you can't tell, this is why, and I and you guys are going to hear this and you're going to get so defensive because you're clinging to it as an identity, as if that's why you can't do things. But if you cannot tell me the exact mechanism, the exact vector, the precise vector, the replicable biological cascade that causes depression. Don't you dare say brain chemistry, by the way. Don't you dare because that is such a [\h__\h] answer and you know it because you can't even spell it. Don't tell me if you can't explain any of that. Don't tell me it's a disease. You can't spread it. You can't catch it. I can't lick this microphone and the next person catches depression. You can't catch obesity from a microphone or anxiety or fear. You guys are grasping thing onto things that make you feel like your problem is unique and special and it has to be treated medically because you don't want to do the damn work, but you can't catch it. You can't test for it with a swab or a blood test or a scan. You can't do a P test for depression. There's no depression parasite, no helman, no nematode, no depression virus, no pron, no fungus, no bacteria, no transmittable or transmissible, before somebody corrects me, transmissible agent. And yet it is one of the most lucrative illnesses in the world. Why? Why? Because it gives you a reason not to fight. It gives big pharma a reason to keep you dependent. You cannot you you cannot own your life when you've already gotten married to a diagnosis, a condition or a label or a disease. If that doesn't exist, you can't own your own life if you've surrendered to that. People aren't depressed. They're disappointed with their life and they're undertrained, overstimulated, lacking purpose, surrounded by low value losers who all sit around trading symptoms like it's a currency. And you think crypto is a problem? You need to look at the exchange, the neur or the the psychological exchange, not the crypto exchange. You think because you feel sad for more than a week that something is wrong with your brain, it's something's wrong with your wiring. No, something's wrong with your standards. Listen, when society tells you it is not your fault, it's not compassion, that is a setup. They are selling you failure and you are buying it because it tastes like relief. It's like the itch and somebody just scratches it and you're like, "That's it. That's what needs to happen." Except real suffering exists. Real suffering exists. Real trauma exists. But 99% of you people using the word depressed today aren't victims of trauma. You're victims of laziness, mental, psychological laziness. Every day, you subconsciously ask yourself the same three questions. What am I focused on? What meaning am I assigning to whatever it is that I am focused on? And what actions am I subsequently taking because of the meaning I'm giving what I'm focused on? You don't need a PhD to understand that if your focus is always on what's missing, if your meaning is always negative and your actions are non-existent, you're passive, you've created the exact formula for self-inflicted hopelessness and helplessness. And now listen, you've got a diagnosis to hide behind while you keep hitting repeat. Come on, man. Like, I came out here to try and be I can't do it because this is a lie. I felt depressed. You cannot catch depression. I felt anxious. Indo. In fact, when I felt depressed, when I felt like I had no options and there was no purpose because I was looking at everything that was missing. When I felt anxious, when I was underprepared and I knew it. You've got grown ass adults out here acting like procrastination is a symptom of depression. No, it's not. It's a symptom of you being soft. You didn't listen. You didn't return your emails, clean your house or go to the gym or wash your car or do any push-ups because you would rather binge Instagram or Tik Tok and Door Dash hot wings than do any of the hard things. And now you got this site called WebMD that tells you what makes you mentally ill. Dude, that's a hustle. That's a scam. It's perfect. Imagine if I put out a website that told you exactly what was wrong and how to fix it. None of it involved a pill, a doctor, or any kind of a treatment other than getting up off your ass and going to the gym. Nobody would do it because it's too hard. But it works 100% of the time. It's like saying laziness is a medical condition. And now they'll bill your insurance for it. Better fill out a hika. Listen, look, look at this logically. Just follow me. If depression were an actual disease, man, I'm afraid to even say this because I think most disease processes are man-made. I think most disease processes are actually parasitic or toxic. They're not even disease. God built you so well that you have, listen, you have the antibbody. I'm trying to stay calm for this. You have the antibbody to every known antigen in the universe. You have the antibbody. It's coursing around inside you. It can be turned on and used at any moment because the intelligence is in your DNA. So if depression were an actual disease, like I mean a real disease like tuberculosis, there would be a known cause, a testable mechanism, a predictable progression, and a cure. But instead, what do you get? You have a chemical imbalance. Really? What chemical specifically? Which neurotransmitter? How much is too much or too little? And what's the scientific baseline? Show me all that. Yeah, you can't. Somebody will say, "Oh, it's serotonin. That's why I take an SSRI. It's an MAOI inhibitor, right? A monoamine oxidase inhibitor. That's probably No, it's not. That's treating the result of the problem. That's like my brakes are squeaking, so I have the cure. I turn up the radio. Brakes are still screwed. You don't know the cause, the chemical, the neurotransmitter precisely. You don't know how much needs to stay in the gap junction. You don't know any of that. Where is the scientific baseline? Nothing. It's because it's all based on marketing, not medicine. Is that why? Just to be clear, yeah, I'm right. Thought so. How about this? If your depression is solved by swallowing a tablet or a capsule or getting something rubbed on your forehead, you didn't solve anything. You muted the alarm. You didn't put out the fire, man. I give you a local anesthetic in your hand and I block the nerves to your hand and then I take your hand and I set it on the stove. Without you looking, without you aware of it, your hand is still going to burn. Just because you don't feel it, is it not happening? Give me a break. You muted the alarm. The pain is still there. The problem is still there. The chaos is still alive. You just can't feel it for except there's such a violent rebound effect. Look at bzzoazipines, Xanax, right? Valium. It is such a struggle. People feel the effects of being on bzzoazipines 10 years after they stopped. You are screwing with your brain chemistry, the thing that God made better than anybody else. And you guys think it's okay. See, the problem, you can't feel it until that dose wears off, until the side effects pile up. But it's actually until your identity is so wrapped around your diagnosis that you don't even know who you are without it. The moment you accept a label, you stop fighting. You roll over. You're too tired. Good. You're sad. Good. You don't want to get out of bed. Good. Now get the hell up anyway and go do the work. Every time you act in a direction opposite to your emotional state, you get stronger. You don't get weaker or broken or hurt or anything because discipline is forged when all that comfort dies. I have been saying this for 148 episodes. People told me after losing a lung. Listen, I will give go through my personal history. People told me after losing a lung that I would never be an athlete again. I would never be fit again. I would never feel strength or self-worth or anything and I would be on 12 different medications for life. That I'd be emotionally unstable. They labeled me as disabled. If you look at my medical history, I am now labeled as a disabled 52year-old man and that I should take time to cope. They sent me counselors and all kinds of stuff. They were wrong because I decided that I was the one driving this reality. Not my diagnosis which was theirs. Not my past, not my trauma, me. Nothing they said. Fueled by God, disciplined by faith and truth and forged in all the pain that I had to go through. And that's the formula for resurrection, not prescription. Now listen, don't get it twisted. I'm not saying you can't feel sad. That's what the problem is. You guys, you're not supposed to be a robot. No, sadness is human. Loss hurts. Grief is very real. I lost my father 12 years ago. It is very real. I have been disconnected from my wife here and there once in a while in my 20 years of marriage and it was real. I hated it. My wife is my best friend. Trauma happens. But what I'm saying is this. You're not depressed. You're undisiplined. You're not sick. You're not sick. You're weak. And apparently right now that's just something that you can't say and except weakness is curable with effort. You just go practical. Listen, next time you feel depressed, just ask yourself this. What am I focused on right now? Next time you feel depressed, what am I focused on? What meaning am I giving? Whatever situation I'm in, whatever circumstances I have, and what action am I choosing as a result of all that, all of that stuff. Now go do the opposite. You're welcome. You're focused on lack, then look at all the opportunities you have. You have so many, you just don't want to see them. You're giving it You're giving it this hopeless meaning that oh you're giving a hopeless meaning than a sign of purpose. You're choosing to sit there and just go I have to handle this. I have to cope. I need some time to some downtime. Sit in front of a TV, smoke, drink, rub one out, whatever you use. How about instead of that you just move? Emotion follows motion. Neurochemistry follows focus. It's the same thing. You have been trained to believe that your thoughts are consequences. They're not. How is a thought a consequence? It's a choice. The only thing, the absolute only thing you have control over in your entire life are your thoughts. People will have you believe otherwise. Wrong. Your life is the sum of the choices you make after the pain arrives, not before. What you do before is what causes the pain or prevents it. You cannot escape pain, but you can choose how you process it. I've been in pain many times. I choose how I process it, how I react to it, how I act in response to it. You can choose what it means. You can choose what you do next. And that choice is not called coping. It's called climbing, [\h__\h] Stop medicating sadness. You guys, really stop medicating a normal human. It's called being an adult. Stop lying to yourself, invalidating weakness. You're not chemically broken. You're not cursed or powerless. You're just soft. But softness can be hardened and you just have to be willing to work in order to do it. How about we just solve the equation here? You want a life of greatness, something exceptional, a kingdom, a an empire where you are powerful and you're sitting on that throne, a legacy that you are the you're the [\h__\h] man. I have a client, his name's Ryan, man. This guy's a stud and he sent me a message the other day. I should find it here. He goes, "I'm the [\h__\h] man." You're right because I told him to say that every time he looks in the mirror. Do you know how much proud I'm so proud of this guy and he is successful. I'll give him I'll give him a shout out. Ryan Daniel Moran. Look him up. The guy is a stud. The guy's a stud. He knows how to take a product and make you a multi-millionaire with a product. He is a great man. Look him up. That's the message I got from him because I told him to start saying that. But see, listen. On one side of that equation, you've got what you want, right? a fit, disciplined body, financial freedom, a marriage built out of love and connection and respect and faith. You've got children who admire you. You've got purpose in every single breath you take. And on the other side, this life equation, right? Everything you want, everything required to get to here, which is also all of the obstacles, excuses, and adversities that you have to overcome. Everything there, every obstacle, that's what this is, that's the life equation. Every obstacle between you and that life, the pain, the disappointment, the failure, the fear, the setbacks, the ugly hard days, the hard years, the broken people, the broken moments. You don't get the dream by erasing resistance. You get it by solving for it. The people who win don't have fewer problems, man. They don't. They have fewer excuses. In fact, they have none. That pain that you are trying to escape, it's not blocking you. That's exactly what builds you. Like everything that tried to break me made me. You're not stuck because of any [\h__\h] trauma. You're stuck because you refuse to push the accelerator or get behind that boulder like Cisphus and push it up the hill. You sit at the base of the mountain blaming the rock. It's too hard. I can't. I hear this. It's too hard. I'm tired. You don't understand. I'm depressed. I was diagnosed clinically. Yeah. by an idiot with a psychiatry degree. I'm overwhelmed by what? Because you think it should be easier because you have a bunch of things on your plate. Every morning for the last couple of days, full transparency, I've woken up and been angry at my life. I have been bitter, angry, filled with fury and rage. And I've gone outside to the gym. And when I walked out to the gym with my wife, I wanted to put my fist through the wall. And by the time I was done working out, I was grateful. And I looked at my wife and I couldn't wait to spend the rest of the day with her regardless of how much work we had to do because I realized as I was training, I was pushing through the resistance, running the dialogue in my head going, "God, I give you all of my worries, my doubts, my fears, my anxiety. I turn it all over to you because I know that you are my shield, my sword, and you are putting me in front of every Goliath to take his [\h__\h] head." What are you doing? Because a mountain that's that that that you're looking at and you're blaming doesn't care about your feelings. It only respects your [\h__\h] feet. The ones who climb anyway. The giant like stone huneed legs that you've got, those are the ones that reach the top, they just climb anyway. Pain isn't the enemy. In fact, pain is the necessary precondition for the transformation that you keep talking about wishing the one you want all the time. You think of every myth, every story, right? All of the heroes which you are one pain is the catalyst. No pain, no meaning. And that's why we are a generation buried in depression and anxiety and fear and hate and sadness and misery and overwhelm because we've spent years trying to engineer pain out of our existence instead of building the strength to carry it. What the hell are you guys doing? You guys replaced it. the initiation, the struggle that you have to go through. It was [\h__\h] the hazing of life. You replaced it with indulgence and escapism and the self soothing instead of the sacrifice and the endurance that's required. It's no wonder why you men feel lost most of the time. How about you flip the blade and I tell you it this way instead. You think your suffering is unfair? Good. You're built to conquer. Man is built to conquer. No man worth his name ever became powerful without walking through hell with steel in his damn spine. Pain is the proof that God hasn't given up on you. Do you know that when I woke up and I saw those giant hoses coming out of my chest and I realized what had happened? Oh, I was angry and sad all at the same time and I wanted to give up and I saw my wife when I opened my eyes. Big giant smile said, "Hi, my babe." And she was sitting there holding my this phone right there to film me. And I knew God hadn't given it up on me cuz I was still there with her. And she's been my angel for two decades. Pain is the only thing that separates soft, weak, impotent men and savages. The savages are the men who lean into it. They wear pain like armor. You guys wear softness and fear and depression like it's a badge and a metal. You wear it like your armor. The men who lean into pain and let it scar them and callous them and shape them. Listen to me. They are always the ones who win. Because a great equalizer in life is the one thing most of you guys will argue against and it's pain. How much can you take? How much can you tolerate? What are you going to do when it shows up? Because pain doesn't care about your income or your skin color or what your job title is or how many years you went to college or who your parents were, what neighborhood you live in, or your backstory. It doesn't give a [\h__\h] But it rewards the one who keeps moving. You know, most people won't say, they'll think it, but they won't say it out loud. They won't. Most people aren't depressed. They're not. And most people think it about depressed people, quote unquote. Most people aren't depressed. They're avoiding the pain that would inevitably, it is the fuel, that is the catalyst that will make them strong. They are avoiding that pain that will make them strong. They're avoiding the gym, the grind, the truth, all because it hurts and it's tiring and it's sharp, because the truth doesn't feel good. They're avoiding God because it demands change. And instead of doing any of the things that are supposed to be done, they take a pill and they choose comfort. They choose sedation. They choose labels and all the lies that come with it that are supported by the narrative pumping through society right now. And then they label it what? Mental health. You have to take a mental health month. Mental health month. How about a power month? How about a connect to God month? Where's that? It's not a mental health month that you guys are taking. That's mental surrender. And it's killing everything good inside. You understand? Everything good is being eradicated by doing that. And you're too blind to [\h__\h] see it. You ever meet these people, they're going to say, "I'm depressed because my life is hard." No, you're depressed because your decisions are weak. Nobody wakes up obese. You go, "I'm fat. It's because of it's because you can't stop eating things." Nobody wakes up without any money, bankrupt, credit cards maxed out. Who spent the money? Nobody wakes up in a failing marriage and goes, "I don't know what happened. I just woke up and my wife said she was done or I saw her bang in the [\h__\h] pool guy." Nobody wakes up like that. You don't just wake up and trip and fall on depression. You walk there step by step and each step is one bad decision after another. And now you're sad because the house you built out of balsa wood on the sand is collapsing. Come on, man. Own it and then fix it. You can't fix it if you don't own it. Listen, here's the life equation. The one I live by every day and the one I teach. I teach it in my mastermind. I teach it in my one-on- ones. It is simple. The life you want equals the problems you are willing to solve and the pain you are willing to tolerate. Like you want you want a 9 figure body, solve the problems of reps, recovery, and ruthless nutrition. Then that's what it is. You want generational wealth. You want all the money in the world, then solve the problems of consistency and risk and hatred and rejection and failure and strategy and tactics. You want bulletproof psychology, then solve the problem of pain. Own it, face it, and then turn it. Just become a [\h__\h] weapon. That's what you got to do. Become a weapon. Really, how raw is this? I lost a lung. I lost a damn lung. And doctors told me I would never do anything again. You're not going to train. You're not going to be powerful. You better just cope. They told me I would be medicated for life. Get your head around this. They were wrong. I'd already solved my equation. I didn't solve it with the knowledge. I had to learn a ton of things. And I still do. I am a lifelong learner. But I had to solve it with conviction. My values were already there. My actions were non-negotiable. Which meant the future that I could see, I wasn't there yet. I wasn't even close. I was hobbling around a recovery room connected to the wall with IVs and box in my hand like I was feeble with my ass hanging out of a gown. My future was mine because I say it's mine. I didn't need a pill. I needed a plan. So, I made one. I sure as [\h__\h] didn't need therapy. You guys cling to therapy like it's a life preserver instead of going, "What would you do if that person wasn't there? What would you do if that giant couch and the $1,000 an hour therapist wasn't there? How would you survive? But you had no other options. You either had to survive or die in your cave. What would you do? You'd survive. You need war. That's what you need. You know what the truth is? The pain isn't the problem. It's the reaction you have to it, right? You have the most impotent reaction to pain. Okay, you're sad and welcome to being an adult. Feel it. Just wrap yourself up in it. And then whatever the thing is that you need to do it anyway. Listen, train, create, build, fight, grow, execute, regardless of what you're feeling. Especially when you're depressed, you want to get out of depression, get [\h__\h] busy doing real things to put you into a new life. Because every time you act from purpose instead of pain, welcome to the upgrade. Listen, I'll give you some tactics that I've given clients of mine. And here's how to weaponize your pain because you need to learn how to do that because that's what's causing your depression. Alleged depression. Let me back up so I don't get misqued by somebody. Oh, you said it's real. No, I didn't. It's not real. It's a lie. Name it. I've said it before. I said it yesterday. Name it. Be brutally honest. What is causing the pain? Name it. I'm waiting for you to answer. Pause this and name it. What is causing your pain? Go. I don't know. I just had this string of bad events. What one specifically? Not five, not 10, not 20, one. What one? What is causing the pain? And now, what have you done? What have you done? What have you done or even not done to create it? Ah, you thought I was going to say fix it. What did you do to make it happen? Because you guys are so busy blaming, you can't even see yourself in the mirror. It's just nothing but people in front of you. How do you know what's going on in your life when you're blaming everybody else? So, what have you done? What have you done or not done to create it? And then how about you frame it? Give it a [\h__\h] meaning. Do you notice that's what I'm doing? What are you focused on? What meaning do you give it? What actions are you taking? Here's how you weaponize the pain. You're welcome. Name it. Be brutally honest and then frame it. Ask yourself, curse or crucible? Your move, man. Which one? Curse or crucible? And then use it. Because your gym, I just said it this morning. I for the last couple of days, I've woken up angry. Fury inside me. The gym, you know what it becomes? My rage room. That's what it becomes. My business, all of them, that becomes the generation machine. I just crank out wealth and finances and money all day because the mission I have, the purpose I have, that's the medicine I need because it gives me singularity of focus. You don't run from pain. You turn it into fuel. You head right into that thing and you control it. Listen, success loves speed. Failure loves in action. You know this. Both are decisions. Which one are you throwing food at? Which one are you dumping gasoline on? Because every time you delay and make excuses and all you start popping all these pills instead of just picking up the sword, you delay you delay the life that you claim. You want you run around and go, "Yeah, must be nice. They're lucky." You run around. You claim you want it. Show me. It's not pain management. That is that's abandonment of power. God doesn't design you to be comfortable sleeping on pillows all day waiting for things to be repaired. I told you he built you to conquer. Look at all the greats. That's all they do is conquer. You got the same DNA. Remember, made in the likeness of God. And Adam was made from the clay of the earth. And then God came and went like this and blew breath into Adam. You have no idea how powerful you are because you're too busy hiding. God gave you a mission and he gave you the ability to feel pain so you could feel purpose so you could do something about it. And you're ignoring that divine alarm bell because some white coat with a clipboard or an iPad or some impotent jackass influencer who says they know all about depression but have no degrees and no training. Even then the degrees, [\h__\h] the degrees, but they have no training. They've never done anything other than invent something because it sounded good on social media and they told you that your brain was broken. Come on. Where? Where? Where is it? Did you head injury? Where? Show me. You were built to carry a very heavy cross. You were built to lift, to hunt, to kill, to lead, to protect, to provide, to suffer in service of something greater than yourself. Pain is not the enemy. It is the invitation. Here you go. Get better. So just accept it. You don't you have been lied to repeatedly and you believe the lie because you think it's easier than f facing the truth. They everybody tells you you're a victim now and they don't even say it directly like that. They say you're a victim by going you have a condition. Here's your label. You better go see all of these doctors. You need to have a colonoscopy and have 20 foot of tubed camera shoved up your [\h__\h] to see what's going on in there. How did we ever survive prior to that? Just so we're clear, there's not better detection of diseases, there's better creation of diseases. See, the lie told you that this is that's what it is. It's the lie. The lie talks. The lie of the ecosystem that we're in right now. The lie of society. The lie told you that you're a victim. The truth says, "Nah, you're a weapon dismantled by choice." The lie told you that you're broken. The truth says you are undisiplined and untrained. The lie told you that is a chemical imbalance, a chemical problem, a neurochemical problem. And the truth says it is a commitment problem. And you know what happens next? You'll get mad and you'll argue and you'll get in the comments and go, "What about this doctor?" and [\h__\h] Clearly, you've never had this and this. No, your friends tolerate it. And you seek out people to support you not doing a damn thing. And you will fight to keep that label that's been dragging you underwater for years. And you wonder why you can't breathe. Because if I'm right, then that means your entire personality built on weakness and excuses and diagnosis and all the other lies needs to be thrown in the fire and rebuilt from scratch. And that is terrifying for you. But that's freedom. The second you stop outsourcing your struggle, it's what you're doing. You are outsourcing the struggle designed for you. The second you stop outsourcing your struggle, you take it back. And here's here's the issue. you guys once it's yours again you run away from it but you know what you can do you can build you can fight with that struggle you can use it to create the life that doesn't require sedation to endure you guys are enduring life not creating life let me ask you if your kids your wife the people you claim to love more than anything I love this from I would do anything for my wife and kids then why aren't you you think doing anything is downgrading your life so you can spend more time cuddling on the couch, counting money because you don't have enough. Women do not like weak men. Women also don't like nice men. Real women like kind men, strong men. It's in your DNA. If your wife, let me ask you, if your wife and kids were starving and the only way to feed them were to leave that cave and hunt, what are you gonna say? I can't. I have depression. Maybe some of you guys would, but no, most of you wouldn't because if you did, if you said that, you're not a man. You're a liability. And not just to you, to them and to the world. You're a liability. You should be clubbed. So don't you dare say that you're gonna die for your family if you won't even suffer for them. Listen, just so you know, suffering also includes that internal dopey war that you have going on in your head. The one trying to get your mind back under control, get your psychology under rein it in. Taking the hard road that leads to all the freedom that you wish you had, that you complain about not having that you blame capitalism and your neighbor and some blue hair at school for. You know what's incredibly disrespectful? Telling God that his design failed. You're telling him that he built a broken vessel, that the breath of him, his breath of life is defective. Are you insane? You're trying to insult the creator, the God of gods. None of that is true. He didn't build you to be medicated. He built you to be incredible, powerful, unstoppable, unbreakable. And when you refuse to do what it takes to evolve up, you're not just betraying yourself. You're betraying our very creator. He gave you life. But you choose to believe in God when it's convenient. See, the I I think a lot of it has to do with the qu remember what I said. The quality of your life is predicated on only two things. the conversations you have with yourself, the quality of the conversations you have with yourself, and the quality of questions you ask yourself. So, you've spent decades asking the wrong damn questions. Why am I like this instead of what do I need to do right now? Because that second question is the one that leads to execution and motion and doing things and all of that leads to changing in the right direction. You you can't Steuart Smallley, I've said it before, your mind and your psychology. You can't fix your mind by thinking. All of you gurus that talk about you're I'm going to teach you how to think properly and positive phrase your way into the life you want. It doesn't work. It doesn't. Show me one time that it worked. I will show you the examples of what they thought became into the action became the actions they did. So the thinking didn't do it. The actions did. You fix things by moving. Focus, feelings, execution. It's what I've said. Lock those in. Watch your entire damn life transform. But the brutal fact still remains that most of you won't do it. You won't. You're not going to do it. Why? Because clinging to weakness has become your personality. You become best friends with it. You guys cuddle up at night every night with your weakness. You have this sympathy currency with it. Man, your entire self-image is built on being weak and soft. And it is encouraged by society. We love that about everybody. No, you don't. And nobody that's weak actually likes it because you throw them in the arena and they go, "Holy [\h__\h] I'm gonna die." Why? Because you're a [\h__\h] Letting go of all that would mean letting go of all the attention you get for it on social media. Talking about your trauma, all of your excuses that validate why you haven't peaked yet. Letting go of being a victim, that stupid cape you wear, telling everybody about how hard your life is. Welcome to the price of being exceptional. Cut that ship loose. Until you're willing to just start paying all that money, that currency, whatever it is that is required of you, the time, the energy, the finances, you are going to stay stuck. You're going to be trapped in this hamster wheel, this loop that you built for yourself, blaming the world for the cage you're in. If you're still breathing, this is as clear as I can be without wanting to punch the screen. If you're if you're still breathing and you're standing, [\h__\h] If you're conscious, you have power. Stop lying. You have authority and dominion. And you have the ability to think, to focus, to create, to execute, to move, to evolve up. And the only reason you haven't yet is you haven't decided to. So, how about right now? Today. Right now. The [\h__\h] are you still listening to me for? How about right now you decide? Are you going to keep feeding the lies? God. And you guys feed them. You feed them so well and you give them everything you can. You'll sacrifice yourself for the lie. Or are you going to The prison door is opened. It's unlocked. Just push it. Are you going to walk out of that prison cell with a key that's been in your [\h__\h] hand the entire time? Yes, I'm pissed off. Because depression is not a disease. It is a decision loop fueled by your focus, strengthened by all of your repetition every day and destroyed by the actions you are unwilling to take. You want joy. You want happiness, move, execute, do the hard [\h__\h] and the byproduct is the joy and the happiness. You want power and control, then start building and creating. Don't talk to me about your peace. Your peace comes when you do all that stuff. You want all the freedom and the capacity that you keep wishing for and praying to God, please God, give me the victory. He gives you the opportunity to be victorious. You want to do you want it? Fight for it. Because there is no pill, no therapist, no diagnosis that can save you from the truth. Only you can. Listen, you are not your feelings. You're sure as hell not your label. And there's nothing about you that's broken. Find me something that's broken just because somebody else says it. I am a testament to the fact that is a lie because they said I was broken. And yet here I am. I trained myself. You are untrained. And life is mo life actually is it's very easy. Life is training mostly. Everything else is just commentary. So train. That's all you have to do. Train in the right direction for everything you want. Refuse to do anything else. And stop [\h__\h] labeling yourself as broken. You just want to be because you think it's easier. Except you hate where you are. Listen. You want to do something? Get up and fight. I got to go. Never miss. where we fight. This is where they die.