It's about 1:30 and let let me grab some coffee first. A lot of people are struggling with the same thing, the minutes and the hours in their day. They have no clue what they're really doing with their time. Like they are so bad at managing their time, prioritizing their time, doing the right thing with their time and getting the things they want to get right. So, like when you tell me that you don't have time to make cont, this is about business, too, by the way. This is important. If you have if you're an entrepreneur or you're trying to start a business, whether it's a fitness business or I get all of you guys that are fitness trainers coming to me asking me for help, I'll give you a bunch on this for free. But if you tell me you don't have time to make content for your business, to make content to grow your brand, to make content so that people will get to know who the [\h__\h] you really are and then fall in love with you and your brand because you're so awesome, which is the point. When you say you don't have time to do that, I just want to punch you right in the dick. You don't have a scheduling problem or a time management problem. You have a priority problem. You can't keep track of the thing that you're on. Listen, most of you guys, you're like squirrels, shiny things, and it's over. It's just [\h__\h] over. You just, oh, what's that over there? Next thing you know, it's a week later and you still haven't done the post that you said you were going to do last Wednesday. Today's Wednesday for those of you trying to figure out why I chose that day of the week. Like, even that, you guys are so weird sometimes, right? Like, why did you wear that shirt, Spartan? What's the significance of the feather on your wrist? The By the way, I wear a cross and a feather. The cross is for God. The feather is for my wife because she's my angel and those are angel wings. So, what's the significance? There you go. Now you know. You can stop asking me. Why do you drink egg whites? I heard the protein doesn't get assimilated. Get out of here. [\h__\h] How come you train so much? I've addressed these, but you guys ask me the craziest, dumbest questions. [\h__\h] You guys need to focus on your own things, your own life, and get a handle on your attention. That's why you're not making money because you guys have such bad digital dementia that you can you can't prioritize because you're too busy entertaining yourself. And I'll come back to that in a minute because I find the current landscape of the digital world extremely interesting neurologically. But when a client joins my mastermind, right, and on Sundays I have my inner circle business call, right? Where we solve current business problems, lead genen, sales, KPI. And if by the way, if you don't know what KPIs are, you should definitely join my mastermind. And I also teach what's currently working in business. But when the hang-up is, I don't know how you make content so often or how you make this vlog so many times or I just don't have the same amount of time as you do in a day to make so much content. How do you make a vlog every day? How do you do it? Like I have other responsibilities. I have kids and a job and some of us has to work and yeah, I I have the same damn things going on in my life by the way. Like when you guys say that, it's right up there with people who say they can't get leads, but they're not willing to DM everybody who's liked their post because they're mad that only five people liked it and one of them is their [\h__\h] mom. [\h__\h] sell your mom. Get the reps in. But to be, listen, to be I had a guy do that. I'm just not about doing that. Is there another way like to get clients to get people to show up and buy my stuff? Yeah, go ask them. But to be so arrogant that you're not about sending DMs to people who clearly like what you're posting and instead you feel you're above doing that and that they should come to you like a [\h__\h] hummingbird feeder. Dude, I hope your business burns to the ground and you have to start all over just so you learn the lesson because of your entitlement. Really, cuz you're not getting it. I spent three years sending DMs all the time. I still send DMs. I still reply to people. I still help people in my comments and I have an editing team, a marketing team, and a fulfillment team, plus my executive assistant. You're arrogant. You have the time. You're just arrogant if you're not spending hours and hours a day hunting for the next person who desperately needs what you've got and simply doesn't know you exist. You're letting them suffer because you're not willing to do the work. It's that simple. But as far as making content is concerned, you have the time. You have so much time. You're too busy trying to be perfect. And you're too afraid of it turning out poorly in some pond scum online judging you from his mom's couch while he's asking her for hot dog money. What the [\h__\h] are you worried about? Content is so easy because it's just you talking about what you care about, what you know about what you like. Stop complicating it. Don't make content for what they care about because you're phony. If you do that, you're phony. You're the imposttor. And I realize the buzz phrase right now is imposttor syndrome, which it's just another way of saying, "I'm extremely insecure." So what? So what if you are? Do you know how you gain selfworth and confidence? I'll help you to get over all of your insecurity. This is the best call you guys, if you're listening to it, is the best one for you. Do you know how you gain selfworth and confidence and just massive just personal power? by doing all of the [\h__\h] that you're insecure about until it becomes so monotonous and so boring that you don't even think about it anymore. It's not hard. You just have to put your reps in. Do you know how many morning routines I've posted on this thing over the last almost four years? Over 1,400. Listen, 1,400 videos like of me doing pull-ups and squats and push-ups and bicycles every morning. I've never missed one day content. How many Like, how many of you think I don't really do that every day? None of you. Because I just throw that video up and move on. Like, if you don't think I do that, just watch. Listen, I post videos of what I eat. I post workouts. I post my vlog. I post my podcast. I post my unbreakable mastermind. I post my wife. I post my dog. I post whatever car I'm in. I post date night. I post my daily log book that I write everything down. I thank God the night before and then write the two to three action steps I'm going to take the next day. I post my kids. I post my thoughts. I post about God. I post my diet. I post thunderstorms because I think they're just rad. I post all the time. And by the way, I just gave you all more ideas than you've ever had on what you can post. You're not making content because you're looking at someone else's content saying, "Mine's not good enough." You're right. It's not. It [\h__\h] sucks for their audience. Your content for someone else's audience sucks. But your audience, like, but for your audience, their content won't hit and yours will. Get out of your own damn head. You guys come up with these stall tactics for yourself to go, "Okay, I can't do it, but I'll do it later. I'm going to do it tomorrow. I just have these other things. Like, get out of your head. You have the time. You have the time and you need to do it. If you work all day, you you manage your kids, you work out, you have jobs at home that require your attention. Guess what? So do I. I just said that. So do I. So does everybody. Your excuse isn't valid. I bootstrapped my life to get here, to have this studio, to have this life, to build all this out, to have a team working with me and working for me to get here. I did it all through my sweat and my anxiety and frustration and sleepless nights and tired days while my wife managed my life. I had nobody. Just like you. I had nobody. I'd make listen before I even had a business online. I'd make YouTube videos driving down 580 to exit on Highway 4 in California on my way home to Brentwood while driving on the freeway. This is me. While editing an iMovie. Like nobody even uses iMovie. just to make sure that I I it was a video I posted at noon, a Smashworks video or just a content video, whatever it is, but I wanted to make sure that it was posted by 6 p.m. on my way home from seeing patients when I didn't even have an online business yet. I'd be there just driving in my truck or car, whatever it is, trying to scroll and edit it all up so I could post it. I would post it on YouTube and Instagram on my way home where my YouTube didn't even look at my old YouTube videos. Look at all of them. Most of them don't have thumbnails. I have to go back. I have to have my team go back and make thumbnails, which I just haven't done yet because there's I was just like you guys. Most of my thumbnails, I look like a spaz because it's like a it's a freeze frame of whatever part of the video it YouTube decided to choose. Don't do that. Listen, don't drive and edit or text or any of that stuff. Really, don't. But you need to get your priorities handled. Listen, folks, you got to get your priorities handled. I think a lot of you guys are so bad at running your life that you hand over your time to [\h__\h] that feeds you nothing and steals your life. I think you're so caught up. Really, I think you're so caught up in your entitlement that you should have an editing team. You think you should have a sales team and content creators and apparently everybody has a video guy following them around now. You go to the gym and it's 40 people with some guy and a camera and a tripod filming you doing curls. [\h__\h] If I see another person standing there doing curls or chest press and how tough they are, dude, I'll say it. I'll put it right out there. Point blank. Do a workout with me. [\h__\h] your curls, your chest press, and your [\h__\h] that you think you're tough. You're not. Come do a real workout. I'll just leave it at that. But like my video guy is this phone and a water bottle. So great, huh? That's my screen saver. It's my wife. Like, she's just she's my best friend. Like, I just adore my wife. I She's inside right now. And I think she's making me lunch, which is so badass. I feel very grateful that she does that for me, but and I realize that's a pivot, but like I love the [\h__\h] out of my wife. She is so badass. She's my best friend and we do everything together. But she like, listen, just so I can go over this, that's what I was saying that I get distracted by my wife. I'm like a squirrel like you guys, but I come back on track. Get the train back on the tracks. But my video guy is this phone and a water bottle most of the time. Or it's my wife. My wife has filmed so many things for me or whoever's podcast I happen to be on. If I'm on a podcast, it's whoever they have and then they just send me the raw footage. Like, you guys think you deserve some Hollywood production team following you around because you're that important. You're not. Nobody is. [\h__\h] It drives me crazy. you have time. I don't have time to make content. I hear that from clients all the time. I want to kick them right out of my mastermind. You don't have the emotional maturity to handle that level of having somebody follow you around and make you feel like you're this important person that should have a team because you haven't done the reps. You don't even know how to make content. You're literally skipping past all the things you need to know and learn and do. So, you understand what's being done so that all becomes easy. You make content and it sucks. This is what happens. You make content and it sucks. So, you pull it down and remake it and then put it back up. And you do that three, four times a day. Or you spend two hours shooting a 60-second video just to get it right. You hunt for the perfect background behind you, the best t-shirt, the optimal time of day, the best lighting. [\h__\h] you guys have the time. You're just being stupid about it. Honestly, let me show you. This is how easy it is to make content. I'll do it right now live cuz it's not hard, right? Clean off my lens, by the way, because if you have a thumb print on your lens, you look ridiculous. It's literally this. Hey, listen, man. Vlog 84. 84 vlogs. I haven't missed a single one. This one today, if you are in a business whatsoever online or even if it's brick and mortar and you have an online presence, this is all about how you actually have time to make content and the things that are stopping you, dude, this is going to be a banger. You need to watch this. Vlog 84. The full video will be on YouTube later on this afternoon. Never miss. That's it. That's it. There's nothing. I just literally spat that out. Who cares? Post. The end. I'm just not going to make you guys sit here while I post this on Instagram. You'll see it later. And if you're watching the vlog, you're going to go, "Holy [\h__\h] it actually is on there." The end. That's it. You guys are complicating it. If you can't get your perfect little thought out, here's a hack. If you can't get your perfect little thought out in 60 seconds, cuz so many of you guys, you will spend hours trying to get a 60-second clip that's perfect. You'll film it and go, "Shit. Oh, I edited. like to 71 seconds. You know, whether it's 90 seconds, 60 seconds, it doesn't matter. You're trying to fit it in a little window. If it's YouTube shorts, 60 seconds, 59 seconds is a safe bet. If it's Instagram, 90 seconds, it doesn't matter. But what I'm saying is you're trying to fit your thought into this tiny little window that already puts pressure on you and you fumble your way through it. It sounds rehearsed and the most ridiculous thing in the world, but you tell everybody how authentic you are. There's a dude right now. It's all he does. I'm so authentic. You're not authentic. You're [\h__\h] gay. You're not authentic. I think honestly I think your wife left you because you're gay. It just I'll just say it like it is. It pisses me off because I'm tired of seeing that kind of stuff because that's giving people the wrong idea. But that's a whole other vlog. But if you can't get your perfect little thought out in 60 seconds, just keep talking on the video until you get it all out. Whether it takes 10 minutes or 15 minutes, whatever. And if you don't have the memory on your phone, you got too much porn on there. get rid of it. But just keep talking until you get it all out and then go back, throw it into Cap Cut and chop it up until it's 60 seconds. It's not hard. Remember, I do this all the time. Like, if you make something a priority, it becomes important. If you make nothing a priority, something will fill the space and steal your attention and it will always cost you. Keep that in mind. Like I I've had clients, I had one specifically say, "Dude, I just don't have time like you. I don't have all the knowledge you have and my days are so busy to put this all together. Like you make it look so easy. You just spit a flow and all this stuff just comes. My Let me be very transparent. You can go back and look. My very first video was shot the wrong way. It was supposed to be portrait. It wound up being landscape. I had black stripes down either side of it. I was so far away. I looked like a tiny little dot in a red shirt. I think it was a CrossFit shirt. I was standing with a guy named Jamie. We were going to do a shoulder video and it cut off after the first 17 seconds and didn't tell the audience a damn thing. Nothing. It literally was like I whacked him in the stomach and he went h and we started laughing and I was just about to talk and it just cut off. That's what I posted. It's still up. It's still up. I don't care. You guys are so concerned about making this viral post. Just to be clear, there is a viral ratio for every account. However many posts it takes until one goes viral. The more you post, the more chance it goes viral. Because if it's one out of every hundred and you post one post a day, 100 days you will have one go viral. If you post twice a day, 50 days. Do you see where I'm going with this? So when people go, I only post once a day because what I've learned is the algorithm beats me up and I don't I wind up posting the same thing and I lose momentum and I lose energy and I lose this. You are the problem. You are the problem. It is not Instagram. It is not your account. You are the problem. You are [\h__\h] Eeyore. You are Eeyore. Okay, you're just this miserable human being who's trying to come out and say that you're not a miserable human being. If you have high like I'm like this all the time. If you've seen me for 84 videos, I have been like this for every single one. If you have followed me back in the Smashworks days, still the same energy-wise. My my intent and my drive, my mindset radically different. Before you guys go, "Yeah, I missed that jokey guy." I'm not the same guy. That guy died because I was making a lot of mistakes just to clear up any misconceptions. And when I woke up, God gave me a mission. God gave me a vision. The end. No questions. The end. But when I'm back to content, when I make content, I'll just leave it up. I don't take my post down. I don't care if people hate it, love it. I will just keep making content because it's me talking about things that I like that I'm trying to give to people to give value so you guys have a better quality of life in whatever direction you need to go because I'm giving you all this like my scars are your lessons that you don't have to take, right? My scars and I had to go through all kinds of [\h__\h] are your lessons that you never have to go through. You just copy what I do, emulate what I do. Like you can have so much money in your life. The secret to being incredibly wealthy is you can have anything in life you want, provided you help enough other people get what they want. Most of you guys come out with your content and go, "How do I make content that I can take from somebody?" How do I make content that's going to make them give me something? I come out and I go, "How do I give you something?" So you can take that and go do something with it. What you put out matters as long as it like let me be clear about that because what you put out needs to be more giving. If you go out and go everything is a sales post, everything is a pitch. Everything is buy my stuff, get my stuff, I'm the best and you suck. What are you giving people? Look at what you're giving people. If you're I could do this all day. I'm not going to get into this anyway. The whole point is I make content and if it sucks, I just leave it and I move on. It is yet another post and it's giving me practice. I just don't care. I move on to the next one. If you're constantly focused on getting the last thing, you can't move forward. If you're constantly trying to compete with someone else's edits, you're never going to launch because it'll never look like theirs because you're not them. You're not I'm going to have some more coffee. Clearly, I haven't had enough. So, it comes back to this. You're afraid of being judged. I'll say this again because I've said it before. You're afraid to launch your life into orbit and make it the life that you dream about every night because you're worried about the approval and acceptance from a bunch of people who don't even approve or accept themselves. You're going to keep staring at them waiting for them to give you the green light on your life. What the [\h__\h] are you doing? They don't need to approve what you do. You need to do that. that comes from you. So to this client who said they have no time, right? So I'll come back to that. I took their phone, right? I open it up. You can look at app usage on your phone. If you can't, if you don't know how, I'm not going to talk about it here, but you can. It's very easy. Just look it up. But I took their phone. I said, "Give me your phone. I'll take a look." So I look at the phone there. App usage. Pulled up Instagram. It's almost three hours. Three [\h__\h] hours on Instagram. Yeah. I'm doing research and coming up with hooks and video ideas and like coming up with format and all this stuff. That's what I mean. I don't have time. You spend 3 hours a day research and you struggle to make one post. You guys all need to hear this part. This is what I said. I said, "For the next 30 days, make two videos a day on how much time Instagram was hemorrhaging out of your life and how much you can get done by reclaiming these three hours because you're now only going to post these two videos. You're welcome. Here's your time. You're welcome. There's your three hours." You know what he did? He brought three of his friends into my mastermind after that. Do you know why? No marketing. I didn't tell him to bring anybody. No marketing. because I helped him and he saw value and told his friends and they asked how do I join. That's why you make content to help people to give value to the point that people say, "Holy [\h__\h] I need what this guy has. I need what this company is doing, but you don't have time." Then don't be an entrepreneur. Then don't. Because the idea that some guru says that you can work 2our days if you want. Oh, you can work 2our days if you want and have this epic successful business and brand is [\h__\h] Especially in the beginning. I don't care who it is. I'm probably the only one who will tell you that you're going to be living on coffee, making content, helping customers, fulfilling orders, learning how to scale, learning how to do many chats and market and all that stuff. It'll take up a significant portion of your life for the foreseeable future. Like these guys telling you that they pull in $100 million a year on 20 minutes a day or they earn six figures a month easily after their entire life burned down in a divorce or they're so rich that they pay $50,000 for a haircut. They're all full of [\h__\h] Show me the bank statements. Show me the bank statements and show me what you keep. Let me talk to your wife. Oh, wait. You might not even have one because you [\h__\h] that up. Show me what's in your garage. Never mind. It's a minivan because you don't have the car you want. You know it. I could do this all day. I give all of my clients the same guarantee. I guarantee that if you halfass what I tell you, if you cherrypick what you need to do, if you whine and complain and justify why you just couldn't do something because you were too busy trying to protect yourself or do this boohoo, if you're not 100% committed to your cause, then I 100% guarantee you'll lose your money and fail. And if you listen to everything I give you, the failure percentage that you're going to have is going to go down to almost zero. There's your guarantee. You have time to make content. You have time to run your business. You have time. You're not making content for another reason. You It's not It's not lack of time. You're You're make You're not making content because you're using that time to do something else to make sure you don't have the time because you're afraid. I guarantee you most of you guys are afraid to do it. You're ensuring that you don't have the time because you're going to give it to something else because you don't like getting only three likes or someone says you have a funny nose and you let that dissuade you from building the dream that you want. That really bothers me. I love that you guys are here. Thank you so much for giving me your time. That matters. It really does because I respect your time because it's the one thing that you cannot get back. But if you don't respect my time, you don't respect yours. I already know that. But if I don't give a [\h__\h] about your opinions over mine, I don't care if you think I look funny, you don't like my beard, you think I'm an [\h__\h] you don't like that I cuss, you hate my life, I don't care. I don't care about your opinions whatsoever. Go [\h__\h] yourself. I care about my opinion over myself and my life more than anybody else's combined. You guys are ensuring that you don't have the time by making yourself busy and getting on that hamster wheel, forgetting that you're still in the cage and you're not moving anywhere because you're so worried about somebody else judging you. That pisses me off. Like one of the reasons I even made unbreak the unbreakable mastermind is because I wanted a place filled with high standards and people sorry I had to swallow that and people that like that run at those standards who all support each other and everybody's dreams and are all in the mastermind they're all in there to become exceptional in every area of their life health wealth relationships and we talk about God so if you don't like God don't even bother like I wanted a place where people felt safe to [\h__\h] up and then get help and get back in the arena because we're all in it together. That's what I built. That's what I built. More coffee. Listen, if someone spends time out of their day, out of their day, we all have the same amount of time. If someone spends time out of their day to look for your account, find your content, they hunt you down on here and watch your stuff just to trash talk and [\h__\h] all over your life. and you're concerned about their opinion, them, how messed up and screwed up and [\h__\h] up is their life psychologically. I I feel sorry for people like that because they're inside their own head 24/7, 365. They look in the mirror and they hate everything about themselves and they don't know how to handle it and they just try to puke all over everyone else cuz they don't want to be alone. If you want to build something, you make content a priority. Stop trying to pretty it up thinking it has to be perfect. Putting in the reps, be willing to suck. keep going. Like a lot of you guys want to make money, like a lot of money, and you want more leads, you want better quality leads, you want more customers, whatever. But you guys want to start at the finish line. You want them to find you. Let me help you. They're never going to see you because you're afraid to see you. Like, I come out here every day and I think of one or two things that I can give you to help you win somewhere. Sometimes I trip up. Sometimes I nail it. Sometimes it's late. Sometimes it's early. But if you look back 84 days, I've been here. Never mind the decade plus I have been posting on social media. I was like my wife said it. She went, "Babe, you we had a million-dollar business, a seven-figure business before it was even trendy to post on social media. It was before I even was on social media. But when social media came around and I wanted to make content, I made it a priority." That's how you need to view your content. And by the way, let me give I will drop this is totally off the cuff. Let's say you want to make a vlog like this. You're like, "Okay, hot shot. How do I make a vlog every day? How do I edit it? I don't have all this stuff that you do. Buckle up, baby. Let's say you want to make a vlog like this every day. Watch this. Okay, you film it in dcript. D S C R I PT. Dscript. I'm switching over to Dscript, by the way, because Riverside FM just sucks donkey's ass. It's garbage. So, you film your video for your vlog in Dscript. Then you go on the right and you remove word gaps. You remove filler words. You clean it up using the AI and Dcript with a couple of clicks. Now you have Dscript write your description. You click on export and you upload the video to your YouTube channel that you have connected to Dscript. Drop the description it wrote into the description area on your YouTube video. Turn on public. Throw a thumbnail on it that you made in Canva and you've just made your first blog. Oh, it gets better. Then you go back to Dcript and you hit this create clips button. Take however many you make and drop them into social media scattered throughout the day. You have time. You're welcome. You have time. You're just not doing it because you're afraid to hit the damn button. Listen, I could do this all day. I could do this all day because I've done this a lot. I want to help you. Listen, here's a pitch. I'll be very You want to get around winners and high standards? Join the unbreakable mastermind. Absolutely. A pitch. I told you it is $25,000 a year. Yes. Hey, you can go in and ask for yourself. Tons of people pay that. But if you come off this vlog right here, vlog 84, and you message me on Instagram, I'm in. I'm not going to have a conversation with you about your [\h__\h] payments. I'm going to send you a payment link for $4,997 for access to everything for life. Five grand life. That's $144 live calls a year with me. Like real, not recorded. Q&A, over a thousand calls in the archives, resources, video trainings, I don't I I don't know. There's so many things in there like growth, community, sale, you name it, it is all in there. Whether it's fitness minds, I don't care. The calls are killer. Saturday is the Spartan Live mindset. We do bulletproof psychology. Sunday is all business. It's stuff like this that really works. And Monday is the unbreakable mastermind campfire call where we just get on and I solve problems. People throw all kinds of stuff at me. It doesn't matter. Like I said, it's I had somebody just Brandon just asked me all about something about his son that he wants help with. I had nutrition. I got peptide questions. I got sales questions. I got business questions. I will solve them. I stayed on the call last on Monday for almost two hours. I I think you would be foolish not to do it. But I also don't hesitate when I see opportunities. Maybe you do, which is why you're stuck. You're going to spend that money on stupid gimmicks and distractions. But again, maybe that's what you want. I want people to win. That's why I actually I've been doing this. You can look at me historically. I have never come out and gone, "Give me all your stuff and then I'll give you the win." You guys stand in front of the fireplace and go, "Give me some heat and then I'll give you wood." I have been the doctor to the planet for well over a decade. I'm still doing this cuz I want you guys to [\h__\h] win. I want people to win. I help people win. $4,997, $49.97, five grand. Message me on Instagram. I'm in. And you're in for life instead of 25 grand every year. That's up to you. Anyway, I'm going to go inside and eat. I want to go hang out with my wife. I hope you got something out of this. I'll see you tomorrow. Never miss.