So, I'm putting my thoughts together just so I have a nice straight shot with what I'm about to talk about because I I was just talking to Brandy inside. We were having lunch and every generation is softer than the one before. They lose a lot of that savagery. And for some reason right now, masculinity is toxic. Being strong is toxic. Being powerful is toxic. You guys make no sense. Yet the life you want is it's only obtainable on the other side of being a savage son of a [\h__\h] It you can't do it. Which is where entitlement comes in. But pain is a prerequisite. And I don't think you understand that. Like my grandfather was tougher than my father. My father was tougher than 95% of the men right now. And I'm not going to say me. And not because of the reason you think where every generation is getting soft. I chose to get harder. I chose to chase pain, to find pain, to seek pain, and not flee from pain. And then when I find it, I weaponize it. But it's a prerequisite for all of the things that you want in your life. But like for example, right now, so it's Thursday and three days ago, actually four days ago, I guess technically Monday. So four days ago, I partially tore my adductor on my left side and adductor magnus. And wi without getting into the anatomy of how that works, the adductor magnus does a lot more than just adduction, flexion, extension, stabilization of the pelvis, the leg, the femur, like it it does so much stuff. It's involved in bringing the knee up, bringing the knee back, extending the hip. There's so many things that it does. And here's how how synergistically your body functions. When you have a tiny little injury, it impedes just about everything you do. When you have a bigger injury, it does impede everything you do. And you don't realize how much you use everything and how everything has this, like I said, synergistic relationship because you're always bracing and stabilizing and functioning. So, all of you guys that think in one dimension, you're screwing yourself up with your body. You should be much more functional. The byproduct of being functional is you are athletic and big and strong. Training doing curls and bench press and leg extensions and all of that stuff. Great. But they're operating in a single plane. And this isn't a physiology or kinesiology or biomechanics or training or anything. We don't need to get into any of all that. But life happens in the transverse plane. I'll just leave it at that. This one, right? And most of you guys don't operate like that. Anyway, the point is I I popped my adductor. It's all on video, which is it's actually kind of hilarious, but I crumpled. I just crumple. And for sure it was a partial tear. I felt it's purple. It's just looks disgusting. It's all trashed on the inside of my groin, but I felt it snap. I heard it tear. And I dropped to the floor like I'd been shot. And I had zero range of motion, no hip extension, no hip flexion. I could move my knee slightly, but the adductor doesn't affect the knee. And I had zero excuses. Yeah, it hurt. It hurt like hell. Like you can hear Brandy on the video going, "Holy smokes, what happened? I heard that." And I'm I crumpled. I shot my leg out and I'm sitting there clutching my groin. And 20 minutes later, give or take, I was outside training, working around it. And I wasn't trying to prove anything. I was just proving that to myself, what men do when life hands them pain, they just adapt and move anyway. Like this is the whole point of this is to just gut the version of you that still treats pain like the stop sign. Pain isn't a stop sign. It's the doorway to evolution and strength and power and becoming more. It's required. And it's I'm tired of hearing men, especially simp men. You guys, I hope you listen to this and you know, damn, I'm talking to you because it is so ridiculous when you go out and you make these cringy videos about your feelings and how you should be soft and create a safe space and put your phone in a box and all it. Like, what is wrong with you? Be a man. No woman wants to be with that. And I guarantee you, if you have a woman in your life, she doesn't want to be with you. And if you don't, that's why she left. Take it offensively. It doesn't really matter. It doesn't change the fact that it whether you're offended or not, it's still the truth. Pain doesn't ask for permission. It doesn't call ahead. It doesn't make reservations. It doesn't wait until it's convenient. It shows up suddenly, violently, and zero apologies. And when it does, you've got two choices. You can drop into victim mode, or you can drop into war. Like when I tore that, I didn't negotiate. I didn't have a conversation. And I didn't go have a healing circle and make a little candle. I adapted fast. And why? Because I've trained my nervous system to recognize pain as a signal, not a [\h__\h] limitation. I think a lot of you guys need to ask yourself, what do I do when pain shows up uninvited? Do I move or do I moan and cry about it? Because that answer is the difference between growth and just rotting and decaying in your life. Pain isn't the problem. your relationship with pain is. You are you have been taught now to run away and flee and avoid it at all costs. And whatever your feelings are telling you is how you need to conduct yourself. That's exactly why you're struggling. Because here's the savage truth. You're not losing because you're in pain. You're not I've been in more pain than 99% of you guys listening. And it's not to brag. It's not anything to be impressed by. It sucks. But you're losing because you haven't stayed in it long enough to evolve and adapt. Your body will adapt 100%. You just don't want to stay there and you have been given an option. If you have no option, you will adapt. You bail, you rest, you whimper, you scroll, you talk to your therapist about it, you wait for life to feel better before you try again. And you think trauma is your excuse. It's not. Trauma. Trauma is that the raw material required to create something better and just throw it into the forge and make something of yourself. And if you don't learn to mold it into strength, you're going to drown in it. really you're going to every other soft spiritually neutered man walking around blaming burnout or their mommy or their daddy or their boss or their job or their wife or what happened to them that they've got this new repressed memory that's been triggered by something they read or saw or smell or ate. Come on. Ask yourself what would happen if I stayed in this pain long enough to become somebody raw? Because that's how a man is born. That's how a savage man is born. You want to know what I did here? I'll tell you how I weaponize the pain because you guys are, "Oh, [\h__\h] It couldn't have been that bad. Oh, no. It's bad. It hurts right now sitting here. I don't care. I didn't die." Like, anybody that's ever worked on a farm right here knows damn well pain. You're no stranger to it. It happens all the time. So, here's what I did. I'm going to drink something because I'm thirsty. Yep. Cope zero. Don't worry. I run nicotine to take care of all the nanochen crap that's in there. That's another podcast. You should ask me about it. But here's what I did. I stretched a lot. I forced it to move. I smashed the crap out of it. I hung my leg over the box, my Rogue box in my gym, and I found that hot spot. And you could see it instantly. I was sweating. Even Brandy, she's, "Oh my god, sweat's just dripping off of you." Because you want to know a quick test to see if somebody's malingering, check their heartbeat. When you poke on a spot that hurts, their heartbeat will go up, their blood blood pressure will crank up, and they'll start to sweat because the pain is real. So, if somebody's telling you about how much pain they're in, and it there's none of those physiological symptoms, they're lying. They're lying. I love that stuff because it's just like the person that fakes being passed out. Give them a sternal rub, grab your knuckles, and just crank on the manubrium right here. See what happens. do a fingernail pinch, hand drop over their face. See, you know what they're going to do? Hands going to come towards their face and right at the last time they're not going to smack themselves in the face. Can't stand people that fake being in pain. Lie about their circumstances. Why? Because I lost alone. I've been through cancer too many times and my wife has sat by me and helped me every second of the day for 20 years. She is my best friend and she's had to endure it and I think it's worse for her than for me. because you see somebody struggling and suffering and there's not a [\h__\h] thing you could do about it. So, she's dealt with more pain than me, not just building children, but like she's dealt with real pain. But this is how I handled it. Like I said, I stretched it. I smashed it. I forced it to move. I flossed it. I demanded of myself. My body is going to do what I [\h__\h] tell it to do. I run this show because all of that pain, all of the struggling, all of the, "Oh my god, I think I'm gonna die." That's your little lizard brain saying, "We have to protect ourselves and hide from whatever is causing this problem." But you have a lot more in the tank. You guys just don't stay there long enough to adapt. But if you stay in the pain long enough, your body will adapt. It's 100% guaranteed. That's why I evolve faster than a lot of you guys. There's nothing macho about this, by the way. This is just how your body is designed. That's how animals do it all the time. Why can't you? like all these knuckleheads going around going hundred men versus a gorilla. You're gonna [\h__\h] die. You're gonna die. That gorilla is going to tear off your leg and beat you with a wet end. And he's going to use it as a weapon against the other 99 of you. Stop thinking to I love these MMA fighters. Here's what I would do. Easy. Three of us. We could totally take out a [\h__\h] gorilla. You guys are stupid. Ignorance of man is exactly why you get killed. And and see, just to be very clear, like I went back outside and I trained around it. I did a couple hundred leg extensions on a box extensions, prone, right? Box extensions, couple of hundred pull-ups, some recliner twists or plate twists, rather, Russian plate twists with a 25. Like I I worked out. Yeah, it hurt. It was probably a nine out of 10. And then at 5:00 that night, that evening, Monday evening, I had my unbreakable mastermind call. I talked about this the other day. And I sat on a peanut for 2 hours. I don't care. 48 hours later, I was doing deadlifts, pull-ups, hand cleans, conditioning. Why? Because pain is the forge. You guys have got to hear me when I say this instead of just going, "Here we go with this guy's trying to be macho." There's nothing macho about this. This is just being a regular man. If you aren't doing this, you're a [\h__\h] And you've been told that it's okay to be like that. Pain is the forge. It's the training ground for becoming elite. It's the price you pay for actual resilience. I see this there's this one lady, I'll never forget her. I'm a resilience expert. I teach people how to be resilient. Then why are you falling apart? Because your business can't do anything right and your marriage is falling apart. You're not resilient. When you're resilient, nobody knows what's going on in your life because pain is the forge. It's the language that your body and your mind use to ask one question. Are you ready to level up or do you want to stay soft forever? That's what pain is asking. And most of you guys, you never even speak that language, right? You flinch. It's like somebody comes up to you. Oh, two hits for flinching. Right? But you flinch. You don't even speak. Pain. Pain comes in. Boom. You're out. You flinch. You cry. You explain to your wife while you're emotionally unavailable. And then you scroll past men like me and whisper, "He's toxic." Here's another alpha dude. Another bald guy with a beard. All alpha masculine toxic [\h__\h] Macho. None of that. No, you're allergic to pain and it's killing you because my life is better than yours. But I keep coming out here. I'm one of the most real son of a [\h__\h] out here. I keep coming out here giving. It's free. Giving you the tools, giving you the advice, giving you the motivation, giving you the inspiration, giving you the drive, giving you all of the things you need to do to become the best version of yourself. and half of you guys go, "Fuck this guy." And you go right back to something entertaining. Then be a soft fat bastard and quit complaining about it. Like you want to think about the psychology of weakness. When you experience pain, your brain does one thing. Yours, not mine, you guys. Psychologically, your brain looks for an exit because that's why you can't stay in the pain. And if you always take it, your brain learns that discomfort equals danger. So you train yourself to quit. You shrink. You surrender. You give up. You walk away. You hide. And then you call it self-care. I love that. I read it the other day. Oh, it's self-care. Meanwhile, listen. You're becoming I was going to say slowly, but it's not. It's rapidly. I'm just watching society, the degradation of mankind. You're rapidly becoming the kind of man you can't handle conflict. You can't handle hard conversations. You can't handle leadership because you're not a leader. And you can't handle your own [\h__\h] life. You're not injured again. Yes, I'm in pain. So what, dude? I sat there and worked out seven days after they pulled a cylinder out of my chest. And it's not to brag. It's because you're all capable of doing the same damn thing. You have an option not to. And you look for the exit when things hurt because that option exists. What are you going to do when the option doesn't exist? You're not injured. You're not 99% of the times you're not injured. You sure as hell aren't injured by your trauma. You're just so unfamiliar with discomfort that a paper cut feels like amputation. Ask yourself, have I built a life, this is a real question, have I built a life that's so comfortable that pain now feels just unbearable instead of essential? Because the men who win, like me, we stay in the fire until the bones turn into [\h__\h] weapons because they're hardened by adversity, by struggle, by pain. And this isn't some sick masochistic kind of a thing, sadistic kind of a thing. This is what you need to grow. You think working out, I did a seven-minute workout, bro. It killed me. Yeah, but for four years, you still look the same. You're still flabby. 80 lbs over. Dude, my workouts are brutal. They crush you. Then why do I look and function the way I do and you look and function the way you do and your explanation of my type of training is, "Yeah, but bro, that's not normal. That's not healthy. Who hurt you, bro? That's not I get you're overtraining. I get that all the time. You're overtraining. I'm sure I'll see it on my post. Yeah, of course you're injured. You're overtraining. You got to let it heal, bro. Listen to this macho guy. None of it. If you had to defend your family and you were in pain, what are you gonna say? You need you need some time, need to sit down. When your back's up against the wall, what are you going to do? Because if you haven't adapted to handle discomfort and pain, you'll get crippled by it when it shows up. Because the ultimate outcome of pain is transformation. But only if you stay in it long enough. Most men never do. And why? Why? I'll help you. Why? Because quitting is easier. Because resting is normalized. Because comfort is is [\h__\h] celebrated. I don't even know what to say, you guys. It It's celebrated. So, you don't have to adapt. You never have to. You just wait until it blows over. You stall, you decline, and you point at your little injury and you your trauma, right? Oh, my my trauma, you know, your season, which is I've heard that, dude, I'm just in this season right now. And you say, bro, I'm just trying to heal. I'm just trying to heal. Find out where it hurts and go hang out there. that'll help you heal because what you're not doing is healing. You're hiding and you're hoping nobody like me calls you out. And when we do, you get mad. You get triggered and you go, "Got to cancel that guy. Let's ostracize, drop hate in the comments." I can always find all of you weak people because the weak people are the ones that drop hate. Nobody who is happy, successful, and powerful ever drops hate ever. You guys out yourselves. Like the losers make the noise. The winners hold out hands to help you and give you tactics and then walk away going, "I don't have time to babysit your ass. You guys are hiding. You're not trying to heal. You're hiding. And like I said, you're just hoping. You got your fingers crossed in the corner with your little doll. Hope he doesn't call me out. I just did. I just did. And if you want to change, then stop using pain as a permission slip to stay soft. Start using it as the door frame that you are forced to walk through to become unbreakable. Because if you aren't willing to walk through it, everything through the through that door on the other side is never going to be obtainable to you ever. What would your life look like? I had to ask this, right? I asked, what would my life look like if I stopped exiting the pain and started going towards it and demanding that I evolve through it? Because that's what separates the predator from the prey. And I don't mean something creepy and weird. You are one or the other. No matter what, you can call it Grant Cardone. Sell or be sold. It doesn't matter what you call it. You are either the one in charge or the one being controlled. Predator or prey? Which one? You're not incapable. You're not. You're just out of practice with pain. Trust me, you had a lot more when you were two. You were a year and a half and you were banging off every piece of furniture, holding your boo boo when you were learning how to walk. You know who screwed that up? your chubby little mommy who came to wipe your nose when you started sniffling and crying because you bumped your head. It's one thing to check if your child is okay. It's another to coddle them and make sure they stop crying. Your kids are going to cry. It's okay. They're not going to die. But you guys now cry. Men cry when things hurt. And I'm not saying crying because it's devastating. I'm saying and still doing the [\h__\h] you need to do. I'm saying crying, using that as an excuse, and cuddling up to your wife going, "I'm my boo boos. I have an owie." Every generation is becoming less savage. And we are one generation away, I would say, from losing all of the savagery and power that men have to the symposoft feeling hunters that never get anything done and worry about entitlement until all of that entitlement, mark my words, is taken away. All of the protection and safety that you get from the powers that be, that's how they control you. But you never look at that. See, when you've been forged in fire and you've had to go through pain and you've had to evolve because you've taken away all options except to walk through the pain and suffer and then become a stronger version of yourself and forced yourself to adapt, you can't take that away. But if you're relying on someone else to make your pain go away when that someone else or something else is gone, your pain is still there and you have no idea how to handle it. That's why you're crippled by failure. That's why you little fat kids that get 11th place trophies or participation ribbons or sit on a bench or throw like this or you wear a dress and you're a dude. You guys get crippled by failure when you're an adult and you demand that your boss pays attention to that and allows you to call in sad. You call EDDD in California and go, "I feel I was wrongfully terminated. I sucked at my job, but they made me they fired me because I was overweight." No, they fired you because you sucked at your job. You just happen to be fat. But no, but you are all professional victims because you're out of practice with pain. Every time it shows up, I said you flinch, you rationalize, you exit, you soften. You train your neural pathways to learn that direction. That's why you don't win. You're not cursed. You don't have some generational problem. You're not a weak person. You have chosen to be a weak person inside. You're not. You're not broken. You're not. You're just too quick to escape the thing that was sent to make you a [\h__\h] savage. Everything that was sent to break me made me, but it gets sent to you and you tuck your tail and hide. So, here's the call. I'll give it to you. Stay in the pain. Stay in the pain. Demand that you stay in the pain. Adapt. Evolve. Conquer. Repeat. That's the recipe. That's the blueprint for paint. You have a choice. And by the way, for all of you guys going, "How did you get outside and train?" I wasn't going to talk about this, but I will. How'd you go outside and train 20 minutes after you popped your hamstring or your adductor rather? Because I went inside and I grabbed a vial of thyin beta 4, 5 milligrams. Took that right away. I took BPC57, 5 milligrams. Took two milligrams of that, stuck it right at the pain site. Pow. Took a little GHK-Cu copper to knock down the inflammation. I went outside. Still hurt. Didn't change. And then I took two milligrams of BPC and I have been since three times a day. And I take thyin beta 4 every second day. Five milligrams. And I will do that until it's gone. And I'll tell you right now, I'm operating at about 75, maybe 75% right now. Most people wouldn't even be at 5% right now. So you guys that go that's cheating. The [\h__\h] is wrong with you? You think you're a hero because you want to stay instead of learn. You think you're a hero by sitting on your couch crying on your wife's shoulder because you won't do peptides or you won't ice it or you won't stretch it or you won't endure the pain or you won't sit on a lacrosse ball or whatever the hell it is you need to do. You won't sacrifice all your money to grow your business. You won't downsize into a tiny little apartment, sell all your cars, the image you're trying to create so you can actually go buy that stuff instead of leasing it all and looking rich but being broke. Like you guys aren't willing to do that. So again, I will say it. You are a [\h__\h] You're not a man. You're not a man. Men build legacy in themselves and share it with everybody else. If you're not doing that, then you're not a man. But that's how I handle the injury. I'll do it until I'm at 100%. I don't know, a week. You guys need to go to where the pain is and stay there no matter how ugly it gets until you adapt. It's in you. You are choosing to listen to the wrong voice. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.