That's about where we're at today. Now, today's Saturday. Every Saturday I do a Spartan Live. It's my coaching call with my unbreakable mastermind, one of three that I do every week. Everybody should be on that call. Most of you couldn't handle the call. And some [\h__\h] that's listening to this just now went, "Oh, here we go. Listen to this arrogant guy. I'm not arrogant. If it's true, it's a resume. And I'm too much for most of you guys to handle because I'm raw and I'm gritty and I tell the truth." See, my dad, he was a preacher. Big giant German preacher. Great man. Tell the truth. There's less to remember. That's what he said. And before some [\h__\h] gets in the comments and goes, "Oh, what about the time you looped video CrossFit? I live in your brain, rentree, taking up real estate 24/7, 365. I don't even know your name. I'll never know your name. You're worth nothing to me." But clearly, I occupy your thoughts. And the only reason people bring up the past, I said it yesterday, is to validate why they can't go any further and use it as an excuse, as a crutch. I heard somebody. They were in my group. I spent the last year just trying to stay alive. Rebreathing. Yeah, then you weren't trying to stay alive. You're making excuses for why you didn't do the work. I got nothing for you. That bothers me. You're an excuse machine and a fraud. I don't tolerate people like that because I would never tolerate that for myself. And the second reason you bring up the past is because somebody evolved past where you are and it pisses you off. So you're trying to bring them down. So yeah, I tell the truth every damn day. You don't. That's why it triggers you. The reason I say every man, every woman should be in my mastermind, first of all, it's incredibly inexpensive. So, it's a money issue. You're broke because you do broke [\h__\h] That's why. Same reason you're fat because you do fat person things. Same reason your marriage is a disaster cuz you do stupid things in your marriage. Stop blaming. This world has gone so far in the wrong direction. You need to have violent ownership of your own life. And if you can't do that, you don't belong here. Somebody's going to take that the wrong way. Good. You should be eaten because you don't have what it takes to survive. Yes, it is absolute ignorance to expect other people to throw you a rope when you could climb out yourself. And then when they do throw you a rope, most of you people tie a noose in it, choke yourself, and then blame them for it. Most of you guys disgust me because you're so soft and you choose it. Because if you were put in a corner and you had nothing left, you'd roll over and die. And that's a decision. It bothers me because God made you in his image. And I promise you, God, don't [\h__\h] with God. If you don't believe in God, you're not going to get along with me at all. Because my resolve and belief in God and my faith in Jesus Christ is absolute. There's nothing you can say ever or do ever to make me change my mind. And I learned because I thought that I believed. Do you have any idea how many miracles I've seen in the last four years stacked one after the other? But when you wake up breathing, it is your obligation to become better than you were yesterday. It's not your obligation to make excuses about why you can't. And people have forgotten you go to school to learn how to follow rules to get to the next phase of school. College. Big waste of time. I went to college. My monogram looks like an eye chart. I got enough letters after my name and none of them mean anything because everything I've learned for all of you people that go, "You wouldn't be a doctor if you didn't go to school." No, school means I paid for an education and I had to buy a license. I learned how to be a doctor after I came out. Ask any doctor, real doctor, when the learning started. Ask any real doctor, not these sellouts that are pushing pills all day and they'll tell you. They learned by getting in the trenches, which is what most of you guys are afraid to do. And in my mastermind, that's why we don't take everybody. Are you kidding me? You join for life. You guys will spend five grand a month on a house, but you won't spend 4,997 once for a lifetime of answers and solutions and doctor on demand. Me every Monday, ask me any question. Access to everything, an entire community, every course, everything online and offline. everything to teach you how to sell, how to be successful, how to get your mind, how to have bulletproof psychology, how to solve your marriage, fix your fitness, get your nutrition right, solve any energy injury, and get around every single person that is going to hold you to a higher standard. And it's that one right there that is exactly why most of you guys are going to shy away from it because you go, "Wait a minute. There's people that I'm going to hold me accountable. I better not go because all my soft ass excuses won't work." You're right. They won't. But you won't spend $4,997 once to have that access for life. By the way, I've been a doctor for 25 years. Real doctor for all you dumb asses that go, "No way. No doctor curses." This one does. You get access to the greatest, most successful community in the world and learn all the things that allow you to pay for that $5,000 a month house that you have a hundred times over. Business academy, sales academy, online fitness academy, branding academy, marketing academy, advertising academy, they're all in there and they're all real. Don't take my word for it. Look at the testimonials. I am probably one of the only real ones out there when I say coach. I really am not some salesy weak [\h__\h] that goes, "Let me yell at you and tell you all kinds of things that are wrong with you, but never give you the solution. Oh, I might yell at you, but I come at you because I love you. And if you don't like that, slap your parents because they made you soft. My parents made me hard. I thank them for that." But everybody in here should be on their phone sending me a message going, "How do I get access to this mastermind for life? One payment and you guys can't scrape together 4,997 bucks. Poor people stay poor because they do poor people things. Rich people get rich because they're willing to zero out everything and bet on the future, not bet on their failure. Listen, I could do this all day. Let me make one thing very clear before we go any further. You were born dangerous. You didn't come into this world asking for permission. You didn't care. You never cared about being liked, approved of, or fitting in. You crawled around at a year old, crapping in your pants and hiding under the table and nobody cared. You came into this world screaming your existence at the top of your lungs, ready to survive at all costs, to dominate, to expand. But somewhere along the way, they took that raw, untamed fire and they stuck it in a [\h__\h] kennel and doused you up with all kinds of nice phrases. That's what you guys buy. You guys buy all these nice, kind little phrases. Be careful. Don't make waves. Sit down. Be good. If you want to go, if you want to get along, you got to go along. All of those things. And some of you guys hear that's being polite. That's being kind. No, it's not. It's being nice. Nice people are the most dangerous people in the world because they're emotional. Kind people are lethal and they have it under control. Nice people dangerous. Have no control. They act on their emotions. So, all of those things, be careful. Don't make waves. Don't rock the boat. Careful. You might not get any likes and follows. And you obeyed. You obeyed. Congratulations. You traded your birthright for a [\h__\h] participation trophy. That's what you did. Listen, I've said it before and I'll say it again. I'm not here to motivate you. If that's what you want, go find some Anthony Robbins or something. I love Anthony Robbins. I think he is so good at his craft, but I'm not a motivational guy. That's not what I want. I'll tell you the truth. I'm going to be harsh, abrasive because I care. I actually care. I care more about you than you care about you. So, I'm here to basically exume the savage that's buried inside you right now. That's what you're that's what you are. You're born as a savage. Even if you're soft and nerdy, man, that's still inside you. So, how about this? Let's ask the question that most men are too terrified to face. When When, not what, not why. When when did you first realize that the world wanted you tame? And why did you agree? Because that's the moment you started dying. It wasn't when you lost your first fight, you got punched in the face. It wasn't when your first girl left you and broke your heart and put your heart in a blender and hit frappe. It wasn't when you failed. It was when you apologized for being powerful. It's when you apologized for being that boy who used to challenge, compete, push, shove, dominate. I played king of the hill on an ice pile in Winnipeg that was easily 15 feet high and it was actually all the snow they scraped off which was packed and hard. So it was like ice when we played king of the hill. It was life or death. I got knocked off that damn hill so many times and I didn't stay at the bottom. I kept coming till eventually I was the one on the top. We didn't hold back. My son came from school one time when he was in the fourth grade and said they just stopped they banned dodgeball and tag because it was too violent. Yeah, it makes me mad. I'm trying to calm myself down. My son's a fighter. Like a real fighter. Muay Thai jiu-jitsu. 12 years. He is a fighter. You need to see my buddy Tom Delas when he talks about 12 and 13 year olds submitting adults who do CrossFit police three times in 5 minutes. And one of you guys is going to puff up and go, "I see red." Dude, my son will rip you apart. Don't get on the mat with me because it will be a bad day. I'll give you a wet willie when you're sleeping and I'll make sure I film it. just so I can hand it to you afterwards. You're arrogant and you're so ignorant that you don't even know where you suck cuz you're not willing to look cuz you blame everybody else. I don't need to learn how to fight. I carry a gun. So do I. I prefer not to shoot you. Every man should know how to fight. When I was a kid, all we did was fight. Grip on a farm. But you started dying when you agreed to start dying. when you apologized for being strong, lethal, powerful, because that boy who used to push and shove and dominate, now they went, "No, we can't do that." You became a teenager who played small. You became the man who didn't want to offend. The adult who needed external permission just to exist. I know some Insta coaches like that. They talk about a god all the time and praise and they hold their hand up and everything and you're just a [\h__\h] You're a s. Because now you're sitting there anxious, restless, hollow inside, wondering why life feels damn empty. It's because you abandoned the part of you that was built to carry the weight. That's why you abandoned the strong part. You abandoned your fire for comfort. But here's the catch. Nobody told you. Comfort doesn't love you back, man. It feeds you until you're too bloated, too broken, too slow to [\h__\h] fight. Yeah. You know what's funny is that I for a while I was like maybe I just shouldn't cuss anymore, but I'm me again. I'm not going to apologize for being who I am. You go ahead and use that same logic against me. Go. I'm not going to apologize for being who I am. If you're soft and simpy and weak and trying to decide whether or not to put a blade to your body to decide your gender, that's not who you are. That's your fear and cowardice talking. And you know it. How about this? Let's get surgical. Why does the world despise strong, savage men? It's simple. Because strong men are dangerous to weak systems. Strong men unapologetically competitive, unyielding in the face of [\h__\h] impossible to manipulate with guilt or fake virtue, and ruthless in the pursuit of excellence. Listen, you think your boss wants you strong? He doesn't. He wants you obedient. You think society wants you sharp. It wants you medicated, entertained, and pacified. You think your woman wants you endlessly in touch with your feelings? No. She wants you in touch with your [\h__\h] mission so she can feel safe surrendering to you. And here you are, Mr. Nice Guy. Mr. Let's not offend anybody, Mr. I just want to be understood, sitting in therapy sessions for the last four years wondering why nobody respects you. Let me help you out. News flash. They don't respect you because you trained them. You did. You trained them not to. Nobody else did. They don't respect you because you trained them not to respect you. They respect men who move mountains, not men who move feelings around. Ask yourself, "Am I playing small because I'm noble or because I'm scared?" Because you already know the answer. You sit around and you listen to your TEDex talks and you bookmark and save your podcasts about feelings and men becoming more feminine and how you need to get in touch with your feminine side and all that nonsense and you wonder why you're failing and why your wife left you. Jordan Peterson nailed it. It's my all-time favorite thing and the only people that don't like it are the weak. The strong love it. Harmless man is not a good man. A good man is a very dangerous man who has it voluntarily under control. You were never meant to amputate your savage ever. You were meant to use it, master it. Because inside that rage that you buried, inside that wildness, inside that hunger is your discipline, your will, and your legacy. You amputated your aggression and with it you amputated all of your ambition. You amputated dominance, your dominance, not anybody else's, yours, and with it your ability to lead. You amputated your competitiveness, and with it your will to build a [\h__\h] kingdom. Every time you choose peace over pressure, you don't you didn't become a better man. You became a weaker one. Because you're choosing peace for the wrong reason. Because some of you guys just, what's wrong with peace? That's not what I'm talking about. By the way, power perceived is power achieved. Get that straight. Ask yourself, if I integrated my aggression, my ambition, my fire, what the [\h__\h] would I become? Because the savage you suppressed isn't the problem. He's the answer. And you have been indoctrinated so deeply to ignore that and told that's not the right way and that you should be soft and feminine and that it's you. You have to be this feeling box and this get out of here. That's exactly why you're failing. That's not what a man is about. No king, no leader works that way ever. Leaders are ruthless. Get personal. They buried your savage slowly. Not all at once. Every time you apologize. This is you guys. I see this on social media. This is where I get this information from. It's just watching you guys. I spend most of my time watching and listening and coming up with all of the reasons why you guys are struggling so hard. So, they buried your savage very slowly, layer by layer, not all at once. Every time you apologized for winning too loud. Every time you backed down from confrontation to keep the peace. Every time you agreed with something you didn't believe just to avoid the conflict. Every time you smiled and nodded at some kind of [\h__\h] because you were too afraid of being too much. I love being too much. Listen, they didn't need to even fight you. You laid your damn weapons down. And the worst part, you call it maturity. You guys, you guys called it maturity. You called it emotional intelligence. You called it evolving. No, [\h__\h] You called quitting progress because it made the betrayal sound noble. And you know it. So ask yourself, how much of my maturity is actually cowardice rebranded? Because if you're honest, you'll realize you didn't grow, you shrunk. And you guys are fighting to stay there. You guys will get in my DMs. You guys will get in the DMs of people that are leading and savage and strong and powerful and try and [\h__\h] talk and dissuade them from becoming even more powerful from giving you the answer. People will come out like myself. We'll give you the answer, the solution to every single problem you've got. And the first thing I tell you is raise your standards. Become the standard. And you guys go, here's another masculine guy trying to talk about how to be tough. Nah, I'm not talking about being tough. I'm talking about you raising your standards so you become the best version of you. But you're too busy defending your life at the bottom and coming up with little clever ways to go what you're telling me won't work for me. And you think you're being smart because you found a way to defend why why the solution that I gave you for financial development, personal development, relationship development, physical development won't work for you. and you provided a litany of examples. You spent seven hours on Reddit looking up a way all the ways to possibly defend it so you don't have to do the work to prove that it won't work for you and that you have to stay where you don't love your life and you call that intelligent. You're stupid. That's not winning. That's delusion. And you've been so convinced that's the right thing to do. Listen, please listen to me. Listen carefully. Whatever you're doing, stop it. Put it down. Turn it off. pulled to the side of the road. Listen to what I'm about to tell you. This will change your life. The savage isn't gone. He's waiting. He's watching. And he's disgusted with the version of you that kept him locked in a cage. You don't fix your life by getting softer. You fix it by getting stronger, sharper, heavier in your presence. Like you crucified yourself, man. You resurrect him by training your body until weakness is foreign. Speaking the truth, even if your voice shakes, competing without apology, leading without negotiation, holding frame when the world tries to buy your soul for a [\h__\h] coupon. The savage doesn't care about your anxiety. He doesn't give a damn about your trauma narrative. He cares about execution. He cares about conquest. He cares about becoming so undeniable that the world has to either follow or fear. That's how you have to look at this. What do you want your life to look like? Because soft ain't going to get you there, son. Listen, ask yourself this. If I stopped betraying the savage inside of me, what kind of empire could I build before I die? And it doesn't matter how old you are right now. I'm 52. I started at 48 from zero. You know the answer. You don't need another meditation app. You don't need another tracker for your feelings. You don't need to join another Facebook group where they all support you being fat, poor, and alone. You need a group of people that hold you accountable to the standards they have that are significantly higher than yours. So, you raise yourself. You need war. That's what you need. You need war. And if that's what you're going to do, then welcome back, [\h__\h] Let's go. This is where we fight. This is where they die.