So you guys know Brandy is a former pro athlete, right? Just soccer player and epic, just as skilled as it gets. And it's just genuine badass. I love that. She pushes me. She keeps me honest and I keep her honest when we train in life, everything. Because we won't let either one of us tap out. But we were talking and just before I walked out here, I came up with this just walking out to the studio. How what I'm going to even go over today, but balance all of you guys and your balance. You need balance. You got to balance it out, bro. You ever hear of balance? And I said to Brandy, it was great because I said, "We people that talk about balance, that want balance, that's fine. Balance that out all day. Absolutely. juggle and balance and put your phone in a box at six o'clock and have your little music time and your all the nonsense that you guys do. I'm fine with that. And you should be fine with that as long as you don't want to be exceptional. If you want balance, don't plan on being exceptional. Don't because you'll never do it. You'll never do it. So, if you're going to [\h__\h] and complain about how you aren't winning, it's because you're too worried about balance because it's a myth. Obsession beats balance. It beats moderation every day of the week. It's a It's a fairy tale. You guys talking about balance, it's a fairy tale. There's nothing about balance that makes you exceptional or great ever. It's impossible. Nobody that is ever monumentally successful has balance. Nobody. So if you want to sit there and think that you should have that balance leads to greatness, it's fine. But when I hear people go, "Bro, you got to have balance. I'm just trying to find balance." The translation I hear is, "I want results without sacrifice." That's what I hear. I want all of the results. I want all the victory, but no sacrifice. I want exceptional and greatness, but no obsession. I just want it on my time, not on the time required to achieve it. I want it all, but I'm not willing to give up a [\h__\h] thing to get it. That's what I hear. Let me be very clear about this because I had to learn this lesson. I got to where I am in less than a year and now it's been almost four in two months. It'll be four years after I came out of the hospital. Not by having balance, by being obsessed. Ridiculously obsessed. We've all had the same amount of time. Balance is for people who don't want to win. It's for average. It's for mediocre. It's for the peasants and the peeons and the poors. It's for the almost and the weak. It's for the modern soft society that wants to feel good and look good and be liked but never actually get anywhere and for sure never dominate. The men who change the world, just so we're clear, have never lived in balance. They never will ever. They live in obsession. If you want to get somewhere in your life, obsess about it. If you want to think about it and be pissed off that you never got there, go for balance. Do you honestly think Kobe gave a [\h__\h] about balance? You think Gogggins lives a moderate life? The guy ran on broken feet? You think people like, And you might not like him. I don't care. I do. But do you think people like Tate got rich by taking weekends off and prioritizing self-care Sundays? Do you think any savage anywhere ever in our history ever said, "You know what I need right now? I need some more balance." Jesus never had balance. That's what's hilarious is you guys quoting the Bible like you think you know anything. You don't. You put your hands up on your services and you take your pictures. You make sure you have a camera in church so you can be like, "Look at me." You're in your bathroom. You're driving and your hands up to God. None of that means you are following God. First of all, it means you're displaying to everybody that you want everyone else to think. Putting quotes and scripture in your posts doesn't mean you're living according to God. But do you think Jesus ever took a day off? You think he was all about balance? The guy went around every single day, every second of the day, trying to save mankind and then ended up dying for every one of you and your sins. But you guys think you need balance. No savage, no winner, no victor has ever talked about balance. They've never gone, I want more balance. That is a lie. They obsessed. They sacrificed. They bled. They focused. They had singularity of focus courtesy of Bedro Culie. And I didn't invent that. He did singularity of focus. And here's the best part. The world moved for people like that. I'm going to drink that sweaty Coke Zero that I'm holding. Listen, I'm 52. Please hear me. I'm 52 years old. I don't have nearly the time that most of you guys have. If you're 25, if you're 30, if you're under 20, you're the smartest human being on earth listening to this podcast because this is what's going to get you further. Nope. It's not going to give you some AI hack. Yeah, I might give you something. Most of that's in my mastermind that I talk about how to make a lot of money in business, but even started today and it's going to come out in about a week. Unbreakable University. I might call it money university, AI University, I'm not sure, but something where its entire focus is just to teach you how to make a lot of money in business in any business and that's it. So yeah, I have the inner circle inside my mastermind. This is going to be just business, just solving the business equation so you can make as much money in the time you have here on this planet. That's my goal. I want to do that because nobody's really doing that. They're dipping into that. I want you guys to be so [\h__\h] rich. You just got to do the work. So, if you're going to come in and you're going to you're going to join, you're going to complain because you're like, "There's a lot of work in here." Yeah, there is. How do you think I learned all this stuff? And I'm the guy that's teaching it to you guys, which means I had to do it 10 times more than you. So, I understood it. But I if you if you want to be rich, if you want to be fit, if you want to have a great marriage, you can't have balance, man. I want you guys to win so badly. But if you are 25 or 30, you are starting off at an advantage. If you work, imagine this. Sacrifice 3 to 5 years of your life. Go full dark. Just disappear from society and just crank out nothing but success and failure after failure. Just nothing. But fall on your face a thousand times, but just keep getting up. In 5 years, people are going to ask you how you have all this money and this success and how you exited your company. You know, the people that don't do they're like, "Do [\h__\h] I've been working for 5 years." No, you haven't. You've been busy for 5 years. You haven't been obsessed. That's why you're failing. Don't get mad. Don't get mad at the game because that's how the game is played. The obsessed win. The people that talk about how hard they're working fail all the time. I see it all the time. I even see people come into my program. I've been doing this for a whole year. I haven't made I haven't done anything. I haven't made anything. I haven't fixed anything. I haven't done this. I haven't done that. Yeah, but why is everybody else winning, though? I get it. If you go do something and 100% of the people are just floundering around, then you suck at your job. That's never the case. I have so many great testimonials from people video people going this is I had people come into my webinar that are actually in my group and like yesterday this guy Barry came into my webinar he's in my group he's been in my group for two two weeks maybe three and he wrote 100% on this piece of paper and I said hey Barry I didn't know he did this and he I said hey is it worth it was it worth spending the money to join my group he holds up 100% and I'm like have you learned anything at least in my group he's holy he freaked out about how much he's learned in the group and he's just getting started but he also said something really wild. He said, "It's also getting around people that know areas that I don't know, that I need to know, that are better at it than I am, and expose me to more knowledge." And I thought, you know, that's the whole point of this group. That's the whole point of the mastermind. It's to get around people that know things better than you in certain areas so you can expand, so you can become a lifelong learner and be as successful as humanly possible. But most of you guys go, I want to obsess on my video game, leveling up the character that I keep playing every day and getting nowhere. But one day, I'll be like fearless and I'll make $14 million a year on YouTube. No, you won't. because you're not obsessed. Your video game playing isn't an obsession. It's an escape. I call it like it is. It's the facts. So, if you are 20, 25, 30, 35, I don't care if you're 50, 60, you got to understand, sacrifice 3 to 5 years and every penny you have and every ounce of time you've got and every ounce of energy you've got. And in 3 to 5 years, you will be such a raging success, you won't know what to do with all your success. You won't. But people go, "It doesn't always work out like that." It always works out like that. The people it doesn't work out for are the people that weren't obsessed. They still took breaks. They still went and did stupid thing. Went to the beach, went on vacation, nothing. Go dark. Turn off your whole life. We can't do that if you have a family. Sit down and talk with your family. And then say, "This is what I want to do because I want to do this for you guys." And then do it. See, you guys keep going, "I can't." And you come up with reasons why you can't, why I can't be obsessed, but I'll be obsessed later. If you are so weak that you can't spend $4.10 a day, which is 1,500 bucks to join my mastermind for a year, you're not obsessed. You don't want to be successful. What you want to be is you you want permission. You want approval for staying where you are, and you want everyone to tell you how hard you're working even though you're not getting anywhere. But it's not your fault. It's 100% your fault. You're not obsessed. An obsessed person takes out four different credit cards and come up comes up with a way to find out find 1,500 bucks, which is peanuts. I don't care who you are, man. 1,500 bucks is a joke. It should be $15,000 and even that is cheap. It is a $25,000 mastermind. I just give people a deal because I'm being nice because I want you to win. But the other side of the equation is the people that pay $1,500 are the ones that just pepper me with nonsense questions all the time. The people that spend 50 to 100 grand to do one-on-one with me. I barely hear from these people. Sometimes I send them a message. Hey man, you good? Yeah. Just cranking. I'm doing exactly what you told me to do. Nothing. And then I hear nothing like 3 months. That's an obsessed person. You have to decide how badly you want the life you want that you keep talking about and wishing for because if you want balance never going to happen. Never. Absolutely not. I don't have time to have balance. But neither do you. It doesn't matter how old you are. So, if you want to go, I'll wait till I have a little more money, a little more time, a little more energy, lose a little more weight, a little more safety, a little more this, a little more that, you're not obsessed. You're scared. See, balance is the lie that the weak use to justify their mediocrity, their average. Oh, it sounds noble. Believe me, I hear people, they preach their God and they talk about it. Listen, God doesn't want balance. He wants you to become the best version of yourself. Do you balance? When you take your day off from being a Christian, when you take your day off from honoring God, when you take your day off from loving your spouse, when do you take those days off? Never. Why is balance selective? When does nature take a day off? Tell me. I'll wait. It doesn't. Humans do. There's not an animal on Earth that takes a day off. Balance is a lie. It sounds healthy, but the truth is it's just cowardice. It's all it is. It's this. It's your indecision. It's a weak mindset, and it's all wrapped up in this pillowy soft language. Let me because I've been obsessed. I'm still obsessed. You know what obsession is? It's clarity. That's what it is. It's absolute clarity. It's complete power for yourself. And it's being so committed to your mission that anything around you that doesn't serve it just burns to the ground. You don't even give it any time. And when people go, "That's not always possible." Then you're not obsessed. I'll say it again and again. Then you're not obsessed. You think all the NFL players aren't obsessed? NBA, MLB, I could pick any sport. Pro sport, they are obsessed. They will shoot the shot more times than you have even practiced in a year. They'll do it more in a month than you've done it in your lifetime. Why? Cuz they're obsessed. That's why they're being paid as a pro and you are whining about how you're not and they're lucky. I didn't get here in my life on balance. I got here because I was obsessed and I still am. I had so many of you [\h__\h] hating on me because I would go outside with my oxygen machine and work out and post it and you guys would be like, "Oh, it seems like it's just the drama show now." I think the problem is that you just couldn't stand it that I wouldn't quit and you were just waiting for me to tap out eventually. Oh, it's cute at first, but dude, all right, we get it. You keep showing up and doing it. I'm doing it for me. I ain't doing it for you. Don't like it? Don't watch. You don't like it because it reminds you that you're still fat, sloppy, and broke in a marriage that has sex twice a year. Don't be mad about it. Get obsessed about fixing it, solving the problem, and having a better life. I got here on obsession, on absolutely locking in on what I wanted. Like, I teach this in my webinar for free. And half of you guys that show up to my webinar go, "Oh, yeah, absolutely." I go, "Here's a deal. Instead of paying 25 grand, give me 1,500 bucks." "Oh yeah, I don't know. I'm going to go read some other things. I'm going to go do some other stuff." I'd be [\h__\h] broke. Then be happy making a h 100 grand a year and going, "That's a lot of money." No, it's not. I don't even have a car in my garage that costs that little. It's not meant to sound like a dick. I know people that have $20 million vehicles and $60 million yachts and $800 million exits. So what? You guys get so buttth hurt going, "What a waste for a car." I think it's a waste to not do that on a car. It's my life. I'm not living it for you. If you think I'm going to live my life for you, go [\h__\h] yourself. I got nothing for you. Then don't even listen to me because I'm just going to piss you off because I'm never changing for somebody else when my goal is bigger than yours. That's how you have to look at yourself, though. Your goal to be average is not a goal. Your goal to have balance is not a goal. It's an escape. I got here by locking the hell in on what I wanted. And then I pushed all the when I was broken. I would push non-stop. I would run when I couldn't. When I was suffocating, I had to come back and get on oxygen. I would do pull-ups and workouts. And I knew I was going to suffocate when I went outside. My wife and I packed boxes to send out to our first clients. We had boxes and I had two books. Doesn't matter what they are, but I had two books that I put in there. A thermal bottle, a box of bands cuz I started off training fitness because I was I people were asking me, "Dude, I need you to train me. You're savage, man. How did you get like this? You just never quit." So, everybody would ask me to train them, but then I would hand them my training program and they'd be like, "I can't do that. [\h__\h] I got one lung. How is it that I can do this and you can't?" Wait, that's right. Because it goes back to what I started talking about at the beginning. I'm obsessed and you're not. You want to get all the results without doing any of the work. But we pack all these boxes on my island, in my house, flat broke, and just mail them out to people that signed up for my program. We never rested. What's wild? Now, we have multiple companies. We do all kinds of things. And it all started because we don't have balance. My wife will stay awake with me. I won't ask. In fact, I'll be like, "Get your ass to bed. Go sleep. Let me carry the cross." And she's not a [\h__\h] chance. I want to do this with you, babe. She'll sit there and put labels on things, box things, fold things, call things, answer, and she will help me. Even if we have a team, it doesn't matter. She's I want to do this with you. You know how badass that is? And if you go, I don't have a wife like that, so do it by yourself. You're making up. If you look for, if you have any reason whatsoever that you can come up with that says you can't be obsessed, the problem isn't with the goal. It's with how badly you want it. And it's not bad enough. I'll say that again. If you can come up with any reason to deter you from where you want to be in your life, the problem isn't with where you want to be. It's with you. Cuz balance says rest. Obsession says, "Fuck that. Get up. Keep going. I don't care how tired you are. Drink another coffee. Look, Coke, coffee, like all the time. We got to love that it's Bedro's mug, huh? You want balance? Awesome. Love it for you, not for me. It would drive me crazy sitting there looking at a life going, I wish I had that, but I don't. So, let me validate why I have balance and I'm much more healthy than you are. No, you're not. You're miserable inside your own head and you know it. You go ahead and live a safe life, a small, pissy little worthless life. You be average, invisible, and completely forgotten. That's on you. I don't want to be like that. I don't want to be like that. And that's all right if you do. Stop getting offended. You know, you guys with your You don't understand, Spartan. I'm I'm just trying to balance my career and my marriage and my little side hustle and my carnivore or my keto or my sugar diet, whatever the hell that is, or my meditation and my microbiome and my gut health. probably my chakra alignment. I have to stand on a lay line every day. Listen, buddy. You don't need balance. You need a [\h__\h] identity because you're all over the board. Your identity is linked to how you feel. That's why you don't have anything. Obsessed men never juggle ever. They burn through every damn thing that doesn't move them closer to the goal. That's what I said. Just torch it. Flamethrower. Put it into the ground. They don't need balance because they're not afraid to tip the scale and break the damn arm off it. I don't care. I don't want balance. Balance is here. Obsession is here. Let's balance it out. Are you nuts? I'll snap that scale. Break it off. Justice is going to go, "What the hell?" Yeah. Here's the problem. The pursuit of balance is it's impossible because you're in a chaotic world. And honestly, it's a it's naive. Because it's in fact it's not even naive. It's emotionally and spiritually morally bankrupt. You can't do it. True meaning deep life meaning like life defining meaning and purpose. Not the meaning and purpose are you like I don't know sit here and think about my purpose. Your purpose why are you here? That is found through voluntarily suffering for a worthy goal. It's not balance because if you have balance, you can't do that. That is a conscious sacrifice, conscious investment of yourself for yourself. Obsession is what transforms the man. Balance is what preserves the boy. So you decide which one you are because if you want balance, you're a toddler. So listen, here's the question. Do you want peace or do you want to have impact and results? You can't have both. You can't. You got to protect your peace. I hear that all the time on social media. You guys are ridiculous. It's not that's not what it's about. Because if you want all the things you wish you had that you keep going into the comments and hating on because you don't have them because you're upset that somebody else does and you call them lucky. They're not lucky. They're obsessed. They work harder than you do. I work harder than you do. Don't get mad. Get off your ass and do the work. But if you want peace, that's great. But if you want impact, then you got to burn for something. You have to torch yourself. You don't tiptoe. You don't go soft. You don't stand around with your hands in the air. You don't listen, I got nothing against that. God is my boy. I am all about God. I 100% run my life according to the Bible, but I don't tiptoe around my goals cuz God put those here. You you you don't tiptoe. You don't manage. You don't optimize. What a stupid word. You burn fully, obsessively, violently for what you want because you're never going to make it if you don't. Balance is not a strategy. It is a stall tactic. It's not I'm going to work on balance. You're stalling. It's a polite excuse for not going all in. It makes you a [\h__\h] Listen, I haven't been drinking so much. When someone says, I'm just trying to balance everything right now, Spartan. You don't understand. Blah blah blah. What they mean is, let me help you. You ready? I don't know what I really want badly enough. Some things, but I don't really know what I want badly enough to just let everything catch on fire and burn to ash and only focus on one thing. I want to I want to dip into everything. That's the guy that has a wife and a couple of girlfriends on the side and 17 porn subscriptions. You can't make up your mind because you can't commit. The problem is not with balance. It's with your lack of commitment. You don't even know how to do that. Balance is what you say when you're scared, right? When you're scared to commit. There's your balance right there. True commitment doesn't leave room for any balance at all. It demands your sacrifice. It demands your investment. It demands it demands obsession. It demands commitment demands obsession because otherwise it's not commitment. Are you committed or aren't you? If you're committed, you're obsessed. It demands that you wake the hell up thinking about it, whatever it is. You bleed for it. You get hated for it and still refuse to quit on it. You're not tired. You're not. Because if you're tired and you're obsessed, you're still going to do it. You're not tired. You just don't have any focus. None. Because obsession has energy. That's where you get it from. You're just so driven about what? Think of something that all of the sudden you needed to do that kept you awake. You couldn't sleep at night because you were obsessed on it. Most of the time it's because you're obsessed on stupid things. It's like NF. I obsessively obsess on things I think about except he's not talking about a good thing. If you don't know who NF is, you should listen to him. He's savage. He's awesome. But obsession has energy. It's fuel. That's what makes you come alive if it's in the right direction. It's crippling if it's not. But balance puts you to sleep in a life that slowly decays and falls apart all around you while you manage the chaos like a [\h__\h] clerk. Like you sit there and just be like, "Let me just try and juggle all this stuff." Moderation is for cowards. And you guys get mad. You guys get mad about that. Then you don't want what you say you want. You just want to talk about what you want and make sure everybody else thinks that you want that and then feel sorry for you that you haven't achieved it. Even though if they followed you around with a camera, they'd go, "This son of a [\h__\h] isn't doing anything." They take Sundays off. They stop working at 5. They like, "What are you? You're not a Then don't talk about not having the Lambo, the money, the job, working for a different company, all the stuff you whine about. You don't build an empire with half steps. You don't get rich by being reasonable, man. You don't get fit by, this is the dumbest one, by eating just one cheat meal a week. What the [\h__\h] is a cheat meal? I don't have any cheat meals. I am ripped and jacked as hell. And if you see me train, you know why. I don't have a cheat meal. I eat the same all the time. You guys go, "What about donuts on Sunday?" I've been doing that for almost 20 years. It's not a cheat meal. I just eat donuts every Sunday. That's technically a cheat meal. No, I just like donuts. I'm just not an idiot. and I don't eat them every day. You guys, with your cheat meals, you go out and have a gallon of wine, eat two steaks, have four cheesecakes, and do all the dumb things you possibly can, and then the next day you struggle to roll your big roly poly fat ass into the gym and complain about how bad you feel. Why would you do that? I like how I feel. You guys like how I'm talking perpetually. You like how you feel in the moment when you're escaping. You guys justify every failure as balance. You want to be remembered and people that's living for other people. No, it's not. I want to be remembered for doing something great, for helping people. You want to do that? Get obsessed. Get unreasonable and get so locked in on whatever your mission is that your very existence, like just being around other like average people, makes them real uncomfortable. I tell you all the time and I've said this to other people. I want my energy to make people feel only one of two things. I got to get around this guy and I got to do all kinds of stuff with my life. I am set. Let's go. I'm lit. And the other side is I got to get the [\h__\h] away from this guy because holy [\h__\h] does he make me feel uncomfortable. Good. That's because you conduct yourself like a [\h__\h] I don't want to be around you. But that's how you win. Like Ralph Waldo Emerson, right? Who you are screams so loudly in my ears. I cannot hear a word you're saying. There's a reason he says that. Because energy doesn't lie. You cannot fool puppies or babies. And yet some of you guys spend all day trying to do that and you're lying to yourself and wondering why everybody else sees it and you don't. You're ignorant. Like people ask me all the time, don't you ever rest? Aren't you afraid of burnout of overtraining? First of all, you have to train to overtrain. No, nobody asking you that trains. Not even close to my volume. 600 to 1,000 reps every workout minimum. Don't you ever rest. Burnout. Burnout. What's that burnout? You burn out when you're fake. When you're pretending. That's when you burn out. You burn out when your goals don't mean [\h__\h] to you. My obsession is why I keep going. When you're obsessed, you don't need breaks. You don't want them. You need progress. You need results. You need pressure. You need the pain because that's what pushes you. It's what I just said about training with Brandy. It keeps me honest and I keep her honest, which means we both push. If you want to understand what I'm saying, that's what keeps your edge sharp. Why wouldn't you want that? Because here's why. Let me illustrate. So, you've got a body that hate. Just follow me. Just so I have this right. You guys have a body that you hate. A bank account that's hemorrhaging money that's got two places in it, a one and a zero, a marriage that can barely sustain itself that you're not sure what the hell is going to happen every day you walk in the door. And a soul that is as quiet as a grave. And your big solution is balance. It's balance. That ain't balance. That's neglect. That's delay. That's excuses. That's lies. That's procrastination. That is the spiritual version of putting duct tape on a sinking [\h__\h] ship and then calling it self-care. That's where you duct tape on the Titanic and wondering why it sunk. That's what you guys are doing. It is a cultural myth balance. It's this. It's a secular gospel of mediocrity. You want to really define it? That's it. It promises that you can have it all without ever giving all without ever giving all of yourself to anything. But here's the reality about that. You only become formidable, which should be your goal, by the way, when you subordinate all distractions. Everything. Subordinate all of them. You want to subordinate all distractions to be a singular structural pursuit. That's how you need to be. Obsession isn't a flaw. You guys view it. You're convinced. It's such a weird indoctrination that obsession is a flaw. It's the most noble expression of purpose. Those are the people that achieve things that everybody else looks at later on in history and goes, "Holy [\h__\h] they just changed the world." Dude, I want to grab the world and spin it so hard that everybody goes, "Fuck, what a ride. That was awesome. This guy changed everything. Why wouldn't I want to do that?" The man who obsesses is the man who acts despite whatever the cost is. Jesus gave his life. He was obsessed. Obsessed on dying for your sins, absolving you of your sins. And the only way to do that was to become a man and die for you despite the cost. Man, you guys don't understand, man. Like the man who balances this is a man who avoids paying for it at all. Like altogether just avoids paying. You're not willing to pay. Go back to your balance. I don't want you around me. You're toxic. Except the ones talking about balance are the ones that are screaming about everybody else being toxic. You know what most of you guys just choke on is that if you're not obsessed with your mission, you're just playing with it. This that's the truth. That's the truth you guys are going to gag on all day is that you're just batting around the truth. Your mission rather. You're not obsessed on. You're just batting it around. Oh, I'm toying with this idea. How many years, man? If you're playing with an idea, you're wasting your life. Don't call it time, call it life. If you had life bars and you saw them going down in your video game, God, you would go nuts. You'd obsess on making sure your character was leveled up and survived. You guys won't do that in the real life. This is your character. You hold the controller. Real greatness doesn't come from moderation at all. It's impossible. It comes from absolute unwavering sacrifice at all times. You burn the boats, right? You cut out the noise. Extricate yourself from anybody that procrastinates or lies to you. Get the [\h__\h] away from those people. Slam the door on anybody that goes soon, bro. I'm almost there, maybe. And sprint full speed into the one thing that sets you on fire that you're like, I need to do that. And part of that is going, what do you want your life to look like? Like, where have you been managing your life with balance? Where you ever wonder why you're not not getting results? Where are you managing your life with balance? That's what you should because obsession is what's actually required. So where because otherwise you're never going to get it. Most of you don't want balance. You want the permission to stay distracted. You guys say I'm just trying to get my balance. I love that expression. Every time I say it, it makes me laugh when you're really just unwilling to cut off all the things that are stealing your focus. your video games, your Netflix, your HBO, your vaping. You're sitting outside staring at the trees at the end of your day drinking a glass of wine like a damn alcoholic. Yes, that's what you are if you keep drinking wine. You are a boozer. Don't care what you think. It's the fact. Sometimes I like to have a glass of wine at the end of the day with my wife. It doesn't make me I can stop anytime I want. Then why don't you? Because I like it. Then you're addicted. Like just like you guys with you, I'm overwhelmed. You're not overwhelmed. You're undisiplined. You're addicted to some like constant stimulus, to dopamine, to these distractions and escapes all around you. Your brain is so cluttered. It's like a [\h__\h] landfill. It's filled with apps and memes and texts and podcasts and emails and every life hack and biohack. And you wonder why you feel stuck. You don't have any direction. You've never committed to anything. You're juggling crap that doesn't matter and calling it balance like it's righteous and noble. Listen, just so you know, when you're doing that, your purpose, the real one, while you're even here, is starving. And while you catch up on Tik Tok and Door Dash for your fifth dopamine hit of the day, you're dying in your life. Because when all that turns off, you're still in the same spot and complaining that you're there. You can't build an empire while being a slave to notifications on your cell phone, which is you guys, bing, I got to check. I got to see how many times you guys check your phone every day. The only reason I even check I my phone is for business. I rarely answer people. When you message me, even my friends, they're like, even my kids know, dad never answers messages. I answer one person, my wife, like this. Anybody else? 24 hours. I will get back to you within 24 hours. People go, "That's rude." Rude? Why? Because I have better things to do than listen to you complain or tell me all about your life or go, "Hey, bro, can we get on a call soon?" No, you're just going to tell me all kinds of nonsense I don't [\h__\h] care about. Is it going to advance me or advance you? If the answer is yes, let's do it. If not, I can hold off a little while. You guys have conditioned yourself to jump every time your phone goes bing. Can't be can't be a king. If you do that, you think you're being productive because your schedule's full. You're distracted. You're distracted with empty structure. Balance isn't saving you. It's sedating you. Your balance is filling your schedule with things that don't matter. It's letting you manage your distractions instead of just burning them down. Just eliminate them. You know what wins? Singular a focus. Violent clarity is the best way to describe one mission, one target, all in. Go out and play tennis. Have somebody serve two balls on opposite corners. Try and hit them both. That's what you guys are doing. That's your balance. And you're wondering why you keep losing the game. Balance is [\h__\h] Every time you guys, I'm so tired. I'm so burnt out. I'm so exhausted. I'm so defeated. None of that is true. That's a side effect of having too many tabs open in your mind and no spine to shut the [\h__\h] down. Just turn them all. Close them all till all you have is one. The one that you need to do, it's the one you keep ignoring that you opened up all the other tabs for so you didn't see that one at the beginning. You want peace? Close the tabs. Close them all. Get obsessed. get so driven like your legacy and your life and your future for you, your wife, your children, everybody, your next 10 generations depends on it because it does. I'm not this I'm not going to sit here and give you this generation breaker all the dumb [\h__\h] that people are talking about. Do it for because it's what you're meant to be here for. Do the thing you're supposed to do that can't listen you guys that go I wish I had it must be nice. I want this car. I want Not everybody wants money. Not everybody wants to be healthy like you. Not everybody is all broken psychologically, excuse me, like you are, Spartan, training all the time and driven for success. If this world went back about 500 years, anyone that thought like that would die. You would have got eaten or died cuz some guy like me would have clubbed you over the head in the tribe because you weren't doing anything. You were costing me all the meat that I went hunting for. You're out. I'm roasting your ass over the fire. But now survival of the fittest is a fact. You guys just have made so much noise that you cancel people that demand that you're fit. I don't mean just fit physically, financially, mentally, emotionally, psychologically, business, all of it. All of it. Your whole life spiritually with God. You don't do it. And instead, you cancel and you make a bunch of noise. You demand acceptance for chicks with dicks. What is wrong with you guys, man? Everything you want, you still want. You're just making a bunch of noise to justify why you don't have it and how it's not your fault. You guys in here, I'm just trying to balance my side hustle with my job and my kids' soccer schedule, my podcast, and hey, listen. I'm taking this new smoothie detox, by the way, and I do coffee enemas every day. It's killer. It's changed my life, bro. Sure, buddy. Sure, Nancy. And I'm trying to bench press a big rig with two cigars in my mouth and getting a blow from a [\h__\h] You're stupid. You're not balancing anything. You're making dumb decisions. You're avoiding commitment to the one thing that actually matters because it's easier. It's easier for you to dabble in 10, 15, 20 different things than to go all in at one. That's what it is. Look at your life. Don't take my word for it. Look at my life. Because there is a pathology of balance. Look at it like a disease. It is a pathology. It allows modern man to feel engaged in his life while actively avoiding its the demands of life. Like its most pressing demands. It allows you to avoid it. That's the pathology. Balance allows for just enough progress to justify the comfort. I did this so I deserve that. It's but it systematically sabotages the depth required for exceptional. But it's what you want. If you would stop for a second, stop arguing, stop digging your heels in just because you want to be spiteful or because you have to be right, you'd see that I'm telling you the truth. You don't become exceptional by dispersing your effort. You do it by directing it like with ruthless intent. Absolutely, Ruth. Like just eliminate everything else. And you go, that's not all. That's not possible. You've been taught to think that's not possible. It's damn right it's possible. Ask anyone that's ever succeeded at anything at an exceptional level. Not the 99%, the 1% of the 1%. True focus is exclusionary. Most people are just too polite with their potential to ever engage it seriously. That's where you struggle because if your life feels overwhelming, if it does, and maybe it does, I don't know, maybe it does. It's not because you have too much to do. It's not. It's because you haven't cut deep enough yet. Coke's getting warm. You haven't gone to war with your distractions. It always comes down to the same thing. your distractions. They're just noise. But you guys validate your distractions like they're important and they keep you safe. They keep you safe from putting in the effort, but they don't keep you safe as far as building the empire that you keep wishing you had in the dark, staring at that ceiling fan. You've just made peace with all of your distractions and you keep calling them balance. Putting your phone in a box at 6:00, you treat yourself like a toddler. Listen, as long as you keep entertaining everything, you'll never become anything. And that's what you're doing. I got to have my balance, bro. I I I set my alarm. I put my face in a cold bowl of ice and I drink seven pre-workouts and I don't do coffee anymore cuz coffee is bad for you. Here's my supplement stack. Here's my song list for every morning. Here's my meditation thoughts that I go through as I'm humming some kind of song from like hymn from church or some kind of I don't know something from Anna. I really have no idea. And it's important because I get in touch with my inner self. I come to terms with my trauma from my childhood or my divorce or my bankruptcy. And then I get started on my day. And at 6:00, no matter what I'm in the middle of, I stop it all and I go right into my safe place. That's why you're failing. Like, you need to start your motor, man. It just it even hurts to say this to talk about this because I know what this is like. But here, listen, I used to get up at 4:00 every day. And you know, on the weekends, you get so accustomed to it. Bro, didn't you just sleep in a little bit? No. I got up at 4:00 every day. I left the house by4 to 5:00 and I got to my clinic by4 to 6:00 and then I was seeing patients by 6:30. And that was every day. And I would get I would leave my office when my patients were done. I'm done when I'm done, not when the clock says I'm done. So if at 6:00 patients walked in, I'm treating those patients. I'm not going, "We're closed. Come back tomorrow." And I know people that would do that. You're a dick. Did I like it? Of course not. I've been there for 12 plus hours. I don't care. I'm there to take care of them. Who else is going to take care of their health? I take my job as a doctor really seriously because I I care just like this. This is I am your doctor for your psychology to get your brain right so you can be healthy. Fix the disease problem. Change your health. Fix your business. Change your mindset. Change your marriage. Change your finances. Change your life, your health, where you live, what you have, all of it. Now that's I'm that doctor. I'm the doctor that teaches you, that gets you to get that blueprint right so your entire life goes the way you want it to go. It's not going to be easy. And I still keep coming out here and helping because I care. It is such a catastrophe. It's a travesty to see this all the time. And it bothers me because I come out here because I want you to win. Cuz I genuinely [\h__\h] care. And you guys get all buttered and offended instead of sharing this with every single human being and go, "Dude, you might want to listen to this guy because he's going to be gritty. He's probably going to call you out for being a [\h__\h] You're going to get upset and your little feelings are going to get hurt." But what he's saying is the truth. That's the problem is you guys just don't want to hear the truth. So you there is enough noise and distraction on social media that you can go there instead. And it's like you get this social media like they just masturbate you socially like it's social media. You just like ocular masturbation. That's all you guys do. Rub one out with your eyes every day. And you Oh, I'm just I'm getting ballots, bro. I got to read these 17 memes and then listen to these songs and here's my Spotify playlist. I got part of this podcast list. I'm going to read three pages of my book. And yeah, that's why your life sucks cuz you suck at being you. No one who ever changed the world and trust me, you want to change the world because you can't change everybody, but you can change one person and you can help them. You can't sometimes really you might not be able to change the world, but you can change the world for one person and then that one person changes it for one person. You think I built my mastermind to become some multi-millionaire? I became a millionaire long before I built my mastermind. I built it because I know what works. Because I want people to win. And I'm tired of watching people seek out distraction thinking that's going to make them win. They seek out places where they're like, "I'm going to listen to this doctor who makes you wear this weird vest and take this morning routine and has a sleep cycle." How about you just build the life you want and you have somebody that stands behind you and when you want to turn around and quit, he's in your way, even if you're mad, that's the person you want. But that's why the 1% is the 1% because they're willing to sacrifice and they have singularity of focus because nobody who ever changed the world has balance. Nobody. They were obsessed. That's why I'm obsessed. How many days have I missed showing up here? Just tell me. Oh, wait. None. Back up. That's not true. One. And I was unconscious in the hospital. And when I woke up, I remember taking my phone and Brandy was sitting in the chair. I got tubes in me and all kinds of stuff. That's when I had pancreatitis, which sucks, by the way. And and I was going to do it from the hospital. I really was. And I had so many of you guys go, "Dude, are you okay? You missed the vlog yesterday." Yeah. I appreciate that. Which means I'm making an impact on somebody. But I don't just want to make an impact on somebody. I want to make an impact on everybody. The people who changed the world were obsessed with exceptional, with greatness, with mastery, with a mission. They weren't tiptoeing around between priorities, right? Murdering anything that didn't serve their purpose. Just chop off the damn head, pull out the sword, cut it off. There's your Goliath. You want to be great. Obsession is your only path. It's your only option. There's no other way. Anybody that convinces you otherwise is lying. And they're telling you that because they want you to do less so they feel more like more. Most people, they don't love you unconditionally. They love you on one condition that you never become greater than them. So stop saying it's unconditional unless you know for a fact you want to prove the point. Start stacking wins and see if it's still unconditional. Excellence and exceptional doesn't respond to moderation. Just to be very clear, it responds to fire, bullets, violence, intensity. That's how you want to dominate. The answer should be yes. It's a rhetorical question. You want to dominate? Yes. You want to try that again? You want to dominate? [\h__\h] yes. Good. Then you need to get obsessed. You need to get obsessed. You need to be so locked in on your mission that your that your name, just the very sound of your name, somebody says a Spartan and it just triggers insecurity in every man that I walk by. That's how I want to be. Just [\h__\h] I don't know, man. That guy's intense. Good. I don't do it for that reason. I want to be that focused that people think that. Why wouldn't you? Do you think billionaires sleep 8 hours and take balance breaks? My buddy Howard Payne, he's a multi-billionaire. My buddy Vic, he's AI He might be scraping a billion. None of them sleep 8 hours and take little balance breaks. They work 16our days. Andy Fcella slept in his own warehouse on shitty used couches. The guy built an empire and he still shows up. Mad respect for these people. They don't take eight hour sleep time and take balance breaks and sit there and zen out to get in tune with their like on some lay line in their office. Like you think champions, you think they count cheat days? No. No. They bleed. They bleed. They hurt. They cry. They get angry. They get furious. They get filled with rage. And they sacrifice for it. And they don't give a [\h__\h] if it makes other people uncomfortable because comfort never built anything. Let me back up and never built an empire. Comfort built fat, sloppy, couch denting, frumpy, fat moms and dads that complain because the seats on rides at the theme park aren't big enough for their giant caboose they're carrying around. Don't get offended. get obsessed and not obsessed on going, "We got to cancel this guy." You guys go for You go for the throat on Charlie Kirk all the time, but 99% of the [\h__\h] he says is right. Why are you attacking the guy when what he's doing is exposing you to the indoctrination you've gotten from all the campuses that you've been on that have poisoned your brain and made you think the dumbest things on earth? Let me let me explain what obsession looks like. It's waking up tired and doing it anyway. It's hurting and doing it anyway. It's being angry and doing it anyway. It's crying and doing it anyway. It's being sick and doing it anyway. It's losing and still showing up and making your best move. That's what I talked about. Losing. There's a worst move and a best move. And most of you make the worst move because you go, "I may as well throw in the towel." It is losing and making the best move and showing up anyway even though you're about to get your ass kicked. It's hurting and still putting in the work. You don't feel like doing it. Okay, cool. Do it anyway. That's obsession. That's the voice in your head that says, "We're doing this. Whether you like it or not, get up. I will make you. I'm driving this machine. I control this body, so get up. That's what obsession looks like. Obsession is the enemy of of every weakness you've got. That's why most people avoid it, cuz you guys like cling and just try and [\h__\h] your weaknesses into submission. Oh, I want more weakness. Just humping away on those things. What are you doing? Like moderation is this incredibly slow, painful funeral with snacks. It's just gummy bears and sour patch kids, cigarettes and booze. That's your moderation. Everything in moderation. Even success. Nobody successful says that. Only people on the bottom go. Well, even success should be moderated. Nuts. Can you win more? Yes. And why don't you? Obsession is the resurrection of everything you want. You ever see somebody that's just lasered in? Me. I promise you've never seen me not locked in. Ever. you've never seen me halfass on anything. Cuz I don't cuz I can't. I can't. I'm not even wired for that anymore. And people go, "Dude, you're I get called obsessed so many times. I get so much hate from you guys going, "This guy, he's intense. Cursing, yapping about how he's doing this, he's doing that, showing calluses on his hands, how hard he's working, look at his car, whatever." I don't care. None of that is for you. is to go, listen, I've had the same amount of time, four years that you've had. I obsessed. You didn't. In fact, back up. I obsessed on what I want. You obsessed on the distractions to keep you from what you want. Someone that's fully locked in. They don't care what day it is. They don't care what they missed on Netflix. They don't give a [\h__\h] about your balanced lifestyle or your opinion because they're too busy building something that actually matters, that actually means something. If your life doesn't require obsession, then you're playing way too damn small. Look, look, here's the thing. I think you guys treat it like it's toxic, but obsession when properly ordered, right? You got to have a hierarchy of how it works is the highest expression of meaning. It's not chaotic. It's structured passion. If you really want to distill it down, it is the most intense passion you can have. And it's got structure. It's oriented towards something transcended. That's what you want because that provides absolute peace inside. It doesn't mean it is peaceful. It gives you peace inside because you know the direction you're going 24/7 365. It doesn't matter if it's hard. You know where you're going. The man who obsesses is never lost. I never lost because the man who is violently obsessive. That's the man that's found inside the singular pursuit of what deserves his attention most. What is that thing? What is that that singular that like that thing that deserves your attention the most? That's obsession. Not that you want to give attention that deserves it. Because that man no longer scattered, that guy's streamline just like like just cuts through everything. And because of that man becomes dangerous. In a world of balance, an obsessed man is a weapon. You want to be a weapon. You want to swallow some fire? Listen to this. Obsession doesn't make you broken. It makes you legendary. I became like this because of how obsessed I am. And if people around you don't get it, that's doesn't matter. Good. Who cares? That means you're finally separating from the damn herd. They're all going to run off the cliff. Not you. Let them balance their mediocrity all day. You obsess over the masterpiece you're building. You build that because what what would your life look like if you gave yourself full permission to become ruthlessly obsessed with your highest calling? But first, you got to know what excuses that you've used to keep you from doing that. Because listen, most people I get this question a lot. You know what, Spartan? How'd you do it? I want that, too. But why is my life not I do everything you do. I know you don't. You're missing one thing. You're not obsessed, which means you take breaks. Everybody needs breaks. Wrong. You keep asking why your life isn't where you want it to be. Why you're still suck. Why you're still in that mud, why you're soft, why you're still broke, you're tired, you're still in that same damn place as last year. Look at your life. Don't go, I'm different. If you're in the same place, listen, here's why. It's not because of bad luck. And you're not copying me or anybody else at all. You're not. Because if you were, you'd be where we are. It's not your past. It sure as hell isn't your genetics. It's your psychological addiction to balance. And listening to every idiot out there that says that's what you need. You guys call it healthy and necessary. What? Boundaries. That's what you guys I was like, what is the word you guys always use? You call it boundaries. I got to say boundaries. What it really is? It's treason, man. That's an ugly word, isn't it? It's treason. It's spiritual treason. That's what it is. You're handed gifts, man. Like, you are handed these gifts from God. Time, energy, drive, fire, purpose, and you are rationing them out like your life is a [\h__\h] buffet instead of a battlefield. Dude, go to a buffet and see what you don't see warriors. People going back for sevenths or ice cream and chocolate cake. You bought into a lie that you can become something extraordinary while still living like something ordinary. You think you're going to ease your way into greatness? It's not possible. You can't. That's an internet lie. Brandy and I stayed up late last night, 12:30, 1:00 working. And if somebody goes, "Well, she probably doesn't want to do that." No, she actually is just as obsessive as I am. Do you know why? Former pro alete. She doesn't have another switch. When we did this podcast, I did it with my buddy Jud. He's a good dude, man. But he has played for the Texans. He's a former pro alete, but his brain still works the same way. And you can tell the second you speak with him. He's driven by by meaning, by purpose, by results, not busy work. And it shows. And he gets hate. And he doesn't give a [\h__\h] because he goes, I want these results. That's it. And he's I wanted to do this. Check. This check. That's how someone obsessed works. Someone who is going for balance going says, I wanted this. Almost there. I have a couple more things to do. I wanted this. Yep. I'm so close to that. I just have I want to do this thing first and then I'll come back to that. That's what you guys do. And you wonder why your life sucks. You hate it. You're building it yourself. And you know that you're the architect. You can't be lukewarm with your future. You can't balance your way to glory. You burn for it. Or you die never knowing who the hell you could have been. Then I'm going to set myself on fire every second of my day so I can just turn into whoever I'm supposed to become. And I know that is a badass [\h__\h] Like the man that you are afraid to become, he's obsessed. He doesn't make any room. There is no space in his life for excuses. He doesn't post about balance and self-care. The second you do that, you're already lost. That man wins because he's willing to give up everything to get there. He will sell everything shy of his soul. Don't sell that. That's between you and God. But you want to live like a lion, then kill the part of you that's still acting like a [\h__\h] house cat. Acting like a [\h__\h] There's the word. Your destiny doesn't care about your excuses. I think that's the issue is you had this destiny and it's you're put on this planet to fulfill that. And if you go, some of us just have a mediocre destiny. Nobody. You are designed in God's likeness. Nobody has been given a mediocre destiny. God expects greatness and exceptional from every single human being on this planet. We [\h__\h] that up, not him. Your destiny doesn't give a [\h__\h] about your excuses. It doesn't care about your stupid feelings or how tired you are or how, you know, anxious you are or how sad you are. It doesn't care. It sure as hell doesn't care about your stupid balance. You either rise or you die. You either build, create, or you just rot in a pit somewhere, a pit of your own design. You sit in a prison that you put bars on. There's no middle. There's no gray. Right, Reacher? That lady says a mouse's [\h__\h] is gray. There's no gray. But there never was. Gray is created by current society to absolve people to absolve the average and the mediocre from the work required in order to become exceptional. There's no middle of the road. It's black or white. It goes back to what I said. You cannot be pregnant. You either are or you aren't. You keep waiting for life to get easier. That's the issue. It won't. And the more you wait for it to get easier, the more you wait for somebody else to come and help you. By the way, it's just going to get harder. The way the the secret is instead of waiting for life to get easier, just get harder. You need to get harder. Stronger. The weight never gets lighter. You get stronger. All of this is required. You don't get anything. Balance isn't noble. It's not. It is not noble. It is not righteous. You know what's really terrifying to me? This is so frightening to me. Is that the version of you that could have been [\h__\h] legendary but never showed up because you were too busy journaling about alignment while watching your destiny die behind a glass of wine and some me time. That's it. That version of you that could have [\h__\h] been legendary, it just never showed up, man. because you were too busy balancing. To insist on balance in a time that demands complete devotion is to insult God. It's to insult our creator. You were made for the burden. You were made for the burden. You were made for depth. You were made for transformation. And the pursuit of purpose requires the death of neutrality. The pursuit of purpose and exceptional demands obsession because it's in that total immersion that a man finds the very edge, the very the razor's edge of who he is and then begins to transform. That's just the beginning. You can't serve two masters. You can't. And so many of you try the two masters, comfort and greatness. You cannot serve them both. And you guys try. One has to burn. You keep making the decision every time you wake up. Who's going to be on fire today? Your balance is killing your destiny. It's killing the life you want. I'm tired of hearing the word balance. You guys can argue in the comments. You can ignore this. You can get all upset. You can talk about how balance is required for those that are successful. And you can quote all the people going Elon Musk wasn't really he's healthy cuz Steve Jobs and all these athletes, they're not really healthy. And you can argue the outliers to justify feeling we're ridiculous and being average. Or you can just stop believing that balance is something that you deserve because it's killing everything that you want. This isn't for me. I don't have any balance. And anyone that goes, "I bet your family loves that. Bet your wife loves that." No, because they're just obsessed as I am. So, they do love that. Your sarcasm is a reflection of you, not me. Because unless you're willing to tilt the scale and never ever look behind you ever, you're going to die with this word potential etched on your tombstone, your skull. Like, this should be a wakeup call listening to this podcast. It should be like burn the idea of balance to the ground. Light yourself on fire for whatever you're obsessed about. Go all in. All the money, all the time, all the energy every damn day. Zero it the hell out or just get the hell out of the [\h__\h] way. like from people like me. Just get out of our way then. Stay out of our comments. Stay out of our way because I don't want to be average. You go ahead and choose that and validate it while you sit at home in the dark when everybody else is gone or gone to sleep or quiet and wish for all the things that you don't have and come up with validations as to why you don't have them. I'll help you out. The answer is you keep wanting balance and distraction. Burn that idea to the ground and you'll have the life you want. What would your ide what would your life even look like if you just took a flamethrower to the idea that you need balance and you replaced it with obsession and singular of focus complete ownership of the mission and the purpose that you want the life that you want? What would your life look like if you did that for one year straight? Start with a hundred hours, but what if you did that for a year straight? That year would turn into 10 and everybody would lose their mind because they'd go, "What the hell? Remember when that guy was way down there and now he's way up there? Must be lucky. It ain't lucky. I just don't believe in balance. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.