I drink these all the time. I do. These are so good. Caffeine's not bad for you. It's not. It's actually incredibly good for you. How about today we Let's crack your ego in half. How about that? Because the And none of this, you guys, if you coming here to get motivated, that's not it. I'm going to annihilate all your excuses. I'm going to destroy every lie and scapegoat, every delusion that says it's something outside of me. It's not. You guys think that the problems that you have are outside of you. I've been you. I've been you. Like I I was that guy that I would look around and go, I have cancer. I was mad at God. I blamed God when I was diagnosed with cancer 20 plus years ago. I blamed God. God doesn't work like that. It is never something. You guys walk around all the time and the current generation is God, you guys drive me insane because you think it's never your fault and you explain away everything all the time. It doesn't matter what's going on in your life, it is never your fault. Except you couldn't be more wrong. You know, it's always something outside of me. It never was. It never was. It's not your boss. It's not your parents. I am a parent. So is my wife. It's not your trauma. My god, you guys label everything as Trump. It's not the algorithm. It's sure as hell. The algorithm is you. It's whatever you're looking at, whatever you're talking about, whatever you're searching. It's not the economy or the weather or you know what, whatever trails are in the sky. It's you. It's you. And until you stop blaming everything except the man in the mirror, you know what? MJ had it right, man. You are going to continue to be your own biggest enemy. The only obstacle between you and every single thing that you want is you. And the issue with that is is it demands that you take accountability and responsibility for yourself. And I don't care how intelligent your rebuttal sounds. I don't care how traumatic your past was. I don't care how unfair the system is. All of those may be true. I promise you this, there are people that have had it worse and they're still winning way bigger than you. You're not behind because the world is against you or your mom is against you or your dad is or you had a bad divorce or you know you had cancer. I've gone through cancer. You're behind because you're undisiplined. You're weak. You're soft, distracted, and you're lazy. And instead of fixing that, you spend all your time and all your energy just crafting these complex, emotionally intelligent excuses to protect your little fragile ego. You guys need to understand, you want to know what the real villain is in your story? Like who it is? It's the version of you that talks big and quits fast, that dreams hard, executes soft, that wants to be seen as this powerful person on social media. You send your representative out all the time, but refuses to do powerful things. You lose to every single day in silence. In silence. You do it behind closed doors with little tiny decisions that nobody that nobody sees. Nobody. And that's why nothing changes because you don't change. You don't do anything different. You like where you are because it's comfortable, but you hate where you are because you wish you were somewhere different. So, you have this cognitive dissonance in your brain. Coco always makes me burp. Thought I'd share that with you. I don't care. This is my show. Blame is the most seductive. Oh, it's seductive. I It's sexy and seductive because it just absolves you of everything. It is the most sexy, seductive drug on earth because it lets you avoid the cost of becoming better while feeling all righteous and noble. You tell yourself that you're the victim because the alternative is unbearable. can use one person in specific that when I heard this I I almost I didn't know what to say. I had a lot of bad things happen to me this past year. So, my business hasn't I've done zero dollars. I had a parent die. I was just trying to stay alive because I'd gone through a health crisis. So what? I had a parent die. My dad died when I was at Big O Tires and my car was up on the lift getting four new tires and they had the whole car dismantled doing it. And my mom called me and said, "Dad just died." And I was standing outside and I lost my [\h__\h] And it didn't matter how much I rushed them to get my car back on. I had to wait. I stood outside in Brentwood, California, and I called Brandy. I got diagnosed with cancer alone the first time and then I met Brandy and then I went through hell and I rolled out of the hospital in a wheelchair missing a lung with no money. Let me explain something. I had burned through all my savings to keep my family alive because they are my priority. But even with money, it is absolutely ignorant to think that true wealth is that your wife and kids love you, but your bank account has a big zero in it and you have a pot billy hanging over your belt. You don't have true wealth. You let me get this straight. Because you look at your wife and kids and you wish you could give them more, but you don't. So you validate that you can't because at least they love you. They're not going to love you very long if you keep burning their life to the ground because you expect them to stay stagnant because you won't try. You won't do anything required to do the work and then you come up with all the reasons why you can't. That's what I said. and you tell yourself you're the victim because the alternative is unbearable. But that's not true. You are the architect. This is the alternative. That you are the architect of your own damn prison. That the man holding the key is also the one leading on the door keeping it shut. Like you guys, you'll say my my trauma holds me back. My boss holds me back. Cool. Your boss holds you back. Let's work on that one. I started a mastermind that's loaded with stepbystep tutorials and live interaction with me who has generated success. I don't gatekeep any secrets. I tell you how to do everything and as soon as I find something new that works, I tell you how to do that, too. I don't have weird little secret areas where only highpaying members can gain access. Just ask me every Monday. You can ask me any question you want. I don't care what it is. Whether it's business or your health, it doesn't matter. That's why I have a mastermind. And you know what? I've had seven people this week that signed up and the common thread between all of them is you're the real deal. You're the first coach, the first leader, the first mastermind that I've actually looked at and gone, "Wow, this guy's the real deal." It's because I got tired of seeing all the [\h__\h] out there. And that's not what this is about. But I'm also going to demand that you hold yourself accountable. And if you don't, I don't care. I have no sympathy or empathy for you no matter what happens in your life. Because I'm pretty sure you can think of somebody that's had it worse. And if you can't, I can't. Me. So when you say, "My boss holds me back." Cool. So, quit. Quit your job. Quit. I don't care if you got zero. I don't care if you have bills piling up. That's more incentive for you to become successful very quickly. Now, find a way to do it. Join my mastermind. Start your own business. Oh, what? You don't want to do that? Okay, cool. Then shut the [\h__\h] up. Because you you say you have no excuse. Some of us have responsibilities, bro. Yeah, I did. I lost everything, including myself. and you can follow the progress from day one all the way up until today and somebody hands you the solution like me and goes absolutely here you go join my mastermind right 1,500 bucks instead of 25 grand all you got to do is listen to my vlog and share it with a bunch of people and tell them this guy tells the truth and you get in for 93 95% off where's the cheap version can I test it out you cheap [\h__\h] you deserve to be where you are because you're not willing to commit to change it some of us don't have that money, but you have that money to get a cell phone. You have that money to make payments on your truck that you don't use for anything other than driving around showing everybody that you got a tiny dick cuz your truck is too big. You guys come up with reasons to validate. I don't care if that offends you. It's I am not from a generation that pulls punches and you should be okay with that because the truth is the best thing you can hear. You guys want it cushioned and padded and protected and delivered to you in tiny little bite-sized chunks. That's why your life sucks and you don't get your [\h__\h] together until you're 60. You guys say it's my wife. Great. So, fix it. Lead it or leave it. Divorce that son of a [\h__\h] and move on. Oh, that's hard. Okay, let me help you out. Life is hard when you suck at it. This is my favorite one. And I've heard this and I've been a doctor for so long. It's my geometics. Or it's my anxiety or it's my trauma or it's you know, it's not it's not it's just not that. It's your habits, your psychology, your unwillingness to be brutally honest with the only person who can save you. You listen, how about this? And I'm going to lay out questions for you. You should just ask these. And most of you guys go, "Here we go. Here's another question." Then don't. The quality of your life is predicated on the conversations you have with yourself, their quality, and the conversations you have with, and the questions you ask yourself. Rather, ask yourself stupid questions, get stupid answers, have a stupid life. Maybe just ask what specific result in my life am I blaming on something external. I can go back to that person. I'm not successful. I spent the last year just trying to survive. My parent died. My blah blah blah. So you're blaming all your lack of success. The result is your lack of success. You're blaming that on something external when deep down it's because of you. So what specific result is it? Ask yourself that you're blaming something else when you know damn lets you and then you get bitter. You know what you need to do? Strip away the illusion of outside limitation and expose the cold reality that you are the warden, the prisoner, and the architect of your own cage. You built it, you reinforce it, and you keep choosing to live inside it because it's easier to decorate that [\h__\h] pile prison that you live in than just burn it down. How about you just get really honest with yourself? You built the life that you hate. Nobody else did. Nobody did. Not the government, not your upbringing, not your genetics, not your mom, not your dad, not your farm, not your house, not your dog, not your sister, not your brother, not your circumstances, not the disease you went through, not the trauma. You picked the job you were in. Nobody else picked it for you. I couldn't get anything else. Upgrade your skill set. You picked the job you're in. You stayed in the relationship that you can't stand. You let your body slide. Nobody ate the Who ate the food? You wasted your nights. You blew all the money and put yourself in debt. Who spent the money? And if you go, some of us have to survive. You could have cut all kinds of expenses and lived like you did when you were in college. Nope. You had to have a $10,000 a month house and two Lamborghinis in your driveway even though you can't afford them because you're making $12,000 a month. So, you borrowed and leveraged and took a heliloc on your house so you could look rich to people that don't give a [\h__\h] about anything about your life because they don't even care about their own. But that's what you guys are busy doing here on social media. You ignored all the warning signs and now, yeah, you're blaming the walls that you're behind, that you're trapped in for being there instead of owning the fact that you laid every damn brick. Okay, so I get it. You're trapped. Cool. But trapped in what? You're trapped in a life that that you built with your own hands by refusing to do hard things day after [\h__\h] day. You didn't get fat overnight. Nobody woke up accidentally 80 pounds overweight. You didn't go broke in an instant. You didn't wake up and go, "Holy [\h__\h] where's my 100 grand? Where's my 10 grand?" It's exactly what I was saying. You didn't lose all the fire in your belly by accident when you made choices and now you're staring at the consequences like they were handed to you by God. They weren't. They weren't. They are handcrafted by you. It It's always you versus you. The psychological mechanism at play here is something that I call it's radical projection. Right? This is going to drink up Coke, but it's this I just I'm too lit. It's radical projection. You cast all your limitations onto external structures because the internal confrontation is too painful. You don't like it and it's tolerated. It's the system. It's my upbringing. It's just who I am. I don't learn like that. I tried everything. No, you haven't. These are not. And it got some of you guys. You're like, "Oh, he is so harsh. He is He's always yelling at me. I'm not yelling. It's like a drilling truck. I'm just speaking loud so everybody can learn the lesson at the same time." These are not It's not the system. It's not your genetics, your grandma. It's not your upbringing. It's nothing. And you sure as hell have not tried everything. You haven't. These none of these are explanations. They're avoidance strategies. They're tactics. These are sophisticated mental gymnastics designed to keep you and your comfort intact at the cost of your evolution. you can't even grow. You'll say this is I already know some of you guys already said it. Oh, I can't quit my job. I have things to pay. I say no. Not true. You just like the [\h__\h] paycheck. It's like you guys that say, "I can't I just can't get in shape." Okay, this is what I'll tell you. No, you just like sugar and fast food and being a fat prick more than discipline. Stop getting offended by the truth. You guys will say, "I can't find the time. Are you insane?" No, you just enjoy bullshitting yourself more than becoming who you claim to admire. You look in the mirror and if you really admire that person, really not justifying where you are, really admire that person, then you're unfasable. But that's not how most of you guys are. Don't tell me you're trapped. Knock it off. You're just wellfed, entertained, caffeinated in a prison of your own chubby comfort. Listen, how about this? Ask yourself, I love giving you these questions and maybe you guys will write them down and I can answer them. Maybe you won't. Maybe you'll just yell at the screen, give me a finger, and give me one star. That would be the dumbest thing you can do. Because if you actually listen to what I'm telling you to do on this podcast, you would change your entire life. And you probably could have done it half a year ago. Ask yourself, what part of my life have I been calling a limitation that's actually just a consequence of my own comfort and inaction? How about that? I've said to drink some coke. Why? Because I want some. You need to learn how to obliterate that. What did I say at the beginning? That sexy, seductive, eloquent, the socially accepted, beautifully architect, architecturally designed, beautifully engineered excuses that you've dressed up to protect your fragile little ego. That's what you need to do. Listen, your excuses aren't stupid. They're not even lazy. They're not. I'm sure you guys Yeah, exactly. No, they're strategically crafted lies that you've engineered to shield yourself from the one unbearable truth. You're the problem. You're the problem. And you like hiding from that. Like most of you guys have become the master of lying to yourself in a language that actually sounds intelligent. You guys will double talk and triple talk everybody around you expecting them to understand until you meet somebody with a bigger brain who is more intelligent than you that understands. They comprehend and they communicate far better than you. And they look at you and essentially go, "You're stupid because you're busy lying to yourself. You have become a master at your own lies." And this is the stuff you got to say. I don't want to rush the process. I'm waiting for the right time, bro. I'm being intentional with my growth. I'm setting boundaries. I'm focusing on healing right now. [\h__\h] You're not growing. You're hiding. You're not healing. You're escaping. And you're not setting boundaries. You sure as hell are not. You're setting [\h__\h] landmines around your excuses to keep real accountability out. You're not doing it to keep anything in or protect yourself from anything that requires growth, not to keep yourself in the trenches. So, you're doing all the work. You're setting all these landmines around you. Protect your excuses so there's no accountability. So, you heard everything that comes at you and it's tolerated. You just have to find some group on Facebook and they'll defend you. You get recruited by the losers at the bottom. You think your excuse is unique. That's the best part. You think your problems are unique, your excuses are unique. I'll bet you any money there's somebody out there that has one lung just like me. I'll bet you somebody out there that's gone through cancer, that's struggling with some addiction, that has a bad marriage, somebody that can't lose the weight, can't because they haven't tried, they haven't done the work. They It is Yes, by the way, it is calories in, calories out. I don't care what you say. I don't care what you say. Thermodynamics are thermodynamics. And it's provable. It's as immutable as gravity. There's people out there that are broke that are blaming everything. But your excuses aren't unique. I don't know what to tell you guys. Like, I've heard it all. I'm 52 years old. I have two children, almost 16-year-old son and an 18-year-old daughter. I've heard every excuse out of the sun. And I have thousands and thousands of clients in my mastermind. I've heard it all. And I solve them all the time. It's my metabolism. It's my childhood. It's my schedule. It's my genetics. It's my depression. It's my anxiety. It's my addiction. It's my problem. It's my mindset. It's my sleep pattern. It's my job. It's my travel schedule. It's my wife. It's my husband. It's my dog. It's my couch. It's my kids. It doesn't matter. And here's the truth. None of those are obstacles. Those are ornaments. Those are trophies that you wear to avoid all the war that you need to get in. You dress them up so nobody asks you to suffer anymore. Just like a [\h__\h] And by the way, I'm not calling you a [\h__\h] before you guys have an aneurysm about it. You're acting like one. The real ones, just so you know, the real men, real women, we see right through all of that [\h__\h] all of those [\h__\h] excuses. Your excuses are not random. They're not. Unpack it. Really, just unpack this for a second. They are psychologically rehearsed mechanisms designed to sustain your identity without triggering a collapse of self-image. That's the best way to look at an excuse. Because if you admitted that your failure was the result of your choices, not fate, not trauma, not an external locus of control, nothing, you'd have no one left to blame but yourself. And that realization that requires death. The death of the false self that you've clung to in exchange for the possibility of something greater. That's the only trade that transforms a man or a woman. That's it. Really? Let me guess. You're doing inner work. I love when I hear you guys throw that at me. You're doing inner work. You're holding boundaries. You're holding space. This is the best one. I've heard this from people and they'll sell you on this all day long. You're breaking generational cycles. Cool. Awesome. So, why is your life still a dumpster fire? You've turned therapy talk into a shield because you can look up big words. You use chat GBT to figure things out even though you don't even understand what they mean. You can't comprehend it and you sure as hell aren't applying it. So, you've turned this therapy talk into this shield. You've turned trauma into a trophy. It's a metal you guys wear. You've turned overthinking into a brand. You do not need another book. You need a mirror and a [\h__\h] hammer. That's what you need. Listen, ask yourself. I'm going to give you these questions because I want you to win. But ask yourself, what excuse am I repeating? What excuse am I repeating that I don't know that sounds eloquent, sophisticated, intelligent, but is really just protecting the weakest parts of me from being exposed. Why don't you try getting honest with yourself? Because the issue is this. I'm going to cut the cord on the biggest lie, the biggest myth in self-development, personal development. I hear this all the time. It's [\h__\h] I just need the right strategy. That's not it. It's not because I've read hundreds and hundreds of personal development books. Anything from Brian Tracy to Tony Robbins to anything in between, it doesn't matter. You don't need more tactics. You don't You need a spy. You need courage because every strategy in the world is worthless. But I'll tell you why. It's worthless to a man who's too afraid to actually deploy it. That's why I said if I give you a workout, I get questions from you guys all the time. Hey, listen, Spartan. What's your workout? What's your diet like? And I've posted them free. Free. You guys pay for trainers. I just give my stuff away for free. And I promise you, I'm extremely athletic. I'm very fit. And the second I give you everything that I do, you come up with all your excuses as to why you can't do it, why that won't work, why you tried that, why that only works for me. But that's not true. I'm a human being just like you. There's nothing different about me other than I'm missing parts. Most of you guys aren't. You don't need another plan. You don't need another plan, another course, another module. You don't need another PDF. You don't need you you don't need my mastermind. You don't need a vision board. You don't need another [\h__\h] app. Do I think you should join my mastermind? Yeah, because most of you guys fall off all the time. And the best thing I have ever heard from every single person in my mastermind is they go, "This is the most powerful thing I've ever joined because it keeps me accountable anytime I want to slip." And that's coming from people that make nine figures a year and people that haven't broken $50,000 in a year. They all say the same thing, which means I'm doing my job because most of you guys are too weak to demand your own accountability 24/7 365. You look for an easier goal. You need a set of balls. And if you guys just went, listen, you need balls. Men and women, you guys need bigger balls because most of you know exactly what to do. You've watched the videos. You've heard the podcast. You've read the books. You've gone to the mastermind. You've taken the notes. You've read the PDF. You've done all the things. You've seen it so many times, but you haven't moved at all. Not because you're confused, because you're a coward. You're just cowardly. Listen, you ain't stuck, son. You're scared. You want it blunt. You ain't stuck. You're not. You're terrified. You're scared of the pain. You're scared of failure. You're scared of responsibility. You're scared of accountability. You want the rewards without the worry. You want to show up at the finish line without ever going to the practice, without ever training for the marathon. You want to make all the points and win the Super Bowl without ever playing the game. You just want the You just want the trophy and the accolades. You want a life that that demands greatness while you operate from a place of hesitation. But here's the truth. You'll never out plan cowardice. You can't. Listen, just to be very clear, there's plenty of days that I wake up and I don't want to do what I do. I'm tired. I'm angry. I'm bitter. I'm afraid. I'm frustrated. I'm overwhelmed. I feel stuck. And you know what I've learned? The people that are the highest performers are the all they're always the same. We always think the same way. We're not doing enough. We're so far behind. We might never catch up. So, we work 10 times harder. What you guys are busy doing is going, "I've done enough. I'm doing way better than Tom down the street." You guys come up with validations, but you can't out plan your cowardice. You have to kill it. You have to kill it every day. Every day. Like I said, you guys think I wake up every day with my shield and my spear and I'm ready to go to war. Are you a saint? I have to demand that I do that and look at myself internally and go, "You gave your word. Get up, Spartan." Because here's why. Avoidance is, I said, it's the best word, man. It describes it so well. Avoidance is seductive because it allows you to remain innocent in the face of your own inadequacies, right? But innocence without action is just weakness disguised as humility. These are my favorite because you guys actually conduct yourself like this and think you're so righteous and noble. You tell yourself you're not ready. But readiness is a byproduct of movement. It's not a prerequisite for it. And until you confront the parts of you that recoil from comfort, exposure, and judgment, you are going to remain stuck in permanent potential. It's like I want the ball to bounce and I'm holding it up. It's got potential energy till I drop it. Is that nothing? Just sitting there. You guys in your strategy. You're strategizing. Really? How many of you guys listening to this are strategizing? Really? You've been planning most like longer than most people have been alive. How long? See, it's because it's easy. It has nothing to it. You guys in here, I'm mapping out my goals. I'm reverse engineering my vision. Bro, you can't hate on me for that. and building my content matrix for social media. Listen, I have a thought and I just spit it out now. I don't even think I know basically where I'm going all the time. I know what my social media is about. I know what my business is. I know exactly who I serve, what I serve, and the results they're going to get by hanging out with me and buying my product or service. I know exactly, which means I just make my content all around that. And you know what? My content is me. Because I just come out here and I tell the truth. So when you guys say, "I'm having all my goals. I got to reverse engineer that that vision Spartan with the content plan, the content matrix. I'm optimizing my funnel. Dude, I get you guys ask me this all the time. I'm realigning my brand values. Dude, you haven't made a dollar. You haven't made a dollar. You haven't changed your body. And you sure as hell haven't fixed your marriage. You don't need a strategy call. You need a reality call. You You need reality to come and stall you right in the chest just once. Like what? Please ask what hard decision or extremely bold action have you been postponing under the illusion that you need a better plan? Listen, the war, it isn't in your environment. It's not in your timeline. It's not in your schedule, your market, or your past. Definitely not your past. The war is in the mirror. And if you lose there, you lose everywhere. Most of you guys are wanting to look, you'll lie to your own self. You'll lie to the mirror. There's no villain. There's no villain. No villain. No curse. No outside force that's getting in your way. None. It has always been you. And the two of you just destroy that, kill it, murder it, conquer it. Everything else is going to be a distraction around you because your brain is looking for validation. You don't need to fix your calendar. You need to fix your cowardice. You don't need to set new boundaries. You guys in your boundaries, you have too many as it is. You need new standards. Raise them. You don't need more love. You need more [\h__\h] fire. Like that that man in the mirror, he's the one that's letting you off the hook, man. He's the one that says, "It's okay. It's okay. Take a break. You've had a rough week. You're overtraining." That's my favorite. You have to train first to overtrain. He's the one lets you skip. Skip leg day bas training. Skip a conversation. Skip the sales call. Hit snooze. Scroll. Soften. You know what I did? I worked really hard today. That's what you guys say. I just need some me time. Yeah, you keep telling yourself that. You know what I did? Because I was just like you. I went to war with him and then I [\h__\h] killed him. And I do it every day. I have to. You think this is a oneanddone thing? You think I don't have the same thoughts that you have? But I do. I just chop them off at the knees every time because if I didn't, that person would have killed every dream that I've ever had. You've got to confront the version of yourself who is actively working against your highest aim. You guys have goals and visions that you want your life to be like. You have an idea of how you want it to be. You've just sold it for comfort. You've sold it for an explanation. You've sold it because you got recruited by a group of people that will never hold you to higher standards, but they'll tolerate the shitty ones that you've got right now. And you think that's winning. And that listen, that version of yourself that's actively working against you, it's you got to confront that person, but not because he's evil, because he's afraid. He's afraid of the responsibility, afraid of judgment, he's afraid of becoming something extraordinary and exceptional because it terrifies you because it demands the death of who you've been. And the longer that you avoid him, the longer you you delay your destiny, you the longer you delay the life that you want, the longer you delay every single thing that you keep wishing you had that you go on social media and get the comments and get pissed off about or that triggers you or on TV, the stuff that makes you mad, that you wish you had. If listen, if a mirror makes you uncomfortable, you don't need therapy, you need a transformation. You guys will tell yourselves, "I'm doing my best." That is such a lie because the best, just to be very transparent, the best would have built the body, saved the marriage, fixed the bank account, crushed the business, and broken every generational curse that you think you have. You're not doing your best. You're doing what's comfortable and lying to yourself in a tone soft enough to sleep, too. You guys just want that voice lulling you to sleep. It is always you versus you. And until you understand that, you're going to keep looking outside of yourself going, "That's not true in my case." It's true in every single case. If the only battle that you had to win was with a man in the mirror, how would you live differently starting tomorrow? Maybe start there. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight.