Every day I come out here and a lot of people ask me the weirdest questions. Like you guys ask me the weirdest stuff. One of them is why I don't look at the camera up there. Primarily because this is weird. It just looks weird to do that. If I sat like this and I just spoke to the It's just weird. I can't do it. So I stare at the screen instead and all the doodles and crap that I have going on there. Yeah, you guys don't know what's going on in there. So, I'm going to I'm going to drink some water and then I want to give you everything I've got to lose the weight, make a bunch of money, and fix your marriage. I'm really like, this is what you're going to get out of this. Most of you just probably won't do it, which is part of the problem. Like, I'll give you a way to never be broke again, ever. I'll give you a way to never be broke again. I'll give you the way to lose the weight that you've been chasing for the last 5 years sweating and dieting with no results. And I'll give you the way to fix your relationship with your spouse, your marriage, whatever it is. You call it a life partner. You need to open a Bible. Most of you guys won't do it. You won't. You'll stroll past this. You'll look for something much more entertaining and anything that'll take you out of the discomfort you're in right now with me calling you out. Boohoo. You're hurting my feelings. You're making me upset. I feel offended. You should be nicer. You should be more tolerant. Not everyone wants to be you, Spartan. That last sentence, that's how you escape. See, you set yourself up for false victory in your own psychology that not everybody wants to be X and I'll use me for X, the variable right now because it's my podcast. But nobody is saying you should be me except you. You're associating the success that I have at whatever level it's at as my identity in order to use it as leverage against yourself. Make that make sense. You make changing your position in the world, elevating your place, right in the hierarchy of the planet a personal attack on you. But the only one who thinks like that is you. I don't want you to be me or even like me. There's only one of me. God made me. He made you. He made my wife. He made everybody as an individual. You're the only one who's talking about wanting to be more than you are right now while trying to blend in with the sheep around you. Impossible. Impossible. If everyone else fails to evolve and you are the only one who does by default, you will become an outcast. And every one of you spend your days trying to avoid being the outcast. I want to be the outcast. I want to be the competitor of one. I want to be the only one of my kind. The problem isn't with my upgrades. The problem is with how they remind you that you have it upgraded. And now being less, that's the problem right now. Being less is tolerated by humans. It's not tolerated by God. It's an insult to God to be anything other than your highest self. It's an insult to God to be anything other than the very best, most successful, most elite version of yourself because that's who he created you to become. You're choosing to do less. You're choosing to cherrypick what constitutes hard work and when you've done enough. God is always watching saying, "Why aren't you doing more? Why are you passing up every opportunity that I keep giving you? Why are you a liar?" And you take offense to that. Offended or not, it's still the truth. You can do more if you can. If you can do more, then you're supposed to do more. When people use success as a repellent, they're doing it to make winning something negative in order to give themselves a platform to argue from. I don't want to be like you. That's what you guys say, right? I don't want to be like you. I don't want to be rich. I don't want to be fit. I don't want to be committed to one woman. I don't want to be the standard everybody else strives to achieve. I don't want to be everything that I see that I wish I was. Is what you're saying. That listen, that's what you're saying. I don't want to be everything that I see, that I wish I had, that I wish I was doing, that I wish I was living. That's what you're saying when you say all that. What you're doing is you're taking something that is merely an example of doing the work in the right direction and you're making it a personal attack and giving it a the personal attack, a name, and a face so you can defend your own laziness. It's the Spartan. I would never want to be like you, brother, but that's not what this is. You couldn't be like me if you tried. Even if you wanted to be, the best you could do is become a watered down replica of me because God gave me all of the power to become the best at this, the best at being me. He gave you the power to do that for yourself. You constantly prove yourself. That's what you do. You constantly prove to yourself and build evidence daily on the contrary through your lack of action and negativity, which is why you get angry when you see success. It's not the success that makes you mad. It's the reminder that you're not there. So listen, I'm going to give you exactly how to do the three things that I told you about at the beginning, knowing full well that 90% of you guys, you're not going to do it because you'll have every other reason to go in any other direction or you'll just go back to hiding within the group you're in that's doing nothing for you. See, most of you guys, you're accepting where you are. This is the problem. You guys are accepting of where you are. It's only a few moments each week, right? Like when you can't pay the bill that and and let me explain what I mean because you are so tolerant and accepting of your life, your circumstances, everything that you whine and complain about for a very short period of the week. The rest of the time you're just tolerate. You're happy and and you are intolerant of it. You're frustrated and you can't accept it. You get motivated and ambitious when you can't pay the bill. When you look at your belly, when you see your beat up car on the front street cuz you don't even have a garage. When you realize how much time you've wasted over the last 20 years when someone calls you out for where you are and the place that you keep distracting yourself from, that's the problem. Because it's such a short period of time. That's the only time that you are motivated to change. These moments are when you get incredibly ambitious and motivated to do everything to change it. The problem is you're where you want to be. You are. Like it or not, I'm still right. Because you're always fighting against everything that will change where you are. Because if you really wanted it all, if you wanted everything in your life to change, you'd be where you wish you were and fighting against where you are. But you're not. You're doing it the opposite. If you listen, if you had a million dollar show up in your bank account today, right now, there's not a single person, myself included, who would be upset about that if it just showed up. that asks someone, anybody to go and do whatever it takes to put that same million dollars in their bank account, almost all of you wouldn't do it. Free is easy. All of you want things for free. That's disgusting. You run around social media liking posts that give you information, putting them in your saved area, and never looking at them again, let alone actually applying what they told you to do because you'd have to commit to the work to do it. Anyone can do free and even that doesn't happen. I come out here for free for all of you guys. And most of you never do a damn thing that I tell you to do that will 100% make you the money, get the girl, lose the weight, build the confidence, change your life because there's no skin in the game. As soon as your motivation fades, which is almost instantly you move to the next little dopamine hit. If you ask someone, do they want more money? They'll always say yes. But are they willing to do whatever it takes in order to facilitate that? If you ask someone, do they want a better body? For the vast population who's alarmingly overweight right now, like 90% of you guys are morbidly obese. Stop accepting it and tolerating it. It's not okay. But for the vast population who's alarmingly overweight, like I said, you'll all say yes. But are you willing? Are you willing to do whatever it takes to get there? None of you want it when it involves the work behind the results. And if you get it for free, you never do it. Which comes back to my original point. You want to be where you are. You argue to stay where you are. You wake up and go to bed happy with where you are. Because if you didn't if you didn't like where you are, listen to me, man. If you didn't like where you are right now, all you'd be doing every day is whatever it takes to change it. What you need to do is ask yourself why you're happy where you are right now. because you're not doing a damn thing about it, which means you're happy where you are. And if you really want to change it, all the talk that you come out going, I really want a different life. I need it and need to get out of this situation. I need to make all of the changes and the upgrades and evolve into a better version of myself in my life for my wife, for my kids, for myself. All of it. Then you need to ask yourself what you want to change it into because you need to know where you're going. And if you don't know where you're going, then you're happy with where you are. Everybody wants to have more money. Everybody wants to be more healthy. Everybody wants a list of material things that they want. So what? Good. You should want them all and go get them all. Everybody wants certain things for their family that they're not providing. Everybody wants so many things. But all of those things you want, you train yourself by hanging around losers and negative people. You train yourself to believe that the life that you secretly wish you had is actually a bad thing and where you are is exactly where God wants you to be. That's the biggest lie in the world that you're telling yourself. If it's anything less than the most iconic version of yourself, God isn't happy with you. You're just pissing him off because of the fact that he loves you. By the way, because of that fact, because of the fact that God loves you, he holds you to the highest of standards. If you are not maintaining that standard, you are pissing him off. So, you guys sit on your couch and you watch Netflix, living paycheck to paycheck, eating and drinking all night to escape the life you're in, getting fatter and more broke, and you're all okay with it because someone else told you that it's all right. When I was completely destitute, I was so angry and obsessed, and I still am. I want more for my life, for my wife, for my children. It's disrespectful to not demand that of yourself. And some of you guys are so delusional that triggers you. You should be doing everything possible to change your life. You complain about how expensive things are, how high taxes are, how you can't keep up with your mortgage, your car payments, your grocery bills. Got to that's still here. I posted this grocery bill right here and 90% of you guys freak the [\h__\h] out about the grocery bill. And only one guy called the Richard Bill, which is a different one than this. The only one guy said, "What? Everybody's talking about a $622 grocery bill, but not the $300,000 watch. I need to know how he did that. That's the only guy that asked the right question. But you guys complain about how expensive everything is and that you can't keep up with the expenses and how you don't have enough money and all you do is find something on the internet that says it's okay. You're doing your best and then you go to sleep content, happy. How How can you do that? How can you do that to your family and yourself? How can you look in the mirror and say you're okay with that? I went crazy when I came out of the hospital. I was so obsessed and I still am about demanding more from myself because I adore my wife. I adore my family and my children and I respect God and what he gave me. Loaded with talent and every possible attribute and gift he could possibly give me. I have that. And to do nothing with that is an insult. Like I would lay in my bed every night next to Brandy after I lost everything thinking that there are people right now, I remember thinking this, who are making more money while I'm sleeping here than I've made in my entire lifetime. And there are people who have lost more than I have, who have created the most powerful and incredible life. How how are they doing all that? And that's all I would do would be study people. I still do. You want to become incredibly wealthy? Look at in all the categories, health, wealth, and relationships. By the way, you are winning if you are rich financially, physically rich, as in like savagely strong and covered in muscle. And you are in an epic marriage. And God is the precursor to all of that stuff. But I used to sit there and go, "How how are they doing that? It made me angry. God, it made me hate where I was." Which is exactly what I needed to do. I needed to hate everything about my circumstances more than whatever I needed to do to change them. But you guys see something you wish you had, you get pissed off, drop a little hate, maybe put a heart there instead, and I go back to playing some video game on your $1500 cell phone. You are choosing the life you're in and defending it whenever confronted. Right? You are choosing that life. You are choosing the life you are in right now and defending it whenever confronted by that fact that it is your choice. I have no sympathy for you. I don't. I'm glad. Good. You deserve to be where you are. I hope it's miserable. I hope you hate it because you don't hate it enough. That's the problem. You only hate it 20% of the time. The other 80% of the time you're happy where you are. That's fine. Come mow my lawn. Come clean my house. Come build my new house. Come do all the things. And you go, "That's you're an arrogant [\h__\h] I remember when you used to be what? What? When I when I actually tolerated low self-respect from people? when I actually tolerated what pe being when people would tell me to be less than, I will never be made to feel less than ever in my life again. I don't give a [\h__\h] who you are. If you aren't where you want to be and you're not doing anything about it, I have no sympathy for you. You deserve to be where you are. You sit in that [\h__\h] pile until you demand more from yourself. I have no sympathy. None. You come home from an eight-hour day convinced that you worked so hard. And then you sit in front of a television for a few hours before you go to bed expecting your wife to have sex with you in whatever way you want because you worked so hard while you make her climb over your big belly in the house that you were struggling to pay for. She doesn't want to be there either. I don't have rest days. This is why you are going to struggle against the people that are actually winning. people like me because I that's I don't want you to be like me. I don't want you to be me. But a lot of the core values and beliefs you should have that I have. I don't have rest days. I don't kick it. I don't need to chill. I don't slow down. I don't go for beer with the boys. I don't sit on my lazy boy all day. I spend my time working to build myself, my wife, and my family because they deserve better. Because I deserve better. Because the only one who can make it better is me. I get hate messages from people all the time. You're an [\h__\h] Not everybody needs to be fit. You're an [\h__\h] Not everybody needs to be rich. You're an [\h__\h] Not everybody can do what you can do. Some of us have kids and responsibilities. I have two kids and nothing but responsibilities. I'm the [\h__\h] you need because everyone else in your circle is convincing you that you're good enough where you are. And for 90% of the time, you believe them. It's only when you're frustrated, when the lights go down and everything is quiet, when you realize, [\h__\h] I don't like anything about it. But then you go distract yourself and find something that supports where you were, and you go right back to sleeping on that same shitty pillow. My parents brought me into this world. God gave me another chance in this world because he's not done with me yet. It is an insult to my mom, to my dad, to God, to sit on my ass on the couch, drinking wine or beer all night while my life is in shambles, but accepting it because of the losers I have in my circle. You stay with your crowd. Listen, all of you guys with your crowd because they encourage you to stay where you are. You're alive. You get one shot. You get one shot at this. Imagine God is looking at you right now because he is. And what you're doing is on display for the rest of the world. Most of you guys would be embarrassed. You guys are embarrassed when something comes out on Instagram that you didn't like if you're if you didn't polish up your picture enough. If you're lazy, I got wrinkles. See, I got lots of wrinkles. Gray in my eyebrows. I dye my beard. I don't care. I'm also 52, but I don't hide it. If you're lazy, you're just insulting God. And all of your prayers, begging for rescue, they are always answered, by the way. But they're always answered with the work and the obstacles you need to solve first. You You have the power of creation inside of you. That's how you came to be. You are either a winner or a loser. Winners walk with purpose, constantly connected to the power that God gave you to create and conquer. That's what men and women do. Powerful men, powerful women. Losers lie and hide and come up with explanations about how they don't have to do anything and still deserve everything. You deserve nothing. In fact, you deserve all the pain and discomfort that you're in and even a little bit more. Besides, you're comfortable. And that comfort is eroding your life. None of what I'll tell you is comfortable. Which is why I said that most of you won't do any of this and you'll look for the next naked girl or entertaining video instead. Every minute you spend doing nothing idle is a minute that you've lost to climb out of the well that you're in. And once it's spent, once that time is gone, you cannot get it back. You have a bank account that is forever decreasing. It is your time. How much time are you going to give away to defending where you are? Until like when until you are 100% disgusted with where you're 100% happy with where you are. Listen, I could do this all day because I really I want you guys to win. You guys take this as some weird personal attack. None of this is a personal attack. It is me telling you should do more. You must do more. But you're just not because of the people you're hanging around with, because of the ideas in your head, because you've caught this mind virus that says it's okay to stay where you are. So, I said I'd tell you how to never be broke again. I'd keep my word. Most of you probably never even made it this far. If you want more money, let's start with that one because you guys are all behind you guys aren't going to do this so it won't matter. If you want more money, whether you have a business right now or you have no idea about a business right now, this is how money always works. And by the way, it's not lead genen. It's not ads. It's not some little hook for Instagram that's going to get you more customers because most of you guys wouldn't even know what to do with a customer if you had them. You just think people should pay you money for the service you're providing. But the reason people aren't buying your stuff is because you're not living what you're telling them to buy. I know somebody, she has a personal some magic group that she has that I nobody joins. She's got one person because she's not living what she's selling. That's the problem. You want to have people buy your stuff? Believe your own stuff. Live your own stuff. Don't be a fraud. You could follow me around with a camera 24/7 365 and this is exactly how I live my life. So if you want more money, I'll tell you how to do it. The question you need to ask is whether you are at your a job working 9 to5 and you have a boss or you want to do it for yourself, it doesn't matter. I've helped people in my mastermind. I have helped people like the first thing you should do is go, how do I join the unbreakable mastermind? By the way, I'll tell you this. If you want to join it, it is a $25,000 mastermind. I'll let you join for one year. One year for 1,500 bucks. That's how badly I want you to win. If you want lifetime access, $4,997. That is 50 grand normally. And people pay it. My my mastermind is filled with people that have pay that. No, they're not pissed off about it because they want to help people, too. That's who you're surrounding yourself with, winners. So, if you want one year, you want to be one of those people that dip your toe in the water and just want to test it out. $1,500, you send me a message on Instagram that says done, I will send you a payment link for $1,500. If I send you the $1,500 link and you send back a message that says, "No, no, lifetime. I will send you a link for $4,997. Don't ask me questions about it or whether you can get to know all the people in the group first or test it out for 20 bucks or can I join the community and see what it's like. Everybody here is a winner. Everybody. And we are growing by the day. We are the fastest growing mastermind on the planet right now for a reason because nobody does it like me because I genuinely care about you guys. I want you to win. So I just keep going all all in all day on you. I'll fix your marriage. I'll get rid of your cancer. I'll solve every health problem you've got. I'll make your business so successful. I will help you, but all you have to do is show up and do what I tell you to do. So, let me come back with money here. This is what you do. So, if you want all that, stop right now. Just join and we'll go through it line by line. No, it's not one-on-one, by the way. If you think it's one-on-one, that's significantly more money because the second you get access to my cell phone number, my standards for you are my standards. Same thing when you join my mastermind. The standards I have for myself are the standards that you now have. However, you get my cell phone number, I'm going to lean on you all day because that's how much I give a [\h__\h] So, the question you ask about money is what problem are you going to solve in exchange for money? If you are working for another company, I don't care what company you work for, how do you become the best at what you do? Every time your boss gives you something, every time you have a task, you go after it like a rabid dog and get it done. and your boss goes, "Holy [\h__\h] that was fast." And do it so much better than everybody else. Eventually, they promote you. Take every piece of work they give it give you and do it better than anybody else faster than anybody else. That's how you make more money within a company because they can't help but promote you and they have to pay you more to keep you because nobody's as good as you. You would stop there if you're working for somebody else. But most of you guys aren't willing to do that because you sit around the water cooler or whatever you do in your little cubicle hiding on your cell phone watching cat memes thinking that you deserve more money, but your boss isn't giving you a raise. Go do something that is raisew worthy. If you want to own your own business, what problem are you going to solve in exchange for money? You cut lawns, train clients, plant trees, deliver food, sell a product or service. It doesn't matter what you do. Pick one. One, not a bunch. Not thinking adding more things are going to increase your revenue stream. Pick one. Something that you've done where you have solved the problem yourself ideally. So now you need to ask how long did it take and what were the steps involved? And you need to be able to answer these three questions about whatever it is you're selling. What problem do I solve? Who do I solve the problem for? And how fast do they get the solution? If you can't answer like easily answer each one of these in one sentence, go back and try again. That's how well you need to know it. I know exactly what I do. Second thing you do is if you're not on social media, you're not relevant. I'll say it again. If you aren't on social media, you are not relevant. Go to your Instagram. Stop saying you are a public whatever it is, the garbage that you guys say, influencer or entrepreneur or public figure. That's it. Like all the [\h__\h] you guys come up with. Nobody is. You're not a public figure and you're not an entrepreneur. You own a treadmill. If you own a business, then you are the only person working because if you stop, so does the revenue. Think about that. How many people do you have working for you that you could leave and come back and it's still doing it? So, don't get offended. Get better. Yeah, we teach all of this in the Unbreakable Mastermind. I told you nobody does it as good as we do. So, go to your Instagram profile. You have four lines I want you to worry about. Line one, this is what I do. Tell them what you do. I do XYZ. That's it. Don't get fancy. You don't have to be cute. It's like playing football. Take the two biggest people on the team, give the fastest person on the team the ball, and put them behind the two biggest people and have them run interference all the way through. Get cute later. Line one, this is what I do. Line two, these are the wins I've had doing it. Some social proof that you're actually good at what you do. Line three, here's something free to help you get the results that I have. Give them a video. Give them a PDF. Give them an ebook. Make sure it has so much value in it. Do not have chat GBT design it. You're a [\h__\h] if you do that. If you give them garbage right out of the gate, my ebook is so good. I have clients, this is why I'm saying it. I have clients that went, "Your ebook is exactly why I joined your program because it changed my life and I knew that you were the guy that I needed to hang out with." And every one of them still loves being here. Give them something that is so good that other people are probably paying for. Do that. And you guys have probably heard some of this before and you still aren't doing it. Wow. The guy here giving it away for free is telling you how to do it and most of you guys aren't going to do it. or you'll send me questions. What do you mean? Join my mastermind. I'm not going to sit there and do a Q&A with you on social media and convince you about your like how to get rid of your limiting beliefs and how to little hacks and tips. Join my mastermind. I'm going all in on you guys. You damn well should go all in on what I have. It's that good. Line one, this is what I do. Line two, these are the wins I have doing it. Line three, here's something free for you to get the help to get you the results that you want, whatever that whatever it is. line four. Put the link there to your video, your ebook, whatever you're giving them. That's how it starts. Have them give you an email in exchange for what you give them for free. Set up a Google form. Ask them three questions on a Google form and in return, as soon as they do it, the link shows up and now you have their email and three answers. Now, just sit there and put that in a spreadsheet organized by how much they're willing to spend. Are you willing to spend five grand to get this answer? If there's no, don't talk to those people. Talk to the people that are willing to do it if that's what you're asking for it. How soon do you need it? Immediately. Great. If you give them three choices, immediately within 0 to 7 days. Between 0 and 30 days. 0 to 30. 0 to 7. Yes, it sounds the same, but it's not. People are going to always go to the end of that rainbow. Don't even bother answering those people cuz they don't want it. I don't care if you're one of those people and go, "Not everybody wants it right away." I only want to help people that want the solution right now. I'm not going to [\h__\h] wait until Tuesday till you get your paycheck. I want people that want to take action now. I don't want your money. I want your commitment. You're damn well going to pay. Don't think that's not what I'm saying because the barrier to entry is the cost involved because that weeds out everybody that wants everything for free and does nothing to change their life and sits on their couch for 10 years validating why they just can't break through where they need to be. So, three questions in your Google form. How how soon do you need it? Okay. And then three answers immediately. 0 to 7 days. 0 to 30 days. How much are you willing to spend? What's what what's the amount you're willing to spend? Zero to a,000 bucks. A,000 to 3,000 bucks. $5,000 or more. Great. You can stop there. How here? What's your email? That's the last one. Done. Now you have all this information on a Google form. And it pops up. If you don't know how to do a Google form, I'm not going to do it on this video. I could. I'm just not going to. Go on to the internet and stop looking up porn and entertainment and look up how to set up a Google form. Put that link in your Instagram where it says edit profile. Put a link there where it says links. That's your Google form. Say, "Hey, want the coolest thing on earth for free that'll make you taller, faster, more rich, get you laid more, fix your marriage, whatever it is that you're solving." Put it there. You put a Cali link there. Call me 15 minutes. It's only You only schedule 15-minute calls. Everybody has 15 minutes. Nobody has 30. That's it. Don't schedule more than 3 days out. Like this stuff. People should People pay for this. I'm just giving it away because I want you to win. Now, once you have information and people start trickling through, put a CTA at every single damn post, call to action. Hey, click my link for that doesn't work as well as you think, by the way. Get it. Become an expert on many chats. Set up automation. Hey, comment training for my free XYZ. It captures the email. You get in touch with them. You look at the account, whatever it is. Now you spend go get a timer from Target. Set it for three hours and for the next three hours every day. Do nothing but get married to your cell phone and message every single person that asked for it. Every talk send every email and talk to every single one of them. Are you struggling with this? How did you like the video or ebook or the solutions I gave you? How well did they help you? Did it help did it solve a lot of your problems? Maybe I can help further. Sell them your product or service. Set a target money number. Don't stop each day until you hit it. Repeat. I'm not going to tell you how to scale or anything. There's a bunch more to this. That's how you make more money. That's how you make money. You could do this with anything. You want to lose weight here. This is even easier. Stop thinking that you deserve it any easier than anyone else who's had to get fit. You can't lose weight, build muscle, etc. permanently unless you change the way you look at it. Because what this is the question you need to ask, and I talked about it yesterday. What would someone who looks like how I want to look do in my situation right now? That question, you can ask this by the way for money, for health, for your relationship, for everything. That is the ultimate goal question because it demands that you take actions based on who you want to become. And by taking those actions, you will become that person. So, it's self-reinforcing and it keeps you from being a lying [\h__\h] So what would someone who looks like how I want how I want to look do in my situation? What would they do? So you ask this 24/7 365 about money, weight, business, marriage, whatever. 186 fasting. If I lost you right there because you're like, "Oh, he's another fasting guy." No, I'm not. It's just the easiest and most effective and safest way to lose weight and the most consistent way to do it. You ask Brad Lee. He's a really good friend of mine. He does it, too. And he looks awesome now. He changed a lot. That guy looks jacked as [\h__\h] 186 fasting. This is how we do it. Stop eating at 8:00 p.m. Start eating again at 2 p.m. the next day. You have a 6-hour window to eat. That's it. Not 168. Not 7. Like none of it, right? None of it. 186. Stop eating at 8. Sleep through when you're hungry. And if you go, I'm going to be hungry. I just can't tolerate it. Grow a set of balls, sack up, and do it anyway. Start eating at 2 p.m. Repeat. Do that every single day. Here's I'll even give you the macros. 45% protein, 25% carbs, 30% fats. That's the easiest way to do it. Do I think you should do that forever? No. I'm a big meat eater. I would probably have a ton more protein and a lot less of everything else. But you need fats because that's the brain is the fattest organ. Myelin, like hormones, it's a whole host of things we get into. Alzheimer's, the Framingham study, all its stuff, but there's no point getting into that right now. Walk one mile. Stop worrying about your workout. The problem isn't your workout. It's what you're putting into your bar hole. Walk one. You don't even need to track your calories on this. I don't care. I promise you, you'll lose weight. So, stop sitting there putting things on a scale and counting how much dressing you put on something. Do this instead. You can bypass all your trainers. You don't need a [\h__\h] trainer. You don't need some high ticket coach to help you. You could just do this. Walk one mile every night at a 16-minute pace. It is faster than you think. Every day. Never miss. Do that every day. Don't worry about any fancy workouts, like I said, or some overpriced online trainer, high ticket coach. Start with that. Set a target weight. Do this every day until you hit it. Never miss. That's it's that easy. Want to fix your marriage? Ask yourself, first of all, do you want to fix it? Don't fix it because you think you should. Fix it because you're absolutely in love with this person and you want to keep having a great life with them. If the answer is yes, then do it. If the answer is no, then [\h__\h] divorce the person and move on. Quit being an [\h__\h] and keeping them in a life just so nobody else can have them. If you're staying for the kids or hiding from your parents or any other BS, that hurts everybody. Don't do it. So, here's how to fix your marriage. If you want to stay, you give each other full transparency without judgment, which means full access to that computer inside your head. Most of you guys are a bunch of liars. Meaning, you give each other every weapon, every tool to destroy each other. You give them all of the trust. You tell them all of your weird sex fantasies. You tell them all of your goals, all of your aspirations, all of the things you want. Tell them what you want from them. And then listen to them. Listen to them. Let them do the same thing for you. And shut the [\h__\h] up when they're telling you everything. And don't judge them or make them feel like an [\h__\h] Part of the problem is people are afraid to talk to each other in their marriage. So they don't communicate. They hide. The only reason your relationship sucks is because you're running 80% of your bandwidth on what you can't say and wish it wish you could and wish it was what you wish your marriage was, but you're hiding it from the other person. Give it all. Most of you guys keep a scorecard of who's done what, and you guys use that as a weapon in every fight. You guys hold grudges in your own marriage. What is wrong with you? If it happened yesterday, cut it the hell loose every week. Here's what else you do. Every week, ask the other person, "What is one thing I could do better?" And listen, don't take it as a personal attack. Listen, because they're giving you the answer key. What is one thing that I totally crushed? Ask them that again. Giving you the answer key. That's how you change your life. I If you take this podcast, this vlog, this is the most banger episode I've ever dropped. And I guarantee you most of you guys are going to miss it. You know what to do if you want to join my mastermind. I already told you. You want to join it for 1,500. Send the word done. It's not one-on-one. D O N E to Instagram. I will send you a payment link. If you send me a message back saying, "No, I want the lifetime access so I can come and just hang out with everybody and be as successful as [\h__\h] possible for the rest of my life." Instead of 50 grand, you'll spend $4,997. Send that to me. I'll send you that payment. But don't sit there and have a conversation with me because I'm not going to have one back. We are the fastest growing mastermind in the world right now for a reason because nobody does it like I do. Everything that you are struggling with right now and it's not changing because you're not doing anything. You are choosing. I got to go. I'll see you later.