Man, I'll tell you right now, I don't know if this mic is picking it up, but there is, you can see I'm all wet because this we have this huge studio that we built on our farm podcast studio, right? One day I'll just take you a quick tour of this place. It's pretty badass. And my wife and I put this all together. But you can hear 60 70 mph wind outside. There's this crazy tornado watch. But I'm still here cuz I don't miss. But you can hear it. Like you can hear the hail, you can hear the wind. So I don't know if you can hear it or not, but if you can, that's what you're listening to. Listen, today I just I really wanted to touch on this because I'm seeing a lot of posts from people that talk about how money is not important. And it's you guys are insane, man. Money is freedom. I've been broke. I've lived in my car. I've been with people that had no money. I've had no money. They have condoned having no money. It's the most ridiculous thing on earth to think that not having money is somehow noble. That it's righteous and noble to be broke or poor. Who thinks that? Poor people. Broke people. Stupid people. Honestly, you just follow me here because it really bugs me because the only people saying that are people with no money and they go, "I'm so wealthy though because I have my family." You're not wealthy if your parent or your family as is suffering because you can't give them the freedom that you're supposed to give them as the man. Being broke is not noble. It's not spiritual. It's not humble. It's not righteous. And it sure as hell is not living within your means. You are supposed to have the life that you want and it's on the other side of all the work that you have to do to get there. So by saying you don't want to be fit, wealthy financially, be in an incredible marriage, people that you love, great mindset, connected to God, you are saying you aren't willing to do the work to get to where you know you want to be. So instead, you validate and justify why it's okay to be where you are and stay where you are. and you get mad at everybody that holds the truth mirror up to you because it makes you realize you're a liar. None of that is noble. Being broke and poor is not noble. You know who says that? I said poor people. Broke people. Don't get offended. I've been broke. Like I lived in a legend. The car the driver side window didn't go all the way up. Like I've had nothing. When I met my wife, she had to pay all my bills. cuz I had nothing. And I was going through I they had given me less than nine months to live. I ended up going through chemotherapy. While my wife was building a baby, you guys, it pisses me off because you think you're so righteous by going, I really I realized I didn't need that much money. It is not about what you need. It's about you what you want and the work required to get there. And you guys offset that by going, God doesn't want you to be rich. [\h__\h] He doesn't. You are a coward. If you think being broke or living below your means is noble and righteous, it's a choice. It's a consequence to be broke. Honestly, it's a [\h__\h] insult to the gift, all of the gifts that God has given you. You think being broke is just your truth? That's what you guys think. No, it's the slow, quiet betrayal to be honest of everybody around you who depends on you. Your children depend on you and you're like, "Well, I my children don't need to have every toy that they want. Why not if they understand the value behind it?" I go around our house, all our cars, all our exotics, all the stuff we have, even the watches, the jewelry, all the things. Even when we get on a plane, it doesn't matter. I go around everything and I explain what it costs and what was required to get the money to do it. So my kids understand so they don't just think it's this endless machine of money. They understand the value of money and that sacrificing time for money is not the way to do it. Trading time for money is not to do is not the way to do it. Right? Trading time not sacrificing trading time for money is not how you do it. You guys hear that thunder? It's trading value for money. So I'm always helping them level up their value. Money equals freedom. And I promise you, I'm going to burn that lie right out of your soul. The fact that you think it's okay to live without either freedom or money, because that's ridiculous. Let me be very clear. It's not about Lambos and Gucci's Richard Mills and Rolex and 20,000 ft homes and private jets. And that's not what this is. And that's the problem is you superficial people talk about how everybody else is superficial because they have nice things. I can't believe like I still got this grocery bill here. The number of you clowns that got all pissed off because my bro grocery bill was like 630 bucks for a week. And you went, "Bro, what a waste. Talk about wasting money." And I'm like, "No, I can afford to do that and eat what I damn well want and I can allow my family to do because I gave them the freedom by doing the work required to give them the financial backbone to be able to do that." You're mad because you can't and you have to spend 40 bucks a week on groceries. Eagle, that's all I need. You're justifying having less. The argument you need to be having is with the person in the mirror, not me. Not me. My life has nothing to do with your life. And you need to understand that because there are people that make more in a day in an hour than I earn in a year. Money is not about the material things. It's about options. It's about firepower. It's about [\h__\h] freedom. The freedom, listen, the freedom to move your family to a safe neighborhood if the neighborhood you're in isn't safe all of the sudden or if it just never was. The freedom to say, you know what, the hell with this job? walk away from disrespect your boss, your employer, whatever it is, and go start your own thing or just have the money that you don't have to ever be there again. The freedom to fly private or even first class so your time isn't wasted by airlines and airports and their Walmart style schedule like the freedom to get real health care, real doctors that give a [\h__\h] about you because honestly the more you pay the better usually you get to put your parents Yeah. Think about my dad. and he died at 67. I didn't have the money back then. And my parents don't have any money. My parents are nothing. They were just never good with money. But had my dad had more money, there would have been more freedom to make better choices and maybe we'd still be here. But to have the the finances to give your parents better healthcare, better life, better house, put them in a nicer neighborhood, not sitting in this waiting room with people coughing up their lungs and getting nasty and surrounding them with people that really don't give a [\h__\h] and they just call them at five. The freedom to send your kids to a school that doesn't indoctrinate them with weakness, delusion, and gender fluidity, right? The freedom to retire your parents if you want to, so you don't have to work at Walmart as a greeter when they're 80. the freedom to build a legacy for yourself so you can break that generation. Like that people talk about that all the time, but why would you not want to do that? Why would you want to be a generation of people that make $35,000 a year looking at everything else justifying why you hate it when you really wish you had it? Because what you want is the freedom. The freedom to fund your dreams, rescue lives, build churches, support missions, create jobs, fight back, give people. Do a lot of good with it. Do a lot of good with it. That's what I tell everybody. make so much money and just do a ton of good with it. Listen, I and I've said it before, my mastermind, it's a $25,000 a year mastermind. I you come off this vlog and it's 1,500 bucks a year. Most of you guys are so ignorant you're like, I'm going to go do it myself, but yet I'm the guy sitting here in a half a million dollar studio wearing a $300,000 watch telling you how to. It's not about the watch of the studio before you guys go, here we go. That's not what it's about. I came from nothing three and a half years ago. But we've had the same amount of time and I come out here and I give this stuff away for free because I want you to be successful and you're too busy looking to find validation and support on why you don't have to be or why you can't. And you think that's a victory. You think it's a victory when you find an example that says this is why I have to keep failing and I can't do the work. You think that's a win. That's exactly why you are where you are, because you're too busy looking for Reddit posts that support why it's okay for you to be a loser. Being rich is about responsibility. And being poor is about pretending you're powerless and that it's somebody else's fault. It's not somebody else's fault. Ask yourself, if my family needed $250,000 tomorrow, would I have to beg, borrow, or disappear? Would I have to do any of that? Because the answer that you have to that's your real net worth. If you How about this? I'll ask you another question. Is there a problem that you have in your life that you could write a check for and it would go away? Can you write that check? Most of you can't. And then you come quickly with all your validations about why it's not just about the check. It's about the experience. It's about going through the work. No, it's not. If you can write a check to make a problem go away, write the damn check. And you guys think staying broke is no big deal because you listen to social media. Wrong. Wrong. Staying ro staying broke is disrespect. And this really bugs me because I've been broke. It's disrespect to yourself because it says I'm not worth building. It's disrespect to your family because you're forcing your family to absorb the consequences of your laziness. It's disrespected God who gave you a brain, a body, a soul, and the free will to move mountains. And you choose to play small because money isn't everything. It never was. You're making it everything so you can say, "I'm not going to do it." Let me ask you this. What kind of man? What kind of man says money doesn't matter while watching his wife stress over bills, his kids wear secondhand clothes, and his dreams rot on a shelf? What kind of man says that? A broke one. A a man with no self-respect, no credibility with himself, no self-worth, a coward. And not just really a broke man. Not just broke financially, broke mentally, broke spiritually, broke in his [\h__\h] backbone. He's got no spine. You weren't born to scrape by. You were born to just expand and multiply. And if you don't, that's on you. That's on you. Like you guys come into feeds and I see you do it to people that have a ton of money and you're like, why you always got to flex? Cool. All right. So if somebody flexes a nice car, nice house, nice watch, nice private flight, whatever their wife, their husband, whoever it is that nice jewelry, whatever it is, fit body, and you guys get mad, but yet you'll sit your big ass down dead the couch and watch the Super Bowl to see them play for a trophy and you'll cheer. So they're showing you their victory. When someone shows you their victory on social media and their trophies and what's possible and what they've accomplished, you get mad. It's because you are in the same category as all those people and you've just turned down the work. That's why you treat the people on television, football players, for example. You put them on a pedestal. I can't do that. I can't do what Pete Manny does. I can't do what Tom Brady does. Sure you could. If you spend all your time doing you eat, sleep, and breathe football and you've done it since you were 3 years old, you don't have the commitment that they have. Same reason why you don't drive a Lamborghini or a Gwagon or have a nice big beautiful house or whatever the hell it is. It doesn't matter what it is. It it the freedom you might just maybe a giant portfolio, maybe a big giant farm, I don't know, whatever it is your dreams are. But the barrier to your dreams, it's not the money. It's the mindset about the work required to get the money. Because when you go, not everybody wants to be rich. Then you don't understand what money is. Money isn't excess. It's sovereignty. The more you have, the less you are owned. Did you get that? Or are you just stupid? Like it bugs me. Like you don't want to be rich because you've never been powerful. You're not noble. You're numb. I'll say it again. You're stupid. And you get mad. Oh, you're calling me stupid. I don't want to listen to this. Where's the next podcast that makes me feel good about my feelings? It's like you guys that go, I don't get my value from material things. Oh, man. I've heard that one a lot. Nobody said value comes from money. Do you understand that? Nobody said value comes from money, but money is a reflection of value. If you are valuable, you'll find a way to produce, serve, build, and get paid. If you avoid money, you avoid accountability for how little you've done with your life. That's the way this works. There's one Insta coach Insta guru out there. He's I'm wealthy because my kids love me. I get to spend my time with my wife and kids. First of all, my wife and kids adore me. It's been 20 years and I adore my wife and I love spoiling the [\h__\h] out of my wife and kids because they understand the value behind the money. They understand the value and the work required to get it. And it's my duty to make good on every single promise I made Brandy when I stood in front of that priest. That's a man's job. By the way, if you're not doing that, you're failing in your marriage. I'll tell you that right now. Look back at all the promises you made to your wife. If you are bailing or failing on any of those, you're a coward. I hope she leaves your ass because when you sit there and you go, it bugs me. My job, my duty, my obligation is to give her everything she wants. Everything. And if you go, what if she wants a husband that's just always there? I am always here. I'm in my studio about a 100 yards from our house with my wife in it where I will be in about 20 minutes. and I run this company and all the others that we own with Brandy. She's my right hand. So when you go, I'm wealthy because my kids love me, you know, your kids can love you and you have a ton of money, too, right? As long as you're ethical and you've got integrity and you're not a prick. Patrick Bet David is one of my favorite people. He's got great kids. He's a great man. His family loves him. He loves his family. He's very wealthy. I'll poke holes of your argument all day long because if you say, "I'm wealthy because I have my family and my kids love me." Cool. Do they like watching you struggle? Do they love that you can't give them more? Do they love watching you you just drown while lying to them about how hard you've tried? Do you sell them you sell them lies? Don't use your family to validate your excuses. Lead them or they'll learn how to lose from you. You are teaching your family, your kids to be losers if you aren't just always on the gas. I love my favorite is when people try and quote the Bible. My dad was a preacher. I know the Bible better than you. I guarantee I don't care who you are. Money is the root of all evil. That's my favorite because that's a misquote. And that's what all of you guys say. Money is the root of all evil. You know that, Spartan. That's a misquote. The love of money above all else is the root of all evil. Money is a tool. It's a hammer. Like it's just a it's a sick. It builds churches or it crushes skulls depending on who holds it. So don't blame money for the fact that evil men learned how to use it and you didn't. You just didn't take the time to learn about it. Money is just a tool. And I was looking for my wallet here. I don't have it. The paper in there is not worth anything. The value you had to give in order to get it is where the that's what's worth something. If you go, I don't want to be rich. [\h__\h] You just don't want the responsibility that comes with power. Because being rich, here's why. Being rich means no more blaming. No more playing small. No more hiding behind struggle. It's easier to say, "I don't want to be rich." Just so you know, than it is to admit you're scared you're not enough to become it. That's what it is. You really faked some of you guys. And and I'm here because I care. If you don't get it, then I give a [\h__\h] You're never going to understand your own value because you're going to constantly seek validation and excuses as to why you have none. Because it you think the cost of getting rich is too high. All right, how about we talk about the cost of staying broke? You're missing memories with your kids because you're working overtime at a job that you can't stand. You just hate it. You're watching your woman carry emotional stress because you can't carry the financial weight. You're a [\h__\h] You're settling for poor health care, poor food, poor living conditions, and you're dying slower instead of healing faster. You're begging for loans from banks, and you're online searching for ways to get money. You can't fund your business. You have to borrow it cuz you're a [\h__\h] accepting. You accept disrespect because you need the paycheck. That's what you do at your job. I'm going to accept it because I need the money. You walk into stores with your head down and you look at the menu and you see how much things cost before you tell your wife what she can order. You you wind up saying no to opportunities because you don't have the [\h__\h] resources. That goes back to that $250,000 question. If there was a problem and you had to write the check for $250, would you beg, borrow, or disappear? Because if you can't write the check, you don't have freedom. That's not life. That's not life. That's financial slavery. And if you stay there, that's on you. That's on you. You are choosing to stay there. Nobody is forcing you. This is the United States of America, the greatest [\h__\h] country in the world, where you can do anything and become anything by doing the work. You guys are too entitled. And you want somebody to hand you a finished product and and the profit from that product. You don't even want to do the work once it's handed to you because you'll never learn how. You have you have emotional maturity or financial maturity to be wealthy. And that's the problem. I said this one time. I said, "If I handed you my level of fitness and my body and my health, most of you guys would [\h__\h] it up. You'd be out screwing all kinds of people, chasing [\h__\h] and hoes, doing all kinds of nonsense. You'd be eating anything you can because you have the body already and you decimate yourself. If you made the same amount of money that Brandy and I make, you guys would blow it all. That's why. and you prove it because you don't have the financial maturity and the emotional maturity to manage the life that I have because you haven't done the work required to get here. You haven't become the person. You've just gotten the results. That's why people 2.3 years later after winning the lottery, most people have lost every penny. My brain goes, "How do you lose $500 million?" I would take that $500 million and do so much good with it. If I won that in the lottery, holy [\h__\h] I would do so much good with it. And I would help so much people and I would create generational wealth in ways that you can't even imagine. That's your job. But you guys like, I'm going to go buy every plane and boat and car and I saw this one dude, this dude on on Amazing Race. He was in Italy. This black dude. What an idiot. This guy goes him and his wife, I'm seeing some stores. I'm looking at I'm going to come back here with my million bucks. Do you think they won? They did not win. They did not deserve to win. Do you know why? Because all he was thinking about was the dumb [\h__\h] he could buy instead of the lives the life him and his wife that he could change and the legacy he could create and the long-term freedom he could do with that million dollars and turn it into $100 million a billion. Nope. Instant gratification. That's why you don't like money. Tell you leave you with a final bomb. Getting rich, it's not about greed. It's about capacity. If you're a good man, then why wouldn't you want more power to help more people? The money is going to somebody. If not you, then some some soft, selfish coward is going to use it to poison the world that you live in with your kids and your wife. But if it's you, if you're as good as you say you are, then you'll change lives. You'll lead from the front. You'll show your kids what's possible. You reward the savage inside you that's been screaming for war. That's what you do. If you are who you say you are. If you are so altruistic and so noble and so righteous, then all that money would cause you to do great things. Most of you are liars. It goes back to you haven't earned the emotional maturity or the financial maturity to have the money. See, I tell people all the time come become wealthy, become rich, not for the money, for who you have to become as a person in order to get that. Because the goal, that target that you want to hit, the money, the car, the house, the business, the certain amount per month, whatever it is, that's just a paper target of the wall. The real goal is all the work you had to do to get there at who you had to become on your way because that is permanent because you can keep doing that over and over again, getting that same, you can still hit that target on the wall every time. So, if you think that target on the wall, I got to hit that million dollar mark is the goal. No, it's who you became on your way to that because that son of a [\h__\h] can make it over and over again. It's the same reason why I said you want to know why I say working out training just gritty gutted out training. You leave nothing but lung tissue on the floor. That kind of training every day, not days off, not overt training, not your lies that you tell yourself about why you can't today cuz you're too tired or you have a hangail. training every day. Why it will solve every single problem you have is because whether it's being fit and jocked and athletic and strong that will solve a bunch of problems or the person that had to do all the work to get to there to lose all the weight to build all the muscle to get the discipline all the things required to become that person that son of a [\h__\h] will solve every problem problem. But either way trading solves every problem. Here I'll leave you with this. just I'm just annoying. If I keep staying small financially, and don't say small is relative, you know damn what I'm talking about. If I keep staying small financially, how many people will suffer because I refuse to level a [\h__\h] up. Don't validate it. Answer it and then go build a damn empire that you want. Stop selling yourself short. Answer it and then go build a [\h__\h] empire. Never miss.