I don't know who was on my coach call today, but if you're listening to this and you were on my coach call, I appreciated the feedback that you gave me because I I had people tell me it was the best one I'd done yet. And that's one of the coolest responses that I can ever get. So, thank you for that. If you guys aren't part of the Unbreakable Mastermind, you guys are missing out. Really, nobody coaches like me. Nobody has a mastermind like me. But there's a reason because nobody cares as much as I do. That's why I keep showing up out here. I started thinking about today what what actually I'm seeing this Rubik's cube out of the corner of my eye. And how many you guys think I can do this thing? And how many you guys think I can do this thing with my eyes closed? I might post a video about it later proving whether I can or I can't. We'll see. I've been doing that thing since there was something called cube lube. If you're over probably 45, you know what that is. And the solution came in a book. And I learned how to do this. I don't know, fourth grade. I'm 52. Do the math. It's how long that thing's been around. But I don't know. Let's find out if I can still do it. But that's not what this is about. I just want you guys to I started thinking about where people are stuck and why they can't change. And I see it a lot more often now than I've seen any time in my life. And I think the biggest struggle for people is they start settling where they are because they think it's never going to get any better. But that's not the truth. They're choosing to stay there because they they feel powerless because they are making a decision every day on whether something is a non-negotiable or just something they should do. And it you could non-negotiable is a very popular buzzword. Oh, I create my non-negotiables every day and I have my list and all this stuff. Great. But unless they really are non-negotiables, it's just a list of things that you're thinking about doing, but you're already going into them thinking that you're probably not going to do them. But if you do them, it's a good thing. It's not critical, though. It's not life or death. Unless you treat something as a matter of life and death, it's not a must. Like coming out here every day, this is a great example. This vlog, this is vlog 101. I've made 101 episodes since the beginning of the year, since January 1st, 2025. And only time I missed, I was in the hospital unconscious with pancreatitis. And for all of you guys that sent me messages, it was probably about a month and a half ago or two months ago by now, I think. For all of you guys that sent me messages that day, cuz you were like, "Holy [\h__\h] where are you?" First of all, I love that you believe in my consistency. Thank you very much. That matters to me. And two, thanks for your concern because that means something to me. That means I'm giving you value. But there are times in your life, I really want you to think about this. Like when I first started this vlog, honestly, it was a pain in the ass. But I started learning a lot of things about myself and it evolved into a podcast where now I'm coming out here and I'm not showing just like me walking around in my truck or driving around in my side by side or shooting guns or training my dog or anything like that. I'm I'm coming out here and I'm giving you I'm ringing every ounce of knowledge I've got out of my brain as fast as I can to give you all the data and tactics and tools and strategies to change and upgrade your life as fast as possible. So you don't have to go through all the things that I had to go through, which is why I firmly believe that I've had to suffer and struggle as much as I have so I could. So God went, you have all the lessons now. Go help everybody. Go save as many people as possible. That's really why I believe I'm here. And and I think it's important for you guys to understand that. But until something becomes so absolute like you have the resolve to make it a must, it's going to constantly be a struggle. It's going to be a thorn. And you're going to always go back to whatever that was. I talked about this yesterday because it's when you make a change in your life and I've got some good examples. But when people stop drinking, they stop smoking, they leave a relationship, they build a business, they get out of poverty where they've been for 20, 30 years and all of a sudden they're multi-millionaires, it's not because they're lucky. It's because they changed something fundamentally in their head and they made it a must. Not a should, not a could, but a must, a non-negotiable. There is no other option because it when you do that it becomes who you are not what you do which means nothing is ever going to get you to veer off course. I think the reason things are so difficult to change for so many people is it's because they're focused on what they should do and they never make them into something that they must do. They never make it into something that is a genuine non-negotiable. Like I I've had the same almost four years as of a lot as every single person listening to this. Yet my life is radically different and has come infinitely further than most of yours. And I'm not saying it to impress you. It's to impress upon you that you guys have the same amount of time. And I most likely began at a much lower place. Why things are difficult to change? because they're shoulds. They're optional. You should lose the weight. They should save the money. They should spend the money. They should have that difficult conversation. They should work out. They should end something. They should begin something. They should pay the bill, which is what it always comes back to, by the way. The bill. And if you know me at all, the bill is the time, the money, or the energy, or sometimes all three that must be paid in order to get what's on the other side of that. It's solving your life equation. In order to solve your life equation, you must pay the bill. Your life equation again is whatever your vision is for the moment or for your life and all of the struggles, adversities, and problems and catastrophes that you have to overcome. They aren't you should overcome that you must overcome in order to get here. The bill is all of the time, money, and energy that has to be paid in order to overcome all of this to get here. But everybody wants a guarantee. And I think that's what stops a lot of people. I want a guarantee. What kind of guarantee do I have? But a guarantee about your results based on your actions given to you from someone else doesn't even make sense. How can it? That's why a lot of you guys don't even do anything. How can someone else guarantee that you're going to do what's required in order to get the results that you want? Listen, this is a real irritating spot for me as personal trainers because when a trainer, a personal trainer gives you a workout and they give you the nutrition, they give you the schedule, they give you the supplements, they go through everything from A to Z, from beginning to end, and then you go to the gym and you do half the workout, you show up half the time, you never take the supplements, you don't change your diet, and 6 months later, you're in worse shape and you fire your trainer and demand a refund. You told me this would happen and it didn't. That's the kind of things you guys say. I want my money back. You're a liar. You're a terrible trainer. Then you go on social media and you talk about how bad they are and yet they had nothing to do with your lack of outcome. You failed. You failed to follow the blueprint given to you in all of its capacity and you got none of the results. The only person you should be pissed off and angry at is you. But you want someone to blame that doesn't look like you in the mirror. See, what people do though is they try and find ways to escape the discomfort of making the changes in their character, their beliefs, and their standards. You're expecting the impossible. Yet, that trainer is doing it, that coach is doing it, that driver is doing it, that teacher's doing it. You have all this time. That's why I've heard that a lot. People, you have all this time to work out. Of course, it's like that. But I've got less time than you. I open my eyes and I work until I am exhausted at the end of the day. and I sleep 4 hours a night. For all of you guys about to tell me that's not healthy, I've been this way for as long as I can remember. And you have never seen me lacking energy. I promise you have all this time. That's why you're like this. But that person usually has less time than you that's giving you the instructions. What it comes down to is the same thing. And they're thinking it. I'm not you. But what they're really saying is, I'm not willing to do what you're asking of me. Yet, in order to get what you want, which in this case, let's say we're talking about losing the weight, you need to do what they are instructing you to do. Eat less food than you burn. Move more than you are right now. The weight will decrease. Listen, I've been a doctor for 25 years, and I've seen more manufactured conditions and labels in the past 10 than I saw in the previous 42 combined. The condition is the same thing. It's that everything is a should and not a must. That's why you fail. That's why things don't change for you in your life because they're shoulds. It's tolerated by you, by other people, even your circle. You're hanging around these people that don't demand higher standards. And then when somebody says, "Here's how you get into the circle. Here's how you get into a better room. This is the bill you have to pay. Time, money, energy, whatever it is, or all three." You go, "Well, I'm not going to do that." Then you have to be comfortable with being in the place that you can't stand. And then you go about explaining it away to everybody else why you can't evolve and level up. But the problem is you're just not willing to raise your standards and pay the bill. Listen, you know what you should do. If you want to make more money, you know what you should do. The more hands you shake, the more money you make. It is really that simple. Get in front of more people. Talk to more people. Keep offering whatever your solution is. Get better at showing your brand. Get better at solving that one problem in exchange for money. If you want to lose the weight, you know what you should do. Stop eating pizzas at midnight and bowls of Froot Loops all day while you scroll Tik Tok. Actually pay attention to how much you eat. Get a scale and weigh all your food. Walk a mile every day at a 16-minute pace. You don't even need to work out. If you do that, cut your calories by 500 calories a day once, not every day, just 500 calories less than you're eating right now. As long as it's below whatever you are require what your body requires to function, you will lose weight. There's no fancy condition that says it's different for all people. What about menopause? What about Hashimoto's? What about Graves? What about It doesn't matter. Calories in, calories out. I am tired of people challenging the laws of thermodynamics, thinking they're right. I'm right. You're wrong. It's that simple. Get consistent no matter what else is going in your going on in your life. That's what it comes down to. You're inconsistent. Because when things are a should and not a must, when it's negotiable, even though you say it's non-negotiable, your brain goes to work looking for anything it can to get in the way to prevent you from doing whatever that thing is because whatever that is is going to make you incredibly uncomfortable. And your little lizard brain goes to war against that 24/7. You're fighting your DNA. It wants to protect you. You need to change the language that you have with yourself in all the things that you're doing when it comes to paying the bill. Because I'll bet right now, remember what I said about the bill, right? But I'll bet right now, every area of your life that you're struggling, you're also treating every solution as a suggestion as opposed to a command. I know I should do that. It's probably a good idea, but I don't want to max out my credit card, even though it's what I should do to get the results that I want. What if I need a new television? What if I need a new computer? What if I need a new phone? What if I need new rims for my car? What if I need whatever? What if you need? There's your problem. There's your problem. Until you need something, it is just a suggestion. What if you need oxygen? You will fight to get it. What if you need food? You will fight to get it. When you have your health, let me explain this because it's very important. You have these deficiency needs. When you have your health, you don't even think about it. When you are healthy, you never even think about your health. When you're so sick that you can't function, I've been there. Not a bad flu or a cold dying. All you think about is getting better. That is all you obsess about. Trust me. When you lose the guy or the girl and you and you thought you would be together forever, you think about nothing but fixing that relationship at the expense of everything else in your life. When you're on your last $20, your last 20 bucks, and you're about to lose your home, your car, etc., all you're thinking about is how do I get some more money? How do I earn some more money? They're called deficiency needs. Health, wealth, relationships. When you have them, you don't even know they're there. When they're gone or imbalanced, they are all that you think about 24/7, 365. They will keep you awake at night and keep you pointed in one direction. They become non-negotiable to your psychology. They become a must. Like a lot of people out in the world, like I said, they talk about these non-negotiables, and very few of them actually hold themselves to what they say. One look through their life is going to expose everything. Trust me. Just look. All these influencers, look behind their life. All these people that talk about how you must do things, look behind them. Look at their life. If their life isn't one that you would willingly and abruptly trade everything in your world for, do not listen to them. If it's me, don't listen to me. When someone is not pulling the trigger on purchasing something, use money. When someone is not pulling the trigger on purchasing something, and let's say it's your product, the problem isn't the money, it isn't the product, it's their psychology, they're looking at short-term loss without seeing the long-term gain. If they need your product, by the way, you don't sell people things they don't need. If you're selling a real solution, then help them. And the problem isn't your solution, it's their psychology. These guys telling you that everybody needs their product or service or whatever it is, that's simply not true. you just run away from those guys. Listen to me. If you if they need what you have and let's say it's five grand and the only thing they see is that five and three zeros after it on a credit card statement. Oh, bro, man. I I know I need this, but I just don't have that kind of money. Most of the time it's not true and they know it. What they don't like are the terms of the deal. They don't like paying 20% 30% interest on a Mastercard on 5K over 3 4 6 10 months, whatever. And they were like, "Why should I, you know, it's not fair." It might not be f It might not be fair. It might not. Credit card companies make an incredibly large amount of money, but life isn't fair. If you are selling something in any capacity, if the product or service will give you the results, if it's you and you're going, I don't know if I should pay that money. If the product or service, if you're looking for the cheapest one, would you do that for a cardiac surgeon to save your child, to fix your fancy car, to would you do it for any of that? The answer is no. You do it for the things that you don't have as a must. You have them as a should. You treat them as optional. So, if the product or service will give you the results, provided you apply it, provided you actually do it, then the long-term benefit by far outweighs what the upfront number is. Listen, I've seen patients I was in a multi-million dollar multiple clinics that I owned and I've seen patients roll up in a brand new Maserati, like $150 grand, and complain and refuse to pay for their health as they drive away paying $1,800 a month for a car. My fault, by the way, because I didn't help them with their psychology. I made it a should. I made their health a should. And it pisses me off even to say it because I look at health as the most important thing on earth because it is the one thing that everything in your life is predicated on. You can argue and you can well I don't know man I will give you $100 million right now. Wire it to your account but I get to decide when you die and it'll be tomorrow and you cannot give the money or do anything with it other than spend it on yourself. The problem is all of you guys would say you can go right to hell Spartan. So you've just explained that your health is worth more than a 100 mil. The people have been that have been on death's doorstep and lost that battle. There is no amount of money they wouldn't have paid to change that. Steve Jobs would have given away his fortune if it would have saved his life. Don't think for a second he wouldn't. I made it a should. When patients left, I made their health a should. Which means so did they because they listened to me. Most of you guys, you want instant results because you feel you deserve them. See the results, those are non-negotiable. But the bill is optional for you. I'm not I'm not just talking about money, health, wealth, relationships, time, money, and energy. Those things, that's your bill. Time, money, energy. So five grand. Just use that. Five grand to solve a problem and it will never come back. Provided you apply XYZ, whatever it is. Okay. Divide that by 365 days of a year and you're paying, I don't know, just under 14 bucks a day. I know a lot of people who spend that much money on coffee or alcohol or PlayStation purchases. Listen, you want to immediately change your relationship with your children. Open up your Xbox or your PlayStation purchase history for the last year and look at the total. A lot of you guys might decide you now have too many children and one needs to move out now. 9 years old, you're good. I already had two jobs in a house by your age. Slam. You guys need to look at where you're paying the bill. What is taking your energy? What is taking your time? Where are the non-negotiables for those? Because I can bet that most of them aren't serving you. And in fact, they're stealing from you because they provide immediately relief of immediate relief of long-term problems. And these are the problems that you're not handling because it's not a must. It's a should. Non-negotiable means nothing is going to come between you or between that and you ever matter what it is. What are yours right now? What are yours? What are the shoulds right now? They're backwards. I can bet that. What are the musts and the non-negotiables? And what are the shoods? I guarantee they're backwards. I'll bet on it. If you look at your life right now, there are a lot of things that you know that you should do. So why aren't you? Because you're comfortable where you are and the discomfort of changing gets in the way. Ah, I don't want to do that. That's uncomfortable. Little lizard brain freaks out. Listen, when I got home from the hospital after they pulled this lung out, if you guys haven't seen my story, you need to go back through all of my stuff and go, "Holy crap. I'm not out here pumping up some manufactured story. My life sucked. I had no money. I lost my home. I had no business. I had no idea how to run an online company. I lost all of my health. I lost 25, 30 years of training, muscle, athleticism, everything in the span of less than a month and a half. And I had a wife and two children relying on me. And I was a liability. Three and a half almost four years ago now. I at 48 when I got home from the hospital after they pulled this lung out, my wife asked me what I wanted to do and I said work out. And I got 25 ft of Rogue strap and I attached it to my fringe sports sled and I dropped a 45lb weight on it. I put a weight belt on and I looped the straps through it around my waist and I walked around this huge gravel driveway of ours. It's a big oval right in front of our place it was. And I just kept going round and round. I I had six giant incisions in my chest and back. It was all I could do. And I told Brandy, "Come get me when I collapsed. and she helped me up, walked me into the house, and she watched me do the whole thing. And the next day, I did it again. She never got mad at me. She never tried to stop me. She helped me because she knew it was non-negotiable. Why? Why? That's what people ask. Why? Why would you put yourself through all that? Why put myself through all of that pain? And it was pain. I cried so many times. I got angry so many times for the first 3 to 6 months, but I never missed one day. And almost four years later, I still haven't missed a day because it's a must. Because keeping my word is the most important thing in the world to me. Because it's all I've got. Because when I keep my word, I know I'm in control. I know I won't look back later with regret ever. That's what non-negotiable means. It's going to hurt. It's going to be expensive. It's going to take the time. And you're going to win every single time. Like the reason that I told you that story and many of you guys know it. A lot of you guys have heard this story is because there's something in your life where you finally said, "I'm never doing that again. I'm never living like that again. I'm never going there again. I'm never eating that, drinking that, taking that. I'm never being with that person again." Whatever it is, I'm never getting into that again. Something. And when you did that, you didn't even bother to think about it the next day. It was over. The problem wasn't the action. It wasn't paying the bill. It was the decision to pay the bill that took the long time. It just took you so long to pay that damn bill. Once you made that decision, you went and paid the bill and three months later your entire life was different when for 10 years before that all you have been doing was all you did was struggle. That's the power of making something a must be it like I said at the beginning because it becomes who you are not what you do. You redefined your identity, who you are. If you say, "I'll try." If you say, "I'm gonna do it. I'll get around to it. I'm hoping to get it done by next week. Maybe I'll do it next month. Hopefully by the new year." I already know it's a should. You're not going to do it. You're a liar. And nothing pisses me off more than a liar. When someone commits and then retracts that commitment, nothing disgusts me more. And And here's why you do it. Because in your mind, you're a person who procrastinates. You validate. You come up with stories and explain away instead of keeping your word. You've come up with a definition of what you can and can't do based on keeping you comfortable where you are. That's why people lower their standards, by the way, because it's more comfortable. But yet, if you don't like where you are, if you want to lose the weight, if you want to make the money, if you want to fix the relationship, if you want to have the business, move to a different country, whatever it is, you need to look at yourself and your standards in those areas and then have the chops to realize that you've got low standards wherever you're struggling. And that's why it's never changed. Because if you had high standards, you'd pay the damn bill. Low standard people avoid the bill. They defer the action indefinitely while hiding behind reasons why they must. So follow me. You see where I'm going with this, right? They have non-negotiables. If it's you've got non-negotiables, they're in the wrong direction. It's a non-negotiable to be uncomfortable and make changes and commit, but in their mind, it's keeping them safe. But if you wish that where you are right now were completely different. If you wish you had more money or a better body or a stronger marriage or more sales or whatever it is, then the non-negotiable of refusing to pay the bill isn't keeping you safe. It's keeping you where you hate life. So you've got two choices. You come up with all of the reasons why where you are isn't really that bad and you live in regret until you die. where you raise your standards in every single area where you're struggling and you make all of the things that you know you should do into non-negotiables and they become what you must do. The hardest part about raising your standards is realizing that everything that's keeping that's kept you where you are is based on a lie. I'll say it again. The most difficult aspect of raising your standards is that you have to come to terms with the fact that everything that's kept you where you are has been a lie and you've been running it on repeat. You're that elephant with that tiny little rope from the circus way back when around his leg. You stopped trying to raise your standards and break that rope because it just didn't work when you tried at the beginning. So now you believe it's never going to work. When in reality, what you should do is what you should do should become what you must do, right? That's what it has to be. All of your shoulds. You look at all those things that you I know I should do that Spartan. I know I should do that. It needs to become a must. It doesn't matter what's in your way. And when you create a non-negotiable, for real, you're going through it. Whatever's in your way, you're going through it. Whatever's in front of you, you're knocking it down. Whatever adversity is in front of you, it doesn't matter. You pay the bill. How much is it going to cost? Doesn't matter. I'm going to find a way to give you the money. It's going to take this long. Doesn't matter. I'm going to find a way to do it faster and better. It's going to take this much energy. Fine. I will run on less sleep. I'll sleep faster. It doesn't matter. I know. Because they said, "I'd never do anything that I can do right now. You'll never run. You'll never be athletic. You'll never be wealthy. You're going to be on medication forever. You're never going to start that company. It's not going to work." And yet here I am less than four years later in front of you right now and I'm doing everything that other people said I would never be able to do. Other people's limitations aren't yours. Listen, I show my entire life every day and I have from day one from wins to losses and every single screw up in between. I come out here every day and I show you how to do it on this vlog. I show you in my podcast. I teach. You might not like the delivery because it might make you a little uncomfortable. Doesn't mean I'm not right. I am right. That's why I built my mastermind because I've actually done it and I did it all before I started the mastermind just to prove that I could. Listen, if you're struggling, it's because you're playing safe and you're failing to keep your word. Raise your standards in all of the areas where your struggles are and they'll all go away. Pay the bill. If it costs money, pay the money. If it costs energy, pay the energy. If it's going to take time, invest the time. But until you pay that bill and you raise your standards, you are going to stay right where you are. It's up to you to change that. You can keep coming up with it reasons and explaining it away, but how many summers and how many Christmases do you have left? Whatever your answer is, it's not enough. I got to go. Never miss.