Confidence doesn't come from other people's belief in you or any hype. It comes from history, from you, from all the scars that you've earned in private that cash out in the public. You don't need better vibes. You need better habits. You need better standards that your standards go, I'm going to repeat this until I don't have to think. I did this webinar. I do them every Sunday. They're free. you should show up. I teach you what I did to get to where I am now in my life. I'm 52 and I've lived a lot of life, but I've changed a lot of things. And I teach what I did, why I did it, when to do it, and that's important. And yet people, they go, "Okay, I'll listen. You have all the results I want, but maybe I'm just going to look to see if there's something else, too. But you've been looking for something else all the time. You want that guarantee. There's no guarantees. I guarantee that if you keep doing the same thing every day, you're going to keep getting the same dumb results. You keep trying to escape your life. Imagine if there was a way to win and guarantee how to win every time. Everybody would sign up. There is a way to guarantee a win all the time. Most of you are trying to impress a bunch of people that don't matter and you're trying to cater to the opinions of people that don't matter. And that's why you keep retarding your own growth and not doing the things you want to do because you're thinking about other people and then you label it as I care about their opinion. Yeah, but you should care about yours more. The people you're trying to impress, they don't matter, man. Not your boss, not your old high school friends that found you on Facebook or Instagram, not your ex, not even your family, not even your spouse. The only one you need to impress is the future you. And I think that's a real challenge for people nowadays with social media. People go, "What about all these others? They give me likes and hearts and follows and they grow my account. And are they paying you? Are they living your life? Are they responsible for you or are you?" and think the future you is what matters. It's that version of you that's watching right now every move that you make and it's taking notes on whether or not you're actually becoming the man that you keep pretending to be. And I think let me ask you this. If that version of you 5 years, 7 years ago, a decade from now was sitting across the table right here from us today watching how you spend your time, how you think, how you work, your conduct, how you speak with people, would that man be proud? And instead of blowing that off and go, here we go, ask. Because that's why you have anxiety and depression. They're worried and overwhelmed. They feel defeated and frustrated. That person's probably like, "This dude is still stuck trying to impress people that peaked at prom, but you go ahead and keep doing that." I think the reason most people fail isn't because they're incapable. It's because they're dishonest with themselves about what they actually want and who they're becoming. The tragedy itself is not failure. It's the lack of confrontation with the truth. There is the truth. Let's play a game. How to lose in three steps. Step one, show a plate. Step two, make excuses. Step three, wait for someone to give you permission. You already know how to fail. So, flip it. You already know. You got those three down pat. Most of you guys do it. Flip the script. Step one, show up early. Step two, own everything in your life. Step three, move without permission. You're welcome. You could stop listening right now. Just go do that. You just became misly successful. And if you go, it's not that easy. There's your problem. Yes, it is. It still takes the work, but it's an easy formula. the real path to exceptional, to greatness, to success. You've already seen it. You just haven't committed to it. You don't need more books. You don't need another podcast episode. You don't need like the school of greatness or all this stuff. And I love all these podcasts. Are you kidding? I could listen to these guys all day because they're so great at their craft. They're much better than I am at what I do when it comes to podcast and information. However, you don't need that. Unless that's what you're trying to become. I'm not trying to become the next great podcaster. I come out here to just give information. You need this. It'll help you. It'll change your life. But you don't need another coach yelling in your ear. You don't need someone shaming you or belittling you. You don't need more books. You need to stop bullshitting yourself and start doing what you already know you're avoiding. You want to win? Be the guy that shows up early. Early is on time. On time is late. Late is fired. That's what my dad used to always say. Be the guy who follows up when nobody else does. Follow up, email, follow up, call, follow up. And if you go, sometimes people just don't want to be bothered. Wrong. Most people, if they came to you for the solution and didn't accept it, it's because they don't think you will get them to follow through where they're quitting. It's not that your solution doesn't work. They don't believe in their own follow-through because they don't believe in you. Be the guy who's overprepared. That's the easiest way out of any anxiety. Just be overprepared. be the guy that's always overprepared, not because somebody told him to, but because he promised his future self that he would never be average or mediocre again. And if you go justifying average and mediocre, get off my show. I I don't want to be around you. The only people that say success, masculinity, fitness, strength, wealth, power, and being undeniable and unbreakable, all of that is toxic. Are all of you lowlevel, low frequency, weak, soft, mediocre, and average justifying people at the bottom. And you get mad. You can get mad at me all you want, but the person you're mad at is the mirror. You already know what to do. That's number one. But you already know what not to do. Tell me I'm wrong. Change my mind. Don't smoke crack. Don't binge Netflix all day. Don't blow your money on stupid [\h__\h] and then cry about not being rich. That's not strategy. That's suicide. So take that list that I gave you at the beginning of how to lose and then just reverse engineer that entire thing. This ain't wrong in science, kids. It's common sense wrapped in uncommon commitment. Gogggin says the uncommon of the future you was watching everything you did this week. Would they be proud or pissed? You guys don't want to ask yourself that because it's uncomfortable. That's what I talked about in my webinar. You need to look at your life right now and list off everything that you cannot stand. And then instead of explaining it away and going, I'm doing better than they are. I'm doing better than this couple and that couple. What do you want? Because if it isn't what you want, then you need to sit there and just annihilate it. So, is your conduct right now, if someone's watching and it is you, a version of you, would they be proud or pissed? Most of you guys flinch at your own damn goals. What if it was just impossible to fail? What if you had this blueprint down so well? Why are certain people successful and others aren't? And it's not nepotism. All of you guys whining that somebody has a connection. I know plenty of people that had no connection and they are worth more than your last five generations combined. Stop being mad about what you don't have because of the work you never did. Here's it boils down to this. Ever try to do something new and immediately you feel like an idiot? You feel stupid? Like someone says just go advertise and you're sitting there going, "Oh, okay." I spent 3 days trying to get a pixel to connect to my ClickFunnels years ago. Three days. Couldn't figure it out. I was so mad. Probably six, seven hours. Finally, Brandy goes, "Hey, why don't you call this tech guy that you hired to do this one project? See if he can do it." I go, "No, I have to figure it out myself. I have to figure it out myself." So, for 3 days, I tried to figure out myself. And I felt dumber and dumber. I was so frustrated. And I finally went, "That thing, [\h__\h] it." I sent this guy a message and he goes, "Yeah, no problem. 30 seconds, maybe 20, 30 seconds tops." And he goes, "Onestop shop." That was the day I put him and his entire team in my world. You guys need to stop being worried about feeling stupid. Listen, when someone says go do this and you're sitting there going, "Okay, but how?" That's not you being dumb. That's the instructions being lazy. If you can't break it down into steps so simple that even a toddler could understand it, you don't understand it yourself. Which goes back to all these coaches that come out and have some proprietary blend of information and lead generation and acquisition and financial gain and sales methodology that is so convoluted and complex. But you once you join and you go through their program, you're going to understand it completely. If anybody is saying that to you, run the other way because they don't want to help you. They want your money. I will tell you everything and it's very straightforward. You join my mastermind. If people go, "Why do I join your mastermind?" Then you join my mastermind. So I teach you how. I'll show you what, show you why, show you when I teach you how in my mastermind. And then I demand that you stay accountable the entire time. And you surround yourself by people who also demand that you stay accountable. And you demand accountability from them. That's why you join. But that's also why you're stuck because you don't do it. You look for ways to stay where you are instead of looking for ways to get the hell out of where you are. The path to mastery is not paved with abstract weird commands. It's paved with clarity and repetition and reduction. Get detailed. Get clear. Greatness is a product of simplification, not sophistication and complexity. Think about it. You tell someone, "Be more charismatic." What does that even mean? I'll help you smile. You know, there's a book How to Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie. It's a great book and I think everybody should read it multiple times. It is like secondary gospel in my house and he has a whole chapter on smiling. Hey, being more charismatic. Smile. Say their name. My wife knows I am so adamant about saying somebody's name. What was your name? And then I use your name. Not because I'm trying to be salesy. Because I actually respect your name. Because my dad taught me there's a lot of power and value in a man's name. So use it at all times. So, I do and I respect it. Ask people about their life. Speak with your energy. Ralph Waldo Emerson, who you are, screams so loudly in my ears, I cannot hear a word you're saying. It's one of my favorite quotes. And that's energy. Energy can't lie. Make eye contact with people. Stand up straight. Fix your damn posture. Don't be weak. Have a solid handshake. Dress at least somewhat respectable. Don't put on a wife beater and call yourself savage and go, "I deserve respect." because you got a mohawk and a wife beater and you're 51. Now, all of that I told you before, saying their name, smiling, energy, contact, standing up straight, all that stuff. That's a skill set. It's repeatable. It's also teachable. Everything else is fluff. You guys live in fluff and call complain about why your life doesn't work. Most people stay mediocre because they worship complexity. You guys want complex because it gives you a reason to say this is why I couldn't do it. They think be charismatic is some magical personality trait. It's not. It's a checklist. Same with sales, same with leadership, same with getting your [\h__\h] together. Break it down. Make it a skill. Repeat it until people start describing you the way you once only imagined. Don't tell me you don't know you know how to waste 4 hours researching the perfect way to start. You don't need more information. You need more application. That's the problem with a world. It's not an information issue. It's an application issue. You need to hit the start button. Step one, turn it on. Step two, press record. Step three, post it. You're welcome. That's how you do content. You guys get too caught up in going, "How do I do this?" Grab your phone, make content, post. It's going to suck at the beginning. You guys are so worried about the opinions of people that don't matter, that you would never trade lives with. Do that 100 times. Do that a thousand times and get better. That's how winners and leaders are built. Repetition. Repetition is the mother of skill. You don't need a PhD in success. You need to stop acting like instructions are in riddles. Yeah. Be a good leader. How about this? Start with not being a jackass. Be productive. Get off Tik Tok. I'll grow your business. Try selling something today instead of rearranging your logo for the fourth time this week and designing. I had a client though. Hey, let me check out. They've been working on this logo for 3 weeks. How much money have you made the last 3 weeks? Nothing. But I've been working on this logo. Those are the people drowning in buzzwords when you need just one action step and a backbone. That's how you win. That's how you win at everything. Listen, if you can't explain the basic steps, you're never going to be able to repeat it. If you can't repeat it, you can't win. So, break your goals down into something that's so small that they feel stupid and then just do them. That's what I did. I went, listen, what do I need? What do I want? I went, what are all the things that my life looks like right now that I just can't stand? What do I want it to look like, what my goals were, everything in between that got me there. It's not complicated. You guys complicate it and go, I have to make a vision board. I have to cut the heads off things and put them on the bodies that I want, and I have to put the picture of the car on my vision board. And then I have to read my goals seven times a day while I'm chanting and sing listening to this song. And then I have to go outside. I dance in this specific circle. And I listen to this tape. I listen to Phil Wickham in the morning. I hold my hands up in the air and get up at 2:30 in the morning, otherwise I have no value. Like, you guys do this to yourself, but you can't even explain what you're doing. Break your goals down into the smallest possible pieces and all the action steps required until they feel almost ridiculously stupid and then just do them. Consistent trumps brilliant inconsistent all day long. But you guys live on the wrong side of that equation. What goals are you avoiding right now simply because you haven't broken the steps down to small enough pieces that you can start today? You keep looking at them going, "They're too big. I can't do this. Distill them down into their smallest pieces. It's like math, right? Factoring. Just factor them down into the smallest divisible numbers. There are no naturally confident people. The traits that you keep wishing you had that other people have. They're just skills that you haven't practiced yet. You haven't done them yet. So, of course, you suck at them. Walking was a trait and a skill set you just hadn't practiced yet. So everybody now walks, but back then you must suck loser. Baby can't walk. You'd never say that. It's a skill set you haven't practiced yet. Put repetition in. Baby turns into running adult there. It's like confidence. I use this because it's important. A lot of you guys lack incredible conf. You have no confidence in yourself or anything you do. There are no naturally confident people ever. There are no born leaders. There's no such thing as good with people or a silver tongue. Those aren't traits. Those are skills. Skills you either learned or avoided. And most of the time you avoid them because you don't like feeling like [\h__\h] when you do them for the first time. You're like, I suck at this. We simplify complex behaviors into these vague words like charismatic or patient because it saves time in conversation. But the problem is what we gain in simplicity, we lose in clarity. The end result is you walk around thinking you're missing something when all you're missing is the practice. You're not missing anything. You're missing practice. Think about it. When you say somebody's confident, why? Why are they confident? Because they speak with clarity. They can get on a camera and speak on YouTube or a podcast or make content because they have no problem bringing out a camera whether they have their hairs done right or they're wearing the right clothes because they just do things because they said they would, because they keep their word. Those are all skill sets. You think that because they don't stutter? They don't stumble through words. They look people in the eye. They don't fidget. They speak with certainty and absolution. Those are all observable, which means they're all trainable. Confidence is not magic. It's muscle memory right here. Confidence is earned through proof. Self-worth, credibility is earned through proof. The receipts, right? The things you do. And how do you get it? Do the damn thing. Do it a 100 times. Do it a thousand times. Do it a 100 different ways. Do it a thousand different ways in front of people when nobody's around. in front of a ton of people under pressure when you're tired, when you're angry, when you're sad, when you don't feel like it, when nobody is clapping. You can't think your way into being a confident person. You have to bleed your way into it. And that is what's required to win at everything. You think you're not confident. You think you're not disciplined. You think you're not cut out for this. No, that's not it at all. You just haven't done the reps. My wife is terrible at excuses. Terrible. Absolutely abysmal. She can't make an excuse to save her life. You know why? Cuz she's never done the reps. So, she sucks at making excuses. You guys put reps in the wrong direction. You know what? My wife is really great at winning. Cuz she does the work. She doesn't make excuses. She just does it. I don't make excuses very well at all. Why? Cuz I don't put the reps in. You guys put the reps in the wrong place. Repetition creates reputation. First with others, then with yourself. So you show up again and again until your brain shuts up and all you're left with are results and they do the talking for you. That's how confidence is built. You guys going, I'm just not a people person. You're not a people person. Listen, Karen, you're just lazy and awkward. Yeah, but you don't understand. I'm an introvert. So are most of the SEALs that I know. They all still lead teams, run missions, and make all kinds of moves. You know why? Because they trained for it over and over again. David Gogggins is a great example. The guy is a Navy Seal and probably the most resilient savage human being on the planet. He tells everybody, "I wasn't confident. I felt like a loser. I had no selfworth. I was an introvert. Look at him now. Stages everywhere, writing books, videos every day. It's because he put the reps in. Stop hiding behind personality labels. You're not stuck. You're just untrained. You keep training in the wrong direction. Every trait that you admire in someone else, you could build in yourself anytime. Most people won't because practice is boring. It's painful. Repetition sucks. And the results take forever. They settle. I guess I just can't do that, bro. I'm just not like you, man. I'm just not that kind of person. I didn't say be like me. Take on the same characteristics. Because when you do all that stuff, you know what happens? That [\h__\h] lie becomes your life. You want to change your identity and everything about yourself, change your actions. You guys have it backwards. I'm going to try and think my way into doing something. You have to do something to change your thinking. You want to become confident, start practicing the things that confident people do. Not when it's convenient. Not when you're like, "Oh, it's perfect every damn day." Cuz look at your traits. Because winning involves success. It's a skill set and it's based on all the other things. So what have you been telling yourself that you don't have? Look at your own life. Stop looking at everybody else's lives. We're so trained to look at what we are posting and then analyze it against what other people are doing and critique everyone else but not ourselves. We hold others to immensely high standards and we are tolerant of everything we do for ourselves. How about you just look at yourself instead of going they don't have that skill set. They suck. Their character traits are terrible. Look at yourself. What don't you have and what could you earn? What is that trait that you could earn if you just started doing it every day? There was a time you couldn't ride a bike, couldn't walk, couldn't run, couldn't play catch, couldn't write, couldn't read. And those are all things that you learned. Your confidence comes from the reps, not from the vibe. No such thing as a vibe check other than a Gen Z statement. Like, you ever meet somebody that just owns the room? They're not loud. They're not flashy. They're not obnoxious, but when they speak, everybody listens. You know what that is? It's not aura or energy or some mystical vibe. It's reps. They don't get phased. Confidence isn't something that you find. It's something you earn. when it's quiet, when it's painful, when it's obnoxious, when you're sweating, when you're tired, when you're angry, when you're cold, and you just don't want to do it by doing the work, doing it alone, doing when your mom's not clapping for you, your wife's not around, it's boring, it sucks, honestly, when it doesn't even pay off. You, why am I doing this? This is [\h__\h] I'm not getting anything for this. If you don't wake up confident, you become confident, which is required to be successful. You do it by stacking proof every day and prove to yourself and everybody else that you're not full of [\h__\h] Yeah, I'm talking to you. You're full of [\h__\h] Most of you guys are. Don't get offended, by the way. Stop crying about where you listen. In fact, you don't even you don't get to be offended. You don't even get to be confident if you're still guessing. Confidence comes from knowing and knowing comes from doing. You don't manifest you guys in your manifestation. You don't your energy and your manifestation and tapping in. Listen, you don't manifest certainty. You build it through execution and all the pain and all the struggle, all the failed reps, all the receipts you're stacking behind you. All that pressure, that's what turns into certainty. You want to walk into a room, into a business, into a life, and dominate the [\h__\h] out of it, then you better have more scars in it than anyone else. Because those scars, those are all the receipts of someone who did the damn work. You guys want to start at the finish line, but you've never been to practice. You've never done any of the reps. You just want the victory. I think if you look at it, we really think confidence is a trait. It's not. It's the absence of self-doubt in a domain that you've mastered. It's something that, you know, you've done so many times that you just don't care. The reason people have anxiety is because they're underprepared. There's no time in my life that I have ever had any stress or worry if I have been overprepared. I don't even think about it. I just do it like this. I'm not thinking about it. I just do this. You want to speak boldly, then speak often. Turn on the camera, start talking, turn on the mic, start speaking. You want to make money. You want to close deals, then talk to people when you're terrified. You got to be okay to lose a bunch. Eventually, you'll stop losing deals. You want to lead, lead yourself first when nobody else is following. Because if you can't do that, nobody's following you. If you don't believe your own [\h__\h] nobody else is either. You have got to enter the unknown. Not to find confidence, but to earn it through the voluntary confrontation of all the chaos that shows up in your life as a result. People come up to me, "Dude, you're confident, man." Well, no [\h__\h] sweetheart. I've done it 800 times. The problem is you guys are comparing my 800th rep to your first. Of course it feels scary. Supposed to. It's not a sign to stop. That's something that social media has taught you. The narrative is if it's scary, you got to stop, man. It's all about your feelings. That thing you feel, that is the signal that says it's time to stomp on the skinny pedal. You're just getting started. Stop whining. Remember, shield, spear, sword, Goliath in front of you. Start taking heads. If you want confidence, you need repetition. You need exposure, chaos, disorder. You need time under tension. You don't need preparation or visualization. You don't need a vision board, Pinterest. You need reps. Get on camera. Make the videos. Make the copy. Make the call. Make the pitch. Make post after post. Speak the truth. That's your authenticity right there. Just talk. Then do it again and then do it again and again and again. My wife says, "I love watching you speak. I love listening because it's so natural for you." She also knows I've done this for two and a half decades. Sitting here in front of this camera is boring. When it's boring, do it 100 more now. You're just starting to scrape that. I can do this in my sleep. It doesn't come from hype. The confidence to win does not come from hype. It comes from the history that you have with yourself. It comes from your own proof. Somebody throws heat 100 miles an hour once and never scrape that triple digits again. They don't know if they can. If they do it a hundred times in a row, our daughter one time, she was in color guards throwing this giant flag in the backyard and she came in, she goes, "Dad, I got it." And then she starts putting her stuff away. It was like a triple. I forget what it was called. And I went, "Why are you coming inside?" She goes, "Cuz I got it." I go, "You got it once." She goes, "Yeah, I got it. I know how to do it." I go, "You can go outside and you can do it 50 more times." And I said that to one of our friends and they go, "That's mean." That's why your kid's a loser and mine isn't. Cuz I demand that my children do the reps until they don't have to think. I did that when I taught them how to ride a bike, how to drive, how everything. Why wouldn't you? Confidence doesn't come from other people's belief in you or any hype. It comes from history, from you, from all the scars that you've earned in private that cash out in the public. You don't need better vibes. You need better habits. You need better standards that your standards go, I'm going to repeat this until I don't have to think. Ask yourself, what proof am I stacking every day that builds confidence? Maybe ask that because I I think a lot of times you guys are going the wrong direction and fighting so hard. You ever say this? I'm just not ready yet. It sounds innocent enough, right? Like you're being wise. You're not wise. You're Fred. I'm just not ready yet. Put the credit card in your hand. You're about ready to invest in something, buy something, go talk to that person, close the deal, send the message, have that hard conversation. Just not ready yet. like you're being responsible saying that's fear that wears a suit and a tie w with a day planner. You're hiding behind logic, but it's convoluted logic. You're not waiting to be ready. You're avoiding the fight. Get in the [\h__\h] arena. You think you need more time, more research, more confidence. You don't you just don't want to get hit in the mouth. You don't want to suck when everybody else can see you. You don't want to be seen to fail. That's what it is. People aren't afraid of failure. They're not. Everybody's biggest fears is a fail of failure. Fear of failure. No, it's not. It's the fear of being seen to fail or being a failure, not failing. They're not the same. You don't want to fail when people see it. That's your problem. That's not a strategy. That's cowardice with a Lulu pants and a hoodie, a little checklist that you have on your phone. You're not supposed to be ready. You want the truth? You're not supposed to be ready. You're supposed to move anyway, even if you're not ready. How many times you fall off your bike? How many times do you suck when you played baseball, football, when you ran, when you jump, when you learned to drive, you were all perfect? Rode a BMX, drove a dirt bike, a snowmobile, tried to do a handstand. I don't care what it is. How many times are you perfect? How many times are you ready? You think I was ready when I went outside with an oxygen machine and tubes in me to do pull-ups for the very first time after they took out a lung? You think I had to show up and still execute no matter what? I was ready. Nobody gives a [\h__\h] if you're ready. Life doesn't wait. Life doesn't care. Pressure doesn't wait. Opportunity doesn't wait either. So that's why I show up every day. If you remember what I said a couple of months ago now, I show up every day. I never miss a day ever. And people go, "That's impossible." Maybe for you. And that's the story you keep telling yourself. I will go without sleep, without food, without anything to make sure I just damn well never miss. What happens when you never miss? When an opportunity shows up, you're there. You guys validate missing and then an opportunity goes by and you go, "Ah, I missed that opportunity." And then that becomes a skill set. You're either in the fight or you're watching from the crowd. Pick. Choose. Honestly, the belief that you must feel ready before you act is the greatest lie of modern man. It's the psychological equivalent of holding your breath until the perfect oxygen shows up. Readiness is not a feeling. It's a decision. Delaying that decision only compounds the chaos that you claim to fear. Because if you wait until you feel right, you're never going to do the thing that makes you right. I get frustrated when people go, "I'll do it when I'm ready." I don't care about your money when you buy my stuff. I care about your commitment. If people go, "If you don't care about your money, then give it away for free because you're not committed when it's free." And the problem isn't with my commitment. I show up every day. I do these podcasts every day. I show up for my mastermind every day. I answer questions. I coach one-on-one. I consult with companies. I show up for my family. I do my workouts. I show up for my kids, for my wife. I do the things I say I'm going to do. I keep my word no matter what. I have never once procrastinated in the last four years. And yes, I say four years because before that, I did. But when I woke up in August of 2021, missing a cylinder, that was the last time I ever missed ever. So, if you're procrastinating, you're a dick. By the way, there's no reason. None. Whatever reason you give is just a lie. If I waited until I was ready, I'd still be on my mom's couch or in that hospital debating on whether I should take another nap or go for a walk. You're not preparing. You're procrastinating. You're making excuses. Readiness is your excuse wearing cologne. The reason you're not ready is because you think real life works like school. Think about what I talked about in yesterday's episode about how college is a waste of time. You think real life works like school, right? Step one, study. Step two, raise your hand. Step three, get picked. Step four, perform. I'm not wrong. The world is not school. They'd like you to think it's school. It's war. You move first and adapt mid swing. You throw things in the air and fix them on the way down. You don't throw them up for the perfect throw. cuz you'll never do it cuz you'll keep waiting. Oh, almost. How many times have you done that? When you were like, "Okay, I'm just about to" and then you start overthinking. The number of times people try and achieve their goals is less than one because they overthink everything prior to even executing and they stay right where they are. You're never going to be ready. You're a liar. The real world doesn't pick you. You pick yourself and then you prove it. So, prove it. All of you should stop right now, whatever you're doing, and write this down. Start ugly. Start shaky. Start out of breath. Start underprepared, start scared, start angry, start frustrated, but just [\h__\h] start. Because while you're sitting there planning, some other savage with half of your talent, but none of your fear is already doing the thing, and that guy's about ready to eat you alive. So, how about this? You ask yourself, where in your life are you pretending to get ready when you should already be in motion? I'm 52. I'm way behind where I should have been because I had to restart everything four years ago at 48. What is your excuse? Where are you pretending to get ready? You have to wait until your credit cards paid off, till your kids leave the house, till they go from elementary school to middle school, till your wife quits her job, till you lose 10 more pounds, till you get the car, till you move the house. What are you waiting for? What are you waiting for? It drives me so crazy. What are you waiting for? And you're like, "Bro, I just have a couple more things I'm going to take care of and then I'm going to execute. It's been a year." What are you waiting for? You're not only costing yourself, but you're costing everybody else that's counting on you as well. And if you think nobody's counting on you, you better look again. You don't need to break down the door. You need to outlast everybody that's inside where you are, where you're trying to go. Right? Listen to me. Or where you're trying to get out. Let's say you don't have the money or the time. Or you don't know anybody, right? The whole nepotism thing. So you don't have the money, you don't have the time, you don't have the network. Maybe you don't have the fitness of the body. Maybe you just don't have the education. You have no idea what to do. Cool. You know what you do have, though? Your power and ability to outlast everybody else. Delay of gratification. If you remember that episode I did, it's the same thing. Delay of gratification is outlasting. I'll just stay in the game longer than you. Time is always on your side if you're willing to go as long as required. Outlasting beats talent 100% of the time. Talent will never beat someone that outlasts because it's a dangerous person. Right? You you won't win because you are the fastest. You win because you're the last man standing. You need to be ruthless and relentless. That's what true resiliency is. Outlast. I'll just keep staying. I will stay here until I [\h__\h] die. You need to wake up and do the boring [\h__\h] the painful [\h__\h] the ugly [\h__\h] the repetitive, thankless, invisible, no credit, no cheerleader, no accolades, no fanfare, no good job work every damn day. That's how you earn it. Everybody wants to dominate. You guys lie. No, I don't really want to do that. Yes, you do. For about 20 minutes. Yeah, you're good. You know, I'm going to dominate. You guys get ambitious as hell. I'm going to do all this stuff. I'll blow up my YouTube. I'm going to blow up my social media. I'm going to create this big company. I'm going to sell. I'm going to all this stuff. I'm going to build the body, have the hard conversation, and repair my marriage, train my kids. I'm going to become an expert in 17 different martial arts. And I'm going to be a billionaire. I'm going to be the generation bloodline breaker. But nobody wants to stay in the ring for a decade. You'll do that for 10, 20 minutes and that's it. You want to beat everybody, then stay in the game longer than they do. Watch them quit. Watch them fold. Watch them cry and whine and point their finger at you about how you're lucky. why they say it's not fair. You don't have to be better. You just have to refuse to go away. That's alpha as [\h__\h] By the way, I think a lot of times we tend to overestimate the power of intensity and underestimate the supremacy of consistency. Your intensity doesn't mean anything. You might come out of the gate growling and snarling, but if somebody just stands there and waits for you to wear out, they win. A single heroic act is easier by far than the daily confrontation with duty and discipline. And yet greatness of all things, exceptional, right? Becoming exceptional isn't built in any of the heroic moments ever. It's built in the agony of endurance. The man who commits to outlasting eventually becomes the one others can't ignore because he's the only one there. Everybody else fell. And yet that's the one thing most of you don't want to do because you want newness and entertainment. You want comfort. Then don't worry about becoming exceptional. But if you truly want to win at anything, you're welcome. Do that. Outlast everybody else. You don't need fireworks. You need followthrough. Listen, while all the people out there are thinking about starting, even this if you're listening to this right now, while everybody out there is thinking about starting and they're like, "I don't know. I got to see I got to move some funds around." I just had a guy start with me, him and his wife one-on-one. The one type of payment they were trying to do was giving them static. It was didn't that they have any money, but they had to do some stuff and they went, "You know what? Screw it. We moved something out of one investment and we just went all in because we know we need to do this and we believe in you, but we know we need to help and you're the one that's going to get us there because we've seen you operate. We've been with you for the last 3 months and you have just been crushing while somebody else is thinking about starting. You are on day 250 of doing the thing they said they were going to do last year. And guess what? You didn't need any damn motivation. You just needed a decision. I went skydiving very first time when that it was 14,000 ft when the door opened up and I heard the roar of the prop. It was two two props, right? And the you're hearing a big flying tin can with a bunch of other dudes and a bunch of people smiles on their faces. Yeah, I was scared, but all I had to do is make the decision. No, I went well over 30 times after that. The hardest part about skydiving was making the decision to jump out of the plane. It wasn't skydiving. You understand the difference? The hardest part about skydiving or anything is the decision to do it. I didn't need to be motivated, right? The decision is what you need, not motivation, not inspiration. You need to make the decision. You don't build a name off of flash. You build it being the guy that never [\h__\h] leaves. So, listen. If you want to win at anything, here it is. Business, fitness, marriage, it doesn't make a difference. Yep. You just saw that gas black beetle carrying another beetle that I think he killed Texas. Man, we built things big here. If you want to win at anything, it doesn't matter what it is. If you want to win at anything, money, legacy, business, driving, CrossFit, hockey, football, martial arts, jiu-jitsu, marriage, like this applies to everything. Podcasting, YouTube, Instagram, social media, balance, back flips, front flips, running, lifting, sex, fitness, business, it doesn't matter. Here's the simplest, absolutely least sexy, most dull, most of you aren't going to do, however, most reliable blueprint on earth. Keep showing up until everybody else quits. I'm going to tell you right now, I've been laughed at so many times, so you're going to get laughed at. You're going to be ignored. You're going to be talked down to, ostracized, hated, ridiculed, made fun of, mocked, underestimated. Good. Good. Absolutely. Those are the same people that in August of 21 looked at me and said, "Not a chance." I even had one lady go, "Enjoy your short wind sucking life." Because I said, "Getting the jab was stupid." And she went off like a firecracker. I don't wish ill on anybody, but I'm pretty sure that lady's not alive anymore. So listen, let them get comfortable while you get dangerous. Let them post highlight reels while you're building a life. When people go, I'm going dark, dude. This is it. Then why do you keep showing up on social media if you're going so dark you don't have time to keep making well-edited articulated posts? Most of mine aren't. You can tell I just post. There's not a lot of planning other than it sticks to the same context of what my message is because I'm just real. I don't have time. Why? Because I'm actually building. So when people go I'm going dark. go dark for five years like nobody even knows you exist. Like what happened to the Spartan? He just disappeared. You pull the count of Monte Cristo kind of [\h__\h] where you show up. Edmund Dantes leaves, goes to the chat, gets out, gets the treasure, right? Gets nicknamed Satara Driftwood, which is hilarious to me. Or if you're looking at the Richard Chamberlain version and not the Jim Cavezle version, which both are good, and comes back as the Count of Monte Cristo and makes an entrance where nobody knows that's going dark. By the way, that's probably the most epic revenge story you'll ever read and watch. The one with Jim Cavzel is epic. I've watched that movie so many times. I grew up watching the one with Richard Chamberlain, by the way. He went dark. Granted, it wasn't by choice because his idiot partner, who was Guy Pierce, wanted Mercedes for himself, right? But if you're going to do this, outlast everybody. That's it. That is the most effective blueprint. Keep showing up. I haven't missed a day here. I will outlast everybody else. I know people that said they were going to do this, dude. I'll do it, too. I'll podcast with you every day. It's almost June and you quit at the end of January. I want to go inside. Let them post their little highlight reels and get their little dopamine from all their friends. Let them think it's easy while you make it inevitable. Because honestly, when all the smoke and the chaos and the rubble gets cleared, all the hacks and trends and all those fake gurus, all of you fake [\h__\h] out there trying to convince people that you have a surefire way of gaining business and bragging about how you've made six figures every month for the last 20 years and you make all this money, but yet you can't keep your real life together. When all those people are gone, you're still standing. And the best part is everything that they faked, that they took pictures of through a chain link fence, you own for real. So maybe ask yourself this. What is one thing that do it? Do a decade. You do it for a year, you're going to stack a lot of wins. You do it for a decade, I said it in a post, you become legendary. What if you sacrifice five years? Let's just go five. Sacrifice five years of doing nothing but the work required in the right direction with singularity of focus for the one thing that you want to build everything else off of to build that foundation. If all you do is that for 5 years, some of us have responsibilities, kids, wife, everything. Sit down, talk to them, do it all with them. But they have to support you for that entire 5 years. And if you go, that's not very fair to them really. Put those five years in and then what? You're worth $70 million. You have everything that you've ever wanted. You have people working for you. You've learned so much, grown so much, become the most epic version of yourself because the person you had to become in order to get that is exactly who they need. And now you never have to worry for the rest of your life. I'll be over here building, putting points on the board. You go ahead and worry about I don't want to max out my credit card. I don't want to take out a loan. I don't want to do this. I don't want to do that. I'll do it when. No, you won't. The most amount of time you've ever had in your life to do anything is today. What is the one thing? Don't be a smartass. Actually do it. What is the one thing that you are willing to commit to for a decade? Go five years without any acknowledgement, no applause, no social media, no comfort, just with relentless pursuit, never quitting. What is that thing? Do that. That's going dark. And then come back in 5 years, send me a message. He goes, "Spartan, you know that big ass company? You know that competition? You know that epic marriage? I did it." Yeah, you did. There will only be one other person as proud of you as you are. Me, because I'll be like, you did. You listened. Like, that's your kill shot, man. You guys are afraid to do it. I think that the best blueprint is you don't win at life. You just outlast everybody else and you can't help but win. You don't win. Listen, you don't win at fitness or health or business or marriage or sex or anything. There's no trophy. There's no finish line. There's nobody clap clapping at you do a ultra, you're doing 100 miles. There's nobody clapping. The point isn't to win once. It's to outlast and win all the time. That's life. The point isn't to win at the business, it's to stay in the business. The point isn't to win at being fit and jacked. The point is to stay fit and jacked. The point isn't to win at being an athlete. It's to stay an athlete. The point isn't to win at an epic, deeply connected marriage. It's to stay in that deeply connected marriage. That's the game. You guys just never get this. You guys are trying to win in these incremental little pieces and then going, "I won. Look at me, everybody. But you haven't won. Stay there. Do it again. Okay, I did it twice. Now I'm winning." No. Do it until God says it's time to come home. This is your life. And it stresses me out because I look at the world and I go, I am the last frontier before you guys burn yourselves to the ground. This is your life and it doesn't give a [\h__\h] about how you feel. I'm trying to drive this through your skull and you're just not listening. Your life is not a 90-day challenge, a weekend challenge, or some tough mutter that you do. When you could just tap out, it doesn't care how you feel, you guys. It's a war. If you go, "Boy, this guy's really intense." You're not taking your life seriously enough. There is always something somebody somewhere there's a bacteria on you right now that would prefer to kill you. Everything is trying to take you out. If you look at your life like that, not in paranoia, but in preparation going, "All right, yeah, I need to build a much more robust platform. I need to make sure I'm armored and calloused and weaponized. I need to make sure I'm dangerous." You can't lose because in order to do that you have to always be doing the thing and that means you will always outlast everybody who is not doing the thing and the thing is everything required to get to the life you want. So you want to survive the war then show up tired or scared or angry or overwhelmed or frustrated or defeated or when somebody died or somebody didn't or somebody left or somebody didn't or you're broken but it doesn't matter. You just show you don't stop because it's hard. You keep going because it's supposed to be. It's hard. Good. Bring more. This is brutal. It sucks. Keep going. Today the workout was brutal. It's 100°. You can see it in the video. I am soaked. I'm miserable. I got things hurt on me that I didn't even know I had. My son was outside talking to me, which was even more epic because I love when he's out there cuz he's I love being out here with you. Dad, do you know how cool that is? Whether dads are like you, man. That's one of the coolest things I can ever hear. When my son goes, "There's no other dad's like you. You're like a superhero. You're like Captain America. You're the real life god of war." Do you know how badass that is when your son calls you that and you feel it? And some of you won't understand that. But that's earned. Every day I wake up and I have this sheet of paper right here, white, nothing on it. I have to write my story every day. It's up to me what I write and up to me what everybody else believes in with me. And it's up to me what I believe in about myself. But that involves me outlasting everybody else because men who win once disappear. They were never dangerous. When you talk about what you did once, nobody cares. when you're still polishing all the crap that you did last week, last year. When you're sitting at the local high school football game on the tailgate of your Ford truck that you had since high school and you're 39. They were tailgating at Wilkinson Stadium at a high school football game. As Brandy and I walked by, they were talking about the good old days. These guys were fat, sloppy, 40 years old about how they remember when they played there and all that. I'm like, "Dude, are you kidding me? I'm like, that's why you're driving that piece of [\h__\h] and your wife is going, "God, stay out as long as possible. I just tolerate this marriage." That's not being a good dad. That's being an embarrassment because that's the men who win once. I don't care if you were the quarterback and you were the greatest for that one winning game and then if you disappeared, you're nothing. Payton Manning that [\h__\h] You win once and disappear, you were never dangerous. You're a flasher, right? You just come out and show them once. You sure as hell aren't fireworks and flame, man. The man who wins every day is because he showed up when he wasn't. Let me go a little deeper. The man who looks like he's winning every day because he fails all day. You just don't see it. Is because he showed up every day. Every day he failed. Every day he got kicked in the teeth. Every day he got punched in the stomach and smashed in the face, made fun of, lost, laughed at, ostracized, ridiculed, all of it. When he's broke, when he's tired, and everybody bet against him, that man that you're like that wins all the time. That guy wins every day. It's because he showed up when it was boring, when it was brutal, when there's nobody there. That man becomes inevitable. That's the only real power left in a world built on nothing but distraction. The most honorable man is not the one who triumphs once. It's the one who takes on his burden and keeps taking steps, keeps carrying it, doesn't put it down. He just keeps going. Even when it's heavier. Even when the cross has more put on it. Even when the path is dark and he's stumbling and tripping in the dark. Even when nobody sees the effort of broken knees, calloused hands, and the bruised ribs, that man, that's the sacred dance of order and chaos finds its center in that man. That's in you. You have to tame that and organize that because otherwise it takes over you and makes you depressed, anxious, frustrated, and sad, a slave to your emotions. But the man who is willing to become inevitable through repetition is the man that becomes worthy of leading. And it's not because it's easy. It's because that man chose suffering without looking away going, "Okay." Like the count of Monte Cristo, right? Do your worst. You want legacy? It's not in your resume or LinkedIn. It sure as hell isn't in your dopey Instagram bio. It's in what people say after you die. I went out there every day. Plenty of days I wasn't sure I was going to get back up off that floor in the gym when that oxygen machine was going. Even my wife doesn't know this part. Plenty of days I would huff and puff and suffocate one week, two week, 3 weeks after surgery. And the air is so thick and humid here I couldn't breathe. And I would go in the house, stumble through the door in the garage. And the second I got in and closed the door, I'd collapse on our black slate tiles and collapse on all fours. And I would pray to God, "Slow down my breathing. Thank you. I know I'm going to be okay. Thank you for the strength. Thank you for the power. Thank you for the ability to keep going and go out there and finish." Sometimes I'd get dizzy. I'd tunnel out. Couple of times I fell into myself, head on the slate. But as soon as I composed myself, I went right back outside again. Every single time because my son was out there, my daughter was out there, my wife was out there. And had I died, they would remember a man who never quit and that would stay with him forever versus a man who, well, he quit and he sat on the couch, ruined his entire life, and he became a soft [\h__\h] potato. Nobody's proud of that man, including that man. What people say after you die, that's your legacy. The man never quit. He stood tall, built something real. He lived like he [\h__\h] meant it. You want to win? Then stay. Stay. Outlast every excuse, every hateful comment, every negative person in your life, every person that tries to dissuade you, every crab in that bucket, every critic, every quitter. That's how you become legendary for yourself. And maybe you're hearing this and going, "Not everybody wants to be like that." But inside your soul, yes, you do. You are just afraid of being seen to fail. You got to overcome that first. You need to burn the idea that success is a destination. Burn it to the ground because it's not. Success is not a destination. It is a direction. Success is a constant direction. And the second that you stop walking in that direction, you start taking easy paths off the road, that's when you start to die. I'll even go as far on this one to give you a blueprint. Pick the life you want. Look at your life right now, and I said it at the beginning of this, and just write off everything that you can't stand. Write it all down. Everything that makes you just want to puke and punch a hole in the wall that makes you so angry, stresses you out, that when you think about it, you get miserable. Write all that down. You have to open your eyes and look at where you hate everything because it's still running dialogue in your subconscious. whether you like it or not. So you may as well acknowledge it in your face and then do something about it. So write it all down, everything. And then pick the life that you want independent of anything else in your life. You pick the life you want. You design the [\h__\h] out of that thing. Every single nuance of that life right down to how many windows you have on your dream house and how many steps on your staircase. Design that life with so much in it. And then pick the man that you want to become, who you must become in order to have that life. and then pick the results of all of that matter to you and then do what that [\h__\h] man would do every day without asking for praise or permission or a damn break. That's what you do because kings they're forged and proven with time. Listen, if you never got recognition for your effort, would you still choose to become the man that your future demands? Because that's what it comes down to. If you if nobody ever knew, nobody ever clapped for you. Because if you wouldn't, you're not doing it for yourself. You're doing it for the acknowledgement of others. But I asked, if I never got any recognition for anything I've ever done, would I still choose to become the man my future demands? And the answer was absolutely. So ask yourself that question. Burn everything else to the ground. I don't come out here for me. I come out here because I want you to win. But you got to do it. Never miss.