Everybody wants to be great. The problem isn't the desire to be great. It's what happens when it's time to pay the price. This one's going to be like a wrecking ball for you guys. It's a wild ride, man, because it's become lost in society just in general. You look at nature, it hasn't changed. You look at man, it's changed radically. It's the desire to be great. happens when it's time to pay the price. It's what happens when you are given the list of demands by greatness by exceptional hands you a list and said, "These are my demands." Greatness came and said, "All right, this is my list of demands. If you want me to give you greatness, you want me to give this all to you, that's my list of demands." And your brain went, "Well, I don't negotiate with terror, so I'm not going to do it. I'm going to stay over here in my little hobble and [\h__\h] and whine and complain about the life I'm in and blame capitalism and the president and my ex and my childhood and my weird creepy uncle that fondled me in the barn and the cancer that I went through, my dad dying and my mom dying and then my dog died and then the house I live in, it's got lead paint in it. Everybody wants to be great until it's time to be ignored, hated, laughed at, questioned, ridiculed, ostracized. belittled, lied about, lied to, left behind, left alone. That is what is required to become exceptional. What you guys see is the result of becoming exceptional. You don't see the road to exceptional. You see the people on the stage, people on the field, people in the films, people, every celebrity, every great world shaker, anybody that has changed this planet, you see the result of their climb. You don't see their climb. Sir Edund Hillary, the first guy that climbed Mount Everest that we know of. There may be some guy in heaven going, "Dude, I climbed that mountain like 600 years before that and I did it barefoot wearing a burlap sack." The reason I say that is you guys always compare, look at what they're doing at the top of the mountain, not what they did on the climb to get there. You guys go, "It must be nice. It's fantastic. They're so lucky." See that? And that's when all of that shows up. When you are given the list of demands for greatness, for exceptional, that's when most people cash out, tap out. That's when they say, "Forget it." They rewrite their story in real time and trying to convince everybody, including themselves. I didn't want that anyway. I see it all the time. Listen, I have an acquaintance. He's not really a friend because he's weird as [\h__\h] I'm not No, I don't want to be associated with weird people that don't have the same drive as me. You have to think about that, too. My wife and I were talking and we actually looked at our circle of friends and there were people that were in our circle very recently that we went, "You're gone." Because it is non-stop disruption of the way we think, of the way we act, of how we conduct ourselves. Our circle of friends is so small because they all have the same desire to be great. Not to talk about becoming great, not to tell you how great they are, but to become great. When things get hard, it's always the same. I didn't want that anyway. Not everybody wants to win. [\h__\h] Everybody wants to win. That's why losing hurts. Some of you guys take this as such a personal attack because the reason you take it as a personal attack is because I am talking about you because you quit. Everybody wants to win. They just don't want to bleed for it. They just don't want to work and grind and crawl through the trenches for as long as it takes to get there. They want it without the pain, without the struggle, without the suffering, without the silence, without all the pressure. They want it without all the risk of becoming someone worth remembering. You don't want to put in the risk. This is the problem with right now. And that's why this I my one of my buddies, really good friend of mine, attorney, he he said he goes, "Dude, how?" Because in today's modern age, how do you have an audience? Because everybody here is soft as [\h__\h] And he's right. It's not my message. It's that you're soft. Your little soft pillowy ears can't take it. Everybody who's winning knows exactly what I'm saying is true and they have no problem listening to it. I have more listeners who are crushing success than I do people who want to get there. Most of you guys that want to get there, you want someone to give you permission to stay where you are, but then go, it's okay, you'll win eventually. Just keep doing what you're doing, man. You're good. Keep sleeping in. Keep You can snooze your way all the way to success. You can take breaks. You can have balance. Balance is how you become successful. It's ridiculous to say you shouldn't have balance to gain success. [\h__\h] So, what you guys do when you meet that wall, which is the wall of work, everything required, the list of demands from becoming exceptional. It hands it to you and says, "This is what's required of you. This is my list of demands before I release the hostages." 98% of you guys build a life that you secretly hate. You build a life you secretly hate and then you go around convincing yourself and everybody else that it's good enough. Your 2.3 kids, your 40,000 a year, your 15year car loan at 8%, your nightly Netflix routine, your vague feeling of anxiety that you drown in alcohol snacks or likes and follows on social media. When someone like you starts to pull themselves out of the dirt that you're in, and you look at them and you're like, they got the same life as me. When you start training, when you start scaling, when you start sacrificing, when you start separating yourself from the herd, you become attacked. So when you see somebody doing that and all those low frequency people at the bottom attack. So if that's you and you're climbing out of the dirt and all your friends are trashtalking you and you're getting nothing but hate online, it doesn't matter. They're all pulling. They're telling you, "Why don't you stay where you are? You got tenure in this job." Whatever it is. Do you have the life that you want? Because if you don't have the life that you want, you better get to [\h__\h] work because you only get to do this once. Who cares if people are attacking you? And it's not because you're wrong. Rather has nothing to do with you. You're not wrong. When you get attacked, see, most people negotiate with exceptional, right? I'll do a little bit of it. Can I get part part exceptional? These are the people that live beyond their means. just to look rich but aren't rich. They polish every picture they put on social media to make sure it's perfect. They talk more than they do and they make promises that they can't keep or they just bail on every promise. This is the problem. When you start cranking and you really become successful, even if you're just slowly starting to climb out of it, you lost 10 pounds out of the 100 that you need to. You made your first 10 grand and your friends are still making $2,300 a month. You're going to get attacked. You're attacked because your commitment exposes all of their lies and cowardice. And you need to come to terms with that. Like your life isn't highlight real. It's a culmination of scars and lessons and pain and struggle that have made you stronger. Right? It's the cost of becoming exceptional. It concerns me because people don't get it. It's not a highlight reel. It's not this slew of work hard still grinding Instagram captions. There's an actual damn price to becoming exceptional. The reason that you haven't won yet. You guys come up with some reason. It's because of my trauma. It's not because of your trauma. It's not because you're broken. It's not because you're still healing. It's not because you're not engineered that way. You're designed more for healing than for grinding and all that [\h__\h] It's not your genetics. It's not your mom, your marriage, your dad, your metabolism. It's because you keep getting off the damn road every time somebody tells you that it's too far, that you have gone too far. That's what happens. I want to make every average mediocre coward in the room pissed off, angry, uncomfortable, and triggered all day. If that's you're you chose to be a [\h__\h] and I hope that makes you mad. You do not want to be mediocre. You do not want to be average. But yet, you keep validating to the world that's exactly what you want. You didn't want that success anyway. Not everybody wants to be fit and rich and happy. Everybody wants success. Everybody strip away all the lies. Everybody like you said at some point in your life you wanted to be great. You did. So what happened? Really? I'm asking you what happened. You should pause this and answer what happened. [\h__\h] I don't know. Spartan. I decided to be a [\h__\h] You hit mile 14 and you took an exit. That's the problem. I'll tell it's a rhetorical question. You started the business and then you pivoted because instead of 16our days, it had to be 20. You went all in on your fitness until your birthday or Thanksgiving or Christmas. You had a plan. Here's the problem. The second that life said, "Show me what you got. See, if you got ice water in your veins, you got titanium in your spine." You went, "Let me." You didn't fail because you're not good enough. Everybody listening to this began the same way. You failed because you weren't willing to stay in the fire long enough to see it work to get the outcome you want. You want to listen. Do you know what greatness and being exceptional really is? It's staying on the road while everybody looks for the exit to salvation. It's ignoring comfort and applause, acknowledgement, acceptance, approval, distractions, and advice from all of the idiots. All of you Insta guru morons out there that haven't built anything but want to convince everybody that you have. Show me your bank account. I'll show you mine. You show me yours because I know what mine looks like. All of you that go out and talk about what if I'm as successful as you, would you listen to me? No. Cuz you're not. Just because you take a picture at a rented condo and you took a thousand of them, I want to see receipts, man. Because people like you are dime a dozen and you're all liars. And here's the problem. All those people show up and question you. All those people show up in hate and ostracize and try and cancel you. And that's where most of you guys collapse. You guys start saying, "I don't really want to be rich. What am I going to do with all that money anyway? Freedom. I'm just a simple person, man. I just want the simple life." Not everybody needs to be shredded, bro. So, they have no worth when they're not shredded. Your worth is directly proportional to your fitness and your level of achievement. If you think you're valuable sitting there a buck 50 overweight or talking about how many problems you have or how you feel defeated or how you just can't get over this cardiovascular issue or how you just keep procrastinating or lying or stuffing or you talk about this fast that you're going to do and it's going to clear out everything or all the other [\h__\h] that you come up with and you just oh I just want to be present for my children. All the excuses none of that is contentment. That's a concession. It's a funeral for all of your drive, ambition, and goals and everything you said you would do. That is a funeral for that. And it's all disguised as I'm working on it. Or balance. Every single man who said, "I don't want to be great." Used to dream about becoming exceptional. You did when you were a kid. You did be somebody on a video game, lift something, carry something, run something, buy something, build something, whatever it is. until you realize that building an empire would mean sacrificing your circle, your weekends, your comfort, your validation. So, you flipped the script the wrong way and you re you rewrote the goalpost, right? You told yourself that choosing average was noble and righteous and it was good for your family. It's not noble. It's not righteous. It's not good. It's not beneficial to your family. The people that suffer are the people that you love and care about because they look at you and go, "We have to support this loser." Because it's our dad or it's my husband. Except some of you. The number one cause of divorce is finances. By the way, it's not noble to sell your goals. It's lazy. It's cowardice. Spill all over my chair. Like you guys, you think you're different because you put your phone in a box or you journal or you meditate. You listen to I said it the other day like Kenny Jean and you think you're just like ah you listen to whatever Phil Wickham from he's a great gospel singer but that doesn't make you a good person just as much as listening to me death makes you a bad person. It's just music but you think you're different because you journal and you meditate. Meditate for half hour night, bro. Transcendent. That's fine. But listen, when it's time to show the [\h__\h] up, when it's raining, when you're broke, when you're sad, when you're sore, when you're angry, when like hell, when your wife leaves, when you've got nothing left and it is just you and the darkness, what happens then? What you quit? Is that what you do? Take the nearest exit because you just can't hack the pain. You feel defeated. I feel defeated, Spartan. Yeah, me too, man. Many times. But I don't give myself an option. There are no exits on my road. Why are they on yours? Cuz you put them there. Nobody else did. You put them there by listening to other people saying it's okay to take an exit. You're listening to the wrong people. It's exactly why I built my mastermind. Nobody in my mastermind is going to let you take a road off. No exits. They'll say, "Get back on the road." But if you quit, it's not until, it's when. Until I'm exhausted, until I'm too tired, until I'm too broken. No, you stop when you're done. My buddy Bedros always says, "You get paid for done." But I'm not just talking about money. Life pays you for done. Brandy and I have been dealing with two major things. One of them has been three and a half years, millions of dollars, just a disaster. We stayed in the ring. This entire thing just kept coming at us every angle possible. There were a couple of times where I said, "I don't know, man. Is this worth it? You don't think it happens to me? It always happens to me. I just never listen." And that's where Brandy and I are the same. Remember what I said? Opposites don't attract, they entertain. Like attracts. Brandy and I are identical. So you guys, you're like, "She's my yin to my yang. You're a [\h__\h] Give you 5 years and you're divorced." Or you're miserable and you're lying about it. Those are the only two options. Either you guys are the same or you're not going to last. Or you are staying somewhere and hating each other for 95% of the time. Those are the times that Brandy said, "No, if we stop now, what was it all for?" She's right. We finally came out the other side. There's some light now, right? Not done, but there's some light. On the other situation, it was trusting in in in a person. And we went all in on this person. This dude, we went all in on everything this dude said because it was it came from a place in sincerity. 13 months later, nothing. Zero. So, we went, "What are we doing? We're wasting time. I have the same issues as you." But we didn't go, "Great. Now we're screwed." We went, "What do we do now? Get up." Taking the exit is looking for any reason to stop. No matter how hard it is, it's going to be hard. It's going to be difficult. Dude, you guys, I woke up missing a lung. I went to bed with two lungs and I woke up with one less. I know what difficult is. I had to relearn how to breathe. The first time I flipped upside down for a handstand push-up, I was pretty sure that I was having a pneumothorax. My lung was collapsing. I was pretty sure of it. I knew I was going to suffocate every time I went outside into the garage. Middle of August, Texas. The air is thick here, man. Didn't matter because I'm going to go because I can. has nothing to do with what I want to do. I'm gonna go because I can. Because I want, even if something happened to me, I want to make damn sure that the memories that my wife and my son and my daughter have of me is that their dad, he really never does quit. Because that's a lesson they'll never forget. And you know what they saw? They saw me suffer and cry and fall apart and keep going. I never missed a single workout, no matter how upset or angry or sore or tired or sick or anything I was. My kids call me a superhero for real. They do because it's earned. What do your kids call you? So, you take that accent. That's why you're not great. You might be great legend in your own mind, but you ain't a legend. That's why nobody's clapping. Nobody's approving. You're begging for it from all the other people that they're just the scrapings off the grill at the bottom. That's why you hate the guy in the mirror and tell yourself that you're being realistic. I'm just being realistic, bro. It's your reality, though. See, a man is defined by his relationship with voluntary suffering. Voluntary. Not because you don't have a choice. You volunteer. Put me in, coach. I'm ready. No matter who's on the other side of that arena. To desire greatness is to accept the burden of being misunderstood, mocked, hated, ostracized, ridiculed, and quite often exiled. You will be exiled by the very people that you spent your time with, and it'll surprise you. The cost of transformation is quite often alienation, and most men can't bear it. So, they fold. They settle. They shrink. They counter in the corner filled with disgust and loathing but never doing a damn thing about it. Deep down that fire doesn't go away. Your goals don't go away. You can't hide from your own mind. And so what happens is they become resentment. You ever notice people who say, "I don't care about winning." are the first ones in the comments hating on people who do. Why are you in the comments hating on people who are winning, then fat bastard? Let me help you out because you wish you were winning. You wish you were the person on the video. You wish you were me. You didn't stop dreaming because you evolved. You stopped because the pressure exposed the bitching. Maybe just get honest with yourself because you built a story around it. All of your quitting just to stay comfortable in the same place that you said you'd never settle for. You guys built a story around why you are where you are, even though it's where you said you would never settle. So, how about this? I'll just ask you straight up. You take an exit. You convince yourself that not wanting it was more noble than not getting it. You think they're the same. You defending average because deep down you're ashamed of quitting on your own greatness. You have seeds of greatness that were placed in you by God. Every single human being has. This isn't to shame you. This is to wake you the [\h__\h] up. Where are you convincing yourself that you're content when the reality is you're just avoiding all the discomfort required to be great? You're ignoring all the struggle and pain that is demanded of you to change your circumstances. Where are you going? Nah, I'm doing good, bro. You make sure you hang around people that say that, too. Yeah, you're doing great. Most of the time you hang around everyone else that you are slightly above or at the same level, but you never hang around with people that are doing better than you because it exposes your weakness, your cowardice. You think this is it. You think that the people around you are suffering. They're not. They're happy enough. They're happy enough to stay, to scroll, to tell themselves, "This is awesome. This is actually a really great life. I'm doing better than they compare now. This is fine. I'm doing awesome." while everything in their soul and in their mind is screaming that it's not. And that's why they'll never be great. Greatness doesn't come to people who are satisfied. It's never the good enough crowd. Greatness is reserved for only one person. The one who is absolutely disgusted by what average looks like in their own life. And if you re label average to make yourself look great, you're also a liar. Motivation, that's not when you become great. People like, I just got to be motivated, man. You don't need a motivation seminar or motivation podcast or read motivation books. That's not when you become great. You don't become great when everything's a sunny day or things are going great. You become great when you look around at your life and you decide that it is no longer acceptable to breathe inside this version of yourself. Most men won't do that. You know what they're going to do? You guys defend average like it's a [\h__\h] Olympics and you're going for a gold. Like, you guys just get in the ring all day, man. You're like, "Dude, I'm Mike Tyson and I'm going to defend average all day." What are you nuts? You guys throw participation trophies. Like, it makes me nuts. Like, you expect them, but you expect them from the safety of your couch. I want one. I want to participate. You're sitting on your couch, big ass. What are you doing? At least I have a job. That's You guys, the lines that I've seen come through social media, I'm actually blown away that some of you guys defend average so vehemently. At least I have a job, bro. A lot of the population is unemployed. Why are you comparing down? At least I'm not 80 lbs overweight. I'm only 60 lbs. Okay. Eating a piece of [\h__\h] and licking a urinal are both bad. Which one's worse? You You guys go, I'm really bad. Let's compare to something worse. That's what idiots do and that's what liars do. That's what cowards do. At least I have a job. My kids are healthy and they love me better than you, bro. My kids adore me and my kids are super healthy. I have real wealth because my kids love me. My wife loves me. She would love the jacked rich version of you even more if you stayed the same person and adored her. But I know that if you're fat and sloppy and miserable, she doesn't love you because you're a jerk. But you guys go, that's what really matters. I have the love of my family in poverty. The same people like, "Well, money isn't everything. My marriage isn't perfect, but at least it's normal. My marriage is epic. I married my best friend. I really did. I read a quote sometime. Never marry your best friend because when the marriage doesn't work, you lose both your best friend and your wife. What does that mean? And I'm sure some of you are going to listen, I'm done being polite. I'm going to tell you the truth. I'm gritty. I'm edgy. And I tell you the truth, and I hold you accountable because I expect more from you than you expect from yourself. Because I know what you're capable of. Because a translation of all of that, my kids love me. At least I have a job. My marriage isn't perfect, but it's normal. You know what the translation of that is? I've accepted a life that I don't want, and now I'm going to shame you for refusing to do the same. I'll just call it out. The people who choose mediocre contentment, it's a great word, huh? Contentment, they didn't choose anything. Like the people who choose to be content, they didn't choose anything. They settled. And now they're selling that settlement to you as wisdom. There's no wisdom there, man. None. They want you to believe that being broke, fat, out of shape to be politically correct. [\h__\h] politics. Fat, tolerated in your marriage, and forgotten by society. No, it's not. That's an embarrassment. It's a mask for fear. You throw it over yourself and go, "I'm terrified. I don't want anyone to see it. And fear sells more than ambition ever will. Just to be clear, I could sit there and scare the crap out of you into taking some kind of medication. You could use smallox as a vaccine. They went around trying to sell this [\h__\h] vaccine. I'm probably going to get pulled for saying that word. They tried nice and it was like a 10% commitment compliance. Then they went around with a picture of a child covered in separative pestules. 95 98% compliance. Would you want this to happen to your child? You better get jabbed. Fear cells doesn't mean it's right. Like you are surrounded. Look around you. Look to your right. Look to your left. You're surrounded by people who tried one time and they failed. They cried. They whined. They sat in the dark and then they built an entire identity around never trying again. Now they walk around like motivational speakers on social media for mediocrity. They get followers. It's all of you loser [\h__\h] [\h__\h] that sit there and go, "Yeah, they're absolutely right. I don't hate my life. I love my life." And you go home and scratch your big belly and watch the next Netflix series. You hate your life and you know it. Don't push too hard. Life's about balance. That's what they say. No, life's about becoming the baddest [\h__\h] version of yourself while everybody else sits down and claps for their limitations like a harbor seal. People are not only capable of selfdeception, they depend on it. That is a terrifying thought because the alternative is too brutal. That's why the awareness that they've betrayed their potential. That's the problem. You will sell that selfdeception all day because if you didn't, you betrayed your potential. You know it. You weaponized being okay. But you did it to rationalize the collapse of your higher aim. Everything that you wanted. So you weaponize being average, but not just against yourself, against everybody else who's trying to succeed, who's doing whatever is required. And you hate on them. You hate on me for being the best version of myself. Go ahead. I'm giving you the tools to do it and leaning on you to go there because you'll be a better version of yourself. The byproduct of becoming the 10.0 version of yourself is the happiness you so desperately crave. You chase happiness so then you can become the higher version of yourself. That's like standing in front of the fireplace and going, "Give me some heat, then I'll give you wood." You convince yourself that discipline is obsession. That it's selfish to sacrifice. And if you are striving for greatness, your ego is far too big. and that any kind of pressure to become exceptional is toxic. All so you can hide from the uncomfortable reality that you quit. You quit the game before you ever even played. You walked up to the field, looked out into the arena, nope, I'm out. I'm really happy where I'm at. No, you're not. You're just not miserable enough yet to change. problem is it might be when you're 80 because you make sure you hang around people that are just as miserable as you. So, you guys all just sit around, but you're getting there. Don't worry, you're getting to that misery. If you're Here's how it works, and I thought of this the other day. I actually did a podcast maybe about two months ago on this. You're 100% stuck. That's the truth. If you are 80% sat and most people are, most of you guys are 80% satisfied. That last 20% like 10% satisfied, you are 100% stuck. But most of you guys are about 80% satisfied. Your life hasn't changed. Needle hasn't moved. But because that last 20%, that's the fire. That's the drive. That is the engine. That is the methane that you put in the engine. You stomp on the sky pedal and it snaps your neck with acceleration. That's the part that knows it was made for more. That you see in the mirror one time and you just [\h__\h] I just know I can do more. It keeps you awake at night. That's the voice that you keep silencing every time it speaks up and says, "Hey, how about we do this for real this time, man? Stop muting it. If you want greatness, if you want to be exceptional, then you're going to have to trade everything that makes you happy enough for that life that you say you were born to build. Most of you guys told your spouse. Have you made good on every single promise that you've made to your wife? Have you made good on every single promise that you stood there and you talked in front of God? You said, "I promise." And you rattled off all this stuff and you guys set these big goals and dreams. 25 years later, you are a fat bastard in a double wide with a wife and a mumu. that both of you guys are failing and neither one of you wants to hold each other accountable while you justify how you're doing better than the family in Little Rock, Arkansas that lives in a yurt. What comforts are you protecting knowing that those are the exact reason why you haven't reached anything that you want? What ones? Because you got this coward gene in you. I think that's the problem. You need to dissect yourself and remove that. just go in and do it. Because this is the clarity around this. Most people didn't kill your dream. They just took an exit. And the exit was before the work even started. The number of times people try and achieve their goal is less than one because they talked themselves out of before they even start. You still want the money. Do you know why? Because it gives you the freedom to do all the things you wish you could do that you look around and go, "Boy, that would be cool." You were the guys that go, "It must be nice. I wish I was that lucky." Doesn't matter when you start. You still want the admiration. You still want the respect. I did a whole thing about respect. You still want it. You still want to be envied and remembered. You want people to look at you and go, "Yep, that guy's got his [\h__\h] together. You still fantasize about who you could be." And you know it. You're just not willing to pay. The people that think like this, they didn't quit because it was impossible. They quit because it was inconvenient. It took you away from the life you're in right now. And that life is where your comfort is. It's too risky, man. That's what you guys say. It's too risky. It's going to take too long. Why? I have kids now. I have to wait till they leave. I have to pay for college. When you have all these excuses, it's not realistic anymore. They said I would never do a whole laundry list of things. One of them was running. You guys have seen me run. They said I would never train. Do you have any idea? Just watch me train. And it's not to brag. It's to say, "Fuck you. Bet against me. I will show you what I'm capable of because you don't say who I am. God does." You're the list of demands from exceptional showed up and you went, "Oh man, you I want the mansion. I want the life." Yeah. the cars, the money, the freedom, whatever it is, till you saw that it came with 100 hour work weeks. Came with the decade of irrelevance. Nobody even knows who you are. Whole lot of silence when the world is looking at you and laughing, mocking, hating, comments, bitterness, anger, everything at you because you are still doing it and they can't stand it. So what you guys did is you built a little shack and you call it your little dream. You convince others that it's better because you have balance. You're a liar. You're a liar. You know the truth that most people are going to just gag on this is they didn't fail. They chose not to become who they said they were going to be. Now you spend your entire life justifying all the decisions to stop moving by saying that everyone else still running is toxic. obsessed, overwork, sacrificing too much, doing too much. You know who says that? People who bought the dream but refused to pay the price tag. Got repo. Those are the people that wanted to be respected until they realized respect is bought with years of suffering, voluntary suffering. They wanted the money till they realized that money doesn't come with a clock out time. You don't punch out. You don't have set hours. Money comes with done. They wanted to be great till greatness showed up and said, "All right. Here's my list of demands. One line. Everything else has to go." That's what greatness comes with. The list of demands, just breaking this down in my head, the list of demands for greatness and for exceptional is one. Everything else has to go. That's what greatness requires. Don't argue with me. Jesus did it. And if you go, I'm not trying to be better than Jesus. No, you were built in the image of God. What's your excuse again? Like you started the run, didn't finish it. Why? Cuz you got tired. Cuz it got hard, got quiet. People stopped clapping and cheering you on. They cheered at the beginning. 2 days in, they're like, "Fuck, I'm not going to cheer for this guy anymore. He's actually doing it." Hey, news flash, Buster. Let me help you. Nobody claps for greatness and progress ever. Nobody's looking at somebody on the build phase clapping and going, "Yay, you do it for us." That's only in the movies. They only show up at the finish finish line. And if you need cheerleaders to stay in the game, you're weak. I have a guy right now, he just signed up with my coaching program. I think he's with the wrong program because I think he needs a cheerleader. And I might just give him his money back and say, "You don't belong here. You don't want to be great. You want someone to convince you it's okay to stay where you are and get a little motivation pep talk every Saturday." I do three calls. Saturday is psychology. Sunday is business. Anything from automation. If you listen to what I tell you, you will make a lot of money. I don't care what business you're in. And Monday is a Q&A. Throw any question I you got at me. Anything from health, cancer, business, money, relationships, injury, throw it all at me. Ask me quantum physics questions. I'll figure it out. But most of you guys, you got out of the race, man. Because you needed Oh, you need you guys validation. That's why you're still broke. Like, you guys don't even get it. It's 6:00. It's date night and somebody's going to hear me say that and go, "Yeah, bro. You should have done this earlier. You should be inside with your wife." I committed to doing this. You know what my wife would say if I didn't do this? If I said, "I decided not to do my podcast today." She'd go, "Who are you? That's not my king. That's not my Spartan." That's exactly what she would say. Because that's the man she respects, not the one who taps out. You guys think your wife respects you more for tapping out? She's testing you to see if you stand your ground and go, "No, I'm doing this cuz I said I would." There is nothing more sexy to a woman when the man keeps his word because that means she can count on me. She knows it. She sees that and goes, "You know what? If he says he's going to do something for me, he's going to do it. So do it." I I am so disgusted by people who procrastinate, validate, lie, and come up with reasons why it's going to take another month, another year, another week, another day. There is always another I'm almost there, bro. I have a couple more things. I am so disgusted and done with people like that. You guys need to get away from those people, which is exactly why I built this circle. And yet still, Unbreakable Mastermind, then keep complaining and looking for the quick fix. Look for the next AI automation to make you rich. You should keep going. Don't worry, I'll need somebody to work for me at some point. I already have a bunch of people working for me. I You want a job and if you can commit, I'll help you out because you're not going to be successful by yourself. But most of you guys, you got out of the race because you needed all the approval. You need all the validation from everybody instead of yourself. And the validation, the work instills the worth, man. That's a fact. Which is why you're still fat. You're still stuck. You're still broke. You're still alone. You're still rubbing one out to the dumbest weirdest [\h__\h] on earth. A man's failure to persist towards the noble aim that he has c created for himself. It's not due to the impossibility of the aim. It's due to the intolerability of personal exposure. Because your path will reveal your inadequacies, all of your blind spots, including your addictions, your fragility, your lack of discipline. That's what gets exposed. And rather than walk further into that fire and go, "All right, I will forge myself into something new." Most choose to exit and reframe the goal is unrealistic rather than admit their inability to endure. That's the difference between exceptional and everybody else. It's when people go, "It wasn't meant to be." Because you never meant to do the work. That's why it was never meant to be. Because you never meant to become the version of yourself that could have done it. You opted out. You didn't get cheated by anything. You want to look in the mirror? That's who cheated you. your fat, pudgy ass face. No, I'm done being nice, you guys. Oh, listen to this guy. What an [\h__\h] Okay, call me an [\h__\h] I'm still the [\h__\h] you need now. Cuz now you guys explain that decision with the same enthusiasm as a third place bowling trophy. So, what do you do? You stop lying. You're welcome. Stop lying. Stop pretending that you gave it your best. Stop telling your kids, your spouse, and yourself that it just didn't work out. No, you dipped. You didn't work out. You folded. You got tired and you walked off the field like a [\h__\h] You took a knee before the game even started. What's awesome? That dream inside you never died, man. You just abandoned it. So, it's still there. Which means if you're still breathing, if you still have breath in your lungs, you can still turn all of this around. I don't care how old you are. You can turn all I started at 48 all over again from zero. But the only way you can do that is if you're willing to look in the mirror and say, "The only thing between me and everything I want is my own refusal to stay on the road." Where'd you take the exit, man? That's what you need to Where where where'd you take the exit? You know what I would do? I would go, what would it look like if I got back on the road with zero exits from now on? Nothing. I have to stay on it or die on it. Just you got to stay on it. what would your life look like? Because every goal, every vision, every dream, every drive that you've ever had is still alive. You don't forget it's still there. The problem is it lives at the end. Remember I talked about this a long time ago. The kingdom at that empire at the end of the road. That's where everything you want is. And you have got to get there. And there's nothing but fire and demons and everything trying to stop you. Friends, family, neighbors, everything is trying to get in your way along that road. But there are no exits unless you listen to the ones and they open them up next to you. There's an exit. Come on. But that dream is still there, man. But it lives at the end. It's not along the way. It lives at the end of that road that you keep leaving. You don't need more vision boards. [\h__\h] your vision boards. You don't need more vision boards or more support. You don't need another motivational reel on social media telling you to tap into your power. You need to stay on the [\h__\h] road. And when I say stay on and stay on that road until that kingdom, that empire is yours. I didn't have a choice because I refuse to give myself a choice. There are no exits on my road. I'm nowhere near where I want to be. But I promise you, I'll get there. That's not motivational. It's for me just to remind myself, hey, Spartan, keep your ass on the road. I already know there's going to be pain and struggle. There's going to be fire I have to walk through. Get back on that road. stay there until the kingdom is yours. Until you get that usurper off the throne, the version of you that's sitting there lazy going, "You're never going to get this, man." And you take that [\h__\h] off that throne. That cuz that is who usurped your throne. And you swing that sword through everything in your way. Dismember every Goliath along the way until you sit there on that throne. And your kingdom, the one you want, it's not anybody else's vision. Don't you dare make a goal or a vision for somebody else. Make it yours. You can include people in it, but you cannot hold a goal for another person, which is hard being a parent to be honest because I have goals for my kids, but they're my goals as their father, not their goals. All I can do is say, maybe look this direction, but I can't sit there with a vision board or writing them down or telling God to give them that goal. They have to do it just like you. But you guys need to get back on the road. Not visit, not go for a little lazy Sunday drive, not journal about it. And definitely not visualize with some cleansing sage. Own it. Own it. Let me be very clear though, and I'm going longer than I thought, but you guys need to understand this. Maybe you'll listen to it, maybe you won't. I don't know. But you won't own anything until you're willing to walk past every single exit. This is hard exit. The I'm tired exit. The they're talking about me exit. The maybe I'm not cut out for this exit. The you know what, my wife doesn't support me exit. The someone triggered my trauma exit. The God probably has another plan. Have I gotten them all? There's a bunch more, but that's what you guys keep throwing. Burn them all. Burn them all. Because every time you take one of those damn exits, you trade eternity for relief. And relief is the biggest scam in the world. It doesn't free you. It resets your suffering back to zero. It's like starting a business when you make your first 10 grand. Man, you I'm just not making enough money. I'm going to start a different business. You just started at zero again. Are you insane? You still have to carry your failure, but now you've got no progress to show for it. What is wrong with you? Stay on the road. You want the life, the money, the legacy, the body, everything. You want to walk through the gates of your own empire with your head held high and the fire behind you cuz you went through it, then stay the [\h__\h] on the road. You don't get to skip the miles just because your feelings got hurt or bruised. You either walk until it's yours or you die with a soul full of excuses and a legacy of nothing. You know what separates the one who wins from the one who posts about alignment? Miles, reps, years, isolation, rejection, pain, struggle, suffering. The one who wins keeps going while his mind breaks 50 times and his body says quit 100 more because he understands there is no timeline to greatness or becoming exceptional. There's only the threshold of who's willing to stay until it bows to you. So choose. It's your move. The lie is that you inherit a throne. You do not. The lie is that it's just given to you. You do not. You earn you take it by force. You earn it through the voluntary endurance of suffering in pursuit of a higher aim. That is your life. Always a pursuit of a higher aim. The refusal to exit is an act of selfrespect. The mature acknowledgement that your destiny is built not on what you feel but on what you finish. Please remember that. You want to be remembered. You want to be a legacy. You should. By the way, I want you guys to message me and go, I'm going to change a [\h__\h] world and then do it. Start somewhere. I don't care where you start. Start at the bottom. Still do it. You want to be remembered, then stop quitting every time life calls your bluff. It's going to It doesn't matter. Stop quitting. Then there's no bluff to be called. You don't need better luck. You need to armor up your skin. greatness and exceptional, they don't reward the practice. They don't reward the effort. They reward relentless pursuit until completion. So honestly, this is it. You got a road. Everybody has a road. You got a road and you got a storm. And you got enemies, distractions, and setbacks. and every single reason to take an exit. That if you stay in that fight and bleed forward instead of retreating, if you pass every single turnoff like your your name is on the dead end of that road, I I promise you. I promise you this is a voice from God's mind and my lips to your ears. I promise you. And one day that road will become your kingdom. And you will walk into it knowing one thing. They tried to stop you. They failed because you didn't. What would your life look like if you just removed every psychological exit and committed forever to building what you said you were born for because they will show up. You will have enemies. They will ostracize you. They will ignore you. They will discount you, try and dissuade you. They will hate you. They will throw stones and insults and try and knock you down in every possible way because of their position, not yours. Everybody looks at you through the same two lenses. Your position in their life and their position in yours. When you start to elevate your position, it makes them incredibly uncomfortable. I've said it many times. If you want to see who's really on your team, start putting points on the board. You've got to stay in that fight and bleed forward. It's the best way to look. Bleed spill your blood forward so you still know the direction you're going. And remember when you get there that they tried they tried to stop you. And every one of those [\h__\h] failed because you didn't. I got to go. Never miss. This is where we fight. This is where they die.