I come out here to my studio and it's a recording scu studio, a big recording studio. And a lot of times I talk to God, right? I talk to God a lot. And a lot of times I I ask God, "Give me some wisdom, man. What do I say? How do I help people?" And so today there's a couch and some chairs and a piano over there and bunch of lights and cameras, big old TV. And it's really wicked in here, actually. It's pretty wild. My my wife and kids helped me put this all together. But I started thinking. I'm 52 years old and I did a workout today and it hurt. Headache, tired. My kids were not happy that they had to work out and my wife was tired and she was out there, but we all did it anyway. And I thought about that when I was sitting here and I realized that life is painful. Life is painful. Stop trying to avoid that. We're being taught that that you should avoid the pain of life. In fact, the here's what happens if you like you need to stop trying to avoid it. That's that's a cross that you will never be able to carry if that's what you're doing. Because the more you fight against it, which means the more you're hiding and using various escapes and distractions to prevent yourself from having to deal with the pain of life, the more the pain shows up, the louder it gets, the worse it gets. And if you're trying to avoid pain your entire life, but yet you wish your life were better, you're an imbecile. You can't do it. Growth growth hurts. But it's deeprooted biologically and that we have to strive as human beings. It has been placed inside every organism to conquer and create and overcome adversity. That's how we are. Because if you find anyone who's stagnant, they are not a happy person. In fact, they are they're stripping themselves of who they are physically, mentally, like everything about their life is in chaos if you do that. You can't do it. Growth hurts. Does life feel overwhelming sometimes? Of course. Absolutely. Does Does life not go out of the like out of the way to do damage to you sometimes? You bet. Do things not go the way that you want them to? Absolutely. Absolutely. Is life out to get you? And this one, every time I bring this one up on a podcast or in front of an audience or on a call or whatever, this one creates chaos in the conversation. Is life out to get you? Yes, without question. Life is trying its hardest to take all you have and all you are in order for something stronger to grow bigger and stronger than you. And the same goes for whatever that bigger, stronger thing is. Something in life is hunting whatever that is. Life is designed to reward the strongest and punish or eliminate the weakest as and and we as humans have gone and flipped that on its back. See, look at the world right now. Listen, please listen to me. This is important for you guys to understand. Now, society c and this triggers people. If this triggers you, you're part of the problem. Because now society celebrates the weakest, rewards the most useless and worthless who don't contribute whatsoever, and demands that the strongest bend a knee, take a knee to those who couldn't beat them on the battlefield in order to facilitate a better, more positive mindset for the weak. But the weak know that they're weak. And this is where people get all, oh, here comes a bearded, bald guy talking about masculinity. But that's not what this is. This is strength. The weak know that they're weak. The strong are being told that they're not strong. The strong are being told to hide it. Sure, listen. The weak know that they're weak. You can tell someone who's weak that they're not. you can fluff them and stroke their egos and and until they're almost delusional about it until it comes time to prove themselves and then they're simply exposed by their own inability. That's why I always say when I see some Insta coach tell their audience how they've made over six figures a month consistently for over a decade without fail. Show me. And it's not the I demand proof. It's that your life doesn't show it. Because nine out of 10 times the life they're living in is an example of exactly the opposite. I see it a lot in this new coaching space that's been taken over the look at the internet. Look at the internet. It is nothing but everybody's a coach. Everybody is a mindset and a fitness coach or the fit pro gurus who tell you how many millionaires they churn out of their program each year, but they're living in a in a little rundown rental beaten down like dis just disaster of a home. They're destroyed emotionally and physically by a divorce where the wife wore the pants in the entire relationship. That's almost being celebrated and it's being condoned and it it's just that's the problem. Weakness is tolerated and life takes advantage of that. It's the [\h__\h] in the armor. So yes, life is at war with you 24/7 365. Something in your life is right now trying to take your life away from you. It's trying to take away what you have or end your life. And people have now become so delusional that they believe that they should succeed at monumental levels without suffering any pain. Not going to happen. It's not going to happen. Life is brutally difficult by design. And once again, current society says, but you don't have to endure any of you don't have to endure any of that. In fact, you shouldn't have to endure any of that at all. You shouldn't even have to endure any of that. And actually, think about it. This is what I'm This is why it's so screwy, right? Current society is telling you don't have to endure any of that pain. You don't have to at all. In fact, you shouldn't have to endure any of that pain. And actually, by even attempting to endure the pain and overcome adversity, you're actually moving in the opposite direction of success. Struggle and pain have no point in life. That's a load of crap. That's a load of crap. Anyone who's ever genuinely been successful will tell you how ridiculous that sounds. I'm telling you, it's ridiculous. But the ones scrambling around looking for these easy DIY do-it-yourself millionaire books, courses, and YouTube videos or paying these highric coaches whose lives are in complete shambles are the ones who say, "Yeah, that's spoton. I shouldn't have to endure anything. In fact, this should be easy. It should all just come to me. spend three days in the bush with a pharaoh rod even or two flint rocks, a tarp and an axe and nothing else and you let me know what shows up in your world. Everything's going to want a piece of you. I promise. Nature hasn't changed whatsoever. God hasn't changed his demands of you either for that matter. humans, mankind has reduced the requirements, which makes mankind for the most part extremely weak by choice. We weren't always like this. So, I'm here to give you the tools to change that and do something about it because you're a ticking time bomb otherwise in order to be, do, and have whatever you want to ring out of this life, which is God's vision for you, by the way, to become the highest version of self, the highest version of yourself. In order to do that, you need to know what you want it all to look like. You need to know why you want all of it and you need to unshackle the beast that's inside of you in order to go to war with life without any one of those three things. You cannot succeed. In fact, you will actually increase the amount of pain that life hands you. Like what is your reason? You have to ask what is your reason for unlocking that beast? It's in everybody. What what's the reason for unshackling that beast? Because you're being told to lock it up. And by what's your reason by that? What is your reason specifically? Not some reason that you need to say on social media. What is yours? Your reason. What is the meaning for your life? What is your purpose? What is your vision? And that kingdom that you're walking towards on the horizon, the one that you see that God put there that he just burned into your soul. Because without that, you have no purpose in your life. And without purpose in your life, you can't create a consistent schedule for your life which will eventually corrupt you because white space in your life. The devil is sure to appear. Nothing good happens when nothing is being done. The vision that you have is based on the sacrifice of something in the present for something that's much better in the future, in your future and the future of others. To be honest, I sacrifice a ton of things right now for a better future for my wife and my kids. But that vision comes with the pain of acquisition. And that pain is currently being taught as something unnecessary and even something that's destructive when in fact it's the opposite. The byproduct of your avoidance of something right now is the strength. The byproduct of that is the strength that you acquire both psychologically and physically and the benefit of the gain of something so much better in the future in your future. Instant gratification is how toddlers operate and the world is full of toddlers dressed up playing adult right now. All being told to avoid any and all pain. What people are doing right now is let me get comfortable here because I'm about ready to just go off. I'm going to drink some of this here. Coke Zero. Judge me all you want. What people are doing right now is they're avoiding what's required in order to gain what they desire. yet their psychology still wants whatever that is. You still want your target. You still want your goal. You still want that kingdom that is on the horizon that's placed there that you should be walking towards, but now they're not getting it. So now you curl up in a little ball mentally and you brace yourself for catastrophe because you don't have the safety of direction. Now you try and protect yourself from everything all at once. And that puts such an immense load on you both physically and psychologically. It's so demanding of you because you again live in fight, flight or flee or freeze rather because you have no idea what to do when you're like that. You just know in your own tiny little lizard brain that where you are isn't where you want to be. In fact, it's extremely unsafe and you need to prepare and hide all at the same time. All because you are being told that pain is a bad thing and nobody should have to endure any of it. So here's the most basic fundamental problem with all of this pain avoidance nonsense. It's just this [\h__\h] The building blocks of your own psychology are predicated on punishment and reward and the stress associated with both of those. So now you're being told that you shouldn't experience pain, yet it's required for growth. So now you don't grow. But social media shows everybody else growing further and faster than you are because that's how it's designed, right? FOMO, fear of missing out. So now people get in their little groups that support each other but never challenge each other. like my unbreakable mastermind. It is the barrier to entry are is two things. The investment financially you have to make in order to even cross into where the round table sits. Excuse me. And the commitment to never miss. That's it. I don't want the money as much as I want your commitment. But the subsequent result of all that is that everybody in the group holds everybody to the highest of standards. That's not how most groups are. Probably 99.9% of groups out there. That's what I was saying. People get in their little groups now and support each other, but never challenge each other. Everybody in the Unbreakable Mastermind is challenging each other to help each other grow. And we're challenging each other as we jockey position all the way up the mountain. And that's what builds a stronger community. That's what builds a stronger person. That's what you did when you were a kid. Like between, I don't know, 1 and five, all you did was wrestle and like challenge all your friends and your peers. That's what taught social social skills. By the way, if you screwed that up, there's no help for you. I'm going to tell you that right now. We could go into the psychology and the research behind that, but it doesn't matter. It's very difficult to come to unwind that. But now, people get in their little groups to feel special. So, they feel special, but they aren't special. There's the fat group, the depressed group, the trans unicorn koala group, the single dads who've decided to be women group, the victim group, the overwhelm group, the Prozac group, the Paxel group, the entitlement group. I like I could do this all day. Yet, most, if not all of these groups do two things. They look at others that have what they secretly want and wish it were them while hating on their success and they watch other people succeed for entertainment like things like celebrities and athletes and stuff like that. So, they're still partaking in success, one with bitterness and disdain and the other with entertainment. Both are weird forms of escape, by the way. You know that they're all coping mechanisms. If you're in one of those groups, you're hiding from everything you want because of two more things. There was a lot of information in this vlog. You're This is If you're in one of these groups, listen, you're hiding from the pain of uncertainty, the discomfort of moving out of your current environment where you know without question that you can repeat your actions and get the results that you're getting right now, even if they suck. and you're hiding from the pain of being seen to fail by those around you and judged by those people who then might not let you back into your little circle. This is why a person who is willing to stand alone is a very dangerous person because they can't be manipulated by anything or anybody. They can't they can't be overrun by anything. They can't be controlled because they have a purpose. They know their purpose and they're willing to do whatever it takes to fulfill their purpose which is that kingdom on the horizon. They are solving their life equation all the time. Micro and macro. The macro is that one at the end. The micro are all the little things that show up. But they are constantly working to solve their life equation on the right side of the equation. Not define why they can't do and combat the adversity and catastrophes that are going to show up. The struggles. The pain of climbing peer groups is the pain that must be endured in order to succeed in anything. It's that basic. You'll listen. You'll eventually become better than those in your current circle. You're not I know you're not supposed to say that, right? You're not. Nobody is better than anyone else, which obviously isn't true because there are plenty of people out there that are better and worse for that matter. So what? That's life. Eat or be eaten. Kill or be killed. That is life. That is nature. It has never changed. Mankind is [\h__\h] that up psychologically, not physically. See, but now it's become such a negative environment towards the evolution of character that whenever somebody becomes a better version of themselves, they're attacked and ostracized, which for the most part causes people to stop and run back to that same peer group that they can't stand being part of. So unless you're willing to endure the pain of growing out of where you are into a new place, you can't succeed and you'll be trapped where you are. In order to evolve and climb that mountain, you need to become strong enough through the pain of growth. There are three areas of pain in your life. Just three. The pain of our physical world, right? The fact that as I said it in the beginning, everything is trying to kill you, right? Everything is trying to kill you. You can be unwilling to subscribe to that. It doesn't change the fact that it's completely accurate. I live in Texas and I can promise you that if I go to sleep out in like we're on a huge piece of land with bush and trees and swamp and all kinds of stuff. We have water moccasins and rattlesnakes and scorpions and tarantulas and coyotes and all kinds of [\h__\h] trying to kill you. But I can promise you that if I go to sleep on the grass in the bush in the middle of the summer with nothing but me on the grass, I'm going to awaken with something trying to eat me or I'm going to be dead. That's the first pain. the pain of the physical world. It is always trying to end you. It is trying to either take something from you or end you completely in order to make something else stronger. That is nature. That is the first pain. It's going to hurt to grow. It's going to hurt to do things. It's going to hurt to evolve physically. You're being taught to avoid that. By the way, the second pain is the war and struggle we have against our own little peer group and those doing less than we are. We're never attacked by people doing more than we are. And within our own peer group, a lot of people, whether you like it or not, are sitting behind closed doors sticking pins and little dolls of little effiges of you, hoping that you fail. They're holding their breath waiting for you to fail. It's a very uncomfortable reality for people because people go, "No way. My peer group's the best." I'm right. People doing less will inevitably attack those doing more. Hate and attack never comes from above. It comes from below. But you have to be willing to endure negative opinions. Trash talk, avoidance. Most of the time, to be honest, you have to extricate yourself in the circle because they're the prison that you're locked into. But right now, a lot of people value the opinions of others more than their own. Are you insane? Listen, I love that you're here listening to this, whoever is listening to this right now. Thank you very much. And I hope that you get some value out of this and you evolve and level up with every single vlog or podcast that I'm putting out because that's why I'm doing this. But I value my opinion of myself more than all of yours combined. I don't give up. [\h__\h] what you think about me or what you say I should or shouldn't be doing. I don't [\h__\h] care. I care about what I think I should be doing in my opinion of myself. But that's that second pain, right? The war and the battle against our own peer group and those doing less than we're doing. It's another pain. Most people struggle with that one the most. And the third is that little voice inside of your own head that will tell you to go where you're accepted even if you don't want to be there. See, you challenge yourself to stay. Listen to me. You challenge yourself to stay in the muck and the mire. Because once you're older, here's why. Once you're older, you remember the times you've been betrayed by your own actions. For lack of a better explanation, your own actions. You were betrayed because things didn't work out for you. So you remember and you become bitter. And the last one, that's why people hate on the success of others because for many of these people mo like most of you guys that are thinking that they're delusional about how much they put into what they were trying to change and it didn't work. So now they want to hurt everyone who got the result that they wanted to achieve that they didn't get. But if you look deeper, just do this for yourself. If you look deeper, you'll see that they endured more pain. The people that achieved what you haven't where you're under the lie that you did the same amount of work. If you look deeper, you'll see that they endured more pain than you did. They were willing to sacrifice more than you were. They were willing to zero it all out in the present for a future that blesses them. The difference between the successful and everyone else, which are the losers, is the willingness to endure the pain and stress married to climbing the mountain every day, knowing full well there's going to be another mountain behind it. and I want another one behind it. You just keep climbing. If you look at why you aren't where you want to be and why seeing someone else on that in that place makes you angry and bitter, it'll always be because you feel that you did enough. So ask yourself, did you do as much as they did? Really look, did you do as much as they did? Did you do it for as long as they did? Did you get back up as many times as they did? No, you didn't. No, you didn't. You didn't. The deep look into yourself and where you stopped and why you stopped is the ant answer to why you're not there. And it'll always be one of those three areas of pain. The world we live in is constructed in such a way that unless we're I said this at the beginning, unless we're constantly pushing to achieve the next level, we're punished. Except in order to achieve the next level, you also have to be willing to be punished. And right now, it's being said by the m the majority of the ecosystem that you should never have to be punished. You should never have to endure pain. and it all should just come to you. And if it doesn't come to you, it's their fault, not yours. Flip the script. That's not it at all. It's your fault, nobody else's. So to achieve the next level, are you willing to endure the pain? The choice comes down to where the punishment comes from, right? It comes down to I'm thinking of the best way to explain this. It's the pain and the punishment is between those who haven't achieved and wish to see you fail the same way. That's the first punishment, right? The bitterness of other people and that resentment of other people who have under the illusion that they have done just as much as you have and yet they don't have what you do or the cross placed on you by God that will become heavier with regret if you have a stagnant life. Those are the two choices of punishment you have. You do not have a choice whether to be punished or not. You have a choice of where it comes from. The way you become a stronger person is by moving towards the life that you want and seeing the progress as you do it. It is self-reinforcing. The more progress you make, the more you want to do it. Because the closer you get to that kingdom that you have built for yourself. Would you rather get to that kingdom that you have designed on the horizon when you're 30 or 75? It's up to you. And if you say, "I'm already 55." You're missing the point. The more you're willing to endure, the more you're willing to sacrifice right now, the more you're willing to zero out right now for a future that's blessed, the faster you will get there. You can't do that if you're in a group that demands that you stay as you are, where you are. The results of setting a goal and hunting it with absolute ferocity is that along the way we become a better, stronger character. We become a better, stronger version of ourselves. Like I said the other day that the target on the wall, if you remember, the target on the wall isn't the real goal. That's just the bonus. The real goal is who you became on your way to hit it because you had to become that person. If you remember what I said, if you go, what would a person, what would this type of person do in this circumstance specifically? the type of person that I strive to become right now that I have as a role model that I want to become. It's the what would Jesus do, right? What would they do right now? And if you're not doing what they would do, step up. But the more you do that, the more you become that person, the less you are the person you are right now, the more you evolve, the stronger of character you become. So it comes back to the same thing. The only way you hit your target, that one that you're hunting right now, whatever they are, the only way you do that is by solving your life equation, which means your willingness to endure the pain of life. Hope you got something out of this. I'm going to go hang out with my wife. I'm starving. It was date night yesterday and I'm still recovering from fasting. So, hope you got something out of this. Never miss.