All right. So, I pay attention to my audience and the meter is spiking hard on this one right now. I'm looking up at the right. I was debating on what I was going to talk about today. And usually I just come out here with some kind of an inkling, but I've gotten a lot of questions honestly in my black card group. I had three, four people ask me, "Hey, can you do something about this?" And then I've had a ton of questions from you guys when I say ask me your questions. And just so you know, ask me your questions is so I can give you the solution, not something hypothetical for you to just decide. That was really cool. Is there anything easier? It's to give me the answer. So you actually have the answer and you can go and solve your problem and move on with your life, right? Not keep going to some therapist or specialist or someone who knows more and more about less and less. And today I'm going to I'll give you the full layout on mold toxicity. Everything from A to Z, where it comes from, what it does, how to solve the problem, all of it. We'll just go from cover to cover. Is that how does that sound? Sound all right? Because I think people you don't understand that this it's little black spots, those fuzzy little bastards that you see in your bathroom or whatever, that's responsible, just so you know, for more human suffering than any viral pandemic you've ever lost your marbles about. Listen, dismantling lives, destroying families, the medical establishment's best answer is to tell you to go buy a dehumidifier and take a damn Claritin. That's pathetic. That is pathetic. So, listen. I have one job on this podcast here today, and that is for the next however long I'm on here, I'm going to do what your $1,000 an hour, your $3500 a month longevity and wellness doctor is failing to do. Absolutely failing to do. And I'm going to give you an actual diagnosis, not some label. I give you a mechanism and I'll dissect the single greatest unagnowledged public health crisis of probably the 21st century. And I'm not using psychology today articles or any garbage like that. Biochemistry, immunology in plain unadulterated intellectual violence against the ignorance that is right now the medical establishment and the medical industrial complex. the idiots out there that are telling you what to do with your health and don't know how to be healthy themselves or they just charge you an obscene amount of money to give you a label and then slap a prescription on you. Like your fatigue, your brain that feels like it's been shot with a scatter gun. It's just Swiss cheese in your gut that is pretty much a daily violent storm in your heart that is arythmic, right? Just flutters like a little trapped bird in a cage. Not mysterious. And it's not all in your head. It's inside your walls. It's under your carpet. It's in your house. And it's in your damn cells. That's what mold toxicity is and everything you've told about it is some BS yet again that they keep trying to sell you on. They sell you on the fact that it's an allergy and that is that's it's some allergic overreaction. No, it's not. No, it's a Listen, I'll even explain that. That actually pisses me right off. Your an allergy is your immune system misfiring at a harmless protein like pollen. False alarm. Mold toxicity, chemical warfare deployment. Listen, toxygenic molds like stacobatus, aspergillis, penicyium, they don't just exist. They absolutely attack your system. They produce micotoxins, not as waste. They make these as a weapon. These small, stable, lipid soluble molecular ballistic missiles that are designed for one single purpose, to disrupt biological function at its foundational level. It's not your body being hysterical. It's your body being poisoned. And let me tell you, this mimics all kinds of things that go on that they treat you with drugs that do not work that make you worse and create a whole new library of symptomatology and pseudo diseases that you don't really have. The difference isn't semantic. It's the difference between treating a sneeze and treating cyanide exposure. And I'm telling you right now, you know what medicine's doing? Panning out tissues for the freaking cyanide. Yeah, it makes me mad because I lost a lung. Okay, that's not like I take this incredibly seriously. between Remmes Desir and the mold from that cockeyed crooked contractor who did nothing and wiped out my family financially destroyed my wife's dreamhouse. I saw my wife crying almost every day. I still see it's been 5 years that this jackass is still trying to hide the truth about how he decimated our life. Cost me everything, including how many years I'm going to be on this planet. I am I lose a lung and come out of a hospital in a wheelchair because of a tumor that's this big in my chest because of remmes and a house that is so filled with black mold that the walls and the insulation were black and he did nothing about it and then turned around and sued us put a judgment on us for almost well and now it's over a million dollars for his problem because he wants to bury us. You know what I think should happen? Everybody on the planet that is with an earshot of this should go and look up this Lucian Tujac Jr. T U J A G U E J Jr. Lucian L U C I E N. And just see I don't care what you can go give him a hug if you hate me. Knock yourself out. I don't really care. Just see what kind of a [\h__\h] this guy is and look up his name and see how many lawsuits he has going. 20. How many his knee-jerk reflex is to sue everybody that comes against him. See exactly all my legal paperwork's on there. You go look it up. I have I have no shame. I'm not hiding a damn thing. There's 200 pages of legal documents. You can just go look them up. It's public knowledge. Go look them up. I don't care. That's the thing. I don't care. Find the judgment. Find all of it. And then understand, look at all the stuff out there that shows exactly what we went through and the hell of that and how he did nothing but tried to ruin our lives and is still trying to do it. Toxic mold. So, this is a real tender spot for me that makes me go, I'll go to war because I want to make sure nobody else has to go through that hell because what started off as the sniffles turned into a fight for my life that is on display for the world to see because I wanted my kids to see that their dad doesn't quit and my wife to make sure she saw that her husband is never going to quit until my last breath. So, whatever you want to take, what you want to take from that's on you. But I promise you this. If you still haven't figured out that I come out here and this is as real as gravity, you're never going to get it. I don't come out here for me. I don't come out here to go buy my products and go get my stuff and I have a Black Friday sale. You know what? I don't have a Black Friday sale. You know what? I don't have a volume discount. You know what? I don't have an affiliate code. You know what? I don't give away shaker cups and free memberships and all kinds of nonsense like that. You know what I do? I give you the answer so you have a cure for your problem because I care. If you saw the amount of material that I read all the time and the years and the decades that I put in to make sure I'm the best at this to make sure you guys have the answer, I don't want you to have to look for it. I want to just be the guy that says, "Here, just do this. There's your answer." And most I've never met anybody like that to be honest. And I'll just say it. Never. So go ahead. Buy from Elite Biogenics or don't. I say it every podcast. Join my black card or don't. I only take wires for my black card. So, if you can't put it on a credit card and that bothers you, I don't care. You want to join the black card, it is $9,997 to the business account. That's one year. And once that year's over, you're going to spend 10 grand a year to maintain it. Everybody who doesn't join, here's my promo. Anybody that's in it has gone, "Holy crap, this is the best thing I've ever done." Why? Because I actually care about my people, man. Like I want people that you get answers that you guys keep waiting a year and a half to just get shuffled off to another specialist. F the specialists and the liars that just want to give you another drug and another label and make you feel like we're just managing your decline, aren't we, Mrs. Jones? Get out of here. I'm going to solve your problem and make sure that you can go on and have the best damn life God put you on this planet to have. The end. I take this incredibly seriously. So all the other idiots out there making noise and pointing fingers and whatever they're doing, even the people that try and trash talk me, are you out of your mind? I don't talk about anybody because I just don't care. If you are one of those dirt bag wellness clinic or longevity clinic doctors that are ripping people off with your pseudo whatever it is, your pow-wow and your wigwam and your little sprinkled goat powder and your dried blood crystals and whatever other nonsense you're selling people and your laundry list of things that you know nothing about. just to sell people endless supplements that you keep changing around on people all day. All this stuff to make it seem like you're doing something and you're not getting any results. It's because you don't care. Yeah, it makes me mad cuz I actually come out here every day cuz I care. What are you guys doing? If that's you or you want to be influencers that go out and say, "I don't agree. This guy's an [\h__\h] Tell him to go with what is wrong with you? What is wrong with you? You guys should be out here helping people. Cuz if you have the knowledge, it's your obligation to help people, not to go out and try and hate on anyone else. Don't get mad because I'm smarter and better than you are and I care more than you. I put a lot of time and energy and life into making my heart this big to care. Believe me, I've been through hell and I've been very open about it. I haven't hidden a damn thing. All the screw-ups, all the shitty things I've done, all the great things I've accomplished, they're all there on display. I just don't care. I want people to have the best life because I know what the shitty life feels like. So, if somebody goes, "Oh, here he is on another rant." Then don't listen to me. Go find somebody that gives you the answer right away and realize that answer is probably a lie. I want people healthy. I had a guy I told you on my call. This guy Todd literally choked me up. You saved my life. I don't know him at all, but I love him. Do you have any idea what that feels like to actually hear that from somebody and it's real? It's not, oh, you so totally saved my life, bro. If you guys don't get why I come out here, you're never ever going to understand how much this means and how deep I am in this to make sure you have it. Listen, I I'll get back to them. Mold. You want to join the black card, send a message supportpartan armylc.com. No, I don't have any weird sales or anything like that. It's either 10 grand or it's not. You'll stay at 10 grand for the rest of your life if you stay. Everybody else said, "Once that promo stops, whenever I decide to stop it, 25,000 to get in and two grand a month to maintain it. And even that, it's cheap. Look at how much time and money and energy you've spent on trying to get an answer for the last however many years and you haven't. I have messages from people that say they don't have type two diabetes anymore. I don't know. I love you guys, but some of you guys need to get your head out of your ass. Stop chasing fantasies and just start going, "This guy really does care. He's gritting. He's edgy. He cusses sometimes. A little harsh and abrasive sometimes. He has rants, but he actually gives a crap. You bet your ass I do." Let me explain. Let me go back to the black mold that this cuz I'll be out here all day. And it's date night. You know what? It's date night and I want to hang out with my wife cuz I love my wife Brandy so much. The way mold toxicity works is actually it's pretty genius. If you were going to create a weapon, and this is a frightening thing to say, this is a better way. Cuz let me explain how the invasion works cuz this is full Delta Force Chuck Norris oozies on his side. If Scott Atkins, right, like just comes in and if you don't know Scott, the guy Scott's a stud, man. Like Scott Atkins is my boy. And he just comes in and just starts ninja kicking the crap out of everybody, right? Like just this is how it is. But it does it at a molecular level. Micotoxins are lipohilic. What that means is they're fatloving. So what are your cell membranes made out of? Phosphoipid blayer fat. And how about your brain? Please, I want you to understand the physiology you have. Your brain is 60% fat, which is why high cholesterol is a lie. Your nervous system insulated by myelin. What do you think that is? It's fat. See, these toxins don't they don't knock on a cell's door. They don't kick it down. They're not even violent about it. They dissolve right through the wall. They are the universal key. No receptor required. They are inside before the alarm even has a chance to sound. That's how nasty these are. Once across the border, their mission is just twofold. Sabotage and absolute destructive arson. Let me explain how this works because I'll go through each of these. I'll go through the sabotage and I'll explain the arson so you understand what they do. They the they have this mission. The sabotage is essentially mitochondria. Remember the mitochondria, right? The little power plants, the nuclear reactors. This is my universal sign for nuclear reactor, right? It looks like I'm doing a woman, but it's like the cooling towers. If you've ever seen my three-mile island or they beline right for the mitochondria, right, those little power plants, they target specifically complex three of the ETC, the electron transport chain, uncoupling phosphorilation. And you know what the result is? The energy production line just seizes up. The ATP output disintegrates, plummets. But here's the worst part. It creates this catastrophic, this is the problem that a lot of people aren't going to understand. This is the problem. It goes, it creates this catastrophic backflow of electrons that erupts as this tsunami of ROS's, reactive oxygen species, super oxide radicals, peroxides. So, it's not just turning off the lights. It's blowing up the generator and then setting power or setting sending fire to the power plants. That's just the first thing it does. That's bad enough because if you understand my three biological failures, ATP shortage is one big one, right? Along with insulin resistance and systemic inflammation. Wait, here comes the fun part. So the arson problem, inflammatory, right? The NLRP3 inferno is the problem, right? These toxins activate that inflammosome. This isn't a little inflammation, you guys. This is the launch code for systemic conflration. Conflration is a big giant fire. NLRP3 activation. It triggers this cascade of pro-inflammatory cytoines. The same ones I talk about all the time. IL1 beta, IL TNF alpha, IL6. This is a it's like a 10 alarm fire that hits every single tissue you've got in your body simultaneously and chronically. This is why it's such a it's such a [\h__\h] to get rid of. Your body isn't fatigued, you guys. It's not. It's a city that's under a perpetual blackout and it's burning to the ground at the same time. So, your brain is pretty much ground zero for all of this stuff. It's the most energy dependent and fat-rich target on the map. So, it's just like where do we go? Right there. D just goes right there. So it creates the same thing that happens with things like Parkinson's or multiple sclerosis that gives you a big energy famine, right? So neurons consume a staggering amount of ATP, adenazine triphosphate to maintain membrane potentials, right? And fire action potentials and facilitate synaptic transmission and all the things that they do. Micotoxin induced mitochondrial failure starves them. This is the non-negotiable biochemistry of brain fog. By the way, it's not a feeling. It's a power outage at the cellular level. And here's watch the bloodb brain. Follow me. I'm going to go through all this. The bloodb brain barrier is this tightly regulated border control. Micotoxins particularly through that inflammatory cytoine storm that's going on increase its permeability. That's not a good thing. The gates are breached. And now not only do the toxins get in, but a whole bunch of other inflammatory mediators and plasma proteins flood the neural tissue. This is this is the pathophysiology behind anxiety, depression, the migraines that feel like somebody's stabbing you with an ice pick right in your temple. This is why it so perfectly mimics multiple sclerosis and early Parkinson's with the rigidity and the tremors. It's creating the same exact same neuroinflammatory environment. The first thing you should be checking is not to run out and getting get a test or god forbid go on dopa, right? Holy are you out of your mind? Check this first. What do you got to lose? Right? What do you have to lose? You check this first. You do an hermy test and I'll go over that in a second. Tests 36 different I'll explain it in a second anyway. And then it jacks up your neurotransmitters. So the glutamaturgic system goes bananas. Excess glutamate is what happens, right? Excess glutamate, which is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter leads to excytoxicity. So neurons literally exciting themselves to death. Meanwhile, GABAurgic function, which is your main inhibitory calming system, is pretty much turned off. So, your brain is stuck in a state of redlinined, maxed out, panic mode, overdrive, and no breaks. That's your insomnia. That's your sensory overload. All that hyper sensation you've got, calling this brain fog is like calling a nuclear meltdown a little warm glow. No, you get these, all of this starts with the lungs. So you breathe in the spores and the lungs designed to be the entry point for oxygen and the exit point for gas gassing off toxins becomes the entry point for this entire biological siege. the alvolar macroofagages which is the elite security detail in the alvoli and right the little sacks right we've got bronchiolesules and alvoli and stuff they swarm the spores so they engulf them they're doing their job and then the micotoxins do this they detonate inside them and these macrophagages undergo bryoptosis which is inflammatory cell suicide so it they rip open and they dump their entire inflammatory payload directly onto your lung tissue this is the direct cause of that permanent chronic sinusitis The cough that won't quit. The feeling like you've got a wheelbarrow full of bricks sitting on your chest. There's more. Oh, I'm not done. This gets all kinds of fun. This is why this is such a devastating thing and why I've learned so much about it cuz it pisses me off and it almost cost me my life married to the other things going on. Right? Understand this is no big deal. This isn't or this isn't something to laugh at. This is a big damn deal. So, at the same time, mast cells are activated at nuclear levels and they degranulate and they flood the tissue with histamine, alucotrien, prostto glandins. This isn't seasonal allergy stuff. This is a constant localized chemical attack masquerading as the number one thing I see in the world with clients and patients. Asthma. But it's not. How about your heart? This stuff trashes your heart. Remember, your heart is this tireless muscle inside your chest, right? Constant. It just demands ATP, non this insane supply of ATP, just like the brain. Micotoxins starve it. So cardiac meioytes with dysfunctional mitochondria can't contract with the same force cuz they're they're gassed out. The heart's conduction system which is reliant on very precise ion gradients maintained by you ready for this remember what is the funding of every action in your body everything even this conversation what is the funding for that ATP heart's conduction the cascade of signals and the conduction the calc voltage gated calcium channels all the things that happen it's very like I said it relies very heavily on ion gradients and it's maintained by ATP dependent pumps it becomes incredibly unstable this is here's your physiology for palpitations arrhythmias pots postural orthostatic tyic cardia syndrome which I'm starting to see a lot of which is concerning me. It's not a nervous condition and you're not hyper stressed and you sure as hell don't need an anti-anxiety. It's an energy crisis in your primary pump. That same systemic inflammation damages the vascular endothelium which is the smooth teflon's arbitrary teflon like coating of your blood vessels. It gets sticky. It's like velcro is the best example I sticky and inflamed and very prone to plaque formation. And now your heart has to pump harder against a more stiff, more resistant, less compliant system. So watch hypertension, atherosclerosis, it's all downstream of the inflammatory fire. 70% of your immune system, by the way, is in your gut. There's your battlefield. I know some of you guys are like, "Wait, I thought you just said it was a lung problem. It wasn't a brain problem. It's a human biology problem." So it essentially is breaching the wall, right? Micotoxins directly attack the tight junctions between interosytes. I talked about these in leaky gut just the other day which these are the cells that remember one cell thick that's your gut lining before your between your sewer pipe and your vascular system but the interosytes are those cells that line your gut zulin levels skyrocket and the gates tear open and you get leaky gut now undigested food particles lipopolysaccharides from bacteria right the LPS's and a whole bunch of more micotoxins flood your portal circulation this is the single biggest driver of systemic immune response just so you know now here's the crappy part. Micotoxins are broadspectctrum antimicrobials. This isn't a good thing. They don't care if it's E.coli or Lactobacillus. It doesn't matter. They napal the entire microbiome. This is what allows a whole bunch of bad things to happen. The carnage of overgrowth of these pathogens like candida and SIBO, right? small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, if you didn't know what SIBO stood for, which leads to the bloating and the cramping and the pain and the erratic bowels of IBS. And here's the vicious cycle of the whole thing. The liver in its effort to try and be helpful because it's going to do its job conjugates micotoxins and then dumps them into bile. This is the this is the most, like I said, this is genius in a devastating way. It dumps them into bile for elimination. But in the gut, bacterial enzymes often deconjugate them, which makes them fat soluble again, allowing for this is so crazy. It's so wild. This is how smart this is because now it allows for reabsorption. So this is entrolypatic recirculation. This is a very sinister merrygo round of self- poisoning. Just keeps coming back. It's like a revolution inside your system. Mold toxicity doesn't just give you symptoms. It engineers the three fundamental preconditions for virtually every single chronic modern disease on the planet. I've talked about this so many times. I'm not wrong. In fact, I am frighteningly accurate with this. Systemic inflammation, right? The cytoine storm, the same ones. I don't need to name them all up. Directly phosphorilates insulin receptor substrate one. It's IRS1 on serereine residues. But here's why this is a big deal. It blunts insulin signaling. And you, nobody would ever put this together. They're like, how are micotoxins doing this? Just like I said, this is the primary mechanism of insulin resistance. So you can be eating a steak and kale and still become metabolically dysfunctional because the inflammation is blocking the signal. The ATP shortage, remember it's just three things. All 100% of diseases are because of these three things. ATP shortage, universal mitochondrial dysfunction. No energy for cellular repair for detoxification pathways, right? Phase one, two, liver detox becomes completely crippled for immune function for nothing. This is the bedrock of chronic fatigue and failed recovery. And then look at the feedback loop from hell. Inflammation causes and this is disgusting. Inflammation causes insulin resistance which further impairs cellular energy production. So now the lack of energy ATP prevents the immune system from mounting any respectable effective response whatsoever to quell the damn inflammation. It's a self- sustaining biochemical doom loop and it destroys you and it's labeled as a disease that doesn't even exist. This is Listen, I'll give you the I'll give you the playbook, but you need to understand some of this stuff. This is how a moldy wall behind a refrigerator or a bathroom wall becomes type 2 diabetes or becomes heart disease or becomes autoimmune hell. So listen, this is so important and I'll even give you the top the common ones. The most common toxygenic molds are stacobatus tertarum which is the black mold right aspergillis like flavvis and versaolor penicyium chryogen. You don't need to see them or say them or learn how to pronounce them or anything like that. They thrive in these hidden places behind walls, under floors, in the HVAC system, and after pretty much any water damage in your system. Don't buy a water damaged house ever. If you're a contractor that goes, "That's not true. I can get all the mold out." Really? Apparently, your eyes can see micro microscopic organisms and microscopic spores and spores and mold. Cool. I have pretty good eyesight. I can't see that. So, let me know how you do that cuz that's pretty badass. I want to know. And we do tests. We know. Really? You test for every single cell? Got it. Here's the issue. At the beginning, I was talking about an hermy. So, let me go over that really quick cuz testing is non-negotiable, but air sample tests are useless. Useless. You need an environmental relative moldiness index test. It uses DNA analysis and it uses this to identify and quantify the mold species from a dust sample in your home. It's pretty much the gold standard. So, know your enemy. Mold is, you guys, mold is notoriously difficult to treat because of its brilliant and rather sinister biology. And I'll explain so you get it. We've heard the word bofilm. Mold colonies create this protective sy matrix called a biofilm. These are composed of extracellular polymer substances and they shield the mold from your immune system and from antifungal agents. So if somebody's dumping antifungals on you saying it's going to work, you need to go the other direction. It's like a medieval castle walling off the enemy inside. And they're persistent. Micotoxins are incredibly stable. They survive extreme temperatures, scorching, freezing. They're not destroyed by cooking. They can persist in the body, stored in fat tissue. They create this chronic reservoir of toxicity and they're most of them are immunosuppressive. This is I told you how crazy these things are. Some kind of dark weird person. This is where I would start to cause problems. I would not be looking at a virus. I'd be looking at this. Most micotoxins like tricosines from stackobatus the that's a mcotoxin directly immunosuppressive like disgustingly immunosuppressive. They inhibit protein synthesis. They prevent your immune cells from proliferating and mounting any effective attack whatsoever. The is systemically and actively disarming the enemy that's sent to destroy it. So your immune system doesn't work. This is watch. And this is I've seen so many symptoms that people are being labeled with. Doc, god, you doctors and you freaking labels. I've been a doc for a long time. I don't look for labels. I look for a solution. You guys are like, let me label it and go on chat GPT and find out what my medical version of Chad GBPT and it tells me what drugs I can give people. These are their symptoms and you guys aren't helping anybody. First of all, above all, do no harm. And most of you guys are above all doing all the harm. And second of all, you guys aren't giving anybody anything but a new label and some identity based on what you want to give them, based on a whatever some pharmaceutical rep paid you to do or bought you out. I don't care if you want to tell me that doesn't happen. It happens every day. It's aggravating to hear the lies because if it the world isn't getting sicker because the diseases are getting better. The world is getting sicker because the solutions are being hidden. This is why millions are misdiagnosed, you guys. The systemic inflammation and mitochondrial damage caused by mold creates symptoms that are textbook for a whole bunch of other conditions. A CFS, chronic fatigue syndrome, utter mitochondrial failure, fibromyalgia, which is married to CFS, systemic inflammation, and central sensitization. So, you put these together and it is a living hell for people, multiple chemical sensitivities, so compromised detox pathways right out of the gate. Autoimmune diseases, there's a ton of them. immune system confusion from constant skinny pedal to the floor activation, anxiety, depression. So, we've got neuroinflammatory responses and neurotransmitter degradation and disruption, IBS, leaky gut, direct gastrointestinal damage. I could do this all day. That's how many things that this mimics. You're not crazy. You're toxic. And not the kind where the woke people like you're so toxic. You're toxic. You are a walking chemical dump. Eating mold toxicity is a siege. You have to simultaneously I'll tell you how to do it. Eliminate exposure. Bind the toxins. Pair the damage. You cannot skip step one. By the way, no protocol will overcome constant exposure. None. It doesn't exist. You cannot bulletproof yourself against something like this. You just can't. Here, part of me just wants to This is frustrating, man. You don't get it. So, let me explain how this works. What did I say? remove yourself first then because if you keep treating yourself and then like you keep going, "Hey, I keep getting uh I keep getting knocked out and I get traumatic brain injuries every time I get in the ring with Mike Tyson and every time you get and then every day you get back up and you go get into the ring with Mike Tyson again." You keep treating the TBI. The problem isn't the TBI. The problem is the idiot that keeps getting back in the ring getting knocked out by Iron Mike. So keep that in mind. You need to get out of the environment. And I'm tired of people going, "We treat houses for mold exposure all the time and we have 100% success rate." That's right. You know why? Cuz dead people can't leave reviews. Stop lying, man. Not going to happen. Burn the house down. It's all you've got. If there is any in your house, it's over. It is there. It is almost improve. I have no sympathy for this. And if you're like, "Not all of us have this option." Yes, you do. Go live in an apartment until you can afford something. Go find a place. Live in a yurt. Live in a tent somewhere in a warmer climate. Come here. I got a giant ranch. You can put your tent up on my ranch and I got a lake that you can fish and it's stocked to the max and there's more than enough stuff to hunt here in Texas. Knock yourself out. I just don't want you guys to suffer. There's no point. So, you move and then you have to bind this stuff. So, you can use prescription like Welchol and stuff like that, but you don't need to. That's a waste. Just use natural binders, activated charcoal, bentonite clay, use and then BPC-157, which has a remarkable ability to protect and heal the gut. Just so you know. No, oral does not work ever. Here's the likelihood of an oral peptide working in your body. The likelihood of it actually having any bioavailabil bio bioavailability whatsoever. Zero. Zero. I don't care who it is that says it. I don't care how many degrees they have. They failed practical biochemistry and human physiology. It is impossible. I don't care what they do. I've gone over this so many times. So, please stop telling me that orals work for you. No, they didn't. You have a placebo effect and you are getting a reward for the routine, not the results. Your blood work will say otherwise. BPC57 heals the gut lining. I told you 70% of your immune system is in the gut at minimum. So you need to handle this. So it's going to reduce permeability while it aids binding. That's why I would take these two together. For my kangaroo experiment, of course, you need to repair the system and handle the immune systems. This is where specific targets actually come like work. So SS31 targets the inner mitochondrial membrane, the damage, the cardipin, reduces reactive oxygen species production, it increases ATP synthesis. It is pretty much a direct antidote to the primary mechanism of damage. Methylene blue electron cycler in the mitochondrial chain. It bypasses all the damaged complexes and it restores energy production. It remember the traffic jam between complex one and cytochrome C. What you have to do is you have to get through and clean up that damage so you can actually get the ATP to produce otherwise it's just a hot mess. It looks like spaghetti of electrons. So this restores energy production. NAD+ literal fuel for enzymes sertuins that repair they repaired the cellular damage the mitochondrial damage. You need to do this because you're nothing is going to heal you. You're going to but you got to get all the crap out of the way. You need to recalibrate your immune system because the immune system's gone completely haywire because it's been on the skinny pedal non-stop trying to figure out what the hell is wrong. Thyosin alpha 1 LL37 powerful immunomodulators. They don't just boost the immune system, they make it smarter and they help downregulate the NLRP3 inflammosome and the cytoine storm, which is what I talked about at the beginning. And it actually enhances defense against real pathogens, not this. So remember, if your immune system is under constant attack, it's running at full throttle. Eventually, it runs out of gas, but it runs out of gas faster because your ATP isn't being produced. So, you get where I'm going with this? That's why there are these three biological failures, why they cause disease. So a pathogen comes in, invades, could be anything, and you get sick when normally you wouldn't because your immune the tea cells will come along, go, "Yeah, you're going to die." Except now they can't cuz they don't have the energy. So they're slogging through the swamp trying to get to the pathogen and they can't do it. So this is why you need to handle this cerebral neurotrophic peptide that has it's like brain miracle growth for your brain. Repairs neurological damage from all the toxins and the trauma. Supports neuron growth, supports repair directly, BDNF, right? That's the whole issue behind the whole thing. DIP and you can use slank but I prefer DIP if I was if you were my patient and I was going over all this with you. DIP it regulates the HBA access and the neuroinflammation. It addresses the anxiety and all those sleep disturbances that come with Oh, you didn't know that, right? Yeah. Wow. Mold toxicity, sleep disturbances up the wazoo. And then you need to heal the system, which means you need to crank up that BPC that I talked about at the beginning. It's going to promote the angioenesis which is the blood vessel growth of tissue repair. It's going to help recovery of not just the gut, which I said at the beginning, repairing those tight junctions, but the brain, the vascular system. TB-500 is going to work with this incredibly well for cellular repair, actin polymerization, reduce the inflammation. You're still not done. This is how damaging this stuff is. So, after the fire is out, you need to rebuild growth hormone secrets like CGC 1295 with DAC growth hormone secrets, right? So, tamarillin would be your best bet. Second area would be CJC with DAC and IP Pamarell and married together. You don't take those apart unless somebody specifically tells you to like me that knows what the hell they're doing. This will rebuild lean tissue, improve sleep quality. It's going to support the overall cellular regen once, but only this is why this is compartmentalized. It's segmented. This is all once the toxic load is reduced, right? Don't no MK-677 or anything like this. Just crank up your appetite too much. You need to handle the metabolism M C. They target metabolic repair crmpk pathway. So now you make more ATP 30 to 40% reverses the insulin resistance created by the inflammatory state. Remember M C makes you violently insulin sensitive in a great way. It just like sucks glucose right into the muscles which is where it's supposed to be. It helps with fatty acid oxidation of muscles. It combats all the fatigue issues and then cleaning up. You need to handle the cognitive problem and get rid of that residual fog that's going to hang with you for a while longer than you think. Racetimes are usually your best paracetam hydroide and anorasetime and mix them with alpha GPC so you have colonergic support. That's going to give you that that cognitive bridge during recovery. Now this is the one that most people don't lean on and probably wouldn't understand if they didn't understand physiology and neurology. Tessaphensene. People hear that as a weight loss, but it affects neurology in a massive way. So, I would look into tessapensine as well, hypothetically for the kangaroo in the morning. By the way, don't take it at night. You'll wind up staring at your ceiling fan wondering why you can't sleep cursing Dr. Trevor. So, let's do things the right way. But this is a very strategic, very physiological, sound counter assault. Do I go over this in more detail? Yeah, just not here. Why? Cuz it's YouTube. If you don't, then you don't. I don't know what to tell you. But you guys, this is a that you have like it's all in your head or this what a lie, man. It's like you're lazy or you're weak or even worse, you're mentally ill and the answer is another pill that just masks a symptom. None of that is accurate. You're a walking pharmacy. You are a walking juggernaut. All they've done is convince you that it should be subdued. The answer is blinding light of biochemistry. It's understanding that there's this it's like an invisible war inside your body. You guys, your home is supposed to be when those just to give you a story real quick. When those So my son, if you don't know, at 10 years old, he had the bunk bed. This is in this hell house that this contractor Lucian burned us with and pretty much ruined our lives. At 48 years old, just literally destroyed our entire life and we rebuilt it and he's still trying. God's on our side. I wear the armor of God. So does my wife. So do my kids. And I have faith. I just go, "God's got me." But he came out of his room after the rattlesnakes fell on him. He came out. Really? It's all on video. They were babies about this big. We found five in our house in total. But when he came out and he said something, it really bothered me. I was sitting there on my couch working. And he came out and he goes, "Dad." And I was like, "Yeah, give me one second, buddy." He goes, "Okay." And he was like pacing back and forth nervous. And and I said, "Yeah, what's up, buddy?" Like 30 seconds in. And he said, "A snake fell on me." And I went I yelled I threw my phone, yelled to Brandy, "Get my work gloves. Get the machete." And I ran to his room. She brings me a spade and my work gloves cuz this is Texas man. We got water moccasins and copperheads and rattlesnakes and all kinds of stuff. And I was like, "Where'd you see it?" He goes, "It fell on me when I was laying here playing video games." And I was like, "Oh shit." And I start move my son used to love stuffies, right? Stuffed animals. And I start moving stuffed animals around. I move this big giant frog he had around. And I see this snake go and I pin it down with a spade, a big shovel, right? The spade. And I see the tail just going. And I reach down as I'm holding it and I move the the frog, this big stuffed fuzzy frog. And you hear me on the camera go, "Holy [\h__\h] that's a rattlesnake." Yeah, this gets even better. So I grab it and I take it outside and handle it and it's now a very small belt. It gets worse. And so we rip apart the room. We start looking through the house and once that's all done, I go back and I quickly finish what I was doing. I'm not into my phone more than three, four minutes working and I hear my wife Brandy from way. This is in this beautiful custom home built by Lucian Tujac that just turned out to be a lie on this guy's the biggest liar by the way. Holy [\h__\h] Con man from A to Z. Pure con man. And 100 New Dominion Drive in Royce City. If you want to see the house, that's the house. He's trying to sell it now again for 1.5 million. Remember what happened to the house? filled with black mold, leaking sewer pipes into under the hardwood, like foundations cracked. All verified, by the way, like all actually shown. So, can't hide the truth. My dad always said, "Tell the truth. There's less to remember." So, Brandy yells, "Get your father." And I'm already up running towards the room. And my son had this, it's like a little rumble seat, like a video game chair that you sit in with speakers and stuff. And it's on the ground. And she was moving it. And underneath is another rattlesnake curled up right underneath this. My son sits there, man. Are you crazy? and he came out after we tore apart his room and he came and he slept it like we were walking around our house in cowboy boots and I mean we had the house checked we had to go through this house a 6,000 foot home and I just a nightmare but you know he came out this is where I'm going with this my son's tough he's 16 now but he's a tough kid broke down he starts crying and he goes I don't even feel safe to go in my room any you know what a bedroom is to a kid it's a sanctuary and that's what this is like you guys get this your home is supposed to be your sanctuary. It's not your prisoner. It's not or it's not your poisoner. Your home is supposed to be the safest place for you. And if it's not, there's a huge problem. Your body's not broken. I'll bet you anything. It's besieged. I would demand the test. I would get the knowledge. I would fight back left and center to get your life back because that's what we're still doing it. Just so you know. I'd love to have a team of attorneys just obliterate this guy, right? Just we make a ton of money, but not that kind of money. That's like mafia money, right? But I know I just could never do somebody dirty like that way. Like almost kill somebody like that. Holy moly. And then just no remorse. None. More concerned about hiding the truth. But just to come back to the black mold just not to deviate with one of my rants cuz somebody's always ranting. But don't listen to me. Personally, I think I'm entertaining as hell. But you know what? I didn't even go over this part because I just get sidetracked. I'm already 45 minutes in. Date night, huh? Holy crap. It's 10 after 4. All right, I got to beat feet. Listen, this is the part that's probably going to piss you off the most cuz I really want to touch on this. How modern medicine actually treats this. is this breathtaking Nobel worthy genius of all of this stupidity. You go to your doctor and you list like the 27 symptoms, the fatigue that feels like you're wearing a big giant lead suit and the brain that works in about pee and the gut that is pretty much like an alien is trying to give birth all the time. What's the worldass researchbacked protocol? You ready? You guys might want to write this down because it's going to blow your mind. It's so effectively ineffective. They give you a nasal spray, maybe an antihistamine. No, I'm not kidding. If some doctor goes, I don't do that. Wait, just let that hang for a second. That's like me taking this coffee cup, filling it with water, and trying to put out a houseire. The arrogance is effing staggering of 90% of you medical doctors. Or better yet, this is what they tell you. I've heard this. I get people telling me this. They tell you it's anxiety. They prescribe an SSRI. So, let this let's get this straight. Your mitochondria are being terrorized by a neurotoxic chemical weapon. And their solution is to fiddle with your serotonin re-uptake transporters. It's not just wrong, it's biologically illiterate. That doesn't even make sense. The research is irrefutable. I'll prove this. 2003, a study in neurotoxicology and ter study in neurotoxicology and territology shows stacky toxin right from stackabotric literally punches holes in cell membranes. 2014 paper in toxological sciences details that tririccosines shuts down protein synthesis which just so you know what it does cripples your immune cells at a fundamental level they can't work and they offer you flise I don't even know what to say when I like saying this out loud it just gets dumber it's a catastrophic failure of logic they treat the downstream smoke the histamine response the anxiety while ignoring the upstream arsonist that's burning down the whole thing their protocol is to manage the patient patients complaint until they go away. Not to find the cause, not to win. Not to help, not to solve, to manage. Yeah, I'm going to tell you right now, I don't do that. We don't manage here. Not in my house. If you're in my house, if you're part of my group, if you're listening to me, we don't manage. We solve. We solve problems here. I don't mask symptoms. I hunt down the cause with a cold, deliberate, hard precision of science and biochemistry and physiology and knowledge, and then I eliminate the hell out of it. The medical world is a big giant white flag waved by a profession that forgot how to think. It's a surrender. Me, man, I'm all about a declaration of war. You choose who you want on your side. Anyway, hope you got something out of that. This is a little longer than I thought. Never miss.