You know, I sat here thinking about what I was going to talk about and I thought, you know, I get up at the same time every day. Doesn't matter how much sleep I get. No, you don't need my morning routine. I gave it out anyway with the nicotine and the coffee and all that stuff. It It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. My morning routine doesn't matter. It matters to me, right? It gets me to move in the direction that I want. It doesn't get you to move in the direction you want unless it helps you do that. I see these Insta bros and Insta gurus coming out with their morning routines and getting all kinds of traction, but nobody's really doing it. They're they're watching for the entertainment. I think a lot of the stuff on social media, when I say a lot, fully 99% is bunk. And I'll just say it all the time. And somebody might say that about me, except I actually live this life. When I see somebody start talking about glutathione or creatine, acting as if they're an expert, let's have a let's have a let's have a biochemistry conversation about it. Let's have a let's have a physiology conversation about it. Most of the time they couldn't keep up with me on a day where I am half asleep. Just like I couldn't keep up with an engineer or an attorney. I don't know anything about that. The point I'm making is a lot of you guys are paying attention to people that have no business giving you advice thinking that because you like their glasses of stupid red glasses that people are wearing trying to look like John [\h__\h] Lennon. What is wrong with you guys? Listen, it comes back to the same thing. You're looking for a way to get to where you want to go without doing any of the work required to get to where you want to go and you think that some Insta guru is going to get you there because of whatever product or service they're selling. Let me let me ask you a question. Let me I'll just this. It's not even a comfortable one, but I guarantee you it's one that's been tapping you on the forehead for probably at least a decade. What would your life look like right now, right now? If you had just started when you said you would. Take away everything else. Take away all my advice, any InstaGuru's advice, any podcast, anything. Just listen. Ask yourself. Stop validating all the things that you keep talking about, trying to come up with reasons, and just ask. And if you come up with any reason other than it would be better than where I am right now, you're a liar. You're a liar. What would your life look and and I'll I'll prove it. And maybe this will get you mad. I really don't know. But if it gets you angry enough to actually change direction and go down the path that you need to go down to make your life look the way you want it to look, great. Then I did my job. I don't know how many times I got to say that I come out here every time just to give you things that will help you get your life better. You got to decide to apply them. I can't force you to do it. Some of you guys, you have no idea. just ah I want something easier. That doesn't even make sense. I had a guy argue about oral peptides the other day. I'm like still I don't even know where to go with that. Okay, you're the smartest, you muppet. It doesn't even follow the laws of physiology, but apparently your product or your business or your system is different than everybody else's created by God. Got it? That's the problem. So, you need to look at who you're listening to. And I've said that before. Say it about me. Look at me and go, "Oh, I don't know if I should listen to this guy." Then don't. But what would your life look like right now had you just started when you said you would? I mean, think whatever that that that is that that thing, the business, the gym, the book, the investment, the skill set, just that damn thing that you have been mentally circling like it's a swimming pool in January like a vulture just over something dead. You keep walking around it. You know, you're on this you're at this pool and you know the water's cold. Like I said, January, I had I had people call the cops on me when I was in California because in it might have been February because I went swimming at my apartment. They're like, "You're crazy." And the police say, "You can't swim. It's cold. This is winter. Nobody swims here." I didn't know. I was a kid from the prairies in Winnipeg. That was like a warm summer day for me. People are freaking out looking out the windows. Called the cops. And then the police just laughed. They went, "Seriously? You're okay with this?" Like, "Yeah, I'll go in here." But I mean, imagine had I just circled that pool? I really want to go swimming, man. I really want to just just touching the water with my feet telling myself I'm just waiting for the the temperature to change to for it to be the right moment. Just that's what you guys are doing with your life. It's taking chunks out of all of your potential just like termites eating through your legacy. How can you do this to yourself? Listen, I'm 52 and there are so many things I wish I would have rather I would have started so much earlier. Every single person I don't care if you believe in Bitcoin or not. I really don't. If you don't, you're stupid. I don't care who says it. I don't care if Warren Buffett has none. I don't care if you would have put a dollar into Bitcoin in 2009 and right off the the bat some of you guys just became the outliers and what well had I done that with Nvidia and if I would have done that with Apple and had I done that I get it. Why didn't you do with them either? Because you're too busy thinking about it. You're too busy coming up with excuses about it not realizing that you were on the clock. You're on the damn clock. Yeah, it bugs me because I my life is shorter because my lifespan is shorter because of things that have happened to me health-wise. I would there are so many things I would be willing to give just to get more time to do more with my wife and my kids and grow more and create more while so many of you guys are sitting on a couch like a [\h__\h] beanag chair staring at a TV waiting for the right time while you're complaining about the life you're in. You Yeah, it it upsets me. It should upset the hell out of you because if you had $1 in 2009 and put it into Bitcoin, you would have a hundred million plus dollars right now. And the only thing that some of you guys can come up with is well yeah, but I didn't for them either. I could have done it for this or that. You guys validate to justify your decisions that are costing you and then you fight there because you've created these neural grooves. You've put the reps in, right? neuroplasticity to train your brain to stay where it is and fight and defend all it's got because your body and your brain only want one thing. homeostasis whether it is it is emotional or physiological your body fights for balance which is why all of the people out there going you got to have balance bro your balance you guys in your you got to take Sundays off bro that's what God said it's what Jesus said his name isn't even Jesus and it wasn't Sunday it was Saturday there are so many things wrong with what you guys are talking about when you quote the Bible you cherry pick what makes it convenient for you to stay where you are and act righteous as if it makes you more important but it is your life. You need to stop looking at everybody else and trying to puff up your chest about how great you are even though inside you go my life sucks and then trying to defend that life. If you just had started I don't care if you believe in and this isn't about Bitcoin but you guys understand this had you taken a buck I look at it and goes if I would have put a buck in there I would have so much more money and then you guys have this lie that you like to romanticize about things like that. Oh I'm going to kill it. You guys say things like, "Well, I'm like, I love my wife so much." You You really don't know. If you could see Brandy through my eyes, you would have It would change your entire perception of the world. I adore my wife in indescribable ways. I don't really care what somebody else thinks. I love my wife so much. So, this is why I'm saying this and I'm prefacing what I'm about to say is that the lie that some people like to romanticize is that I'm actually glad I didn't start sooner because if I had, I wouldn't have met my wife. I wouldn't have had these wonderful kids. I wouldn't have gotten this job. I wouldn't have gotten this car that I want. I wouldn't have moved to this. Are you out of your mind? Really? That's what's funny is I rub my nose and you know what? I immediately think of some bozo on social media going touched his nose. He's probably lying. You you that's like the Listen, when somebody I've been married for two decades, my wife and I always laugh about this. When when it rains on your wedding day, that's good luck. You know who said that? Some idiot who didn't want it to rain and got dumped on, whose future wife was pissed that it was raining and he was like, "Oh no, honey. I read in some weird journal from some place in the Himalayas that it's actually good luck. Our wedding's going to be amazing. Now it's better than anybody else's. We're lucky." Some of the [\h__\h] you guys believe is that it's pure garbage. It goes right back to the Instafit people and the Insta Bros with their stupid bro science. You guys have got to stop listening to these [\h__\h] thinking that they have anything but your money in mind. So, let me let me get this straight. You're glad you didn't start earlier. Wait, like cuz what you're telling me is this is funny for me that the cost of starting earlier would have been a better version of you with more time, more mastery, more money. But you're you're pretending that it was divine intervention that saved you by slowing you down. Come on. Listen. First of all, you don't even know what would have happened had you started sooner. But you do know this. You would have been better at it. Whatever it is, being better at something gives you more options. Gives you more options, more control, more freedom, more leverage. You could have married the same person but been more present. You could have married the same person and had a hundred million in the bank. You could have married the same person and moved somewhere where you happen to not get sick. Who knows? They the crapshoot is massive. You could have had the same kids but given them more. Cuz if you think, by the way, that being broke is what any kid wants. I was a kid who had broke parents. It was nothing that I wanted. I got lied to by my parents all the time. I can't count the number of things that they told me they were going to buy me that never came to fruition until I got older and I realized, well, it's because we had no money. I don't care. But as a child, that makes you feel very let down. As a 52-year-old adult with two kids, I don't tell them something I'm going to do for them unless I'm going to do it. I keep my word. I learned that from my childhood. But I mean, even like like you if had you started sooner, you could have gotten that job, not hated it because you would have upgraded your skill set to leave it and get a better one. The whole I'm glad I'm glad that it took me this long. This is just regret in disguise. It's like mental bubble wrap. That's That's the best thing I can give you. You like this mug, by the way? It's from my buddy Bedro. You know why I like it? Because it holds a [\h__\h] ton of coffee. That's why. Well, that be a good dude. You didn't start earlier because you were scared. It's not because fate was steering your life or God was getting in your way. God doesn't get in your way. You know God wants you to win, right? Like you understand that right now. If you are complaining, I said this in my call today. Every Saturday I do this call, the Spartan Live call. It's an awesome call. It's part of my my mentorship. And I said, if you are complaining about where you are, what you are doing is you are telling God that you do not want what's coming. You don't I don't want it. I don't want any of the things that I want. I that I talk about that I wish for that I complain about not have. I don't want any of it because I'm you're complaining about where you are. What the hell do you think right now is? This is this is the gym. This is how you build the muscle, the psychology, the drive, the discipline to get to where you want. Because when you go, I am compl. It's like getting a million. You you create a million-dollar business. This is why a lot of people are never going to be rich because they complain about a million-dollar business if they happen to get there, they hit it once, they complain about all the customer issues that they have to handle, which that is part of owning a big business. But you asked for that. You asked for the million. What you wanted was this little perfect box that handed you money and put you in a yurt somewhere in the Amazon where you had nothing to worry about and everything was done for you shy of wiping your ass for you. That's what you wanted. You didn't say that. So that's not what you got. Because the longer fate is not steering your life, you are. The longer you tell yourself that story about how you're glad. You're just I'm glad it didn't work out at the beginning and I took longer. I my life is so much better. No, it's not. No, it's not. I mean, had I started earlier, I might have I might have both lungs. You guys put together the most convoluted logic to justify where you are so you don't have to admit that you screwed up. The longer you tell yourself that story, the longer you're going to delay the upgrade that you know you need. Listen, walk walk through the excuses. It's like a graveyard for some of you guys. Sometimes I come out here and I'm just so lit because I want you guys to win so badly and you guys defend your position so harshly believing that you're winning. Hey, let me tell you about how bad my problem is and how unchangeable it is. And then you go in your head, haha, I won. Make it make sense. Like look at all the excuses. You know, the the graveyard of [\h__\h] and lies and reasons and validations. The one that you keep visiting every morning when you look in the mirror. That one. Listen, I I could probably top five excuses people have for not starting. It's not the right time. I'm just not ready yet, man. I'm just not feeling it, bro. I don't have the money. What if it doesn't work? What if I fail? I'm too old. I'm too young. What? I started my whole life over again at 48. I know some people that at 48 are done and they have a couple hundred million dollars in the bank and they're still cranking because they love to play. Listen, when you say it's not the right time, it's almost hard for me to talk about cuz it irritates me. If the Wright brothers had waited for the right time, you guys would be on horses to Cancun and you know what the logic is? Somebody's going to go, "No, somebody else would have just invented the airplane." How do you know? Were you there? Because that you have that logic to protect your ego, not history. Hell, even that, you know who writes history? The winners. Might not even be accurate. It's just the winners. Timing is rarely right because it's not about time. It's about commitment. The minute you stop asking the clock for permission, that's when things start that's when things start cranking. That's when things start moving. Like when I hear people a lot, and I've said it, I never said I don't care how much it costs. When people go, I don't have the money. It's difficult for me to process that now because I started every company we've got with zero because I didn't give myself an option. Cuz I looked at my beautiful wife and I looked at my two children and I went, "I'm not kidding." And I went, "They're counting on me, man. You got nothing. Spartan, you better figure it out and you better get res resourceful really quick because you're responsible." Because the minute that she said yes to you and you got married and she gave you those two beautiful kids and she takes care of you. Because here's how home works. Just so you know, here's how all homes work. Women build the home, men protect it. If you think anything other than that, that's why your [\h__\h] doesn't work. But it's my job to make sure Brandy and our kids have the life they deserve. Not the life that I feel like I'm capable of. I mean all of it. So when people go, "I don't have the money." Neither did 99% of the people that are crushing it out there right now. When they began, they had nothing. Money doesn't start anything. Decisions do. You can finance a car, a wedding, a trip to Disney. You can finance a trip to Disney. Really? But not your future. Make it make sense. Oh, wait. When people say, "I'm not ready." What they're really what they're saying is I'm I'm too scared. I'm too comfortable where I am. Nobody's ready. I'm never ready. Anytime I'm about to do something, I'm never ready. That's why we start. Readiness for some reason has been branded as a requirement. It's not. It's a byproduct of doing things enough times to suck less so you become more ready. It's a byproduct of stacking receipts behind you. You don't get ready. You become better until all you are is bored because you've done it so many times. That's about when you start winning. the what if I fail, what if it doesn't work, what if I lose, what if I lose everything. First of all, you can't lose what you never had. So, when somebody goes, well, I make whatever somebody makes every year. Let's say it's 50 grand a year, right? You make 50 grand a year and you go, I really want to get out of this rat race [\h__\h] job I'm in and I want to earn more money and I want to be my own boss. Under the delusion, by the way, for most of you that being your own boss means you work an hour a day but make a million dollars a month. Neither one of those are accurate. I am technically my own boss. However, you know who my bosses really are? Every single customer and client I've got. I have a ton of bosses. I'm in the service industry just like every other business because I give a crap about my clients. I give a crap about my customers. If you're worried that it's not going to turn out, stay in your job, man. Stay in your cubicle and shut up. Because if you think you're making 50 grand a year and you go, I know I want to change, man, but but I'm already 45. I'm already 50. I want more money. But but what if it doesn't work? If you try everything and you still have that little $50,000 a year job in your little cubicle, living in your little house with your car that you've had since high school, and if that makes you mad, then that's because I'm right. But if you have all that and you work on something to grow, to make more money, to gain the financial freedom that you so desperately want, by the way, so does everybody. And it doesn't work, what have you lost? Nothing. You can't lose what you don't have. That is some weird hypnosis of social conditioning mindset construct that has come out of people where they go, "What if I what if I lose? What if it doesn't work?" Then you end up right back where you are, but you know how to do the life you're in right now. You know how to do the life you're in right now, which means if you lose everything by trying something new, you end up right back where you are. So, you've lost nothing. Well, yeah, but that's not accurate, bro. Because what if you lose some of the money that you invested? So, you already know how to make more. Go to your little job, punch your clock, trade your time for money, complain to all your friends around a Starbucks coffee that you shouldn't have bought because you should be smarter with your money or shut up and do it because you know what? Everything. Imagine a toddler going, "What if it doesn't work when they're learning to walk?" They don't have the capacity to do that. And somebody's going to try and explain that away, which is the problem. You're explaining things away going, "Well, it's different. It's not different. You're ignorant. Be better." And you know what? Somebody's going to hear this and go, "God, this guy's angry and is attacking me." I am not. I actually give a [\h__\h] about you guys. That's what's wild to me is when you look at your child and you go, "Hey, I I'm not going to let you do that, man." And they get mad at you, but later on they go, "Holy smokes, Dad. You saved my butt. If I would have listened to you, I would have had this and this happen to me and it would have cost me all these things." That's right. Because dad knew. Cuz dad loves you. The parents that don't care are the parents that go, "I don't care. Do whatever you want." That's what you want from somebody because you think that's caring. That's why you're screwing up. What if I fail? You're already failing by not doing anything. By doing nothing, you're failing by default. Inaction is failure. It's just got a longer fuse till the explosion. Like at least when you try, you can change directions until you get to where you want to go. You just keep moving and pivoting and changing directions until you end up where you wanted to go. Sitting still, that is a guaranteed flatline. It's impossible to win when you do that. It's It's I had people tell us at I got this one nose this mustache hair that's tickling my nose if you're wondering. Drive me nuts. Welcome to having facial hair. Yeah, I wouldn't trade this beard for anything though. You watch Duck Dynasty. Two things we could do without lawnmowers and razors. That's what Jace says. We don't need to cut lawns and we don't need to cut the hair on our face. It's an interesting story or an interesting show. I like it. Bummer that Phil passed away, huh? In May. The dad Phil Robertson, good dude. Seemed like a really good guy. He's good old outdoorsman. reminded me a lot of my dad. Where's the grocery store? Oh, just out there. My dad would go hunting all the time, fishing. That guy could do so much stuff. But listen, back to I'm too old. I'm too young. There's always there's always a line that you're trying to dance back and forth on. Yeah, we could use a whole Colonel Sanders explanation that everybody does. Didn't start until I was in my 60s. Blah blah blah. But Tik Tok billionaires are buying their first house before you figured out how to write your LinkedIn bio, too. So, it doesn't matter what side of the line you're on. Which is it? You're too young, you too old. Not willing to do something. Listen, I'm not saying going out and taking pictures of your feet and shoving them on Only Fans. I'm talking about doing something that actually is going to put you like you have to reverse and engineer the life you want. How much what do you want your life to look like? Great. Now, how are you going to fund that life? There you go. Figure all that out. That's it. I've said it before. I'll say it again. $1 million a year, $115 per hour, every hour on the hour for 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. 2740, 2,740 bucks a day, every day for a year is just over a million dollars a year. You need to stop going, I don't know what I'm going to do for that, and start going, how am I going to create solutions that are worth that? And then aim it because you know who the people I have the most. I don't do it anymore. I just don't I don't sell to people that I only aim at higher net worth people. You know why? Because they do what I tell them to do. Somebody actually got mad because they said, "I dude, of course I want your help, but your program is a hundred grand for that cure program. I can't afford that. Do you have a house?" "Yeah, sell it." You know what's interesting is the ignorance of people would go, "Oh, okay, bro. I'm going to sell it for your health." Because that's what it's for. The cure program is 100% health. I wouldn't just sell my house. I'd sell everything. I got two kidneys. I'd sell one if it meant my health is going to have all the solutions required. And if you fall back to the what if it doesn't work, you don't really want the solution. You see where I'm going with this? You will stack excuses, right? What what if it doesn't work? How bad do you want the result? If you want the result bad enough, there is nothing you won't sacrifice shy of your family or or your faith in God. Don't sacrifice either one of those. There's nothing I wouldn't sacrifice from for my wife and kids. Nothing. It's no money. I'll just earn it again. But I had somebody get mad because they said it was too expensive, go see a different doctor then. It's not my See, a lot of you guys, if you charge a higher premium for whatever it is you're doing, go to a Lamborghini dealership and tell them their cars are too expensive and that they should cut you a break. They're going to laugh you right out of the showroom. Their job isn't to make you feel comfortable about the price. Your job is. So, it's not too expensive. You're not too old. You're not too young. You're too proud to do the work required to get to where you want to go. That's what it is. You're too proud to try. That's it. Like, would you do you want it? Then just do it. It's always the same. It's not a matter of resources. It's a matter of resourcefulness. My wife follows this comedian. I don't recall her name. She is funny. She's a UK lady. She's hilarious. She always comes running in at the camera and they canled her venue. Full venue. They canled it because of something she said. Insta, Tik Tok, whatever it is. That's the world we live in. A bunch of soft people get their feelings hurt because somebody says something. I'm in a world where words don't hurt. They don't hurt me. They're words. I don't have to listen. You know what she did? Moved her venue. She gave a big FU because they thought they had her. And she went, "Oh, yeah. Okay. There's a farmhouse. I'm doing it over there. Everybody, come on." And they all showed up. Do you know why? Because she was resourceful. They tried to take her resources. Where are you on this? How many days are you going to go? I don't have the resources. Figure it out. Could you leverage your house to make the payment to get something? If you had a health problem and you went, you know what? I the problem isn't trusting me. I know I can solve every health problem you bring me. I'll tell you that right now. And somebody will say, well, that's really arrogant for a doctor. No, I'll say it again. It's egotistical and it's a resume because I've done it and nobody cares as much as I do about their patient. Nobody. I will stand up and walk through broken glass to make sure that your health is where it needs to be because I give a [\h__\h] that much. I take people's health extremely seriously because you're trusting me with the most precious thing you've got. So when I see somebody, I don't just see them. I see their spouse. I see their kids. I see the future they're going. Are you out of your mind? It's because you guys are used to doctors that go, "Uh-huh. Here you go, Mrs. Jones. Here's this piece of paper. Go get this filled. See you later." Not me, man. But I'm also not going to sit there and blow sunshine up your ass about what you need to do and then hold your hand all the way through it. You know what charging a lot of money does? Gets rid of all the problem people. And see, that's that's offensive to somebody, which doesn't even make sense. If I don't want to deal with somebody who just peppers me with insignificant Yes, there are stupid questions, by the way. Insignificant questions and nonsense and handholding. Nobody that has ever paid me 100 grand I need. They don't need handholding. They do what I tell them to do and they come out the other side going, "Man, that was awesome." And I have the testimonials to prove it. Not the sure bro. Nobody who is winning says that. Only people that are losing say prove it. Prove it. It's because they can't stand the fact that they can't play the game because they haven't put themselves in a position to play the game because they didn't start earlier. You see how this all ties together. I actually want you to win. The problem isn't me, it's you. Like the real problem is none of these excuses. It's none of the things that you come up with. It's your psychology. If you wanted to I got this dude, man. He wants he wants me to help him with his Achilles and then he just whines about the money. then go find somebody else. I don't know what to tell you. It's It's not being a And somebody will say, "Well, yeah, being a jerk, man. You should just help somebody because it's being a good person." I can't count the number of doctors out there that would gladly stitch you up and put you under the knife to sew up your Achilles. You'll be screwed for life. But that's not my problem. And if somebody goes, "Well, I thought you cared so much." I do, but I also care about me. I care about me and my family and my value. Do not ever discount your worth and your value because somebody tries to make you feel bad about what you're asking. Don't you ever do that. If you have a business right now and you actually are, not just I feel like I'm worth more and I deserve more, but you actually are and you're not charging it, you're screwing up. So, if you own a business right now, look at your worth. There's a lot of you guys aren't charging enough because you're trying to compete. I don't want to compete around at the bottom. Become a competitor of one. Price yourself out of all the people that cause nothing but problems. And the only people that are going to get offended by that are the people causing the problems, by the way. Like the real problem is none of your excuses. You do not want my program, my mentorship, my doctoring. Like you don't want to be my patient. You want my psychology because that predicates all of this. The problem is because you because your problem is your psychology. You want people's approval more than you want any kind of progression in your life. So, you tailor your decisions around people whose lives you would never trade places with for more than 10 seconds. Really, just stop for a minute and ask all the people who you look at and go, "Oh, man." Like, would you trade places with the people that are crapping on your life? No, you wouldn't. I don't care who you are. You wouldn't because they don't have a life worth trading. Like, here's something nobody wants to admit. You're running out of time. Like, you're on the clock. It was a big eye opener for me when I opened my eyes in the hospital at 48. Went, "Holy [\h__\h] I have a tube coming out of me and I really am running out of time. I am way more than half. I'm like 2/3 life gone. You need to hit the skinny pedal. Let's go. I don't do this for recognition or accolades or applause. I do this because I only have so much time left to help as many people as I can. And my goal in life is just one. And it has been the same since I opened my eyes in August of 2021. build my life so massive, so huge, so epically successful that I can take everybody that I love and care about who wants my help, needs my help, and comes to me for help and drag them with me under the cover of my life all the way up to the top and help them hit every single goal they want. That's my goal because I care. You are running out of time. I wish I would have had somebody like me at 20. See, but the hypnosis of these modern life, not even people, makes you feel like you've got forever. There's this unlimited refresh on the start later button, but there isn't. You guys, there isn't. You ever see people at the end of their life, they don't regret what they did. They don't. They regret all of the things they didn't do because they waited. And for anyone that's about to go, they regret all the memories they didn't create with the loved ones because they were working too hard. Only people that are broke say that. If you provide a better life for your family and you change generations, the sacrifice you made was for the future of your entire bloodline. It wasn't for the memories you're making. If I can change Bachmires for the rest of time before somebody argues and oh, somebody might screw it up down the line. You don't know, bro. No. All I can do is educate them and give them everything I got and then pass that knowledge down. But if I can do that, it's worth it. It's worth it. People regret what they didn't do because they waited for more money, more clarity, more passion, more confidence, more approval, more support, more validation, whatever it is. And they never got any of it because none of those things show up until you start. That's the problem. You don't see any of that until you start. It's like saying once I have energy, then I'm going to go to the gym. No, you go to the gym to get energy. This is this is how time chews up your life. Just eats people alive. The delay. The longer that you delay, the harder you have to work just to catch up to where you could have been had you just started when you said you would. I've used this example in webinars all the time where two people start. Both have to go two miles. They all have both people have 1 hour to do two miles. One person starts walking right away. The other person dicks around on their phone, screws around, talks to their friends, does some FaceTime, social media. 45 minutes in, they haven't started yet. The other person is pretty much done. And all they've done is walk. And that person that has to do the same two miles in that same hour that has to end at the exact same time as the other person that already started has to run full throttle 15 minutes. That's all they've got. Unless you're Roger Banister, that's not happening. And they have to work infinitely harder, risk infinitely more with a much greater energy and time expenditure. Like all of the things it's catastrophic. You have to do So here's why I always get confused. So right now you're going to say, "I'm going to do it tomorrow." when you have more time today than tomorrow. But because you're not doing the work, you're not involving the time, money, and the energy right now. You're not because you're going to put it off till tomorrow because today's Saturday, bro, I got to take the day off. You're going to do all the things that you're not willing to do today. Tomorrow, when they're harder, they take longer and cost more money. Sure you are. You're not. Tomorrow, you'll come up with another reason. You think time is your friend. You know what time is? It's the most lethal predator you've ever faced. It's just circling non-stop. It doesn't care about your reasons. It doesn't negotiate with your fear. It's like a [\h__\h] terminator. It just keeps moving and every second that you spend stalled out is another inch. It just scrapes away from your future. You can tell I'm really pissed off and frustrated at the way people think because I'm cussing and I honestly I I really been trying not to cuss a lot on my podcasts. Yeah, I'm a doctor that cusses. I mean, think about it. Even these mental health days, apparently half of society now thinks that showing up every day without needing a little without needing a little gold star is abuse. Listen, before somebody loses their mind and says I'm attacking and I'm shaming people with mental health issues, mental health is real, right? Mental health problems is real. Burnout in a sense of the word is real. But so is weakness disguised as self-care. Laziness disguised as self-care. You don't need 3 days off every week. You need a life that doesn't suck. Burnout is just I just had this conversation with my wife. I said, "Do you ever notice that like now we're cranking non-stop like 5:30 in the morning till 10:00 at night at least?" And both of us love it, but the days are gone like bam. Said, "Do you ever notice like when you don't have a lot to do, how the day drags and you're burned out and you're like, "Oh my god, I wish this day would just end." It doesn't happen when you are firing on all on all cylinders and just producing non-stop. Burnout is rarely about doing too much. It's about doing too little of what moves the needle in the direction you want to go. You think you're exhausted because of your job. No, you're exhausted because the life you're living sucks. It's uninspiring. It's not taking you where you want to go. It feels like something you have to do. And you look at life as something you've got to do instead of something you get to do. And you are blaming the job and your neighbor and your parents and your genetics and your kids and your wife and everything else. You get dopamine from running through Instagram or Tik Tok, whatever you do. And then depression when you look in the mirror. It's not depression. That is dissatisfaction with a whole bunch of wasted potential. And you know it. You don't need another nap or another pill or a prescription. You need a win. A whole bunch of them actually. But those come from you. See, I think you're waiting for wins to show up without doing anything. That's the mindset. That's like the Gen Z mindset. Oh, you guys got mad. You Gen Z's started crying. Half of you Gen Z's started going, "Well, didn't you Gen X's build us and and raise us? Then it's kind of your fault." Typical Gen Z thinking. Blame somebody else. That's even more hilarious to me. Like, if you couldn't prove my point even more that Gen Z is soft and broken, Gen X is the last of the unbreakable people. And boomers are even more savage. But let me explain something. If you think that going, "Well, Gen X, you raised Gen Z, it's your fault." Wrong. The problem with Gen Z is they all got together in little packs and had little they recruit each other in little queer groups on social media and talk about how they're having a sad day and they should all be permitted to wear cat ears to school and that if the teacher isn't 100 lb overweight with a litter box in the back with rainbow colored hair that looks like a fishing lure, they're being triggered. And that if they go to school and they're asked to do their homework and they didn't do it and the teacher goes, "Hey, you're in deep [\h__\h] for that. That's trauma. You think that's because of the Gen X people? That's because of you guys creating the nightmare you live in. Take responsibility. Welcome to Gen X. Gen Z, no responsibility. Their fault. You know, I got I got hit by a lady in a in a little like a Taurus wagon one time. I had to go get of all things carton of milk and an onion. I needed it was two things that we needed for Thanksgiving. There's a whole bunch of other stuff. There are two things that Brandy needed and we didn't have any in the house. And she goes, "Can you run out and get it?" I said, "Yeah, absolutely." So, I ran out to the store. This is in California. This is why it's funny. And I'm walking out of the store and literally out of nowhere, this lady smokes me in a station wagon. I go up over the hood, milk explodes, onion goes firing under, gone. All it is, I saw it bounce and go under a car. She jumped out of the car. This she was about 90 years old. Looks like she fell off a charm bracelet. Little Asian lady. And she gets out and she's going, "Your fault. You'll fall. Oh, you'll fall. Oh, you'll fall." I didn't even have a chance to say anything. Oh, my jacket's all torn up. I'm ripped down here. I'm bleeding. I bang my head on the edge of the car and I'm like, "What are you?" It took me a second to collect my mind and this truck comes in behind her. She gets into her car and she was going to back out and he gets in. He sets it cuz he knew exactly this is why some and he was a good old boy. Exactly what was going to happen. Anyway, what ended up happening was there was a CHP in the parking lot. This is the best story ever. And she's trying to leave and he pulls up real calm in front. Now she can't go anywhere. And I'm still sitting there going, "Holy crap, what just happened?" And he's like, "Hey, are you okay, man?" I go, "Yeah." He goes, "I saw the whole thing. You just left the store." And this is California. Everybody's pretty sue happy and really weird with their laws. Nope. I need your driver's license and registration, ma'am. His fault. All his fault. All his fault. I just driving. Yeah. Storebought license. No license is what I'm saying. Towed the car. My fault. Are you out of your mind? That's the mindset. That's Gen Z thinking. This wasn't Gen Z. This was She was old. But I don't care. Take responsibility for your [\h__\h] Could you imagine if she would have got out, she would have done, oh my god, I wasn't paying attention at all. Are you okay? Like, holy smokes. And then help me regardless whether it's a woman or a man. Just make sure I'm okay. And then we figure everything out. Everybody's on their way. I wouldn't have even cared. I was banged up. I've been hurt worse riding a BMX and a halfpipe. So what? But that's what I'm trying to say. Deflecting blame and responsibility. You don't You don't need to blame somebody. You need to look yourself in the eye and look at you. And you're not. Listen, even you don't understand how tired I am, bro. You don't understand what I'm going through, bro. You don't know how hard my life is, bro. I got one lung. And I've never once used that as an excuse. You know what? You know what actually fuels me when I'm tired? Progress. Like results. Just things that remind me that I'm still dangerous, man. Like, while you're taking the week off or the month off to rest, understand that the life you want is being built by somebody else who's not willing to take that rest day. Most people, here's what's wild. Most people that you ever meet will never be your competition because they've they quit before you even met them before they even knew who you were. They've already quit, which means they're never going to get in the arena with you ever. You'll meet them and you don't even have to worry. 99% of the people, God, most of you guys are so easy to beat and you get mad about it and then your chest puffs up. You go, "Oh yeah, bro, I could take you." I'm not talking about a fight, you child. I'm talking about success and life. If you get so mad and triggered when somebody points out that you're not where you want to be and that they can smoke you in life, prove them wrong. instead of getting in the comments and running your mouth. Prove them wrong. Use that as a mark. I'm going to blow past that. I'll show you how good I am. And then tuck your head and get to work. A lot of people defend their failure like it's this badge of honor because they don't even try. Listen, you know what success is allergic to? Just so you know, because I think this is the problem is the feelings. Everybody's so caught up in their feelings. That's what triggered this whole thing about Gen Z, by the way, and Gen X when they were like, "Oh, it's Gen X's fault." No, it's not. Success is allergic to feelings. You think feelings matter? No, they don't. Listen, telling your land, just so you understand. Try it. Telling your landlord that your anxiety was too high this month for you to pay rent, you couldn't make your car payment, couldn't make your mortgage. Try that. Let me know how that works. Tell your body that your depression means that you shouldn't eat healthy, train, or get your [\h__\h] together. Success doesn't listen to any of your feelings, man. It listens to all your actions. It goes right back to neuroplasticity. Your reps right now that you are putting in, I don't even think some of you guys realize the reps you're putting in are making you worse. You are defending what you hate. And you think that is success. We become we become this culture that's so obsessed with shiny happy vibes that the truth has become offensive and offense has become a justification for failure. Like me, you guys will look at me, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, that guy's too intense, man. He's kind of an [\h__\h] Look at some girl. She's too toxic. Oh, they're too focused on winning. I'm tired of this hustle culture. Then be at the bottom. It's okay. Just don't hate the people that are on the top. I'm not coming out here shoving it down your throat. You do what you want to do, bro. Do what you want to do. I'm coming out here for anyone that goes, "I want to do better. How do I do it? Put me in, coach. I'll take the abuse until I get there. What do I do?" Because anyone that's ever been successful or whoever is successful right now knows that's what it takes. People that are focused on winning or abrupt or abrasive or like me, in fact, just like me. We just don't entertain excuses. And that's what burns people the most when they see someone win despite the worst odds. like despite more pressure than they have, less support than they have. When they realize they've got no excuses left, instead of learning from that person, they criticize them. They attack them. They mock the person that has all the victories that they want. They attack the person that has all the victories they want. Instead of just taking notes, instead of paying them with their time, money, and energy. You want to stop losing? Start studying the winners. Every time I see somebody doing better than me, and there are thousands and thousands and thousands of people doing better than me, I take notes. I never once have hated on a winner. I just don't. What are you doing that I'm not doing? How can I do it? What's funny is I got a a message from one of my friends. His name is Dan Martell. This guy's incredibly successful and I could listen to Dan all day. He's an intelligent man. Extremely intelligent man. And he knows what he's doing. He has exited multiple companies and he is worth multiple hundreds of millions. He's an intelligent dude. When he sent me a message and he asked me some questions and he made a comment about how he loves how I am with my family, with my son. Make him a man, not soft, right? But he's the same way with his kids. But look at look at his post. If you don't follow Dan Martell, you should follow him. give him a like really pay attention. He comes out to help, but he also doesn't give a [\h__\h] about your feelings. He wants you to win, but he doesn't care about your feelings. I take notes on people like that. He's doing better than me. You got it, Dan. What do you got? Start writing things down. Why would you not? It's ignorant to do anything less. Like, take notes. Buy the program. Ask the questions. Shut up and implement. That's the cheat code. You want the cheat code? That's it. You're welcome. I mean, listen, I I'm going to button this up because I've been out here for I look at the time on the top here. It says almost an hour. You were told that a piece of paper would make you valuable, right? a degree, a diploma, some title that you got from some college and you believed it because it was easier than actually becoming valuable. That paper doesn't prove value. Just so you know, nobody gives a crap about any degrees I have. They care if I can help them. If you can solve a problem, you have value. If you have a piece of paper, that's not value. That means you paid for an education in a piece of paper. Not even an education. You just paid to be indoctrinated and you paid for a piece of paper. If you can make somebody money, if you can save them time, if you can improve their life, if you can improve their health, if you can improve their psychology, improve their marriage, improve everything in their life that they have, whatever it is that they're paying you for, you are valuable. You don't need a resume. You need a whole bunch of receipts stacked behind you for all the times you screwed up and you climb back out anyway. You want to be rich, start building something that helps people. You can have anything in life you want, provided you help enough other people get what they want. Zig Ziggler said it a long time ago. You want to be in shape, start acting like somebody who is. You want to be in a better relationship, start being the kind of person that other people want to be around. You want to be rich and a millionaire, start doing the things that people that are millionaires actually do. It's not sexy. It's not complicated, but it's the only thing that works. The truth is this. Your future is being written whether you like it or not right now with the things you are doing right now or the things you are avoiding right now. You are who you are right now because and you're where you are where right now because of what you've done or failed to do, nothing else. So the question isn't whether time is going to pass or not because it's going to. You're on the clock. I don't care what you say. You can have some magic weird world and you guys are all spending all these time looking for longevity or you can just make the most out of what you got. So the question is this. You going to be further along because the clock is moving or you just going to be older? Because 5 years from now you're going to look back right now to this version of you. Remember it. Mark my words. August 2nd, 2025. 5 years from now, you are going to look back at this version of you and you're either going to be thankful you started when you did or devastated that you didn't. So just start because life is going to start subtracting where you could have just added. Nobody's coming to save you, man. I wish I could say they were, but they're not. No one's no one's giving you permission that you're waiting to get. And no one's going to regret your life at all. In fact, I mean zero more than you if you don't start right now. So go. What are you listening to me for? Like turn off this podcast. Go start now and then never stop ever again. Ever. I got to go. Never miss. None for the owner.