You know, I I came out here with a totally I do this a lot with a totally different podcast in mind. Hey, I told Brandy, I said, I just want to come out here and smack the mic. Because for the guys and girls, for the men and women, for all of you guys out here that actually appreciate the sheer amount of time it takes and has taken me to learn everything that I know and put it together in a way that is somewhat easy to understand and tolerant of the fact that I am a doctor that curses and has no inhibitions and I'm not too much of a [\h__\h] to tell you what's wrong and what you need to do because that's what people that care do. And I'm not worried about your sensitive little feelings. I'm worried about the quality of your life. I don't care about how you feel. I care about the results you get and the fact that when you're done listening to this, you get somewhere in your life. You can do something. I'm going to tell you all about kidney disease before I even get started. Before I start going off on one of my rants, because I I know people personally, and you know what, I'll even say it. This this is for my buddy Rick. He's got some issues with his kidney. And you know what? Sometimes I just want to smack that guy. But I love the guy. He's like a brother. This is for uh if Rick, if you're listening, this is for you, man. Let's fix all the [\h__\h] But it made me realize that most if I come up with a protocol, a system, a a set of hypothetical educational potential solutions, as in permanent reversal solutions, if I don't share them with the world, why am I a doctor in the first place? Why' I learn it in the first place? If you learn something and you don't help somebody with that knowledge, then that knowledge is useless. So, listen, I I could do this all day, but I I really need you guys to understand. And if you come out here just to throw hate and complain and you guys get triggered because I tell the truth about like I had some crazy bimbo that got in my comments, maybe the real negativity is that you come out here and you try and sell illicit products that aren't approved and blah blah blah. But I went private account, picture of a was like a cat in front of the sky, four posts, no followers, miserable attitude coming into a post about negativity, being negative. I went, you could have just kept on scrolling. But hey, the world is filled with people and their opinions and they're like [\h__\h] Everybody's got one. It's like the world is a proctologist's dream, right? Just wall to-wall a-hole. But even that, like the fact that I'm here on YouTube and Spotify and wherever it is you're listening to this and I have to censor myself because heaven forbid I say something that somebody's feelings, it might trigger them in some repressed traumatic memory that really doesn't exist. They get some sympathy and empathy from a bunch of people that normally wouldn't even look their direction. I don't I don't understand the world right now. But for all the people that come here to get information and help, I'll just keep showing up. So, like I said, Rick, my man, this one's for you, dude. Let's fix those kidneys. So, honestly, let let me ask you something. What What if I just because this stuff bugs me. You You guys have been so fooled into thinking and and I have to say this blanket ridiculous statement. This isn't meant to prescribe or cure or advise or diagnose or treat or anything. And this is purely hypothetical, educational, and speculative. And none of this is meant for anything other than entertainment. Are we done? Cool. If you know, you know. Now, everything that you have been taught and told by the human body for the most part is not true because it's in an it's in an effort to keep you a subscriber. It's a it's an effort to like I sent an email this morning to somebody who peppered me with how badly they wanted my help. Everybody wants my help until they get the bill. And then they go, "Oh, I thought you were going to be a good guy. I thought you do it for free." Oh, why do you think I come out here every day? Cuz this is free. But I'm not kidding you. People want help, but they think they deserve it and they're entitled to it and they get mad when somebody goes, "Hey, I have a a program. It's called the cure program. It's a 100 days and it's $100,000." And I have no problem saying that's how much it is. How much is your life worth? How much is your health worth? How much would you pay to get another day if we could solve all the damn health problems that you've got by listening to all the people that actually don't care about you? And then a guy like me shows up that's rough around the edges, but knows human anatomy and physiology, neurology, endocrinology, nephrology, better than 99% of the doctors out there and comes out here and actually tries to give you a solution. How much would you pay to have that person solve your problem? So, I have no problem when people go, "What about the people that can't afford it?" There's other people for you then. And I don't lose sleep over it. And if that's offensive to you, that's a problem between you and the person you see in the mirror. But it's $100,000 for 100 days and we go line by line through everything going on in your life. Whether it's psychological, physical, you know, it doesn't matter. We go through all of it. And this isn't some coaching program. I don't hold hands with you. I don't check in with you all the time. I solve your damn problem so you don't have to rely on me for the rest of your life as some prescription, as some, you know, monthly subscriber for me. I don't want that. Most people would spend more than that in two years of their insurance premiums and all the [\h__\h] they have to pay for anyway. But anyway, the the point is if somebody comes and offers you a solution and then you go, "Well, I I don't like it because it comes with a bill," then you don't really want the solution. You just want another option to see if it works. And dip your toe in the water. And I offered this guy a very reasonable solution and nothing but crickets. And that's what I mean. So, I don't cater to people like that outside of this. And if somebody goes, "That's arrogant, wrong, it's egotistical, maybe." But when you're really good at it and you help a lot of people because you genuinely care. I don't come out here because I want to do it for myself. There's I'm not patting myself on the back. I do this because I actually give a [\h__\h] about you people and I want you guys to have a great life. Whether it's your psychology, your finances, your physiology, your health, your your relationship, it doesn't matter what it is, your connection to God. I come out here and I give you all I've got because I genuinely care. You guys come out here for the most part and go, "Where's my entertainment? I don't like what you said because it hurts my widow feelings." and then you go crying into the comments complaining about how you don't like what was said when all you had to do is swipe right and stop listening. But if you want a real solution, shut up and actually do it. Most people don't want coaches or doctors or leaders. They want cheerleaders. I'm not a cheerleader. I'm the guy that's going to lead you and kick your ass all the way to the finish line. Make sure you get there. So, I always find it funny when someone literally won't stop sending me messages all and I love it. Go ahead, keep sending me messages and questions. Where do you think I get lots of this material from? But if you're waiting for me to do a podcast on your specific problem, probably not for that reason alone. And if a bill like everybody wants the the results until the bill shows up and then they go, I don't want them that bad. Then don't complain. Chat GPT and Google. Knock yourself out. So looking at the human body. I don't know what I'm in 6 7 8 minutes. I still haven't talked about a damn thing other than me telling you guys should probably listen to me. Well, let's get to work. Right. So the human body regenerates itself. That's how it's designed. It's not just your liver. It is everything. What if So, think about kidneys, right? Think about kidney disease and all the issues that they lay down and the chemicals that they pepper you with. But have you ever been told that you can regenerate kidney disease for the or kidney tissue? For the most part, you haven't. I in fact, I've never heard anybody say that in the medical field. I just realized I'm wearing a Spartan Army shirt. I haven't worn one of these on a podcast for a really long time. Hope you like it. I got a drawer full of these and I fire these out to anybody that I don't know. It sounds funny that I feel worthy. You can't miss. But I mean regenerating kidney tissue, not not manage it, not slow it down the way they start talking about things. I mean full regeneration like I mean complete restoring the glomemeri right inside the reversing the fibrosis which is a common problem with a kidney. Fixing those filtration those pesky filtration issues all without dialysis or these pharmaceutical band-aids that they slap on you and without waiting around for somebody in lab coat to finally give you permission to save your own damn life. I know it sounds crazy. It's because most of what you guys have been taught about kidney disease is crazy. How about I just show you how to fix it all? It drives me nuts. Because [\h__\h] I hate that people suffer for no reason. And then when somebody goes, "Here's the solution." They go, "Is there anything easier or do you have something cheaper?" Then you don't want the solution. Like here's the lie that people believe about kidney disease. Once the kidneys are damaged, they can never regenerate. Wrong. That's not physiology. That is pharmaceutical marketing. Look at Listen. Do you even know what your kidneys are? Like first of all, you've got two of them. Does everybody know that? They filter about 50 give or take 50 gallons of blood a day. And they do it through like a million microscopic little structures called nephrons, right? And they contain these things, I mentioned it before, called glomemerieli. These are these tiny little tufts of capillaries and they they act like a they're like a really really expensive coffee filter for your bloodstream. We can get into osmalerity and everything. It doesn't matter. But I'm That's literally what it is. It's a really really high-end coffee filter. And when your your kidneys start to fail, diabetes, this is how they fail, by the way. Diabetes, high blood pressure, and not the kind that your doctor keeps trying to reduce you pressure on. I mean, really problematic stuff, right? High blood pressure, autoimmune damage, pharmaceutical toxicity is one of the biggest ones. What you're actually seeing is a vascular breakdown of the entire structure. You've got immune mediated inflammation and you've got scarring, fibroic scarring. So, it's not just about bad kidneys. It's it's like a biological systemic failure. And every time, it drives me nuts because every time somebody tells you just manage it with drugs that have side effects longer than your arm, you know what they're saying? Let's keep this boat from sinking by just throwing duct tape on it, slowing down the leaks instead of just plugging the freaking holes. That's ridiculous. Yeah. Sometimes I have to collect myself because it irritates me so much that people take advantage of everybody. And if anybody ever said that about me, I'd go, "Where? Where? I've been out here for over a decade. I've damn well proved myself. I don't give a [\h__\h] if you guys started going, "What about this thing that you did where you did X, Y, and Z, and you were a bad boy?" Hang out your dirty laundry and see if you own it like I did, [\h__\h] So, listen. If the real problem is structural degeneration, massive inflammation, and a hormonal imbalance, well, then the real solution is really, it's obvious. Just go the opposite direction. Right? Here's the problem. go the opposite. We need to regenerate the tissue, stop the inflammatory process, and fix the hormonal signal problem. That's exactly what I'm going to I'll just go over it line by line. I'm going to sit here and poison my own kidneys right now with a little bit of coffee. I'm being facitious. You don't poison your kidneys with coffee. You have to understand something before you ever think about repairing, fixing, solving a a kidney problem. Kidney disease isn't caused by just one thing. It's the result of the multiple overlapping biological failures. Endothelial damage. Remember endothelium, the inner lining of blood vessels in the GI tract, but they're everywhere. How about that? In the kidney, they start to break down. Well, that's one. You get fibrosis, right? I said fibroic scar tissue. So, this starts to replace all the healthy tissue. Scar tissue, if you have any, you know what I'm talking about. It doesn't move very well. Doesn't function very well. It's just there to brace you up. Inflammation probably one of the most catastrophic things that can happen in the human body. things like uh like so cytoines like top of my head TNF alpha IL6 um IL1 beta I think I'm going way back into endocrinology and biochemistry they all start they they light the place on fire it's like covering you in gasoline and then just throwing matches at you and you have this immune confusion so what are we at four five things you have this your immune system isn't even operating right so your own body starts attacking nephron tissue do remember little parts of the kidney and then your hormones primarily a growth hormone and IGF-1 insulin like growth factor one the whole axis that because that works together GH and IGF-1 that's an ax it collapses that whole axis collapses so now your circadian rhythm is a disaster and cortisol goes through the roof okay cool so now ask yourself this and and I want you to think about your own life this is your own body man if kidney disease is this complex which I just proved that it is this isn't manufactured Why is the standard treatment a blood pressure pill and a little hopeful talk from some doctor, from some nephrologist? That's like trying to rebuild your house with duct tape and a hand stapler and you sit outside and pray. Cool thought, bro, but that's not going to work. This is what your body needs. And and I'll go step by step with this stuff. You need capillary repair. You need stem cell migration, right? Which involves actin, right? Because that's what allows things to move. You need antifi signaling so your body stops doing all that. You need your immune system to stop doing what it's doing, which is attacking itself. So, it needs to be recalibrated. You need endogenous hormone restoration, not exogenous, right? Endogenous internal hormone regulation, restoration, repair, all the stuff that they do. Exogenous. Yeah, we can pump you full of hormones. That's great. But the problem is if you take those away, you still have an issue. And then your circadian rhythm, your sleepwake cycle, among other things, that's not just what it is. It's not related to how whether the moon is full or not, you freaking werewolf. That needs to be repaired. synchronized is the best way to describe it. And that's that's exactly just so you understand that is exactly what the right research chemicals, peptides, SARMs, secrets all will do without any of these weird systemic destruction that happens with standard pharmarmacology which comes with a folded up piece of paper that is essentially the size of a phone book filled with all kinds of catastrophic things that are going to happen because they have. So I'll walk you through it all. And if you don't have, listen, I I said at the beginning, if you don't have an epiphany by the end of this, you just weren't listening. You just weren't listening. So, I don't know how many minutes I'm in. Usually, there's a timer up at the top of this thing. I It's not. So, I have no idea. I've done podcasts three times because there was some kind of a technical error. Now, I'm going to thank God that there is not one. Thank him in advance for the things I want. Just so we're clear, that's what I'm doing. So, this is the unfixable situation that I'm going to fix right now. And then God, for the love of God, fire the people that are selling you bunky unicorn blood and weird collagen, you know, GH laced whatever the hell you're putting in your system. And doctors that try and shove pills down your throat never really pay attention to you. So, man, I could I could go off on this stuff cuz it bothers me that much. Above all, do no harm. So, just start with BPC-157. You can pretty much start with BPC57 for just about everything because this is like the Michael Jordan of tissue repair. It's that good. This heals what did I say? The entire lining is is endothelial cells. Remember it heals all of that. Remember this is the lining of the blood vessels that supply the glomemerieli right inside the kidney. It stimulates the systemically this is what it does. It simulates something called angioenesis which is the building of new blood vessels in eskeemic tissue tissue that's not getting adequate oxygen profusion. Right? Become hypoxic. It tells your body to stop overproducing nitric oxide. I don't know if I've ever mentioned that before, which might sound really fancy, but it really means this. It just calms down the chemical class 5 hurricane that's going on side going on inside your kidney. That's it. Just that's all you need to know about this. The one thing that it does here is that because there's a different set of there's this scaffolding inside your your kidneys. They're called ptoytes. They they keep the filtration units from collapsing. the the BPC57 prevents the pto sites from degrading from just becoming useless and soft and collapsing. Lose them and you are one step closer to diialysis. That's how important they are because they allow the filtration units to stay open and do what they do. So, next thing on the list, what do you think? TB-500. Remember what I said about TB-500? It's probably the most epic peptide you could ever take. It activates actin, which is what I said just a minute ago. This is the most essential cell migration protein in the entire body because it tells stem cells to move. And I mean move like they are a bunch of construction workers driving Lamborghinis. And so they show up at the job site, whatever that is, wherever the problem is, and they know where to go. So you don't have to like when you take an Advil, let's just say, or a blood pressure medic, it doesn't know what to do. It just goes systemically. That's just like people that take finasteride. Well, the problem is it doesn't just affect the hair, the the DHT and the the follicles on your head. It affects your system, which is why there's something called post-finasteride syndrome, which means you never get your your little favorite friend between your legs that you like to stand up once in a while when you're with somebody naked of the opposite sex. Yeah, it stops working permanently among all the other catastrophic things with finasteride. So, stop taking it. But this is this is why it's important. All of those drugs when you take them orally don't work the way they're intended and they have to hyperdose them because otherwise you don't even get anything just to get a little bit. So that's why this injections are the way to go. Subq, IM, whatever it is, intramuscular or in the fat. You combine TB with BPC. And now you're you're not just you're not just healing, right? You're rebuilding structures in the body by using your body to do what it's designed to do. You're going, "Hey, do the [\h__\h] you used to do when you were seven." I mean, are you guys getting this? Like, this is how your body is designed. Peptides are not drugs. Peptides are not drugs. Peptides are not [\h__\h] drugs. It drives me crazy when people go, "This is so what? How do I get a prescription for this drug?" You don't. They're not drugs. They're signals. That's like asking how to get a prescription for an email. The next thing is a pitilon. A pitilon. Most people think of this as the anti-aging peptide. Well, that's really cute. It does so much more than that. It drives me crazy because understanding just enough to say a big word just makes you ignorant. And a lot of these insta yahoos with IFBB retired pro cards stop listening to these guys cuz what it does is it act it activates something called timmerase. It's an enzyme that preserves the tillomeir length and delays cellular senence which that what that means is every time a cell divides it clips off a little bit. This keeps that it's like remember I said the aglet on a shoe it's on the shoelace the the end piece it keeps it on there. But the other part that's even more important is epitoolon regulates the pineal cortical renal axis. Real fancy doesn't really matter. I'll explain what it means. Normalizes circadian cortisol. So if your cortisol is spiking at the wrong time, it screws up what your body does because your body heals and pulses. It's not all it does though. Improves melatonin. So for you guys taking it every night to help you sleep, stop it. You don't have to. And it stops something called dal stress response which is what burns out the adrenal kidney relationship. And if you understand, people go, "I have burned out adrenals." No, no, you don't. You have bad signals and a bunch of static. So, what this all means is, let me let me give you a better picture. Less oxidative stress, which means less free radicals running around your system beating the crap out of everything. Less mitochondrial damage because of that, less cell death, more regeneration. So, you're making more than you're losing. Does that make sense? Like, it's like you have a bank account and somebody keeps pulling money out of it, but they're not putting enough in. Eventually, that bank account is gone. Right? So, that's how you have to look at this. So you have to be repairing more tissue than is being degraded and destroyed. Then the next one is something called Dip. Deep sleep or delta sleep rather. I was calling to say deep delta sleep inducing peptide. This is like a secret weapon cuz that's not all it that's not all it does. It radically reduces something called IL6. And I talked about this IL6 TNF alpha. These are the two biggest cytoine assassins and terrorists in kidney disease. That's what trashes everything. When's the last time somebody told you that? They didn't. And the thing with DIP is it's not like an ambient. That's not what it does. So don't think that's it's not even close to what it does. It doesn't knock you out. It restructures and honestly just restores your sleep architecture. And the part of sleep that heals is that REM sleep, right? Which is that's where all the hormonal repair happens. It restores all that. So when you're laying in your bed and you're listening to the ceiling fan and you're in twilight sleep, you're not healing a damn thing. you're just slightly less awake and really like you've just gone horizontal. That's it. So, it calms the HPA axis, hypothalamic pituitary axis. It flattens these cortisol spikes that you have all day and it brings the system essentially back online so it works the way it's designed, not functioning at 10% with a bunch of viruses in the background, right? Like if it was a computer. And while the body is finally resting and sleeping, that's when you slide in the heavy hitters for growth and metabolism. There's two to samurellin, which is hands down the cleanest GH secret on earth, a growth hormone. and something called MK-677, which I've talked about before. It is the most powerful oral GH and IGF-1 amplifier ever invented. And to save all the questions that I'm probably going to get, well, is there rebound? Does it suppress? What about side effects? What about this study? What about the Wikipedia that I saw? Listen, if you want to get better, get better. If you don't, then don't. But I the questions just to make yourself feel better so you feel smart when you look in the mirror. I'll help you out. Might sound like a dick, but you're not smart. If you're asking these questions, you're not smart. You're argumentative and you're looking for a reason to stay where you are to go haha I'm right I'm still sick are you high listen together to just so you know together to Samaran and MK67 rebuild lean mass regenerate glomemeular tissue kidney tissue and improve protein synthesis just so you know that's very good but it does it all without spiking insulin like when you take exogenous uh external source of growth hormone right you take whatever it is you take with a gray cap right or wrecking renal function and filtration like testosterone can do. A lot of times it's oral because it's an alpha alkalated 17 molecule, which is why they do it to resist first pass degradation in by the liver, but the byproduct is it beats the crap out of your system to get there. And then what did I say? They hyperdose them just so you get a little bit. None of this is going to help you, right? So, it bypasses all that nonsense that people have to go through. And by the way, speaking of which, how about there's there's something I was going to I wasn't going to talk about this, but it's called S-23. It's a SARM. Yeah. Right. But it's not what you think. You're using it at a micro dose level, which is just enough to preserve muscle mass and nitrogen balance in these chronic kidney patients who would man otherwise just lose every ounce of all the hardearned gains. And you end up just drowning and cycling down into sarcopenia. Like you just become a disaster. But it does it. This S-23 does it without the the hyper androgenic load that wrecks kidneys like anything DHT-based, right? There's a couple that I I think would probably work really well. LL37 and KPV because the these are these are like gut kidney access assassins. Hold on. I want to drink some more of my own kidney poison. If you don't get it by now, I'm being completely sarcastic. Any of you people out there that go, "Yeah, coffee's bad. I knew it." No, it's not. Stop being ignorant just because somebody wrote a headline about it or your favorite Insta guru that decided that losing is the new winning. Stop listening to these people. LL37 and KPV. LL37 destroys the bacterial biofilms in the gut which end up spilling into systemic circulation and inflame the hell out of the kidneys. And KPV blocks, remember I said NF, TNF and IL1 beta, all those? It blocks them all. It's like a bodyguard. It just gets in the way and keeps them from ever entering your system. But what they do is they calm your immune system. Well, when they calm the immune system, they shut down that inflammatory cascade that you're going through where you spend all your day blown up like a fire and they protect the most underappreciated organ in your body. Well, two of them, your kidneys. That's what they're doing. We can distill this all down to that. That's what these do. They protect your kidneys. You know what your body or or what people don't talk about at all? I don't know if I've ever heard it for real. You might get some Google answer when it comes to kidney disease, endocrinology hormones. Because everybody wants to look at the BUN and creatinate blood ura nitrogen levels and creatinine like it's I don't know like their video game stats like you're upgrading some character. What they don't tell you is that cortisol destroys kidney function more than anything else. And when it's out of rhythm, what do you think it's doing? They don't tell you that melatonin has nephroprotective effects through antioxidant pathways. Everybody gets all hyped up about antioxidants, but you don't understand how they work. Which means that if you once you understand how they work, you go, "Wait a minute, that's not an antioxidant at all. That is just a bottle of lies." Most people don't. And these are all the things that people don't tell you about your endocrine system. They don't tell you that GH and IGF-1 restore glamular cellular turnover, which means you're replacing things better. And and it only does it, those two only work when they're released endogenously from your own system and in the proper pulses that your body's designed to work around. If you don't know yet, I'll help you. Your body runs in cycles every day. And to combat those like to go against those cycles is what causes a lot of systemic inflammation which causes this whole issue that we're going through right now. Even even tymemerase activation, they don't tell you about it. They don't tell you any of this stuff. They don't tell you about sleep cycle repair. They don't tell you about anti fibrootic peptides and how they can all of this stuff can take a a failing kidney like we're on death's doorstep. I'm almost ready for a diialysis kidney and bring it back. I mean from the brink, you guys. And it's because none of those things, none of everything I just talked about comes with some digital prescription that you can go pick up stuff at CVS or worse, drive down to your local dialysis lab. Like the fact that dialysis even exists when it's necessary, >> okay? Like if there's acute renal shutdown and it's from hemorrhagic fever or something that where you can't like it just flicks a switch and causes problems, that's one thing. But if it's from people not taking care of you because they'd rather make money, above all, do no harm, but I want to punch you in the throat. Supposed to take care of people, man. Let let me let me hammer this in with some real life physiology. Your kidneys, this is just so you understand how important these are. You don't even see them. And when you go, "Well, you can live with only one." Well, I only have one lung. And you know what? It still sucks. I'd rather have both. Just so we're clear. Your kidneys get 20% of your cardiac output. Just to put that into perspective, that's more than your brain. Yeah, that's one. Every nephron is made of vascular, epithelial, and messagial cells. All of which rely on one thing, healthy mitochondria, which is why I was talking about free radicals. I mean, yeah, there's oxygen flow and stem cell availability availability as well, but those stem cells are what are repairing all the tissue. Remember the turnover, chronic kidney damage is it's not what you think. It is it's fundamentally a vascular and fibrootic disorder. It's not just waste buildup. The way they're talking about it, I actually looked around and I'm like, all these guys are talking about it as if it's just waste buildup. That's not even close to accurate. It's not even close. So, listen. Here's I don't know how long I've been on here, but I'm getting kind of hungry actually. I want to go eat. Here's how you handle it. You repair vascule, which would be uh the BPC57 and the TB-500, endothelial repair, right? Prevent well prevent and reverse the fibrodic scar tissue, the fibrosis, which would be epitoolon, the GH axis, right? Restore hormonal rhythms so your system actually runs on the pulses. It's designed so you don't hammer your kidneys with cortisol spikes, which would be the DIP, the tamarellin, and the MK-677. Settle your immune system down. So it's not looking at yourself. Remember self other that's what your immune system is designed to do. And it's not attacking you and confused LL37 and KPB. And then you rebuild everything that was lost or get in the way to prevent anything that you have from being lost. it's going to do both, which is um the S-23 and the IGF-1. But every one of these plays a critical part of this entire cascade of of events that has to occur in your system. So if you go I'm going to take BPC and TB and not the rest. Why? >> That's like replacing three tires and leaving one just a rim. You're not I mean yes, if you're driving a Catroan, then I guess you could do it. You guys have to think smarter. Play chess with your life, not checkers. And I think the problem with social media is that it teaches you to play checkers and then get angry. Why? Because you're not getting the results as if you'd play chess. You wind up going, "Well, I did this and why don't I have the results?" Cuz you only did it once and you expected results like this. That's why I said the the cure program is it's 100 grand and it's 100 days. And then what happens if you get another 40 years functional living like kicking ass and chewing bubble gum and you're all out of bubble gum kind of life? Promise you this. When I was in the hospital, didn't matter how much money I would have had, I would have given out every penny to bring me one step closer to getting many, many, many, many, many more years with my wife, Brandy, and my kids. You don't know until and if you go, "Sounds dramatic." That's fine. Just look up my story. I almost died twice inside two months because of a lot of medical idiocy and greed between what happened to me with with the rema and sucking in toxic black mold in my lungs in a house that was 2 million bucks that the contract the builder contract all the same person got angry when I called him out for going this is all crap and went you hurt my feelings folks we are surrounded by a lot of toddlers walking around playing adult you need to expect people that you trust to help you properly, not help you by sliding a piece of paper across or giving you a like even in my mentorship, I am actually live like this 3 days a week. One of those days is pure Q&A. It is just questions and answers about every single thing you can throw at me. Not to trip me up. I don't know everything. There's tons of stuff I don't know. But in the areas I know, I'm really good because I I spend my time figuring this stuff out. But during that Q&A, my job is to help you. And if you're thinking, by the way, to join that in for injury repair, no, that's not how it works. But I'll give you some advice. But I mean, anything from how do I get to a million bucks in a year? How do I fix something with, you know, Bitcoin? How do I fix my marriage? Why won't my dog listen to me? Hey, I found this mass in an MRI. It doesn't matter. I help people. Listen, there's a reason why what I'm talking about today about your kidneys works and pharmaceuticals don't. Because most drugs for kidney disease cause more kidney damage. I can't even say it without laughing. Like just look at what they are. Okay. ACE inhibitors, nephrotoxic over time. NSAIDs, non-steridal anti-inflammatories, right? That's like filling your kidney with grenades over time, never pulling the pin, and then just pulling all the pins at the same time. They're kidney bombs. Steroids, and I mean cortical steroids, right? Immune suppressive and long-term cortisol disruption that is irreparable. Even diuretics write prescriptions for this. I've seen it. I have people that I talk to that are in my group. They're like, "Oh, they gave me diuretics." They give them out like candy. They destroy the electrolyte balance. They dehydrate nephrons into oblivion. But that's not even the worst part. Usually the one they give you for anything that's any hypertension is ferosomide. Lasix. Lasix. Just so you know, even if they go it's potassium sparing, then why do they keep giving everybody slow? It's a potassium supplement. Number one, you can't function without potassium. And number two is it excretes 50% of the filtered load of the kidney which means for every liter 50% is gone. Are you out of your mind? Your body is 70% water. Somebody's going to go 67. Shut up. Your body's a lot of water. You don't want to lose any of it. And it strips electrolytes. So listen, here's how you do it instead. Because you can keep chasing the symptoms and you can keep going, where's the cheapest? Where's the easiest? Where's the one that that hurts the least and will lie to me the most until you end up on dialysis or broke if you want to build your business or you're married. Your wife's out, you know what, pumping the pool guy because you just didn't take care of your own marriage. It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what it is. You can keep making up all the excuses and coming up with reasons why, well, it's not going to work for me this time. I don't have the money, the time, the energy, whatever. You can just fix the damn problem. In this case, kidney disease. You have to use molecules in this case that speak the body's language. Drugs don't. I said it before. Drugs are jackhammers. Peptides aren't foreign chemicals. They're not something your body looks at and goes, "I don't know what this is. I have to run it through first pass." They don't even hit that, right? Because they're injected. They're bioididentical signaling tools. They go, "Here's the message. It's going to this system to tell this system to do this better. Do this. You already know how. Do it better." They don't suppress anything. They don't suppress symptoms at all. And they activate all the repair pathways that are already there. You So, let me explain this. If there's a road that's already there, but it it it's hidden. And so every time, and it's it's the shortcut to get to where you want to go, faster, safer, and nicer, better highway, cleaner neighborhood, smoother, faster, like it upgrades your car. It's such a good road. Just by getting on the road, all of a sudden your car goes, "Wow, I just got an upgrade." But you just can't see it. And then there's something that you have that you've already had, your eyes, and it just takes this thing off your eyes that you just for some reason had there in your way. Now you can see the road and it automatically steers your car towards that. That's what this does. The road's there, man. It's not pulling out a jackhammer and a construction crew and beating the crap out of the nature to carve a path. Like if you're a pioneer, you are face down with a back full of arrows. That's what pioneers work. That's not how this works. That's not how most that's how most drugs work. And by the way, and SARMs SARMs like S-23, listen, when you use these things precisely, these aren't don't be a heck and just start smashing the stuff. Use these properly. When you use them precisely and and conservatively, they they have muscle preservation without blowing out your kidneys like most testosterone esters are going to do. What you're doing with the entire box that I just wrote out for you is you are putting together biological integrity. You're restoring your own biological integrity at every single level. So I'll let just so you understand what it is. Mitochondrial function, can't live without it. Microvascular repair. Can't live without it. Immune modulation and repair. Can't live without it. Hormonal synchroniza synchronization. So the pulses work the way they're designed so your body follows the circadian rhythm you're supposed to have. Can't live without it. Structural regeneration like the ptocytes right inside the scaffolding that holds the holds everything open. Can't live without it. This isn't some alternative medicine or some acupuncturist or naturopath. And I'm not criticizing those. But listen, stop hyping yourselves up because you think some ashwagandha is going to cure the problem. This is the only time where I look at science and I go, they did it right. This is foundational human physiology applied properly. Why do you think people don't want you to know this stuff? Weird hater or some bot or some pharmaceutical company that goes, "We better hide this because this is going this guy's going to help people." Listen, I'm going to go in the house. Let me ask you again. What if you could just regenerate kidney tissue? What if you could just do that? What if you could reverse chronic disease by actually understanding how the entire body heals and you use compounds designed by your own physiology, not some pharmaceutical playbook written in 1972 and anchored to a merc manual that used to only have 100 pages, but now for some reason has 3500. If you could do all that, reverse everything and get your system back online at 100%. Doesn't matter whether you are 22 or 62, Rick, would you would you have the balls to go, I I need to do this to challenge everything that you've been told and actually realize that you're on you're on the clock and to use what works instead of kicking things down the line and going, I'll do it tomorrow. I'll do it later. I'll do it next week. I have to wait for these things. Are you going to do it? Because if you do, here's the deal. If you do, there's a path. Doesn't involve dialysis. doesn't involve procrastination. Doesn't involve lies or doesn't involve maybe lers or letting yourself or anybody else down. It doesn't involve slow decline. It doesn't involve sitting back while your body starts to fail while you keep pushing it as hard as you can, sweeping the the problem under the rug, hoping it goes away, thinking you're getting younger, not older. It involves actually reclaiming your own damn control. I'm talking control of your biology, your hormones, your inflammation, all the repair mechanisms that are at your fingertips cuz you are built with them by God. And finally, treating the actual cause instead of masking the symptoms, which is what modern medicine has done. I got nothing against modern medicine, by the way. Emergency care, it kicks ass. Healthcare sucks rocks. This isn't theory. Like, what I'm talking about right here is not theory at all. This is cellular reality. Your move. I got to go. Never miss.