Atherosclerosis. Man, it's another one I get a lot of questions about. So, keep them coming you guys. It's like I I have to monitor what I'm about to say because if I put the wrong spin on it, like the kangaroo experiment is going to end up curing atherosclerosis, that's okay to say. But if I said that in a human statement, you guys get where I'm going with this? Yeah. I'm just going to solve the whole damn thing if you're trying to figure out what I'm trying to say. So, I got this coffee maker. I'm looking at my coffee, right? So, it's blacker than a witch's crotch, like I always say. But, it always puts this really gay foam on the top of my gets in my beard and my mustache, but I also just don't like it. And it's a it's an espresso. I actually like the coffee maker. I know somebody gave me a scathing warning about how it's terrible for me, but I freaking love this coffee maker. This thing spits out coffee in seconds, and the coffee is banging. Anyway, the point is I have to figure out a way to not get this foam. I think the only way to do that is to French press the the coffee I get from Invader coffee from my buddy Wes Whitlock, Rogue American Apparel. And if you don't buy your coffee from that guy, you need to you just buy all your gear from that guy, too. all your shirts and everything. The guy Wes is a stud. Like Whitlock is as legit as it gets. I love that guy. I've known him a long time. But Invader Coffee, you need to set up with that. And I get no money for saying that. I always plug my friends. Do you know why? And I've said this before. And there's a guy in my group, man. I'll tell you, this guy is just making me like him more and more. This guy Ryan McGraardy, he is a good dude, man. this guy is as he's a stoic guy and he's bald so he's a good guy, right? He I made a comment in one of my Spartan Live calls and I'll get to what I'm talking about in a second. Hang out with me. So, I made a comment in my one of my Spartan Live. It might have been in my inner circle business calls. I don't recall which one, but he did. He remembered. And it was this. The statement I made was essentially the best thing you can do if you're a friend of somebody who owns a business is not ask them for a discount. And that is one of the douchiest things you can ever do. It's buy it at full price and leave them like a five, seven paragraph just earthshattering fivestar platinum level review and everybody should do that. So I do that for my friends. Ryan came in and he made a comment about that in my community. He this is what we all need to do and I it was just really cool. He said I paid attention. That's what he said. He goes, "I paid attention. This is according to doc and this is what we should all be doing." He's right. So, I got to give him a major shout out for that. He's a stud. If you have insurance needs, by the way, you need to get in touch with me. I'll put you in touch with him. I'm not going to put him on social media like that. You guys will just bomb him for nothing or try and sell him a bunch of crap. But he knows his stuff, man. You need to if you need an insurance guy, any kind of insurance, you just get in touch with me. I'll put you in touch with Ryan there. That is the shout out of all shout outs, by the way. He is not if he doesn't break a million dollars this year because of that then well that's on him not me because I just gave him the best publicity ever and deserved and deserved. I got to say that and before anybody else gets all jealous or upset is I love everybody in my group. I'm just making an example of that where it's giving somebody like I said about with the invader coffee. He's just a friend. I get no money for it. I get no money from Ryan telling you guys to go buy insurance from him. I just that's the way the world should be. Like, I don't come out here to to beat down somebody else. I come out here to actually just give you the information and the solution so you can have a better freaking life. That's it. You don't want that. That's on you. If you have a problem with the information I put out, maybe stop being a lying sack of [\h__\h] and actually just tell the truth about what's going on instead of trying to always sell your products and push things on people because you have an ideology that's dead wrong. And it's that thread I told you about. You pull on that thread and your whole sweater unravels because it turns out everything you were living was a lie. So, I'm just giving you the answers. You do what you want with it. I will go right from cover to cover on a on atherosclerosis. It's a fun word to say. It's like putting your tongue in weird positions. And I'll give you exactly what to do, how to handle it from A to Z. Yeah. Let's get started. Huh. But I think here's what I need you to get. And that is that people pretend that they don't know what's coming. Whether it's AIB or a pressure or an ache in their chest or banging headaches that come out of nowhere cuz their pressure is so high. And I'm, believe me, all this has to do with what I'm talking about. The fatigue that you guys are blaming on aging. That's a big one. If you guys are walking around with fatigue, you might want to pay attention because here's what happens. The doctor gives you this placating smile as this white coat knucklehead writes another prescription or puts it on a tab or what a tablet or whatever they do. Now, it's a lie. It is a comfortable and very profitable and exceptionally deadly lie. And I'm going to do exactly what that dude said to me the other day on my questions was, "Burn it all down, doc." You bet. Why do you think they're coming for me all the time? Because I'm telling the truth and I have nothing to gain from it. And I said, "If you want to work with me, first of all, I'm going to be very transparent. Stop getting mad at me when I tell you there is a significant investment to work with me." Do you know why it's significant? Because I come out here and I drop a podcast every day with solutions. Number one, and number two, and on social media everywhere and on Rumble. And if you're not following me on Rumble, you're missing everything because the second something gets shut down, I'm going to still be there, but you're going to go, "Where's Dr. Trevor?" Yeah, Rumble. Telegram, I haven't started building yet. I put one or two videos on there and I think I was doing it wrong. So, my tech guys is actually helping me with that one. But Rumble, I'm just going to fill with everything. Everything that is here is going to be on Rumble. And my goal on Rumble, I'm very I'll be very transparent. 1 million followers. I don't care. I'm I actually tried to figure out how to turn off the monetizing on Rumble. I don't want ads on my stuff. I just want you guys to have the information. But I want 1 million people on there. Do you know why? because that's a million people that are going to go out and spread my message and help people and take all of my stuff, steal it all and sh just share it with everybody so they get better and they stop falling for the BS of the medical world that medical industrial complex or the idiot bro science liars or the I'm so great I have to attack everybody else but I'm like all the insecure instab bros insta experts that are coming out trying to pedal their wares and these charlatans that are doing nothing but causing harm in exchange for your money. I don't care. But if you want to work with me, you bet your ass there's a fee and you bet it's significant. But don't get mad at me when you go, I just have a question. Can you just answer a question? Yeah, I answer questions every day, at least 3 to five every day in my stories, and I give you the link directly to Rumble. So, no. And I am not being unfair at all if I tell you that it's anywhere from 25,000 to 150,000 to work with me, depending on what we're doing and how long it's going to be. And I have no problem with that. And the 150,000 is going up to 200,000 on January 1st. So you have 6 weeks and I think I'm going to go to quarter million before March because you're taking time away from my family and I'm volunteering this time right now while my wife is I'm not with my wife right now. I'm not with my kids right now, but I want to be. I'm 52. I love being with my family so much. So, you need to understand if you expect me to do it for a deep crazy discount, which I'll never do, or for free, that means you don't value my time and you don't value yours. Because if the roles are reversed and it took time away, see, I laying in a hospital wondering if I'm ever going to get another day and sending my wife a text message going, I'm not going to make the morning and it being very real made me realize just how valuable the time is. And if you want to join the black card, by the way, I am changing it. It's still for the time being, you're lucky, it's still $59.97, but it is wire only, zel only, a transfer only. That's it. I am not taking credit cards anymore because they cause too many problems. And so, if you want, that's fine. You can click the link. I'm going to refund it if you hit that button from today on. Today is the 12th. So, after today, I'm going to refund it immediately. So, you can do it. It's just going to be dumb for your credit card. and then I'm going to shut down all my credit cards cuz I don't want to use them because they have too much power. This is a whole other conversation, but I'm also going to go in and refund everybody that's bought something from me over the last 4 months and I'm going to use I'm going to put them onto a different provider. And if you want to if that's your chance to go, I don't really like actually doing the stuff with you. I'm it was a refund, then I'm giving you a chance to walk away and just leave my community. I'm being very transparent. And if not, I'm just going to bill you a different way. It'll either be zel or wire or a or debit. That's it. Because I'm done with credit cards because they have too much control and they are currently holding well over $400,000 of my money because I'm making too much. I'll let that one land for a bit. If you don't think you guys are in a whole heapload of trouble with the way the digital world works, you're dreaming. Just so you know, my wife went to Target. I think I told the story the other day. She tried she paid with she had a $500 $600 in cash and she had to get permission. My wife had to get permission from a Target manager to use the cash. It's not fraud. So stop getting into my comments about fraud. It's because they can't track you. They even asked my wife if she could just put at least 100 bucks on the card because they wanted her in the system. You guys need to wake up. You guys need to wake up. Put on a tinfoil hat if that's what you need to do. But you guys need to wake up. That's the same thing with the healthcare. That's why I'm out here every day is to give you guys the real answers. But you guys need to wake up. So anyway, that's where I'm at with the and if you go some of us don't have that kind of money. That's okay. That's okay. At the end of this month, it's going up to $69.97. At the end of the year, I already said I was waiting till I was full, but I'm way past capacity. I was just doing this to be a nice guy and giving people a deal. At the end of the year, it's going to be 10 grand. I was going to go right to 25,000. I figured I'll give people a chance, get in for 9,997. And that is at the latest, the end of this year. It might be sooner. But again, zel, wire, a or debit. Those are the only transactions I'm going to do. So, you have a choice. If you want to work with me, that's it. I'm being very honest about it. Support at Spartan ArmyLLC.com. Get in touch with Jessica with a K or Amber with an A. Those are my two executive assistants. They kick ass. Don't give them a hard time because they'll find out where you live and make you do burpees until you die. So, listen. Let me explain something about atherosclerosis. Okay? You're sold this story about your own body that is so catastrophically wrong. It's a wonder that anybody ever survives it. Honestly, it's like aosclerosis. I'm going to cut out all the medical jargon that they use to keep you all dosile and complacent and make you feel dumb. You're not dumb. You're not dumb at all. You're insanely intelligent. They're trying to make you think you don't know anything. And I'm trying to flip that paradigm on its ass. This isn't a condition. It is a biological civil war inside your system. And your side is losing big time. Because here's what's actually happening inside your arteries right now. Forget the plumbing metaphor. It's so wrong. Like the I hear this all the time. It's a plumbing problem. No, it's not. A plumbing problem was multiple sclerosis. That is a plumbing problem, but it's a plumbing problem based on a bunch of other things, right? Remember CCSVI I talked about yesterday. So, this is an electrical engineering meets mob warfare issue is the only way I can make this make sense. Your endothelium, which is that slick teflon lining of your arteries, is under a sustained chronic attack. And the primary weapons, sugar. That's it. Sugar. Inflammatory garbage from processed food. Here's some more. Oxidative stress and all of that makes the damage that it this damage makes the lining sticky. It's it's like Velcro. I use that analogy a lot. It's like the inside of your arteries and your veins and venules and capillaries, etc. become lined with Velcro. It's like scratching a non-stick pen. Now, LDL, the cholesterol particles, little innocent bystanders, by the way, drift into the damaged subendothelial space. But here's the twist that the drug companies will never ever tell you. Native LDL is mostly harmless. It's the delivery truck. The problem isn't the truck. It's what happens to the cargo. But how many times have you guys heard that? You haven't. Somebody told me I was being mellow. And they're like, "Oh, you're really mellow lately." I don't know. I just sometimes I come out here and I go, I said it yesterday. What's the point? Some people, you just don't want to listen because it's too complicated, but I want you to be freaking healthy. So, in the war zone, yes, I have a bunch of rants. Don't like it? Go listen to the AI guy that keeps stealing my stuff. I don't know what to tell you. In the war zone of your damaged artery wall, that LDL gets oxidized. It rusts. That oxidized LDL is the equivalent of a biochemical IED. It screams danger like freak out. What's going on? That's literally what it does to your immune system and your body trying to be helpful sends in this cleanup crew monocytes specifically. They become macrophagages and start gobbling up this oxidized garbage doing their job and they gorge themselves until they become bloated and disgusting foam cells. This is the beginning of the plaque. It's a scab. It's a terrible maladaptive failed attempt by your body to wall off what it thinks is a threat. smooth muscle cells pile in. Collagen gets dumped and a fibrous cap forms over this necrotic toxic waste dump and the plaque is a beautiful monument to your body's failed biochemistry. It's a testament to you losing control of your own physiology. Now here, listen. How does the medical establishment in its infinite profitable wisdom respond to this complex multi-system failure? They don't. They don't. They surrender. They surrender completely. Their entire strategy is pharmacological paliotative care. Manage the decline. Oh, that makes me so mad to even say it. Make the patient comfortable on the way out. Trillions. That's how much money. Trillion dollar industry built on the elegant premise of your manageable, billable ICD code demise. Whatever they're at now. Used to be ICD9s, ICD10s, who knows? ICD50 now. I have no idea. So, how about I look at their entire arsenal of failures because this is comedy hour. You're going to love this. This stuff makes me laugh. So, if human biology and physiology doesn't make you laugh, it does to me. The holy grail of medical incompetence is always the same. A statin, HMGA or HMG COA reductase inhibitors, always the same attack all the time. I think if they said that would solve ED, they would make that. And I guarantee you there's a doctor out there right now that's hearing this going, I do give that to my son. That's you have cholesterol problems. So, I give you the statin because I tell you it's going to solve your ED. Meanwhile, it doesn't. And your wife is out getting banged by the pool guy because you can't get it up and it ain't because of the statin. In fact, the statin is making it worse. But what do I know? I don't have any troubles. And I eat a half a stick of butter every day. And eggs. I eat eggs covered in eggs seasoned with eggs on top of eggs in a bowl full of eggs. I eat so many eggs, it's ridiculous. 20 plus all the time. So this HMGCOA reductase inhibitors, their mechanism is so brutally stupid that honestly it's like the Tony Stark of stupid. It's like they become excellent at being idiots. If the problem is cholesterol, nuke your liver's ability to produce it. That's like solving a noise complaint, your neighbors outside screaming and yelling by cutting the vocal cords. The side effects aren't bugs. They're features of a very broken model. Statins, listen, statins induce a systemic coins like a CoQ10 co-enzyme Q10 deficiency. CoQ10 is the spark plug in the engine of every single one of your cells, the mitochondria, the muscle pain, the weakness, the horrific myopathy. Anybody here listening to this knows exactly what I'm talking about. That's not a side effect. That is an indicator of your cells starving to death. You are inducing global mitochondrial famine. Furthermore, they whack docol synthesis. They [\h__\h] essential cell signaling because of that's what happens in case you didn't know. They increase insulin resistance. So now they're directly pouring gasoline on one of the very fires you need to put out. Remember my three biological failures. Nothing has failed this model yet. By the way, I should get a Nobel Prize for this. They're neurotoxic. Your brain is mostly fat and cholesterol, 60%. And it's an energy hog. Never mind that. I haven't even gotten into the ATP yet. You are starving your own CPU. Statins are a declaration of war on your own energy production. You know what that sounds like to me? It's like a malpractice pill. But how many doctors get hit with malpractice for that? None. Zero. How about the blood pressure meds, the ACE inhibitors, the ARBs, the beta blockers, all the nonsense they give you? Philosophy here is so backwards that it's almost artistic, almost beautiful. Look at how incredible this is. High blood pressure is a symptom. It is a measurement of the sheer force your heart has to exert to push blood through stiff, inflamed, plaque ridden pipes. Do you ever see how thick and syrupy blood is? I want you all to look at the tips of your fingers. Everybody on this right now listening to this podcast, look at the tips of your fingers. There are capillaries in your fingers and tiny little venules in your fingers that are one red blood cell in diameter. This thing right here. Put your hand on your chest. It's not a pledge. Put your hand on your freaking chest. Your heart's important. If you take this thing for granted, you do not deserve to be here. You should have been swallowed or eaten. It irritates me cuz somewhere right now, somebody passed away. Somebody died. They didn't get to see the morning today. And they might have been a child. So, birthdays, days, the time you have here, you better you better faking own that and do something magical with it, magnificent because you're trading your life for all of the things that you have in front of you or behind you rather. And what do you have behind you? Most of you guys, it's a bunch of mistakes that you just live in regret and get on social media and try and hide from and then just try and lambaste other people and get in their feed and talk nothing but trash or anger or bitterness or think you're entitled to something when you haven't done any of the work. Try doing the work. It'll change your whole life. Believe me, I promise. I promise it'll do it. I promise. Put your hand on your heart. Just do it. Feel it beat. Just do it. Put your hand on your heart. Feel it beat. Man, I just feel that thing banging away in here. So cool. It has to push those tiny little red blood cells all the way to the tips of your fingers, the tips of your toes. How much force do you think that thing is generating? That's why I'm telling you about blood pressure. It's a symptom, right? That's why I said it's the measurement of the force that your heart has to exert every ejection. Right? Bang. Bang. through these stiff, plaque builtup, angry, inflamed, pissed-off pipes. And their solution, force the pipes to relax chemically. What? Okay, so that's going to solve the problem. You're not fixing the rust or corrosion in the engine. That makes too much sense. You're just disconnecting the oil pressure warning light and the side effects of all of this stuff. Chronic fatigue. You ready for this one? Sexual dysfunction. Yeah, your PP doesn't work. In fact, it's so bad that if you're taking handfuls of seialis like they're Skittles, not going to help. I can make a monk weep. It's so bad. Kidney damage, renal damage, you're not solving the problem. You're anesthetizing the patient when you give them ACE ARBs and beta blockers. That's what you're doing. But I'm sure there's an idiot out there that's, "Oh, they saved my life." No, they didn't. You took a direction that they told you to take because they convinced you of it. How about the blood thinners? Oh, I haven't even gotten into this. aspirin, the warrin, all the thinners they give you, the fancy names, right? The logic here is equally breathtakingly ignorant. The plaque is unstable, can rupture, which causes, if you don't know, when it ruptures, it causes a clot. So, let's make blood so thin that it can't clot effectively. So, you're putting a bandage on a fractured skull and wondering why there's a problem. You increase risk of hemorrhagic stroke, GI bleeds, ulcers. You're managing the symptom of an incredibly volatile environment by creating a new, equally dangerous volatility. Sign me up. Oh, there's a new one, by the way. I almost forgot about this. The latest and greatest PCSK9 inhibitors. This is the miracle drugs they're talking about all the time. These monoconal antibodies that make your liver suck more LDL out of your bloodstream. Clearly effective at making a number on a lab report go down. That's Listen, like I said, I'm almost 200 lb. Sometimes I am 200 lb depending on what I eat. I know people that are 200 lb and fat, nasty, greasy fat. And I know people that are 200 lb that are actually skinny. And I know people that are 200 lb that make me look like I've never lifted a weight in my life. That number means nothing. Just like your lab report. Let's get that straight. So these things, these PCSK9 inhibitors suck all the LDL out of your bloodstream. And they're really good at knocking that number down. Very good. They're also spectacularly expensive. We're talking 10 grand plus a year at least. And if you go, my insurance pays for mine, bro. I'm good. How much is your insurance premium every month? I'll wait. And what do they do about the oxidation, the inflammation, all the endothelial damage? Absolutely nothing. You're using a goldplated vacuum cleaner to clean up a toxic spill while ignoring the broken sewer mane just belching garbage all over your basement. It's a triumph of stock price over some sanity that's required for your own physiology. And this is the standard of care, you guys. It's this multiffront assault on your vitality designed to make you a permanent patient. You become a permanent resident of the machine that turns out more sick sick people. It's the sick building. It's all it is. You just go in one side and come out the other side with a bag of pills and a whole bunch of diagnosis and labels and they just you just accept it. Just go absolutely. That's what's wrong with me. Where are my pills? Let me pay my insurance. Let me go do that. Are you out of your mind? They've written you off, man. You are a chronic cardiovascular risk. You are a diagnosis code, a recurring revenue stream. They have no incentive to cure you whatsoever. The system is optimized for your elegant and managed decline. Why do you think they're coming after me? It's because these bozos are blind to the root cause. They refuse to see it. Let me back up. They see it. They just know it'll take away their little money machine. Three biological failures are the bedrock of every single chronic metabolic systemic disease. My model, and it explains everything, I have yet to be wrong about this. Watch. I'll prove it. Let's run through it and see. Let's just test the theory. ATP shortage, right? So, you have this energy bankruptcy. So, your mitochondria, which are the power plants in every single cell, right? They're crippled right now. They're drowning in oxidative stress and starved of the raw materials to make ATP, the currency of energy that keeps you alive and allows you to listen to this podcast and drive and do your drinking, your day drinking when you're stressed out and your weekend pinges on everything you shouldn't do. A cell without energy is a cell that can't repair itself. It can't detoxify. It can't maintain its very delicate, precise structures like the arterial endothelium. It's a power grid failure. That's one. insulin resistance. Talk about sabotaging your hormones. The master storage hormone is broken. Chronically high insulin from a diet of processed carbohydrates, a bunch of seed oils, is a corrosive inflammatory force. It damages the endothelium directly. There's no gatekeeper for this. It just gets in there and beats the crap out of it. Promotes fat storage in all the wrong places, including your art the arterial walls. Creates dysipidemia that supplies the raw fuel for the plaques. That's a signaling catastrophe. Your endocrine system doesn't even know what to do with this. And how about the systemic inflammation? This is the lowgrade tire fire, right? The Simpsons tire fire I talk about all the time. Lowgrade constant bodywide inflammatory response. Cytoines like IL6, TNF alpha, C-reactive protein, CRP, perpetually elevated. This is a match that lights the fuse. This inflammatory soup is the catalyst that runs through your system and turning harmless LDL into dangerous oxidized LDL. They're not the same. It's the alarm bell that never ever stops ringing. Your immune system is stuck skinny pedal to the floor in full panic attack. Let me know how that feels. Atherosclerosis is the inevitable ugly destructive outcome of this triad of failure. And modern medicine treats the smoke. It doesn't make sense, but that's what you guys see. So, of course, that's what they're going to talk about. Handing out gas masks to breathe in a building that's still on fire, but they're keeping you in the building. How about this? I just give you the freaking firehouse. I'm not going to manage your decline cuz I don't have time for that. I'm 52. I don't know how many years I got left, but I'm going to give them all to you. I'm going to just dump information until I can't anymore. Let's just engineer the entire reversal of this. It's very targeted, very systemic biochemical spec ops mission to eliminate the root cause of the entire problem. You don't need pharmaceuticals. You need a real toolkit that does the does the damn job. You don't need some long list of crap. Complexity is the enemy of execution. We already know that. You need a fire team that comes in and does its job. Some kind of synergistic combination to dismantle the disease, but from the inside out. That's like treating skin problems from the outside. That doesn't work. The same thing with this. You're going to take a pill from outside in and hope it does the job. It doesn't do it. First thing, pathetic. Remember I talked about this for your kangaroo. Just making a kangaroo experiment. You're out somewhere in the outback. You're on a walkabout and you're just This is for your kangaroo. Read a true tide. This thing is like full-on demo expert. It's the game ender triple agonist. I'll go over it again and again because every time I do more research on this stuff, it blows my mind even further. GLP-1, GIP, glucagon. No, it is not the same as semiglutide, draepide, bioglutide, any tide out there other than redatruide. It is the only thing out there that does what it does in such a fantastic way that it is without question a lifetime peptide that changes your longevity. It doesn't ask your system to become insulin sensitive. It forces it to do that. It's a metabolic wrecking. It's my favorite expression. Wrecking ball that comes in and incinerates visceral fat, the kind that pumps out inflammatory cytoines. It has a very direct, potent cardio and anti-inflammatory effect on your biology. It doesn't play nice ever. It comes in and it curb stomps everything to win. That's how it works. It tackles failure number two, the insulin resistance. I'm going to go all through this stuff. And failure number three, the systemic inflammation with an incredibly overwhelming force. This is your foundation. Nothing else comes close. nothing. This is where if somebody sends me a message, God bless you for doing it, but please stop. Can I use this instead? Are you out of your effing mind? If I'm giving you the recipe, it's because this is the recipe, not because I'm looking for a substitution. And if you can't get it in your country, not my problem. It's not my problem. Listen, I love you. I want you to be healthy, but it is not my problem. If you're like, "What else can I use if I can't get it in my country?" Nothing. There is no alternative ever. If I give you the recipe, this is the recipe. If you can't get it in your country, move. UK, Australia, Canada. Get the hell out of dodge. I can't sit here and get into these weird conversations in the comments about what do I do if I can't get it here? Do you know of anybody in the UK or Australia? No. And no. And what do you do? Move. You're welcome. You're trying to make yourself feel better and thinking somebody else is going to come to your rescue. Pack a bag and leave. It's not always an option. It is always an option. You just don't like the option. Anyway, let's get into this second part of this thing. BPC-157. This is again the ultimate healing signal by far. It's not a drug. It is a systemic biological command. Dramatically downre dramatically downregulates TNF alpha and all the other inflammatory cytoines directly and incredibly rapidly accelerates the healing of the endothelial tissue which is where the big problem is resting. It repairs leaky gut. It shuts down a maj major source of the endotoxmia that's fueling the systemic inflammation because the tight junction proteins aren't working. So LPS leaks into from your sewer system. It leaks into the nice clean vascular system. It causes an immune response. You see how this is all tied together? It's the bodyguard BPC-157 that not only stops the attack, but also gets behind it, stops the attack, and then patches all the damage. It's a very direct, very surgical, very precise strike on failure number three, which is inflammation and the resulting tissue damage because of it. I'm just warming up, baby. SS31. This is the third one. You can't fix anything without energy ever. This peptide is actually this thing's a masterpiece of mitochondrial engineering. This thing's cool. It doesn't just boost energy. It protects the source. It selectively targets stabilizes the inner mitochondrial membrane, the heart of ATP, adenazine triphosphate production, electron transport chain, inner mitochondrial membrane. This is where it all happens. It reduces drastically the mitochondrial oxidative stress and skyrockets ATP synthesis efficacy. So, not only does it make cause you to make more ATP, it makes you more efficient at creating more ATP, it's like putting armor plating on your nuclear cellular power plants and giving them a perpetual energy source that just never runs out. This is the quintessential fix of failure number one, which is the ATP shortage. No energy, no healing. SS31 provides the repair and then allows the power to form. The fourth part of this thing, GHK-Cu, the copper, it's like a systems systemwide engineered architect. It's the intelligence, right? GHK-Cu is a signaling peptide that resets gene expression in your entire biology. It tells inflamed, aged, dysfunctional cells to begin behaving like young, healthy, and repair focused cells. See, none of the current medical models are aimed towards repair. They're aimed towards symptoms. They're aimed towards feeling better, but they're not aimed towards anything other than making you see a number, convincing you that number matters, and then going, "Let's make you feel better." And the feel better most of the time is psychological. Copper tells your cells to start behaving like very young healthy hair focused cells doing their damn job. It upregulates the synthesis of collagen, elastin, glycosaminoglycans. It's the actual structural proteins of your arterial walls which is where the problem rests in the first place. Remember the velcro inside? It's a very powerful antioxidant, anti-inflammatory in its own right. It provides neuronal armor. So it's like putting a shield or a suit of armor around every single neuron in your brain. So never mind what I talked about over the last couple of days. MS, dementia, Parkinson's, all of these things, right? You like connect the dots. It doesn't just suppress the problem copper. It issues the orders to rebuild the damaged infrastructure correctly. It addresses the root cause of all three failures. It does that by by changing the fundamental software of every single one of your cells. And I am still not done, baby. Thyosin alpha 1. This is the fifth one. The magic one about this whole thing. The immune system in atherosclerosis is very chaotic. It just it's firing at everything, right? It's just non-stop just spray and pray, right? Thyson alpha 1. I'm going to drink some of this before before I keep going. Thyon alpha 1 is like the commander that says, "You guys have no idea what you're doing. Just relax." And it brings all the order to the entire system. It doesn't suppress the immune system. It modulates it, which is what you want. You know, suppression isn't going to help you. In fact, that's going to cause a lot of problems. I went over that yesterday when I explained how they modify the immune system and shut it down essentially where you have a 500% increased chance of getting the common cold and dying from it, right? It modulates it thyosin alpha 1. It calms the destructive non-specific inflammatory response layer three and promotes a very smart, very targeted and extremely effective immune reaction where it's designed to be. It helps your body recognize self and other, right? Friend and foe. That is all your immune system is doing. It's constantly scanning. It's running surveillance all the time in your system going, "Is this self? Is this other? Is this friend? Is this foe?" And it always goes other, you're out. Foe, you're out. Everything else. So, the confusion happens when there's an inflammatory issue and an energy issue and an insulin issue, which is all of this. It creates the calm, orderly environment that is required, you guys, for the other four operators to do their work. It's the strong air force that military talks about that allows the ground troops to do their job to win. This is how it's set up. This is the kangaroo protocol. It's the answer they'll tell you that doesn't exist. They'll run this dialogue all day long going not going to exist. Doesn't happen. I had a patient who brought up peptides to their doctor and the doctor said no. What do you know about peptides? Nothing. Cool. I'm so glad your opinion is valuable then. If you don't know anything about it, you have no business giving an opinion on it. If you have a bunch of ideologies that are manufactured that you're defending vehemently because your ego is so fragile but they're dead wrong, you still have no business talking about it or giving advice on it, which is what's happening right now in the current ecosystem of social media. So, whoever you're listening to, that's up to you. Make sure who you're listening to is giving you information because they give a crap about you now because they want you to buy from you, right? Like I said, go to Elite Biogenics, knock yourself out, buy all that stuff. Buy it all. Go bananas or don't. I don't care. I still show up every day and my actions, my conduct have proven that every day. Join the black card. Awesome. I will bleed for you. I will give everything I've got every single day. I go in there every morning and I solve problems every morning for all the people that are in that group. And then I do it again the following morning. No, I don't live in my messages cuz I got a damn life. So when people freak out, they're like, "I left this message. I bumped it. How come you didn't answer it yet?" Because it's still today. And that just makes me take my time. If you really want to know, 24 to 48 hours I give more answers. Don't ask me, ask anybody in my group. 24 to 48 hours I give answers, solutions, help people who've been waiting for years for doctors to get off their ass and pay attention. I'll help you. You just have to be where I am. I'm not coming to you. You need to come to me. But this is the solution they told you wasn't that that doesn't exist. Watch. Reddit True Tide and BPC launched the entire assault. They obliterate the hormonal and inflammatory failures. CS31 provides the unlimited energy required for the mission. Now, before you guys get into the MC C question, because I'm going to get hit by this, the reason I have SS31 in there instead of M C is because there is damage. And I realize I said, does SS31 go before MO C? Never. Because you need the machine running right. But the machine is running right. So, I'm trying to keep this as simple as possible, but there's damage. fix the machine with the red or true tide, not the Mott C because MO C cranks up insulin sensitivity as well. Right? So, you have to look at everything from a physiological and a practical biochemistry standpoint, not just what you think goes really well together because you're looking at superficial things, which is what a lot of these Insta PhD expert bros are going out and talking about and they don't know what they're talking about and it bothers them for some reason when I go, "You're wrong." And I've been wrong tons of times. I just don't care if I'm wrong if I'm wrong. And then I just keep on going. All right. What did I learn? I don't go, I'm wrong. And I double down on being wrong. That's juvenile. I've been married almost 21 years to my best friend. You don't think I've been wrong plenty of times with my wife, Brandy? Of course. We solve the problem. We don't double down on defending being wrong, which is the current problem in the society is people don't want to. They don't pull on that thread because if they pull on that thread, they realize everything else they were fighting about is also wrong. I'm just giving you the answer. You decide what you want to do. So, go ahead, buy from Elite Biogenics or don't. Go ahead, join the black card or don't. That's on you. That's on you. Either way, I'm coming out here. But you want real help. Oh, you probably want to join the black card. I'll just leave it at that. But the reason for SS31 is the repair, the inner mitochondrial membrane, the ATP production. So, because look at it's a kind of double dipping with red tide and MS C. That's why if you need the explanation, now you have it. But the SS31 gives you that unlimited energy that's required for the entire mission. So, it does its job. and GHK-Cu drafts up all the blueprints, puts it on the table and draws them all out for the rebuild and then supplies all the products and turns on the genetic expression that makes it happen in thymus alpha 1 secures the perimeter of the entire machine. You so here's what happens. The results the inflammatory signals stop the oxidative environment is quenched. The mitochondrial power plants crank up to full throttle and then some 110% endothelium heals. The damaged oxidized LDL is all cleared out which is the beginning of this entire conversation. Right? So now the plaque stabilizes then regresses and the arterial lining is restored to its very smooth perfect non-inflammatory non-coed in Velcro flawless state. That's what you want. Basic biochemistry. It's not hoping and praying that some instab bro or pseudo expert or some doc with a wellness clinic is going to take care of you. It's giving you the information. So when that wellness doc who wants you to stay on everything they have and spend atrocious amounts of money and subscribe to their paradigm tries to sell you on something, you can look at it and go yes or no cuz you actually know more than they do. Cuz right now this listening to this podcast, you now know more than 99% of medical doctors, more than 100% of bro science and instab experts for sure. And now you can choose. I don't care what you do. I'm trying to give you information to do something that's going to help you. But now you know. So now you can. All I had was G.I. Joe go through my head. If you know, right now knowing is half the battle, right? GI Joe. If you don't know, you don't know. It's funny. My parents never let me play with G.I. Jo's when I was a kid. They said they were too violent. I love my mom and dad, but some of the stuff they locked me in a box. Was like, really? My first rock album that I was allowed to buy was a band called Prism. I'll just let you go run with that. They have a couple of good songs, though. This is this everything I gave you here. You guys, please listen. This is the solution because it's using the correct key or keys in this case for the correct locks. You're not banging the wrong keys against the wrong locks and wondering why more is not is not better. It doesn't work like that. You're not lowering a number. You're making the number completely irrelevant so it doesn't matter. You're not managing symptoms. You're deleting the freaking disease. So listen, it's always the same thing I leave you with. You have a choice. You really do. You can accept a lifetime prescription to manage your decline and just go, "Ah, you know what, Dr. I I I don't I'm going to just go back to taking all my pills because it's faster, it's easier, it helps me. My husband says I should. My brother says I should. My My uncle is a OBGYn and apparently knows everything about the cardiovascular system as well, which they should, by the way. Any first year med student should know this stuff. You can be this good, compliant little customer on the conveyor belt all the way to hell and all the way to death. Knock yourself out. Or you can just go, you know what? I'm done with this. I'm done. I'm done with this. This is my freaking biology. It's my body. Don't you dare tell me what to do with my body. I'm going to fix it. And if you don't like it, f you right to hell. You can choose the protocol. You can choose to actually do something about it. I gave you an answer. You can engineer your own big giant revival and actually have a life and stop chasing symptoms and hoping that the next doctor is going to give you the answer. This doctor right here just g didn't give you the answer. I gave you the freaking solution. The system is broken. You don't have to be. That's the decision you need to make. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. Hope it helps you guys. Hope it helps somebody. Anyway, I got to go. Never miss.