You know, believe it or not, this has episode has been one of my most requested podcasts. You guys, I I've gotten it's got to be couple of thousand messages on doing this. It's all about the cold, common cold, flu, everything that goes on. And I think just because there's this quote unquote season, there's no such thing as flu season, by the way. There's no such thing as cold season. And if you come back at me with, "Well, then how come so many people get it?" It's because so many people are weak enough to be susceptible to create an environment for the pathogens that they are introduced to on a daily basis actually have a desirable host. You become something that is easy to infiltrate. That's why because of your habits, what you do, all the things, lack of rest, holidays, bad decisions, eating, moving less, less sunlight, the list is endless. I'm going to go over all this. But the question was, all right, hey, listen, Dr. T, what do I do when I get a cold? What do I do? How do I get rid of it fast? and how do I get how do I solve the problem and all this stuff? But I I think first the the problem is you guys have been led to believe like I I've I've gotten a lot of messages and really I want to help. And by the way, like did you see this thing? Look at this thing. I didn't even think about it just as I'm looking at this. This is a clean canteen. So I I have one of these that's all beat up. This has nothing to do I'm not marketing. I don't get paid for these guys or anything like that. But the the president of the company, he's a damn stud, man. because I made a comment about the one I have. It's all beat up around the bottom, right? It just looks like somebody drove over it with a Bradley assault vehicle. And he sent me a box of these things. Like, I got a whole bunch. I got a coffee cup. I got this. I got some cool stuff. And these things, dude, I swear I could take this thing by the handle and beat the living piss out of somebody that tries to break into my house with it. This thing is wicked. Like, I love this thing. This might be my new favorite water bottle. Like, this thing is rock solid. has all kinds of wicked openings on it, too. I don't know. I like it. I'm going to drop it and maybe drive over it a few times and see what happens. But I'm telling you, this company, I I don't get a dime from these guys. I don't But I also know that their world is filled with a lot of just scummy cheap people go, "How can I make something and make it look the best, but cost me the least and perform the least is what it ends up doing. It just ends up being crap." I would never clean clean canteen. K L E A N canteen with a K. I will never buy another one other than this brand. And that's before they sent me all this stuff before. Like this is the one I had. It was a Rogue one, I think, and it just the Rogue got scratched off, but I had to find it on a podcast. I'm like, I don't even know what this is. It's just good. I've beat the crap out of that thing. It's fallen off of roofs, out of my car. I've kicked it around my gym inadvertently, sometimes on purpose. But I mean, I don't know how many they sent me. Like eight, nine. There's a ton. But these guys, this company's legit. That's all I got to say. And not because they sent me free stuff. I was saying it before, but you guys need to buy their stuff. That's all I There's so many water bottles. I go to Target. I get this. I got that. Listen, great. You do you. I'm not telling you to go run out and buy it. But I'm not ever buying anything other than that ever. Those guys have my business for life. For life. Their products are so good. They're clean. They're durable. I just I like them. And you know what's wild is I remember leaving This has nothing to do with the common cold, by the way. I remember leaving a we were at Six Flags. It was like 105 degrees. I live in Texas and I had ice and water in and it was sitting in the dash of my um of my wife's G Wagon and it was sitting there and it was hot. I mean, it's hot as [\h__\h] And I came out, we were in the park for 7 hours, maybe 8 hours. I came out, still ice, still cold, still awesome. I don't have anything else that does that. And it was the clean canteen that did it. Like this the one I had that I said that I got from Rogue and it's the same one. Like I should just put ice in here and see how long it lasts. It probably lasts 2 days. These things are wicked. You got to remember I come from a time when thermoses had a glass lining that if you dropped it, you were screwed. You had to go home and tell your parents and then you got whacked for dropping the thermos. Like, how fragile was that? But we were tougher. I'll tell you that. Yes, I know it's a Christmas mug. All right, let's handle this common cold because I got [\h__\h] to do. So, I think part of the problem is you guys are taught, you guys really are. You're taught to think that catching a cold a few times a year is just part of life. That if you don't get sick, somehow you're the weird one. Think about the absurdity of what that just of that. Think about that. How ridiculous is that? You're being told that a state of compromised function, misery, and pretty much biological failure is a benchmark for normaly. Oh, wait. Let that stick just a little bit. It's like saying your car is the healthiest when it's spewing and belching black smoke. The check engine light is on and it's covered in rust. That's normal. You guys aren't getting it. And believe me, I come out here to help you. Some of you guys are still knuckleheads just getting in my comments and whining about your where because I'm just pointing at all your mistakes. And you guys instead of going my you guys your egos are so fragile. You guys get buttth hurt because I'm making it I'm pointing out that everything that you believe has been wrong. You think that big pharma and the AMA and medical society and medical the whole medical profession and the insurance profession. You think they like me? No, they don't like me at all because I'm telling the truth. Good. I don't like them either at all. And most of you doctors, I can't [\h__\h] stand you guys cuz you're sellouts. Look at me. I might I might just take the word doctor off my name. I might just be Trevor. Not even Trevor Bachmire. Just Trevor. You guys all know my name. I'll make, you know, I don't even hide behind some pseudo identity. I don't have a wellness clinic. I'm not trying to sell you things. Like I said, I don't care. Buy from Elite. Don't join the black card. Don't. If you guys keep sending me your emails to Amber and questioning her, I'd like some more information about the black card. Go to my Instagram, type in the word black card, and read it. I don't have time to sit there. I'm not in AI'm not a sales guy. I'm not going, "Well, let's talk about convincing you to spend $59.97, $6,000." I don't care. It doesn't matter to me. I know that I'm good at what I do. I'm not going to chase you around to try and convince you of that. If you want to join, great. You get it for six grand for the first year. And when I'm out of spots at six grand, it goes to 25 grand, two grand a month. That's it. Does it up? Does yours change? I don't know yet. I haven't decided. I really haven't. I have no idea. But it's also not autorenewing. So, you can just give me the finger and quit. But I do know this. Most of you guys spend 9 10 12 months trying to get an answer from a doctor just to refer you to another doctor to get some more tests. I just give answers and help people. What's that worth to you? And if you complain about, well, it took you 3 days to get back to me. [\h__\h] you're lucky I even got back to you just for that kind of attitude. Your conduct, you're not entitled to anything. I don't care how much you pay. You'll get the answer when I give you the answer to help you. But you can be assured that it's the correct one. Where are you going to get that anywhere else? You're not. Join, don't join. I don't care. Buy from my company. Don't I don't care. It doesn't matter. I'm not out this out here to go, "Let me sell you my product or my consulting business." I don't care. I care that you have the information to make an educated decision and you stop listening to the insta bro idiots and 99% of the medical profession who I just want to give the finger to, the entire pharmaceutical profession, the AMA, and every insurance company on earth. You need to be able to make I told you, you need to be the CEO of your own biology. And my goal is very simple. To go to blow my life up as big as possible, so [\h__\h] big, so huge, and bring every single one of you to the top with me. That's what I want to do. That's it. So, you can take that however you want. But I'll I'm going to vaporize this idea that you should be sick all the time and that it's normal and give you the biology about why when you're sick, it's not normal and how to maybe build a biological fortress out of your system so it's actually pretty much impenetrable. Does it mean you're guaranteed to not get sick? No. And if you argue about the fringes on either side, what about Ebola? What about the haunt virus? I got nothing for you. Weakest form of any argument is to argue the extremes on either side. So understand the basics first. The common cold. Because most people, you guys, I've seen so many people run out and get antibiotics or they buy it themselves and they take handfuls of clinics. Why? 90% are viral. They're rhino viruses, corona viruses, dino viruses. They're viral. That's the usual hit parade right there. Those three bacterial infections a are usually secondary. They come after you get sick because now you're weak because they're these opportunist. You're exposed to bacteria 24/7, 365. You're breathing it, touching it, whatever you do with your face and your fingers, shoving them in your nose, your ears, whatever you're doing. You guys, it's funny because I see people run out and they go, "Oh man, like feet are gross." And I I got nothing with feet, but I'm just telling you guys are backwards. You guys think feet are gross because they sometimes are stinky. Dude, your hands are gross. Your hands are nasty because they touch everything. You think you think that washing your hands after you go to the bathroom makes sense? You should wash your hands before you go to the bathroom. You get that? Like, wash them before you touch yourself, man? Because you're nasty. You're touching all kinds of stuff. People are gross. People are so gross. You guys are [\h__\h] nasty cuz you guys never wash. You never clean. I'm not saying to be some weird OCD person that washes your hands a 100 times a day, but you should wash your hands before you put them in your face. Wash your hands before your meal. How about that? Cuz you're eating it. You guys get sick because of what you're doing and what you're exposed to. And then your system is weak already. So opportunity takes over and it goes, "Awesome. Thanks for the five-star resort you just gave me." That's what the bacteria say. So bacterial infections are like that. They're opportunistic. They're invaders that colonize tissue after a virus has punched a giant bacteria-sized hole in your defenses. But that's just the what. I mean, the real question, the multi- trillion dollar question the pharmaceutical industry doesn't want you asking or or to even think about is the why. Why does some people get sick and others don't when exposed to the identical pathogen? The answer is not luck, you guys. It's not magic. It's not some weird supplement or some mushroom powder you get from some instab bro idiot or some doctor that says, "If this is the magic, this is the one." It's desiraability. If listen, if you are sedentary, if you are chronically stressed, you're living on a poor diet of things that come out of bags and wrappers and made in less than 30 seconds in a microwave or molecules oscillate back and forth, right? That's how they get hot. The water molecules, they oscillate. It's friction. If you're loaded with medications, which has become the norm, you're not just a potential host for a pathogen. It's what I said just a minute ago. You are an all-inclusive fivestar resort. like you rolled out, you gave them the private jet, the Gulf Stream, you rolled out the red carpet, you carried everything, you got the welcome sign lit up. You are the easiest, most desirable target on the block. You are an only fans creator for bacteria and viruses. You just got your legs wide open and getting run through nonstop. That's what you are. Your biology is weak. Your internal environment is so compromised that a pathogen, it doesn't even need to fight to get in. It doesn't have to bypass any defenses. It just has to show up. It finds a host with low defenses, abundant resources from the processed crap and junk that you eat, and a stressed out system that you are too busy to take care of, and it's too busy managing cortisol, the spikes and disasters and problems that you have to even mount a proper defense. You are the perfect place for a virus to land. And not just land, by the way. Doesn't just stay and hang out. Lands, replicates, and it throws a damn party. You got the pajama jammy jam going on at your in your body. If you know, you know. If you don't, I'm not going to explain it. I don't care. You've been indoctrinated to believe that you need to boost your immune system with a bunch of outlandish supplements. This is absolutely ridiculous. It's ridiculous. Your immune system is not a weakling that you need to constantly prop up. Your immune system is a monster. Like your immune system is a savage lethal. It's like every SEAL team that ever existed is running around your blood. It is this perfectly engineered lethal hyper intelligent defense grid. And that's what it's designed to do. Let me explain how powerful you really are because I think you guys don't understand it because you've been led to believe that you guys are weak and in dire need of Dayquil. So right now coursing through your entire body you have the precise antibbody for every single known antigen. So an antibbody is the army. An antigen is the pathogen. The whatever you're exposed to that your body goes remember self or other. That's the simplest form of immunology I can give you. Self or other. That's what your body goes. It goes is this self? Okay leave it alone. Is it other? Destroy it. Nuke this thing it back into the stone age. Your adaptive immune system through a process, this recombination process has generated a near infinite library of B cells and killer tea cells all with these very unique receptors all over the outside of them. And the library, just so you have an idea, is so vast that it contains it contains every cell. I'm confident in saying it like that. Every cell capable of recognizing every pathogen your body has never encountered ever. You've never seen it, yet it has the the weapon to destroy it. Do you understand this isn't theoretical, though? This is an imunological fact. This is as as immutable as gravity. When a new pathogen enters your body, it's not that you have to create this weapon from scratch, cuz you don't. You just have to find, right? It's like radar. Just it just finds the pre-existing perfectly shaped weapon from your arsenal and then it turns on the factory to massproduce it. The problem is never the lack of the weapon, you guys. It's never that. The problem is the lack of energy and resources to deploy the weapon effectively. It's like you have all the training. You have one guy, you know, it's like this isn't right like Invasion USA, Chuck Norris and his Uzi, right? Like this is you need a whole army to do this. And you can tell how how old I am because I make references to movies that are incredibly old. Well, they're good. They were better. They didn't have skinny little dudes trying to be girls, right? They had men being men and women being women. I said what I said. Your immune response is a it's a cascade response. So it starts with your innate system, right? Here's what it does. Physical barriers like your skin, mucosal linings everywhere, right? And cells like macrofasages and neutrfils are these these are the first responders of the entire system. They engulf invaders and they start banging the alarm, right? Non-stop by releasing something called cytoines. I've talked to these about these before. The cytoines, this is this inflammatory signal which is the bullhorn. I said this yesterday, I think, or the day before. or it's like the bullhorn. That's like the call to arms. It's supposed to be this controlled localized fire. But if your system is already overwhelmed, here's the issue. If it's already on like stage five, full alert, if you're metabolically dysfunctional, this signal becomes this cytoine storm. This destructive frenzy that harms you more than the invader, more than the pathogen. This leads to the core of everything, energy. It's always the same thing. It's always the same problem. most and I'll tell you exactly what I do when I get sick. I don't care if you do it, great. If you don't, great. If you go, "That's weird. That makes no sense." That's great. I don't care. I'm giving you what I do so you have an answer. If you don't like the answer because it's takes too long. It's too much work. It maybe it costs a little too much and you have to make your $400 a month cell phone bill instead. I don't know what to tell you. You guys ask me for answers and some of you guys don't like the answer. Well, then don't ask. But I'm giving you what I do. This is exactly what I do, what my wife does, what my kids do. This is exactly. And you know what happens, Touchwood? When we get sick, we knock it the [\h__\h] out of the park. I don't know. You might want to listen. Most health issues are energy issues first and a disease process second. Every single function in your in your body, every single function, every heartbeat, every neural firing, every cell division or replication is powered by a denazine triphosphate, AATP. ATP is the currency of life. It's the what's powering my thoughts right now. It's what's powering my hands because apparently I'm Italian and I talk with my hands. It's what's powering my heart beating, my lungs working, my eyes working. It's powering every single thing. It's what keeps the engine going. It is like I I look at myself. I kid you not, when I look at myself and I just go, you know what? I got one of these big turbons in my chest, these like big turbine, right? Like from Pacific Rim. And it's just sitting there spooled up just glowing just cranking energy nonstop. The more fuel I have, the more powerful I become. That's how you have to look at yourself. Not this like some of you guys got a hamster wheel in you and you're wondering why you can't solve a problem. You don't have the energy to do it. The hamster wheel is just keeping you alive and it's barely doing that. So this ATP is produced in mitochondria which are the little nuclear reactors in your cells. The power plants that create everything. Your lifestyle directly determines the ATP output that you have. So a sedentary life which a lot of you guys are guilty of. Listen, doing Pilates for seven minutes a day or two minute abs or going for a walk to the end of your driveway and back is not being active. You ask anybody that is over 45 and our like we had fizz every day. We went outside every day. Our primary mode of transportation was our bicycle. We had one very unbreakable rule from our parents for the most part and it was come home when the damn street lights are on. And that's why we loved the summers because it was 9:00 when it was finally dark. The winter time sucked because we were home at 4:20, you know, 4:30 and we're like, "Fuck, it's dark already. This is gay." So this, the reason I'm telling you this isn't to be insulting you guys in your so fragile with your emotions. It's that you think and if you go, "What if all I can do is walk to the end of the driveway and back? Great. Now walk to the end of your driveway today. Walk to the end of your neighbor's driveway tomorrow. And then walk two driveways down. And then three, and then four. Are you actually pushing it? Are you doing it?" And everybody has it in them to go a little further than they did today. Whatever it is, you have the capacity to make more money, have a better sex life, have a better marriage, have make more, be stronger. You can you can add a fraction of an ounce. Do you know like in the Olympic lifting they add fractionals? You can't always get stronger, Spartan. Yes, you can. Your job is to build the most resilient, robust juggernaut of a human being possible and then maintain it. The only way you maintain it is by taxing it. And you can't say overtraining because there's no such thing. Most of you guys have to train first in order to overtrain. The number of lectures I get from people that tell me I overtrain is endless. Some of you guys just feel it's your duty to tell me that I'm overtraining. But it's me. And if you go, well, people look up to you and they respect you and they follow your opinion. Well, good. They should because I come out here and I give this for free cuz I actually care. See, you can get mad. You can point fingers. You can complain. You can cry. You can get in the comments and run your big useless mouth with endless Reddit facts and chat GPT answers. It doesn't change the fact that I am still winning and trying to give you, not charge you for, give you everything. I mean everything. I have never come out here and gatekept a single damn thing. Never. I mean, I've been on social media for 11 years. 11 years. I'm an old man. I'm 52, right? And I I'm telling you, I'm coming up on my my Christmas. So understand when I come out here, it's not because I have to. I'm already successful. I'm already fit. I'm already rich. I already have a great family. I already have a good psychology. I love my life. I love my wife. I love my children. I love everything about where I'm at. I don't need to come out here. It is my duty to come out here because I have the knowledge. And I think if I have the knowledge to help at least one person, then it's my obligation to do so. So, I do it. And I really can't I think it's probably because of how I was raised. I can't comprehend how anyone ever would have anything other than thank you to say. I I really don't understand that. I also don't really care if you don't want to do it. I just look at that and go, that's really ignorant on your behalf if that's you because it means that everything I'm pointing at hurts your feelings and you're not mature enough to understand that. Which is frightening to me. But then again, there's like an endless number of mental disorders and only two genders. So, what do I do with that? It's a weird world we live in. God's shaking his head, guaranteed. My dad's up in heaven right now looking down. G Why don't we just flood the whole thing and start all over again? I almost done my coffee. So listen, it is energy first, disease second. Okay, this is so important because a sedentary lif style is what fuels this problem. I'm not going to sit here and lecture you about working out. I don't care if you work out or not. Do what you want. Sit on your on your couch and watch football screaming at a team that doesn't know you exist eating tubs of cream cheese frosting. I don't care. But then don't complain about the results, the consequences of your actions or your lack of actions. Just don't because you have nothing. You're not. That's entitlement and that's embarrassing. But a sedentary life, listen, please listen to me. A sedentary life means less mitochondrial biogenesis. You're not building new power plants because you're not stressing the system to demand more. Your body is the only thing on the planet that when you demand more of it, it goes, "Okay, I'm going to upregulate everything to make you more, to become more, to generate more power. I will give you more horsepower." And if I don't have it right now, I'll make sure we start building machines to give you more horsepower. Your car doesn't do that. You stomp on the gas enough in your car and it starts to break. Human body is the exact opposite. So, understand that. Work the machine, it gets stronger. You've been taught to think that if you work the machine, it gets weaker. That doesn't even make sense. Just follow the biology. It doesn't make sense. So, a diet in high that's high in sugar, right? Industrial seed oils, massive oxidative stress, damage the mitochondria that you actually do have. Chronic stress is going to flood your system with something called cortisol, which disrupts mitochondrial function, and it tells your body to do one thing very effectively. Excuse me. It tells your body to break down tissue, not build it. Medications that most of you guys are taking place a massive metabolic burden on your liver, and it diverts energy away from defense. Remember, your body's running surveillance all the time. You're literally lowering the horsepower of your entire system. Solve the economic energy crisis in your body, in your biology, and you solve most health related problems. This doesn't mean drinking Red Bulls and taking aderall all day. That's like trying to start a car by pouring gasoline all over the engine compartment and lighting it on fire. It's fake and very destructive and it's probably very expensive and the cops are going to show up at your house. Real energy means that you're ensuring that cellular energy production is operating at its peak efficiency all the way up at the top means maximizing your mitochondrial function and making more to ensure that you can make you can create even more ATP. So what do you do when a pathogen breaches the walls, right? That's what I'm everybody's like, "Okay, great. I got the I get the physiology behind it. Can you shut up and tell me what to do now cuz I'm sick right now." So when you feel that first tickle in your throat and and you start to get the sniffles or whatever it is, you got a chest tickle, you got your nose stuffs up, you whatever it is, you don't hope it goes away, man. You go into full offense with ruthless and precisionbased actions to maximize one thing. Medication does not fight anything. If you look at like a thing like an antibiotic, well, yeah, that causes a bacteria to become weaker or die. We can get into the whole replication thing and the cell wall thing if you want, but there's just understand it doesn't make you better. It makes the enemy weaker. It doesn't make you stronger. You get that? People got to take antibiotics. It's going to make me better. No, it's not. It makes what you're fighting weaker because you're so weak. So you It's like a cheat code. You put the horseshoe in the boxing glove. Bang. That's why I'm telling you this. And if you get mad, get mad. I don't care. You need to go on offense and fix the problem, which is you. This is what I do. This is exactly how I handle a cold every single time. This is my personal protocol. I've been a doc a long time, but I'll tell you right now, this is not this is not medical advice. It's not it's not to diagnose or triage or prescribe. It is only hypothetical. It is only entertainment. It is only educational. It is none of this is act is is designed for you to do anything other than go, "Oh, it was a cool story, bro." Do you know why? Because I have to say that. Because if I talked about a drug, they'd be like, "Awesome. talk about that all day long because it makes us trillions of dollars. But if you talk about something that works, they go, "We can't have any of this. You need to suppress this guy. You need to to give him give him [\h__\h] and his channel, whatever the [\h__\h] it is that you guys do." And you're going to have a bunch of little woke idiots with fuchsia colored hair complaining because I'm telling the truth and apparently the truth is demonized. Well, I'm about to get noisy and disruptive and I'm just warming up. So, buckle up there, Fuchsia. So, the first thing I do the second I feel anything is I fast immediately. And I'm not some weird dude that's like, "Yo, fasting is the magic of everything." No, it's not. No, it's not. It just works very well. I use the same protocol that I do every single week. I fast every Friday after date night and then I don't eat again until 2 the next day with my wife. My wife and I have done this for years. Year years. I do it every week. So, I stop eating at 8:00 p.m. and I don't eat again until 2 p.m. the following day. 18 hour fast. Why? Because fasting induces autophagy. We can get into the peer-reviewed research and go, "Well, so does exercise and so Okay, great. But you know what cranks it up the most? Fasting. It's written in historically for centuries. The Bible. So I mean we could go into this if you want or you could just go maybe I should try it because I'm tire what feed a cold starve a fever all this stuff. Grandma and grandpa were right just so you know. But let me explain how they were right. So at at the cellular level it is a self-cleaning. This is what autophag is. A self-cleaning process that hunts down damaged cells and viral particles and either destroys them or recycles them. and it reduces the metabolic noise and it allows your immune system to focus its energy on the damn threat. It's it's like a resource, a very strategic resource allocation. And then after I start fasting, I lay out a very targeted stack. This isn't a random collection of immune boosters that I got from my local wellness doc. This is very strategic. It's based on physiology. This is why I always tell you whoever you're listening to, whether it's me or anybody else, make sure they actually have a very good concept of biology and physiology. If they don't, stop listening. So, methylene blue electron cyclinger in the mitochondrial electron transport chain. Bypasses that traffic jam. It cranks up ATP production 20, 30, 40%. It is what I what do I always call it? Jet fuel. It's like nitromemethane for your cells. So, it enhances my ATP production. That's number one. M C I take 5 milligrams every day. Mito, this is a mitochondrial derived peptide that regulates metabolic homeostasis. I've talked about these, but if you've never heard me before, this is all new. So, it improves insulin sensitivity, energy utilization. It ensures that the fuel gets to where it is needed most in my system, which at this moment is an immune response, right? If I'm sick, that's what I need to do. BPC57 and TB-500. These are the most ultimate healers you can ever put in your body. 5 milligrams of BPC right out of the gate. Yeah, you guys are like, "Wait, aren't you supposed to take 250?" Just listen to what I'm telling you to do. I don't want to have to explain it a million times. So listen faster. I take 5 milligrams right away and then I take 2 milligs every day for 5 to 7 days. Angioenesis, tissue repair, inflammatory response. TB5 reduces the inflammatory response. TB-500 5 milligrams every 5 days upregulates actin, right? actin pymerization which is the key protein in cell mobility and structure and the scaffolding and telling it basically tells fibroblasts or and even my immune system where to go and what to kill and what to solve and what to repair right they help repair the damage that's caused by whatever infection and they mitigate or they aid in the immune response itself thyosin alpha 1 and KPV I don't talk about these too often because most people use them incorrectly and you guys don't pay attention so I'm trying to give you the answers but you guys get overwhelmed and you just start randomly doing things and go but you sw you said this no I didn't so thyin alpha 1 KPV these are direct I mean to the letter immune modulators thyosin alpha 1 spools up the function of te- cells which are the delta commandos are the rambos of your very highly adaptive immune system is a fragment of an anti-inflammatory hormone that helps it doesn't matter what it is act if you really need to know but that helps calm that runaway cyto response. So, it prevents all the collateral damage from you being this inflammatory ticking time bomb. I crank up vitamin D3, but we're talking 10,000 to 25,000. And I go with I pair it with K2. Vitamin D is not a it's not a vitamin. It's a a psyoid hormone. It's imperative for immune function. Like critical. You can't function without it. Regulates the expression of hundreds and hundreds of genes including including those for antimicrobial peptides. H strange. So you you see why mixing this together and not in the same barrel. I'm just saying putting these in the same system matters. K2 ensures that the calcium mobilized by D3 which is what happens goes to my bones and not to my arteries. That's why you this is why it's important to understand this stuff. Ivormectin I mean I can give you the whole 2 milligrams per kilogram for 3 to 5 days. Most of you guys won't understand that. So I take a pinky size pinky nail size dose every night. It's easier because you guys will sit there and try and figure this out and you'll get a scale and try and get this apple flavored Vaseline. Stop taking stuff that is a pill. Stop taking stuff that is made by a pharmaceutical company. Get Dervet, hypothetically for your kangaroo experiment. Dervet horse paste. It is apple flavored Vaseline. That is literally what it is. Comes out of this looks like a fat syringe. Same with Panicure C. It is just Vaseline for horses. And if you go, "Oh, that's not for humans." Go get your next booster. I don't know what to tell you. Ivormectin pinky nail size dose two milligrams per kilogram or 0.2 rather milligrams per kilogram if you need to do that three to five days. I would just run it for the week to be honest. Um hydroxychloricquin. Yeah. Where do I get this? Jace Medical. Hydroxychloricquin 200 milligrams. It really people look at these and they're like really controversial which is a testament to how broken our system really is because their mechanics are beyond well established. Ivormectin inhibits viral replication by blocking nuclear import. And hydroxychloricquin raises endooal pH. So it disrupts the abil. This is so badass. It disrupts the ability of viruses to fuse and to fuse with right and enter the cell. This is a tactical disruptor. This is first line of defense against something that's making you sick and yet they go you should take dayquil. But nothing in a dayquil or a pseudafed solves the problem. It makes you feel better which is a much easier cell. Interesting, huh? Zinc I 50 to 100 milligrams. I take that almost every day anyway. But zinc I take it with with queretin. So zinc is a co-actor for about 300ish enzyatic processes including all of those involved in immune function in your immune cells. It directly inhibits viral RNA polymerase which is important. You look at how this functions right you need to make sure you inhibit the problem the replication ability of a virus. Querin acts as a zinc ionaphor. So it it's a shuttle that pushes zinc into the cells but not randomly just where it's needed. That's how effective this system is. It knows what to do when you give it the right materials to do what it needs to do and then give it the blueprint to go do it better. Highdose vitamin C and N uh NAC an acetylcysteine. Vitamin C is a very potent antioxidant. If you look at anything like Lionus Pauling, he was doing incredible work with vitamin C. You need to look up um anatomy of an illness. It's a great book, but you should pay attention to it and read a lot because he does some insane things with vitamin C. And of course, how often do you hear about that? You don't. But we're talking for things like like ankylosic spondylitis. Like he does stuff where they go, it is a death sentence and it turns out to vanish. Just telling you, you guys might want to pay attention to things that are designed to heal people, not designed to take money out of your bank account. And if you go, well, what what about the black card? That's should that be free? No, cuz you'd never use it. And two, if I'm putting my knowledge down, you're going to pay me for my knowledge, the time it took to do it. Yeah. And if you work one-on-one with me, my cell phone number is $150,000 a year and worth every penny. So, I don't know what to tell you. You're welcome. Send me a message supportlc.com. Ask for Amber. She is my executive assistant. And she will answer you and either send you the link or send you thanks for your time. And I'm not going to sit there and answer questions all day. You have a choice. I come out here every day and prove my knowledge. So, I don't need to sit there and send you to a VSSL. I'm not coaching. I'm not send I'm not you on a coaching program. You're getting information from someone who damn well gives a [\h__\h] about you and knows what he's talking about. So, if you look at an acetylcyine, go back to vitamin C though first because it protects immune cell. This is so wild. It protects immune cells from oxidative stress. If you understand oxidative stress, it trashes your system, but it protects them during the battle. So not only is it protecting the immune cells, it's doing it when they need the protection the most. An acetylcysteine is a precursor to glutathione. We know glutathione is the antioxidant with produced by the liver. It's your it's the master antioxidant of your system. But an acetylcysteine thins the mucus, the surfactant in your lungs. So it makes it easier to clear the crap that's in your chest. If you have this very thick mobile sludge in your chest, it's very hard to get out. Well, what do you think happens? alvoli, all the issu the the little air sacks in in your chest, in your lungs, can't do accurate or appropriate gas exchange. So now you run into this problem where you not only can't breathe properly, but you can't get toxins out and oxygen in. So now you run into a lot of secondary issues because the system isn't functioning right now. Do you see why? Energy, oxygen, water, rest, all these things matter. You know, by the way, for a chest cold, laying on your back and sleeping all day is not the answer. You need to go out for a walk. If somebody's got pneumonia, the worst thing they have, there's countless studies about this. Just I have to put this out here where people with pneumonia, leaving them in a bed is a surefire way to get them to die. Get them up and walking around. I'm not saying going for a run or if they're sick or they're barely functioning, but putting them on a on a ventilator is not the answer. You need the lungs expanding and contracting. You need rib excursion. You need the system to work. An acetylcysteine thins the surfactant on the inside of the lungs and allows gas exchange to happen a lot more efficiently. and it allows the lungs to work a lot better so they're not all glued together. Just keep this. It makes everything easier. That's the way you got to look at it. Um 600 to a,000 milligrams. It's from coconut oil. It's lipid envelopes of viruses like influenza, corona viruses, and it it renders them completely inert. How simple is that? And where do you find this stuff? In a grocery store. Elderberry, oil of and oil of oregano. I'm a big fan of oregano oil and a big fan of elderberry because these are natural antivirals and antimicrobials. Proven efficacy in disrupting pathogen replication. Proven without a shadow of a doubt. Proven. They do this all the time. They have proven this beyond like you can find so many studies that prove this. The bovine colostrum. This one gets people weirded out, but it gives this concentrated do. Remember the gut. 70% of your immune system comes from your gut. Don't screw with your second brain, which is your gut. So, it provides this concentrated dose of imunoglobulins and growth factors that support gut health in ways that I've never seen anything else. You can keep drinking your kombuchas, but that's not going to help you at all. This is much better. This is it's 70% of your immune system. 7 milligram nicotine patch. I have one on right now. I will wear a 7 milligram nicotine patch every day. I change it out every 24 hours for the rest of my life because it matters. You cannot get addicted to nicotine. So stop it. Stop it. It's not possible. There's so many studies proving nicotine is not addictive. If it was, you'd be addicted to eggplants and tomatoes and cauliflower and all the night shades and like it's not possible. None of you guys are like, "Oh man, I need the these cherry tomatoes. cuz I just can't stop eating them because I'm so addicted. No, you're not. No, you're not. And that's in all of that. You have nicotenic receptors all over this, all over your body inside. And it's designed to turn on processes, which means you were built this way. They didn't just manifest. So, just understand nicotine, contrary to popular belief, is a newropic and a very powerful anti-inflammatory agent and a massive antiviral and antibacterial among all the other things it does. When it's isolated from tobacco smoke, it acts on the receptors are called nicotenic acetylcholine receptors which modulate the immune response and reduce all of the inflammation going on. Never mind what it does for arthritis, but that's a whole different a different conversation. I cut out all my sugar. Sugar cripples neutrfil function, which is your primary fagocitic cells, right? For hours. Destroys them for hours. They don't function. So, and I eat a ton of high quality food. When I stop my fast, I eat all the good stuff. steak, eggs, organs, some fruit. I'm not a huge fan of fructose. Not be. Yes, it is different than glucose, but because it makes the liver work harder. I just want to fuel the machine. Do I eat bread? My wife's homemade bread is kicking. It is so good. It's got four ingredients. I eat probably a loaf of bread every day, day and a half. Big old 2-lb loaf. I eat so much bread, but it's only got two or four ingredients, rather, and it's made for real every day. My house smells like bread all the time. It's awesome. makes you if you have no willpower, you want to eat everything in the house, by the way. And then I move. I go for a onem walk every day when I'm sick. Deep full inspiration, full like full breath in, full breath out, deep slow breaths. I don't do it to exhaust myself. I do it to work my lungs, promote lymphatic drainage, to maintain circulation in my system. Sedentary is going to kill you. I'm not saying going out and training or running races is what you need to do, but you need to keep the system. Even the skeletal muscle pump when you're walking around, it's forcing lymphatics. It's moving the blood. It helps your heart function. This is how you're designed. The issue was never the pathogen, you guys. It was always the environment that it landed in. You are not this passive victim of your own biology. It mean that would mean you're walking around in a prison. You're the architect of your own prison. You weren't born in a prison. You were born in the most free country on Earth, which is your biology. You've decided to put up walls and barb wire and electric fences and put guards everywhere designed to keep you sick. You're the architect of the entire thing. You determine whether body is barren or a fortified fortress or this lush undefended resort for every passing microbe that comes into your life. You have a monster inside you. Is it is Sorry, I was about to sneeze. Your immune system is is waiting for you, man, to stop sabotaging it. Stop giving it garbage and junk and and fuel that you would never give an enemy. It's so bad. Stop drowning in stress, treating it like a weakling that needs a booster shot from a bottle. I don't know what to say. You can disagree, you can agree. I don't really care. But this is you asked me to tell you what I do. This is what I give your system energy. Give it the raw materials to do its job and then get the hell out of the way and let it do it. Most of you guys are getting in the way and causing all kinds of static interference and wondering why you're sick for 3 months. The power to be virtually impervious is not in pharmacy. In the meticulous daily engineering of our own internal environment, this machine build a biology that is so resilient and so strong and so energetically dominant that pathogens simply can't survive there. Make it inhospitable to any foreign invader. That's not just health. That is it's biological sovereignty. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.