Somebody asked me the other day, it was actually yesterday, and they said, "You know what, bro? You know, it's not always about money. What about health? You got to have your health, man. Money doesn't mean anything if you don't have your health." And they gave me this long, scathing message in my DMs. And and so I thought about it and I thought, "Okay, listen. Everybody wants to pretend that life is this little cute buffet where you can just pick the things that you like and ignore all the other things that you don't, you know? Oh, I don't care about money. I just want to be happy. That's literally what I got when I read this DM. All right, cool. Then let's go down this rabbit hole. 52. I'm missing a lung. I've had expensive doctor bills and all kinds of other things going on in my life. I've lost millions. I've made even more millions. And I've been through a lot of things where money is required. But let's see. Try being happy when a doctor hands you a bill for a quarter million because your body decided to stage a coup and you've got exactly, I don't know, 41 bucks in your account. Make it make sense. Or how about this one? This is even better. I don't care about my health. I just want to make a bunch of money. The inverse is also true. Great. Let's see how well that strategy holds up when you're rich as hell, but your heart taps out before you even hit 50 because your breakfast every day was Red Bull and some Cuban cigar. I think some of you guys need to get this together and understand, you want to know the truth, you need both. The people that walk around with their kids parading and talking about how present they are and how godly they are and how magical their life is because they've never been so connected in their life still need money. And the people that have all the money in the world and are parading around about how rich they are still need health. You need both. Money and health. There is no pick one. There is none. There is no pick one. Listen, the idea that you can have a balanced life without pursuing both is it's a participation trophy for adults. And let me remind you guys, participation trophies are just consolation prizes handed out to make losers feel better about losing. Saying everybody's a winner is ridiculous. There are winners and losers. I have been a winner. I have been a loser and everything in between just like every other person success that's successful in this world. But start start with this this word balance. God, you guys love to throw this around. It's like a bumper sticker for mediocrity that you guys are some shirt you know. I love balance. Balance means you never go too far in one direction. That's what it means. It also means that you never actually get anywhere. It's both. Why would you do that? People love to say, "Well, success is relative." No. No, it's not. How is success relative? Winning is winning and losing is losing. If you finish it out of 12 and somebody hands you a ribbon or a medal, you did not win. You just got a receipt for showing up. That's it. Nobody remembers the guy who was kind of in shape and kind of successful. That guy doesn't get statues and medals and recognition and money and fame or whatever else it is that defines the success, but also has to do with winning. They don't get all the accolades. He doesn't get his name on buildings and he sure as hell doesn't get the life he wants. No matter what you say. And here's where it gets really ugly. Because the concept of balance isn't just wrong. It It's actually I fully believe it's dangerous. It tricks people into believing that they can compromise on their potential and somehow still be fulfilled. That's how you end up broke, out of shape, and lying to yourself about how money isn't everything, bro. while simultaneously crying into your Walmart brand ice cream because the rent is late again in a place you can't afford. Listen, how about we let's talk about money. You should be rich. You should. I said it. And if that offends you, that's probably why you're broke. Being rich isn't just about Lamborghinis and yachts and expensive watches or whatever else. It is about options. Money buys you the freedom to walk away from anything that doesn't serve you. Money lets you move your mom into a better neighborhood instead of just sending our thoughts and prayers every time she tells you about another driveby or how broke she is or how she can't put food in her refrigerator. Money means that when your kid is sick, you don't wait 6 months for an urgent specialist appointment. You fly to the best doctor in the country or the world tomorrow. Broke people act like money is dirty. Post memes about it. The best things in life are free. Really? Try telling that to your landlord or your bank when the mortgage is is late. If you don't have money, you're not just playing life on hard. Just so you know, you're playing it blindfolded with one arm tied behind your back and you're hoping nothing bad happens with all kinds of crap in your way. Just to be clear, in the world, bad things always happen. Welcome to being a human. Listen, most people aren't sacrificing health to get rich. They're sacrificing both. They're broke and unhealthy and they're justifying both losses while pretending the game is still winnable. It is not. If you are unhealthy and broke, the game is not winnable for you. Period. You cannot win. Look at health. Just flip the script. Look at the other side of this equation. You should be strong. You should be fit. You should be incredibly difficult to kill. But that's not the narrative right now, is it? Instead, we're living in this world where big is beautiful and body positivity gets paraded around like it's some badge of honor. Let me get something straight. Being positive about your body isn't is fine. It's exactly how it should be. Being delusional about your body is not. You can be happy with yourself, sure, but you can't argue with biology. You can't. Your heart doesn't care about your Instagram hashtags or your feelings and your pancreas isn't scrolling through your feed thinking, "Wow, she is boss babe. She's so confident. Let's skip the diabetes today." I mean, the problem is people have been fed this diet of absolute nonsense about what's healthy. Weed every day, fine. and alcohol every weekend. Awesome. Lifting weights. Oh my god. Be careful. You're going to hurt yourself. Here's the irony. Most of that will actually make you stronger, sharper, and harder to kill. And all of those things are labeled as dangerous. Go through peptides. One of my companies. Peptides. Scary. Untested. Is it approved? Where's it done? I don't know. Except they are literally based on your own biology. Just so you know. That's what a peptide is. Little amino acid chains that tell your body to do something that is already there along with those amino acid chains. By the way, secrets. Well, that's cheating. No, it's not. It's science. It's science. Eating real food, too restrictive, man. I can't do that. You know what that means? The translation is you can't door dash it and it pisses you off. Here's the truth that you guys don't want to see. Nobody in the history of the planet has ever enjoyed being sick or being weak or dying. Not one person said, "Man, this hospital bed and this feeding tube, best years of my life." Find one person that said that. I mean, here's the real con. Societyy's convinced people that using tools to make yourself better is somehow wrong. You eat clean. Oh, you're obsessive, bro. You take peptides, cheater. You're a cheater. I knew you were a cheater. You skip alcohol. You're [\h__\h] boring. Okay. Meanwhile, being broke and unhealthy and miserable is rebranded as relatable. How about we translate that, too? Relatable means average, and average means replaceable. Everybody that's relatable, replaceable. If you want to win, listen, if you want to win, if you really want to win, you've got to tune that noise out. Because the people chirping at you about how money doesn't buy happiness and health isn't everything and big is beautiful are usually the same people who are one bad day away from complete collapse. Just total obliteration in their life. And they're in your comments because they're miserable. If they were truly happy, you wouldn't waste time trying to tear somebody else down. Really think about it. If you were happy, if you were truly happy, you're not going to waste time in the comments trying to tear anybody else down. I have never gone in somebody's comments ever. Ever. In all the time I've been on social media, not one time can you find somewhere where I've gone into someone else's feed and wasted time dropping negativity trying to tear somebody else down. Misery though, misery has nothing but free time. That's all you sons of [\h__\h] that have nothing but free time because you're miserable. And you know what it needs, right? We already know. Company loves company. That misery, huh? So instead of fixing themselves, they attack whatever they can't achieve. That's why people demonize the rich. It's why people demonize the rich, the fit. It's easier to call it toxic than to admit to yourself that you quit on everything you want when it got hard. So money or health? It It's AI've had this question asked of me. Really? I've had this question asked of me on stage where people put up their hand. Okay, bro. Well, which one's more important? Money or health? Both. Which one? Which one, Dr. T? Which one, Spartan? Money or health? Then yes, that's my answer. Yes, both. Always both. Always. Only an imbecile argues that one is enough. What kind of weird idiosyncrasies do you have in your life that make you think that? Only a some delusional optimist thinks that neither matters as long as they have a positive mental attitude. You know what a positive mental attitude does when you're broke and sick? It craps out, man. It dies. It dies. It dies in the hospital when they hand you a bill that you can't pay. And then they kick you out and send you to the local shitty hospital where everybody dies anyway. Listen, I I'll tell you. You want the real play? This is the move. Learn what rich actually means. Not just a dollar amount. It means freedom. That's what rich means. Learn that healthy is not it's not just not sick. It's strong and powerful and the ability to take a hit and yes, muscular and sharp and resilient. Stop worshiping balance and and just go all in on both all the time. Stop cherrypicking your life. Why don't you build the skills and the discipline and the bank account and the body? That's all you got to do because then the last thing you're going to be doing is talking about balance. The only people talking about balance are the people that aren't where they want to be and they're mad that somebody else is because there's nothing noble about being a dad bod broke guy who can't play with his kids. There's nothing admirable being a body positive mom who's one stairwell away from a heart attack. There is nothing there's nothing wise about acting like money or health doesn't matter when you fail at both. Make it make sense. So which one you're asking? Which one then? All right, Spartan. Which one should I choose? Money or health? Neither. You earn both. That's an even better way of looking at this. Because here's the thing. Rich and fit aren't nice to haves. They're force multipliers in your life. And they make everything else in your life better. The only bad thing about being rich is broke people talking about you. And the only bad thing about being fit is weak people talking about you. So stop pretending that you can coast through life with balance. and stop listening to the losers handing out 11th place trophies and ribbons and start playing the game to [\h__\h] win because winning is is one category and it's the only category. But go even deeper. Winning in one category is okay. Winning in both I mean winning in money or winning in health, okay, not bad. Winning in both, that's how you become an unbreakable human being that actually lives the life you are called to live. And you are in complete control of either one. Just so you know. Money or health? Both. [\h__\h] That's all I got today, man. Cuz that really pisses me off. Never miss. I got to go.