Just so I have this straight, if somebody that you've never met can say something to you or type something to you or send you an email or leave a voicemail or say it from over the fence from your neighbor's place, anything, and that ruins your entire Hey, you're not free, man. You're controlled. Here's the problem with that, and I see it every day on social media. It's mind-blowing how many of you guys have just lost your [\h__\h] minds and just keep handing everything over to other people going, "Go ahead, control me." You volunteered for the damn leash. Do you guys understand this? Like, it drives me crazy. Brandon and I talk about this all the I go, "How are these people getting like some of you nerds get in the comments and lose your mind?" Number one, I don't know you. I don't care what you think. Number two, you don't know me. And number three, if anything I say causes you any kind of emotional response that changes your psychology enough to change your physiology enough to see it where you start screaming and yelling and maybe throwing your phone, I control you, man. Like, you guys hand over your emotional state to complete strangers. Hell, I don't know, at 2025, some of these people might even just be AI. You live in this glass house with a self-destruct button wired to every tweet, every real, every carousel, every post, every YouTube video, every message, every off-hand [\h__\h] comment. And then you wonder why your life feels like a prison cell with wifi. Listen, nobody is against you. I just had this conversation with my daughter. Nobody is against you because nobody gives a [\h__\h] about you. You think more about other people thinking about you than they ever think about you. Like you think everybody else is the real enemy. It's not. It's not the politics. It's not your parents. It's like I said with my daughter, it ain't us. It's not your mom and dad. It's not your job or your boss or your ex or your gym or your trainer or your dog who has it out for you. It's you. You're emotionally weak and weak people. Whether you, in fact, you're the ones that are about to get in the comments and lose your [\h__\h] You guys are so easy to control. I can get you to do anything I want. Even what I'm saying, you get in my comments all pissed off. I own you. Like, you ever see these people, they get on I've seen it lately. You guys all screaming about mental health awareness. Never in the history of mankind has mental health been so seriously challenged. Mental health awareness and emotional safety. You guys scream about this and then you go feral when somebody disagrees with you. That's not strength. That's not mental health awareness. It's not emotional safety. That's emotional incontinence. That's most of you guys. And you guys get mad about this. Let me I'll be clear. Nothing has power over you unless you hand it over. Nothing and nobody can ever make you feel anything without your permission. So that coworker that you hear said something about you or talked to your boss or whatever it is that triggers you or the ex that some of you guys are still stalking on social media on Facebook, but you're just telling I'm just curious. They just happen to pop up on my feed. The best is the politicians. You guys lose your [\h__\h] so bad over politicians that don't even know your name, don't care about you, don't think about you. You think about them and you sit there and you rage out to the point of fury and tears. These guys are living rentree in your head and charging you double. A lot of you guys walk around, you're just this ticking time bomb and all it takes is one whisper, one video, one little tweet, one comment that's just the wrong direct. You're so sensitive and you guys bang, you lose your [\h__\h] Your emotions explode and then your body follows and you wonder why you're all strung out and unhealthy. Like your heart rate goes through the roof, your blood pressure skyrockets, your focus is gone and then you start looking at your shitty life and you get mad about that. You look at your crappy marriage, you get mad about that. You look at the fact that your kids don't listen to you, you get mad about that. All rational thought goes right out the window. You turn on the TV and scream at whatever it is you're watching as if it's listening. That's your life. Forget it, man. If your psychology is weak, your physiology follows 100% of the time. Nothing happens in the mind without it happening in the body. And people will argue that all day long. I will disprove it all day long. I'll go toe-to-toe with you all day because I'm right. You know that I think I'm I'm the only doctor out here telling the truth. I really do. I think I'm the only doc out here going, "This is real. This is fake." All of these clowns. Who's the guy with the red glasses? The dude he look Yeah, I swear to God, he's tweaky and he looks gay. And then there's Brea. There's all these people coming out that have no business giving you. I saw Brea give a he was on stage talking to somebody, a bunch of people about how oral peptides are just as effective. Are you insane? So, I I'll tell you this. I'll put a blanket statement out there for all of you people that go, "Yes, they are. I've used them forever. They work just as well." No, they don't. That's okay. But you go ahead with your psychosmatic response. No, they But you guys get mad. I had somebody try and lecture me in the comments yesterday and I went, "Let me get this straight. You're cherry-picking the two that actually do have bioavailability, three actually, that have bioavailability outside of a subq injection." But you missed the most obvious one, first of all, which he, she, it, they, them didn't talk about. Who the [\h__\h] knows who they are right now? And the other one was, you can smell Google information a mile away in the conversation. Go on live with me. I'll go toe-to-toe with you and I will bury you because I've forgotten more than you'll ever learn because I take the time to actually give a [\h__\h] about people. You know why I come out here? Because I care. Because I actually genuinely give a [\h__\h] about you guys. I care about your health. I care the fact that I said, "Above all, do no harm. That was an oath I took to be a doctor. But that transfers across everything I do. Above all, do no harm. As a consultant, as a coach, as a parent, as a husband, as a father, as a leader, as a man of God, as a doctor, it doesn't matter. Whatever role I have, whatever hat I have on, above all, do no harm. And you guys get mad. Not because I'm wrong, because you are. But if your psychology is so soft and weak, let me back up to the oral peptides real quick just so I could touch this. Show me the blood work that shows that your blood level is almost the same as a subq. Show me. I'll wait. You can't. I'm going to tell you right now, you can't. I don't care what you're saying. You can't. So all of you guys getting duped into buying oral, you're throwing your money away and have incredibly expensive urine. And when someone like me comes along and says, "I'm giving you education for free to save you time, money, and energy and then directing you into the right thing so it actually works and you get the benefits that you want." You fight to stay where you are because you don't want to be wrong. Not because I'm wrong, because you don't want to be wrong. And the truth of the matter is, you can say that you're taking something and it works and when you see no change, you go, "Well, I'm trying it. It doesn't work." It absolves you of the responsibility of doing the work, you fat [\h__\h] That pisses me off because you look for ways to argue to stay where you are, even though you hate it, so you can avoid the work that you know is going to change your circumstances. It doesn't matter if it's business, fitness, peptides, marriage, God, it doesn't make a difference. Like you will eat like trash. You'll skip workouts. You'll sabotage relationships. And then you'll tell yourself, "I'm just in a funk." No, you're not. You're not in control. Let me Let's have some fun with this. What if I told you that the reason that like right now, I'm sure some of you guys are losing your mind. The reason that you're mad right now is because you don't even believe the crap that you say you believe. Yeah, let that land. I said it. You wave your flag and you repost your slogans and you chant your narrative and you throw tantrums in the comments like a digital toddler. But if your belief system were that bulletproof, why the hell are you so offended every time it's challenged? I believe in God through every cell of my body. because I know God's real, which makes heaven and hell real, which makes angels real, which makes demons real, but I have experienced far too many miracles to say anything else. But if you challenge God with me, I'm not going to get my feelings hurt. You can insult all you want. You can get mad. You can come up with validations and try and sway me to your opinion. I will never do it. I am always on team Jesus. I am 100% God- driven. And the engine inside me, 100% powered by the big G. Period. But I'm not going to get mad. Why would I Why? If you listened to yesterday, why would I I'm not going to allow you to do that to change my state because you want it to change. Think about this. What's truly believed is not easily disturbed. That's the easiest way to look at it. If one sentence from a stranger can unravel your ideology, you're not a believer. You're a borrowed opinion with a cell phone and an internet connection because you're reacting. You're not thinking. You're obeying the operating system that's currently running, but you're not questioning it. And when that programming breaks down, you don't evolve. you explode. So here, let me ask you this. Are you reacting because somebody touched a nerve or are you submitting because deep down you're afraid that they're right? Because for most of you, it's the second one. Because look at it's Friday. So let's say an average Friday night, you get home. This is almost guaranteed most of you and I'm sure this is going to trigger somebody. Good. I hope so. And then you change and you evolve. But let's go. Make it a Tuesday. Almost midweek. Just make it Tuesday. You get home. You complain to your wife and kids about how tired you are from a 9-hour shift where you maybe did 60 to 70 minutes of actual work. Then you shove some microwave garbage into your bar hole. And then you plant your big ass on the couch. You fire up ESPN or YouTube or some dumb reality show about people more dysfunctional than you are to make yourself feel better. And then this is the best part. You start yelling at the television. You watch sports and you yell at the TV at grownups, grown men that you don't even know, playing a game you are never going to be good at in a league that you're never going to enter on a team you don't own while you sit there wearing their jersey. And you call me crazy. You call me a lunatic. You get in my comments. Are you kidding? You cry. You're psychologically broken. You have a mental defect by choice. By the way, you cry about being tired or broke or anxious or unhealthy and lost and you think that's just how life is. No, that's how you are because that's the standard that you've accepted. You built it. You gave away your mind, your schedule, your attention, all of your willpower and self-control. And now you want somebody to rescue you from the consequences of your own surrender. Get real. Nobody's coming. Nobody is coming, man. Especially not for a man who outsourced his emotions to Instagram or Tik Tok and some booze. Even worse, weed. You see these people at this is my favorite. You see these people at concerts or self-help seminars. I don't care, you know, sit at some seminar and they scream Jesus is coming down on a beam of sunlight. That's not joy. It's not. That is a dopamine overdose from a life that is so vacuous and empty that clapping on Q feels like some spiritual awakening. Listen, I can't be more succinct than this. Easy to excite, easy to destroy. If you're an emotional roller coaster every damn day, what happens when life actually shows up and just smacks you right in the mouth? When your wife gets sick or your kids are in trouble, when your bank account hits a big giant zero and there's no bailout, nothing. You're crippled by failure. Do you understand that? You get crippled by failure. You collapse. You won't be ready because you don't know how to be because you've been practicing fragility. Resilience. I had a client like this. She would always talk about how resilient she was nonstop. I'm a resiliency expert. I went through this, this, this. But every single message I've ever had from her was nothing but her complaining and whining about her life. You're not resilient if you do that. Just so we're clear. The same nervous system that makes you dance like a nut job when your favorite speaker drops a line that you've heard a hundred times. You see somebody up I almost use names, but somebody up on a little tiny stage dropping lines and memes and quotes and all the same [\h__\h] that you've heard so many times and you get out of your chair and you lose your mind. That's the same system that's going to shut everything down when real life battle and war starts in your life. Do you want to know why most of you guys are failing? Don't get offended. I come out here so you don't fail, but you need to see where the problem is first. If you aren't willing to look at the giant void in your life, you can't fix it. You can't. So, do you want to know why most of you guys are failing? Because your nervous system was trained in a nursery, right? In a crib, not in a battlefield. It's like the emotionally enlightened. Mr. Emotionally enlightened. These are my favorite. I try not to say names because they don't need the street cred. And I'm not a big fan of attacking somebody that's not there to defend themselves. Talking poorly about people without them being there just discredits yourself. But there's this coach, his life went tits up a couple years back and all of the sudden he is Mr. emotionally enlightened. If this is you, I don't know what to tell you, man. You meditate and you talk about how calm you are and zened out you are and in touch and present you are and connected you are until somebody cuts you off in traffic or you can't get your seatelt to plug in and you just lose your mind. You know, you eat clean until it's cheat day, which for most of you guys is every day that ends in a damn Y. And you love your wife if she's still there. In this case, she's not. But if she's still there, until she challenges your ego and suddenly you're silent, for weeks, like some passive, aggressive six-year-old. That's not enlightened. That's not evolved. That is not progress at all. And you cry because I told you your nightly, this is my favorite one. You cry because I said your nightly wine ritual like you guys in your booze, man. It's unbelievable. Sometimes I like to have a glass of wine every night when I come home with my wife. Why do you get so mad when I say you're an alcoholic then if you have it all the time? Cuz I could stop anytime. Then stop. But you guys get mad. You cry when I said that. You guys lost your mind when I said this. that your nightly you guys come home and have a glass of wine every night. You're an alcoholic. When I said that it makes you this low rent budget alcoholic, I had some people tell me how expensive their wine was. It's because your identity is shattered. I don't give a [\h__\h] how expensive your wine is. You guys DM me because you want to argue that your emotional support vape pen helps you think clearly. Not possible. It's cute. Really? It's super cute. How's that working out for you? Because la, listen, last I checked, the only thing that you're leading is a group chat of equally confused dudes trying to fix their marriages with Instagram memes and quotes. And listen, don't think I haven't forgot about the women out there either. 34, single, in therapy for the fifth year in a row, addicted to a smoothie cleanse, drinking green drinks, and still mad that Chad from CrossFit doesn't text you back. You ever think maybe, just maybe, the issue is you. The common denominator with all those problems is you. I said it in a post today. I'm not begging for you to pay attention to me. I'm handing you the answers. You have to decide. But I'm right and I'm giving you the slap in the mouth that nobody else is willing. You know, I love you enough that I'm not willing to lie to you just to protect your feelings. I'm telling you the truth because I love you that much and I want you to do better and I want you to win. Because if you can't control what enters your ears or exits your mouth, you're weak. Not emotionally weak. We ek period. All kinds of weak. physically, mentally, emotionally, financially, spiritually, everything. You're mad because life ain't fair. Good. It's not. Life isn't fair at all. In fact, it sucks. Life is going to chew you up and spit you out even after a damn big lunch. It is going to tear you apart. So, your job is to be battle ready every [\h__\h] day. Pick up your shield, pick up your spear, lock in, and do the things you need to do. Pick up the sword, and take the head of every Goliath that you see. Like, you're upset that somebody said something that hurt your feelings. Come on. Seriously, tough. You guys lose your mind and spend three days in depression because your team lost. Get over yourself, man. I've seen people spend more time perfecting their fantasy football draft than their financial future. And by the way, fantasy football is Dungeons and Dragons for everybody that made fun of people that played Dungeons and Dragons in high school. It's just with football players. Bunch of [\h__\h] losers. Like you've rehearsed more comebacks in the shower going, "Shit, I'm going to wait till they see it." Somebody said than business pitches in real life in an elevator. If you had the chance to do it, you wouldn't succeed because you haven't rehearsed it. You've rehearsed comebacks bracing for something to attack you just so you get the chance to sound witty. And I listen to most people. They have they run traumas on repeat. But you you've never applied the lesson. So you didn't learn a damn thing from them. You want discipline. That's what it comes back to. It starts with silence and not quiet. I mean silence in your reactions, in your complaints, in your validations, in your excuses, in your just one more thing, bro. In your give me another week, I'm almost there. That's what I mean by silence. Because until you can feel something and not let it dictate your direction, you're not a man. You are a sensitive, directionless child dressed up like an adult. You're just pretending to be a man. Because in order to be resilient, you've got to identify the parts of yourself that are owned by others and then one by one reclaim every single one. That means, just so you know, that means the part of you that gets triggered when somebody mocks your political stance. Okay? It's theirs, not yours. Who cares? or the part of you that wakes up and determines the value of themselves and their day by the likes on their social media. I made a post today. It has zero comments. I have 1.3 million followers and they're real because I've been doing this for a long ass time. I get some where I have 700 comments and I have some where I have four. Neither one dictate my self-worth. But that that little part of you that just craves likes and comments more than your own value and legacy, that's theirs, not yours. When you guys lose your mind, when a stranger a stranger disapproves, still theirs. Still theirs. You have been slowly sold back to yourself in tiny little pieces. And let me help you. That transaction, that's non-stop selling of you back to yourself. That transaction is almost complete, man. You want peace, never going to happen. You want self-worth and confidence, success, then earn it. You earn it through sovereignty, self-rust by being willing to betray yourself and the narrator in your head first because the narration's a lie. Nothing is more powerful than the man who governs himself so ruthlessly that nobody else to try. But you guys keep handing the keys over to everybody. You're not upset because of what somebody said. You're upset because what they said exposed something in you that you already knew was true. It's like the dopamine. Most of you guys talk about your dope. I love when I hear, "Oh, I know. I just got this crazy dopamine addiction." No, you don't. You're addicted to deflection, man. Escape the pivot. Call it that. Just so you don't get lost. It's not the negativity that's overwhelming. It's the lack of your own courage and self-respect. I heard somebody say this. It was actually pretty sad to hear this. I hate the world. First of all, that is a very bold and disgusting and juvenile statement. You don't hate the world. You hate yourself for not doing anything about your own [\h__\h] condition. That's what it is. So, listen, here it is. The man who can't govern his emotions will 100% of the time be governed by anyone with a megaphone shaped like a cell phone, like a television, like a movie, like a radio, like an opinion of someone else. So, if you can be bought with praise and sold with criticism, you aren't a human being. You're a commodity. I don't know if you understand this because maybe people don't tell you, but the only real freedom is control. I mean, control of self, spirit, of g, your own psychology. I saw a podcast, same weird dude. You don't, it just came across my feed. It's like, maybe the problem is my phone's listening, right? I should probably shut the hell up. But you don't need a safe space. You also don't need to create a safe space for somebody else. You need some titanium in your spine. Vibranium, right? You need higher standards. It's You need to take a look at your soul. Really shut up for a second. Listen to me. You need to take a look at your soul and remember what set you on fire and then wrap barb wire around all your feelings so nobody can get to them that doesn't deserve it. Because if your emotions are up all the time for auction, don't act surprised if the world buys them cheap and then uses them to destroy you. Until you change that, you're a slave. I got to go. Never miss.