I was thinking about what people they're upset about their life and they go, "Okay, I don't like where I'm at, but they're not doing anything about it today and they're waiting till tomorrow, but tomorrow you have less time. It's going to take longer and you have to put in more effort and you're not doing any of that today, but you're saying you're going to do that tomorrow." And I talked about this on the webinar and that's what people do. They validate that they're going to do it later, but later you have less time and you're not even doing the bare minimum right now. You need to really listen to what I'm saying because what happens is people go, I'm not going to spend the money. I'm not going to spend the time. I'm not going to expend the energy today, but I'll do it next week. I'll do it in a month. I will do it next year. I promise. And they never do because they keep saying next year because next year is very appealing. Next month is very appealing. Next week, tomorrow is very appealing. Tomorrow's Monday. And if you're not doing it today, what are you going to do tomorrow? You're not going to do it tomorrow. Yeah, you don't know me, bro. I do because you've been saying Monday for the last six months. You didn't earn it. That's it. That's what it is. It's entitlement versus effort. And gratitude comes from action. You guys get up with your little gratitude journals and you sit there and make your posts with your kids and go, "I'm so grateful, but little Kimmy and little Tommy that I can just be present for my children." You guys have confused being a good parent and all the nonsense that is put together Your child doesn't care if you're present. You do. Your child wants you to teach to be a leader. Telling you that. So all the soft [\h__\h] that you do is costing you a lot of stuff. But your life is where it is because of you. And I think problem is in 2025. Your life is where you are. You are where you are in your life because of somebody else. That's what everybody's saying. But that's not true. You didn't earn it. You didn't fight for it. You didn't grind through hell for it. So, no, you do not deserve it. Whatever it is, whatever you say you deserve better, you do not. And deep down, you know that. And that's why it gets you angry because here you are really, like right now, here you are, even listening to this perhaps, arms folded like this spoiled brat, wondering why your life hasn't changed, but yesterday you said you'd do it today, and today you're saying you're going to do it tomorrow. You don't have the money, the time, or the energy. Even though you have the money, the time, and the energy, you're just aiming at the wrong thing. You want the reward without the war. Right? You want the view of the entire valley, but you don't want to climb the mountain. So, let me get this straight. You see this usurper on your throne and the kingdom that you want, but you're not willing to pick up the shield and the sword. There's your Goliath, and you're doing nothing about it. So, I'll make this really simple. You are exactly where you deserve to be. And that makes people incredibly angry. But the only thing standing between you and the life that you say you want is all of the work that you refuse to do. is all of the stuff that you say you're going to do tomorrow. But tomorrow you have less time. There is no more time than you have right now to get the life that you want, the money that you want, the health that you want, the relationship that you want, the kids that you want, the building that you want, the mansion, the car. I've said this so many times and yet you still don't acknowledge that fact thinking that some mystical power is going to come in, sweep you away, grant you more time, and give you all the means to create the life that you want. If you deserved the body, you'd have the body. If you deserved the riches, the wealth, the income, the salary, then you would see it in your bank account. If you deserve the respect from the people that you say, I deserve more respect. I deserve better than this. Then you would walk into every room and you would own it. But you don't because you haven't earned it. What you have earned is exactly what you're around you. Your relationship, your big belly, your empty wallet, your weak routine, your validations, your I'm so present for everybody, but nothing behind it. No substance. It's not punishment. It's proof. It's proof. All of that is proof of what you tolerate. You're not being tested. You're not You're being exposed. And that's what makes people mad because social media is where people sent their representatives. But you've spent years overvaluing your potential while ignoring all of the production that you're supposed to be making. You're not producing it. You've confused motion with movement. You think results and action are the same thing. So when someone says, "Are you taking action?" You say, "Yes." But you're not getting outcomes. All you're doing is busy work. You mistake being hopeful for being hungry. Except lions that are savage are not built with full bellies and soft couches. Like this should feel like a brick just smashing through your front window. God's not in the business. He's not He is not in the business of handing out participation trophies, third place ribbons. You guys don't get to wish your way to excellence. You work, you fight, you bleed, you keep going, you get back up until you get it. And if you're not willing to do that, then honestly, I love you. But shut up about what you deserve. You don't deserve it. You don't. You think you deserve something because you've had such a hard life. Okay, good. So did I. And so pick your ass up and earn something. Now you guys have this hard life that you keep talking about, this trauma that you've had to deal with, this issue that you've had to struggle through. I listen to people. My empathy and my sympathy are almost at zero, and people get mad about that. But my empathy is there when you're going to do something about it, not when you keep bringing it up expecting sympathy. And you get mad at me for your conduct. That's gaslighting at its finest. When I hear somebody go, "You don't understand. I went through cancer. So did I to go through chemo. So did I. My marriage isn't working. Mine is. I'm struggling to lose the weight. I've been there. You have great genetics. No, I don't. It's easier when you're rich. I was broke poor four years ago. Nothing. Zero. Two figures in my bank account. That's less than $100, folks. Just so you understand. Pick your ass up and earn something. I I simply for you. I've been trying to survive. I had to go through cancer. It was so terrifying. And you say that's being an [\h__\h] You're being ignorant. I've gone through cancer four times. And the last time it cost me my lung. I have no sympathy for you. And you go, I was just trying to stay alive. Maybe that point you shouldn't have. Somebody's going to go off the rails on that. If you're going to use that as a crutch and something to lean on about why you're not successful, why is it that I've had the same four years as you and my life looks different and you guys get mad? I come out here because I genuinely love you and I genuinely care and your reaction is love should feel like coddling and sympathy and permission and approval and acceptance for your inadequacies and your impetent behavior. That's not love. That's enabling. It's like you weak parents that say, "Oh, I'm present for my daughters. I'm present for my son. My business is failing. My marriage is trashed. My body looks like hell, but I've been more present for my family than ever." They don't care. And deep down inside, you know you're failing. You know you're a s if you're a dad. And you get mad about that because somebody tells you the truth. But you guys know that truth and love now, love ain't lies, man. And the truth is the truth. There's no my truth, your truth. There is the truth. Ten Commandments. That's it. 10. This isn't a complicated thing. The world ain't fair, son. It's earned. And that's what makes this world badass and beautiful because I've had to earn everything. Everything that I have, health, wealth, relationships, all of it. You're not a victim. You're lazy. You want results of a savage with the lifestyle of a softy. Come on, man. That's not how the game works. Put in the damn reps. Neuroplasticity. Your brain doesn't recognize good or bad. It just recognizes repetition. You're putting the repetition into the wrong place. Put in the damn reps in the direction you want to go or sit down, shut up, and stop pretending. with love. You are a consequence factory, just a retribution machine. Your outcomes mirror the structure you've imposed on your own reality. And if your life is chaos, it's because you've permitted it to be. You want a nicer house, want the mansion, want the cars. Yeah, except you still haven't cleaned the onebedroom that you rent with your ex's Netflix log in. Get real. You don't deserve it. Maybe you should look at your life. A good question is where in your life are you complaining? What are you complaining about? But refusing to outwork, refusing to put the reps in uncomfortable directions. You think you're grateful. This is what people do. They go, I have so much gratitude. My gratitude is so amazing because you scribbled coffee in a journal next to your $7 peach scented candle that's burning while Kenny G is playing in the background. That's not gratitude. That's cosplay. Gratitude doesn't live on a Pinterest board or chanting or incantations or telling everybody else what you're doing but not doing it for yourself. It lives in your blood. It lives in your sweat. It's proven with your discipline. You don't show gratitude by writing cute notes. You show it by waking up every damn day and giving everything you've got. until there's blood under your nails. No matter what it takes, no matter how you feel, because if you truly loved your life, if you loved it the way you talk about it, you would fight like hell to level it up. Gratitude is not passive. It's violent in its intent. It's aggressive. It's relentless in its pursuit. Gratitude says, "I love this life too much, to waste it, to be cheap with my money, stingy with my time, lazy with my output." That's what real gratitude is. I love my life so much that I'm taking a day off. That's a lie. Let me ask, are you really grateful for your family? Are you? Because if you say yes, then why are you walking around overweight, overwhelmed, defeated, whining, validating, justifying, demanding acceptance and approval, seeking permission, overstressed out, and underpaid? Are you really grateful for the job that you have right now? Then why are you always late, waiting, excited for? Why do you wait five out of seven days for just two and then spend two days trying to forget about the five days that you put in instead of doing something to get the hell out of them and build something better? Why are you that way? Why are you always lazy and procrastinating and filled with excuses? Are you grateful for your health? Because this one matters to me even more because I had to send my wife a message, a text saying I'm not going to make the morning. And it wasn't seeking attention. I was going to die. And I was so upset and sad and torn up inside because I thought, "I really can't do anything about this." And when my wife sent me that message back when she said, "I need you, Trevor. I can't do this life without you. I love you. I need you forever." That's when I treated what was trying to kill me as the enemy. It was as the demon it was. And I said, "Either you get to spend your life with my wife or I do. You as a memory or me as the man." That was my Goliath. And I picked up my shield and my sword and I took its [\h__\h] head. Are you that grateful for your health that you're willing to fight? Because if that's the case, then why are you dragging your ass around just to find your dad bod looking through every Reddit and Kora forum and any YouTube video you can find to validate and support that being fat is okay and it's normal and that your frumpy nasty body whether you are a man or a woman is actually not your fault who ate the food. You're irresponsible. You aren't even qualified to manage your own life if you are overweight. Because if you were truly grateful for all of the stuff, your health, your wealth, and your relationship, your life would show it. Gratitude ain't in your mouth, son. Gratitude is in your output. You want to be thankful, run farther. Lift heavier, lift harder, work harder, put in more time, stay up later, grind more, get a little grittier. Show your kids and your family what you're capable of. Whether you think so or not, your wife and your kids don't want you to stop. They want you to produce. Do something worth being grateful for because right now you're not. Most of you aren't. Gratitude is buying your mom a house free and clear so she has it. Your dad free and clear so they have it together if your dad is still alive. You know, it's being able to put your kids in a better school or a private school or move to a neighborhood that's safer or giving your wife a safer, nicer car to drive, putting them in a more beautiful house. Building the dream house, the forever house for your wife, teaching your kids, having time for your kids because you built the empire and you spent the time doing it and they watched you and they helped and you taught them every step of the way. It's not crying into your oat milk latte because you're stressed. bragging about your 3K run. If you're building, producing, or leveling up every day, don't you dare talk about gratitude. Gratitude requires a framework. It requires structure. It demands very intentional hierarchy. It's a system of values in action. Visible quantifiable results, not a performance of emotional indulgence. You're not grateful. You're not. You're just broke and bored, probably impotent, and you're pretending that your stillness is spiritual. How about you just try some work ethic? It might just change your damn life. Listen, what would your life look like if you just showed gratitude through execution in the right direction and the discipline to maintain it when you don't want to do it instead of your emotional rituals, all your whining and complaining in your posts talking about how frustrated you are. You woke up this morning with a choice. Listen to me. You woke up this morning with a choice. You damn well know it. You woke up with a choice. You chose your weight. Nobody else did. You are a portly fat [\h__\h] potato. You chose that. You chose your income. You are staying in a career or a job that pays you $31,000 a year and going, "Not everybody wants to be rich. You want the freedom that money gives you. And you want the freedom that a healthy body gives you and the resiliency it gives you." You chose your relationship. Well, not everybody has to be all loveydvey in their relationship. I didn't leave her. She left me. She left you because you are a waste of time. You're a liar to yourself. And you're not grateful at all. Everybody wants an incredible marriage. Passionate, fiery, connected, beautiful, deep, wild sex, intimate conversation, deep connection. That's what everybody wants. You chose your habits and your beliefs, which means you chose your reality. You did. Stop blaming. It wasn't God. Wasn't it's not your parents. It's not your neighborhood or your genetics or your job. You It was you. You chose to press snooze. You chose to take a job that lets you start later. It brings you closer so you don't have to commute so far. Even though the other job paid you better and had more opportunity, you chose to scroll through Instagram or Tik Tok or whatever it is you look at and choose YouTube videos that don't help you get anywhere and leave. And then you chose to put negative comments in people's feed because you don't like that they're pointing their finger at you. You [\h__\h] [\h__\h] [\h__\h] You chose Netflix and HBO and Amazon Video and all the other stuff that you do to distract yourself. Games in the App Store. You choose excuses and procrastination. You liar over execution. And now you're mad. You're mad at the consequences. You're not unlucky. It's nobody else's fault. You have the discipline of a toddler. This isn't about fate. It's about your lack of followthrough. And you know it. That's why if somebody goes, "Listen, I'll say it here. Join my mastermind. Send me the word unbreakable. Send that to me on Instagram. It'll give you all the information and it's not forced. You want to join, then join. If you don't join, that's on you. But then quit bitching about your life cuz what you're looking for is something easier and cheaper." But I have a mastermind. Yeah, I have one-on-one coaching. Absolutely. It's expensive and worth every penny. But you get into my mastermind and you get me one on-one without having to pay the one-on-one price. It's for people that can't quite manage the price tag, the investment for one-on-one dedicated with me. But you still get to ask me questions. Every Monday, I do a Q&A and I stay on the call for as long as possible, as long as you guys need me to. Last time I had 53 people on the call. That was last Monday. There's going to be another one tomorrow. Get in before tomorrow. Send the word unbreakable to my Instagram. Every Saturday is fixing your broken, screwed up limiting beliefs and screwed up psychology that you've got. solving your relationship problems, your mindset problems, your all of this stuff where you think you're grateful, but you're not producing anything. Sunday is nothing but business. How to get rich. That's as blunt as I can be. I don't beat around the bush. I teach you how to make massive amounts of money if you listen to what I tell you to do. Your business isn't making money? Listen to what I tell you to do. Don't know how to invest? Listen to what I tell you to do. Got a real estate question, got a business question, got an online question, a social media question, automation question, lead genen question, go highle question, many chat question, active campaign question, it doesn't matter. I solve all these problems, but then I record every call and I just have a library for them and I make them as easy as possible to understand. But I do that because I give a [\h__\h] about you. Because I actually care. But love eight lies, which means I'm not going to sit there and go just do these two things and they're going to magically transform your life. But I'll tell you this, just join my mastermind. It's the easiest decision you can ever make to solve every problem you've got. If you don't have the health you want, the money you want, and the relationship you want, join my mastermind. It'll fix all of that in about 45 seconds after you click the link. Because the resources alone are worth a million dollars. I am a walking case study of how effective what I do is. Or you can keep searching. But therein lies the problem. Your follow-through sucks. Oh, I don't know, man. Maybe there's something cheaper. You're cheap. You don't deserve a win. Is there an easier workout? You don't deserve to have the muscle or the athleticism. Is there a quick hack or some kind of weird phrase I can say to my wife so she's going to actually have sex with me and want to do things with me? You got a dicky doo. Your belly sticks out further than your dicky doo. She doesn't want to have sex with a fat dude. Or if you're the fat woman and your husband isn't, he doesn't want to have sex with a fat girl. Stop getting mad about the truth. You guys get upset about things that are the truth because you want them. Oh, you should have a little more. Or maybe that rugged honesty is what's going to be the catalyst so you have some followthrough and you change your life. What you don't need is another video course, another life coach, soccer mom that took a online certification. You need to shut up and do what you already know you should be doing right now. Right now. Why are you still listening? Turn this off. Just go do it. Send me the word unbreakable on Instagram. Just join and then do it because I'm the guy that'll stand there behind you going, "Run, move. And I'll give you the answers. Nobody's taking your job. I said this in my webinar. No AI is taking your job. It's taking the jobs of the people that aren't willing to do the work. Because if AI takes the job of all the personal trainers out there, which is I'm getting messages from all of you fitness guys, what am I supposed to do, bro? How do I my my job my fitness training my my online training company is going to go it's already losing. You suck at your job. AI is going to spit out the exact same workout you are, except there's no accountability there. It doesn't matter. AI can tell you what to do. People still aren't going to do it. So, you need to shut up and go do what you need to. Like, you already know you should. And I mean it right now. Not Monday. Tomorrow is Monday. Not next Monday. Not I'm going to wait about a month and then I'm going to squeeze the trigger. And I said it earlier. You're going to put in all this time, money, and energy, and effort later when it takes more time, more money, and more energy to do when you're not even doing the bare minimum right now. No, you're not. You're a liar. You need do it now. Not when Mercury is done moonwalking in retrograde right now. Every time you say, "I will start after this, after a vacation. I'll invest when I make more. I'll buy it when I have a little more money. I just have to wait for one more thing to sell. I'm waiting for this." I have a guy that joined my program that went, I need to be here. Took out a loan. Two days he joined. I have so much respect for this guy. I'll bleed for guys like that. I'll go all in when my wife and I are getting along. She's not getting along with you because you're not going all in and she knows it. You're just too much of a [\h__\h] to see it. I'll go all in when my life calms down. When my kids go to college, my kids come back from college. When I sell my car, buy a car, move house, whatever. You are just repackaging cowardice as planning. And your life is reflecting all of that. Any doubts? Look at your life. Look in the mirror. Look in the mirror right now. You chose that. You did. You chose that. Your big belly, your empty bank account, your anxiety, your depression. You did that. You did all of that. Now take that same energy and freaking fix it. No one's coming to save you, man. Every result that you hate, you signed the contract for it in dead silence. You want change? Start paying the [\h__\h] price like a man. Pay the bill. The time, money, and energy. Pay the bill. Cuz until you're willing to do that, it doesn't matter what you want. Your failure to act is not neutral. It is an active rebellion against your own potential. You're either going to burn that rebellion down or be consumed by it. Your choice. You guys say you're stuck. I love that. You don't understand. I'm stuck. You haven't even moved. How can you be stuck? You want to be rich and in a great relationship and jacked, but you're still broke and bloated. Come on, wake up. Wake up. If you had a decade, 10 more years exactly like today, would that life be heaven or hell? You can't heal you guys. And you're, well, I'm just healing from my trauma. You don't understand what I had to experience. Nobody cares. The universe doesn't care. God doesn't care. God's putting all kinds of obstacles in front of you to help you get better, but you keep choosing to be worse. You know what happens when you throw all your doubts and your worries and your frustrations and your anger and your bitterness and everything at God and say, "Okay, I trust you." And then you go do all the work and the adversity and climb the obstacles and look at that mountain that's in front of you and stop screaming at the [\h__\h] rock and start climbing. You know what happens when you do that? Your life gets better. But you cling to that stuff. all the stuff that's ever happened to you. Oh, it just reignited my trauma. You can't heal from what you keep nurturing. You can't escape anything that you refuse to look at or confront. You won't even have a hard conversation with yourself. You think you're going to have one with your wife or your customers, your clients, or anything or the bank that's lending you the money. You can't win a game when you're way up in the nosebleleed section hiding behind the bleachers wishing you were in one of the boxes. Here's the truth. You don't need more motivation or inspiration or another meme or another set of steps or actionable non-negotiables or all the other things that you come up with. You need more responsibility and accountability. You need more self-credit. You need more receipts. And receipts come from doing the hard things that you don't want to do despite the fact that they need to be done. You need to take your credit card if it has five grand on it. Max it out for something that's going to take you all the way to the top. $4,997 lifetime membership in my mastermind. And all I do is keep adding things into it to help you get further. And I am way on top of AI and technology. So if you wonder about that, I got that, too. But you guys go, can I dip my toe in the water and just see if I like it first? You're not going to like it. You're going to love the results you get from it. You're going to go to your house. You're going to throw out all your garbage that you eat and just go to the gym every day and make it non-negotiable. You don't need more external. You need internal accountability, discipline, responsibility, self-worth, self-respect. You need to find all the hard things and start walking towards them every day. Your life isn't broken. Your life is just accurate. It reflects all of your choices, all your actions, your beliefs, your habits, your empty, vacuous psychology, and the lies that you tell yourself. If you want more, listen, if you want more, earn it. Just earn it. It's all you have to do. I wanted more. Four years ago, August of 2021, I wanted more. I was angry, bitter, filled with hurt and hate and vicious like fury and rage. And I was knobbyby need flabby, broke, lost everything, hated everything, miserable, and I felt like a failure. I didn't think I didn't feel like I failed. I felt like a failure. And instead of standing there staring at the train wreck that I was living in, the conflration that surrounded me, I went, "This is all that I hate about my life." Every single line. And on the other side of that equation, I went, "This is exactly how I want my life to look." And then I put a date on it. One year. And then I wrote down every [\h__\h] step required to get there. It was 941 steps. And one year to the day later, I hit every single one of them because I gave myself no option. And when you go, it doesn't always work like that for everybody because you choose not to work like that for yourself. Your follow through is as empty as your bank account. You want the life. You don't want to give the commitment. You want different, become different. You want freedom, earn it. Sacrifice every single thing that's holding you back. Because the world does not reward hope and dreams. It rewards execution in the right direction. So, you can either keep faking it, which most of you guys are doing because it's tolerated, getting into arguments with Google, Reddit, my comments, thinking I give a [\h__\h] hoping that some post or some nickel and dime coach that can't even keep his or her marriage together or some podcast hands you permission to stay where you are and praise you for it. Or you can look in the mirror, get violent about your own standard, and then go [\h__\h] earn it. Honestly, you want the next step, you get inside the unbreakable mastermind. You've got every tool, every system, every tactic, strategy, every savage mind in there, including mine, but everybody else in there ready to build you into the lethal weapon that you are meant to become. But if you ignore this, it doesn't matter. If you scroll past this, if you just fast forward and go listen to something else that's more entertaining, you're not unlucky. You are choosing it and you're a coward. I can't help a man or a woman who won't fight for her own future. I won't. You have to make the decision because where you are right now, no matter how angry you are, and it should make you angry, you earned it and not a second more and dime more. I told somebody today, "You have to hate where you are. Look at everything that you're in." And they went, "Well, that's a really strong word, though. You shouldn't hate anything. That's why you're stuck." Until you are willing to look at the life you're in and hate every aspect about it more than everything required to change, you will stay where you are. That's what's holding your follow-through back. You want more, earn more. That's when you'll deserve it. I got to go. Never miss.