test. You don't have a name on the mug. This is my Bedro Coolian mug. Not like any of you guys care. Listen, I've gotten a bunch of messages. Honestly, they're argumentative about people trying to justify how semiglutide and tzepide are just as good and I shouldn't be trashing on them and telling everybody that Red True Tide is better, but they're not even in the same game. like you got. I'm going to explain all of it. I'll show you exactly what the problem is. I'll show you exactly why the problem exists. I'll even show you how to use it. I'll explain exactly what's going on and why you should probably take all of that stuff, Ozan Peak, WGO, Monero, all that stuff and just toss it in the trash cuz it's garbage. It's garbage. Pure garbage. Reddit True Tide's the only way. Hey, listen. Do you think for a second that they're fighting, have you heard them fighting to try and ban semiglutide or tzepide? No. But they're trying to ban compounding pharmacies from producing reatride because it threatens their corner of the market, their control. You guys need to listen to me. I'm out here to help you. I'm not out here to do anything else. And if you guys are going to get in my comments and start crying like a bunch of toddlers, you need to understand, I am here for you. I'm not here for me. This is because I actually care. You guys have been played. You guys have been played. It's unbelievable. You've been sold a lie that's wrapped in a prescription and propped up by billiondoll marketing campaigns. Your doctors, you're the not doctors like me. The most of the ones you go to, the ones you are supposed to trust that you just throw blind trust at are often nothing more than highly educated middlemen for pharmaceutical companies whose only metric for success is your lifetime value as a customer. And your lifetime customer value is the highest when you're sick, when you're manageable, and when you are forever dependent on their product. If you think for a second that the FDA isn't their Gestapo, their enforcers. It's the mafia. It just happens to be in a nice giant skyscraper with Eli Liy across it or Fizer or it doesn't matter. Johnson and Johnson. I could do this all day. Listen, I'm going to autopsy the hell out of that lie. I'll show you. I'll dissect the science and ignore that that's all the lies and the constant barrage of Yeah, but Dr. Trevor, what about this? Yeah, like I had somebody argue with me just so you understand. And listen, I am out here cuz I care. I already know this stuff. I don't need to teach it to myself again. I'm giving it to you guys. If you are on waygo or listen, I'll make it just go. If you are on semiglutide or tzepide, you're an idiot and you've been played. You've been played. All you're doing is setting yourself up for a catastrophe. I'll prove it line by line in this entire podcast. You can argue all you want, but ask yourself, what what are you arguing for? Are you arguing because you're mad that you can't get rid of truth tide? Are you arguing because you're mad that somebody told you about it? Are you arguing because you're going, you don't understand because you just don't want to be wrong. I'm not going to argue to stay in a place that's going to potentially kill me. Maybe you should start looking at your life a little more seriously instead of getting so put off because somebody points at what you're doing and says, "Hey, man, that's harming you. I just want to expose all the corruption that they hide. If you come to my podcast for gentle little platitudes and a little hug, you're in the wrong place, man. This is I'm not a guy that talks. I'm a guy that gives you the facts and punches you in the face with them so you could take them out and share them with your friends and help everybody that you meet. You know what I really want? I don't know if you even know that is I want you guys to take all my information, just give it away, give it to everybody. Like this is a today's podcast is an intervention for a medical system that's actively in a collapse. Look at the superstars of your pharmacy. The number of people that are on this is astronomical. The things that have celebrities in your neighbors going, "Oh, I'm on this. I'm doing this. I'm doing that." Semaglutide, right? Ozmp Wiggo. If you want to know what they are by their fancy names, it is a GLP-1 receptor agonist. That's it. But if you hear that, I think a lot of you guys don't even understand how this stuff works. So, I'm trying to help you. Here's what that actually means. It's stripped of all the jargon that they use to confuse the hell out of you. After you eat, your gut releases a hormone called GLP-1. Two main jobs. That's it. Job one whispers to the part of your brain called the hypothalamus and says, "Hey, man, tank is full. Stop pumping gas." Job two tells the beta cells in your pancreas to push some insulin. Themaglutide is a synthetic version of this hormone. It's louder. It lasts longer. Its primary overwhelming and undeniable mechanism of action is just this. It is a powerful appetite suppressant wrapped up in some slick as [\h__\h] marketing. Makes you feel full and it makes you feel nauseous if you eat too much. So you almost get punished. You don't think this stuff is designed this way? That's the revolution. They've repackaged the core concept of eat less into a molecule that costs 1,500 a month. 2021 step trials. This is going to piss you off. In the New England Journal of Medicine showed 15% weight loss with ready for this 15% weight loss. And you guys go see it's awesome. Yeah. With over 70% of that weight loss being comprised of muscle and connective tissue. Great. So you wreck your biology for a number on a scale because someone convinced you that number is the endgame. You fat bastard. You need to get it through your head that that number you are so much more important than that number. Your biology is so much more important than that stupid number on the scale. Get it through your head. You're worth more than that. You know what else causes a 15% weight loss? Just for fun? Being a heroin addict. How about cancer? That'll do it. You want one on the positive side? Okay. How about a sustained caloric deficit and some weight training? You you guys, you've outsourced willpower to a pharmaceutical company and you're fighting to defend it. Look at Monero Zeppbound. By the way, if you're trying to figure out which ones those are the next gen. So the marketing will be like, "Oh, it's a dual agonist, bro." And for before you get on my comments and start going, "What about this new one? What about bioglutide? I heard that's even more." And I already did irrefutable proof on why biolut is you're a myopic idiot. It's not going to help you anymore. In fact, it's going to cause more problems. And you guys get mad about that, but I'm going, you don't. If you have the fuel that makes your car run perfectly, and you go, "What if I put all these additives in?" Nine out of 10 times, it's actually going to cause more problems. If the fuel is perfect and the car is running perfectly, you got the engine's great. Lay on the throttle. Dual agonist GLP-1 and GIP. So GIP is glucose dependent insulinropic polyeptide. It's another gut hormone. It's like semigluc seaglutide but with a second key, but the second key goes to the same satiety lock. Coke zero. Look out. So good. I had some of you guys static me about this. How can you talk about health and drink that? How can you think cauliflower crust on a pizza is actually a crust? I don't know. Strange things in this world filled with mysteries, right? So, this GIP is a more effective appetite suppressant. The surmount trials, real trials. Again, New England Journal of Medicine 2022 showed up to you love this 21% weight loss, a better appetite suppressant. You don't eat, you know what happens? You lose weight. However, don't be fooled by the percentages. Yet again, this is not some paradigm shift. This is a marginal improvement of the same fundamentally flawed premise. Treating the symptom of caloric overconumption while ignoring the disease of metabolic dysfunction, you guys. And here's the best part. The same 70% muscle and connective tissue loss out of that pseudo impressive 21%. It's a lie. Listen, I'm honestly I'm tired of people defending it as if they have any concept of how corrupt they're making their own biology because of the ignorance they have and their own ego. I got to get it. My doctor won't write might write me a prescription for Monurro for Zepbound for WGOI. Yeah, but you're asking that's like going, "Listen, I can't get that one. This one's going to harm me, but it's better than nothing, so I'm going to take it." Are you out of your mind? Are you nuts? You're going to take something because it's there? Yes. This makes me angry cuz I'm seeing people still diabetic, still having problems, still metabolically dysfunctional, still having dementia, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's. You guys are screwing with your biology, man. because you you just can't what? Solve the equation or find another way. Listen, like I've said, I don't care if you buy from Elite Biogenics or not. Yes, it's mine. But if you buy from it, you can get all the stuff you want. It's all there. I stopped producing semiglutide cuz it's garbage. I will not give that to anybody. It's everywhere. So, it's not like, oh, probably can't get it broke. No, I'm just above all do no harm. I take that very seriously. Listen, you guys are important to If you weren't, I wouldn't show up here every day and listen to 20% of you guys just sit there and chirp in my comments. I still show up cuz I care. So, you want to buy from Elite Biogenics? Awesome. You don't? Awesome. You want to join the black card and actually get in front of me and be able to ask me questions, not one- on-one. Somebody asked me what it was. It's not one-on-one. I have a live call I do every Monday that I stay on for about two hours and I rock this thing and I answer questions and solve problems anywhere from health to business to marriage to mindset back to peptides. It doesn't matter all of it and I don't gatekeep a damn thing cuz you're in my world. You get to access the VIP area where you can ask me questions. Type them out to me directly. Me. It's not some AI. It's me. I'm too old for that stuff. I just answer the question. I'm not going to farm you out to somebody else because your health matters to me. I'm not farming it out to some piece of equipment to answer. Too many variables. Get access to all my protocols. I don't know. Join. It's 9,997 bucks for the year. January 1st, it's going to be 25 grand for the year and two grand a month to maintain. I'm not going to hold back on that because I got people lining up for that, too. It doesn't make a difference. But join, don't join. I don't know what to tell you. Either way, I'm going to keep showing up here. But if you want to join the black card, fly at unlockthecard.com. That's not to ask questions. That's to go, how do I send you the wire? Because it's the only way we take payment is a wire transfer. Not zel, not PayPal, not any, not cash app, nothing. Wire transfer. I use a local bank here because I'm in the business of helping people and solving problems. I don't know. I think you guys, you're selling yourself short for convenience or ego. These semiglutide tepatide, they're metabolic duct tape and they're holding together this system that you've got, your biology that's just filled with rust holes. They don't fix the engine. They just turn down the alarm bell so you can ignore the smoke that's belching out from under the hood. Look at the engine itself. Just go there. And I know I talk about these all the time, adnauseium, I'm sure, but you know what? You need to understand these because this is the fundamental aspect of every single disease in mankind. Again, I am right. I should damn well get a Nobel Prize for this. Look at the engine, the human body, human biology, the three fundamental biological failures that GLP1s don't touch whatsoever. They don't. See, this is where now you maybe this will help you understand. You look at the systemic inflammation. Watch. Your body is on fire. Not this raging inferno, but some slow smoldering burn that is awesome at a campsite and lousy inside your body. The fuel for this fire is your own fat tissue. Specifically, I talked about this yesterday when I was talking about tamarellin AOD and HGH. And so for all of you guys were all confused about that and went, I thought you said AODD was really awesome. I was comparing tamarellin AODD9604 and HGH in fat loss. You have to listen to the context of what I was talking about. Taking things out of context gets people very confused. You guys got all edgy. I thought you said AOD was awesome. AODD is next level because it stimulates condraittes. And it will regrow bone on bone. Marry that to some real quality stem cells. Not the funky BS that you get here in the United States. No, there's nobody here doing it. Nobody. You know where you need to go? Mexico. You want to know where? I'll tell you. Just send me a message. I don't get any money for it. I just trust them. I know what they do works. Don't use anybody here. There's nobody here I trust. Nobody. They underdose. They give you garbage. Nope. But you marry this. Oh god. You marry AODD. And I know this is off off script here, but you marry AODD9604. It doesn't do anything for fat loss compared to samarellin. Not even in the same world. That's not even that's like going for a 10-minute walk and doing a 2hour training. The difference between the two. Not even close, baby. AOD grows cartilage. Mix that with high molecular weight hyaluronic acid and stem cells. There's a good chance you won't need that knee surgery. I already told you how many are 300,000 every year are done just knee surgeries that didn't need it. Why? Because you orthopedic surgeons are a bunch of crooked sons of [\h__\h] for the most part. I got no sympathy for you. If you're treating patients and you're giving them surgeries and medications because you think they should have it and they don't really need it, just know hell is hot and that's where you'll end up. I can't even get my head around doing that. I can't I really can't I can't get my head around going I'm going to treat you for something that you don't need and I'm going to give you something that you don't need. I'm going to treat you for something you don't have rather and I'm just going to see how that turns out. But by the way, I'm going to go buy this new Bugatti courtesy of you giving me money for something you didn't need to give me money for. It makes me mad. Above all, do no harm. So anyway, out of those three to samarillin, HGH is riddled with side effects unless you need it. If you can't make your own, that's a whole different story. But AOD is not for fat loss. It's for condondraight stimulation. So before you guys all freak, I thought you said yeah it does work and not very well though I said it's like a fart in the wind very little in comparison to samarell. So anyway, back to the systemic inflammation before somebody whining in someone else's comments, always going off on tangents and cursing and man, I don't think I've cursed more than once in the last probably 30 podcasts. That's a while. There's always something to complain about, right? I could give you the winning lottery numbers, instant snap my fingers, give you instant health and longevity, save everybody in your family, solve every problem you've got, and you'll still, there's people out there that you could do all that for, and they'll still be like, "Yeah, but you're the person that you'll win a million dollars." You'll like, "It's not 2 million, though. Here's your sign." Listen, so the fuel for this inflammatory chaos in your system is your own visceral fat. And this isn't passive blubber, by the way. This is an active endocrine organ secretreting this constant just puking out this stream of inflammatory cytoines TNF alpha IL6 IL1 beta all the ones I talk about that suck this chronic lowgrade inflammation is the bedrock of every single chronic disease on earth known to mankind heart disease cancer and crucially by the way neurodeeneration when the cabbage starts to fail semaglutide slightly lowers inflammation secondarily because you lose weight. Redatride smashes this into the ground. Glucagon receptor agonism is proven to suppress the liver's production of CRPC C-reactive protein which is the key marker of systemic inflammation. So they check when you go to hospital but it does it at the source. 2020 study in cell metabolism showed glucagon signaling inhibits NLRP3 inflammosome which is the key driver of this inflammatory cascade and actually fuels cancer. By the way, GLP-1 peptides are bystanders to this fight. They're standing ringside watching at it, yelling at everybody that they could do better. That's it. Redatrides in the ring and red at True Tide is Mike Tyson. That's just failure. Look at failure too. This is where your cells go deaf, right? Can't hear insulin. insulin's knocking at the door to let glucose in. Says please, but the cell goes I don't hear anything. I'm just going to turn up my own stereo. The primary reason is what I talked about yesterday. Lipotoxicity, fat metabolites, specifically dasalglycerols, DAGs and ceramides. They accumulate inside the cells, specifically liver and muscle. They interfere with insulin signaling the entire pathway. It's like pouring sludge on the lock, soldering it. Semaglutide and tzepide might help chip away a little bit of that sludge by promoting weight loss, right? Remember weight loss, not fat loss. They're not the same. Redatrides glucagon action, it doesn't clean the lock. It just goes, you know what? Bang. Takes it off and sticks on a new one. Does this by promoting hpatic fatty acid oxidation. It prevents the sludge from even building up in the first place. Look at the Journal of Clinical Investigation in 2021 showed glucagon agonism rapidly reverses hippatic insulin resistance by clearing out all those lipid intermediates. It's the difference between wiping a dirty window with a Vaseline hand and just replacing it with a new pane of glass. If you get that, you just smear the window. Failure three is the ATP issue. And I think maybe it's because here's the problem, not the ATP issue, is with all this is that people aren't giving you the information. They're giving you snippets of information and a lot of people know just enough to be dangerous to everybody and they're out busy giving advice on social media making fancy little memes and little cards. My posts are sitting here standing in front of that giant TV or driving in my car. I don't there's nothing fancy about it. I just come out and tell you what's going on and go peace out. I want to go hang out with my beautiful wife. Why? Because I freaking love my wife, man. 21 years. I adore my wife Brandy so much. I just want I want to quit this podcast right now and just go inside. It's cuz I love her. She's my best friend. And you know what's great is I love you guys too, which is the only reason I'm here. If you haven't figured that out yet, here's your sign. So ATP, adenazine triphosphate, the currency of life. Every single cellular process that you've got runs on ATP. No. Or ATP. In a metabolically dysfunctional body, the mitochondria, cellular power plants, you got to get used to that. You're going to be like, "Oh, Dr. T is always doing this." Maybe not. They're damaged. They're inefficient. They're dysfunctional. They can't produce enough ATP. This is the root of the fatigue, the brain fog, the sheer exhaustion of metabolic syndrome. Your cells are energy bankrupt. And you know what semiglutide does for this? Nothing. Zero. If anything, by simply reducing caloric intake, it actually exacerbates the feeling of low energy. Like I get messages thousands by the thousands every keep them coming. I try and answer everybody. If I haven't answered you, it's not cuz I don't want to most of the time, but it's because I get so many and I'm trying to help everybody. At a true tide solves this problem, this ATP problem. Lucagon receptor activation induces mitochondrial uncoupling and biogenesis. It forces your cells to rebuild new, cleaner, much more efficient power plants and burn fuel at an alarming rate. Let's just say that 2023 nature the study showed triple agonism GLP-1 GIP glucagon is the only one the only one in all three sema tursa or rea it is the only one reatrite is the only one that significantly increased whole body energy expenditure and improved mitochondrial function in skeletal muscle it doesn't just tell you to eat less it makes your body much more efficient it just turns you into this energy torching machine I'm sure your doctor told you that though or your Insta bro named Eric or Kevin that sold you this stuff from his own personal little I have a peptide business, bro. Dude, I love you guys that send me messages going, "Hey, man. If you need a good connection, I got a this is where it's at. I started I have a business, bro. I could hook you up, dude. I own labs and warehouses and actually do this for a living. Thank you. But I'm good." Listen, this dumpster fire of failure, inflammation, resistance, and energy bankruptcy is the root of the modern plague of all chronic disease. And it explains why the medical establishment, by the way, isn't completely terrified of Redat True Tide trying to get a handle on controlling it so that you can't use it other than through an overpriced, kickbackdriven doctor who sees you as a product and not a person. Yeah, you know who you are because right now you're listening to this and it just pissed you off. Good. can go to hell because you're hurting people and you're doing it for profit. I have no sympathy for you. I will stomp a mud hole in you if I ever meet you face to face. I don't care who you are, how big you are cuz I think you're a disgusting human being if you're hurting people for money. Remember when I said that Trzepatide was a dual aagonist, right? Red tide is a triple, right? It's what I've been talking about. GLP-1, GIP, and then the game changer glucagon. But I went over this the other day, how separately they do one thing, but together think about this. For decades, glucagon was the villain, right? In diabetology, it raises blood sugar. Why? Why would you want to stimulate that? This is was a catastrophic misreading physiology. We were seeing the symptom, not the system. Yes, you're right. Glucagon tells the liver to release glucose, but it's more profound effect, you guys. Lipid metabolism. Glucagon is the regulator of hippatic fat burning. It signals the liver to oxidize fatty acids to stop storing fat and just set it on fire for energy. Just light it up. So listen, reatride synergy is violently beautiful and pretty freaking brutal. The GLP-1 suppresses appetite and improves glycemic control. Remember these all work synergistically. So that's why it's so effective. It's not segmented. The GIP amplifies the satiety and insulinotropic effects. That's only two. Glucagon though, this thing does all the heavy lifting, right? It incinerates liver fat, increases energy expenditure and directly attacks insulin resistance and inflammation. The results, by the way, they're not marginal, are astronomical. Read a truth tide, a study, New England Journal of Medicine, June 2023, look it up, showed a mean weight loss of 24.2 at 48 weeks, 24.2%. Let that land. Glutide 15% tzepide 21% reatride 24%. If you are just looking 15 214 you're just hearing percentages and going h there's not really that much. It's only 9% between sema and rea right just three between tzepide reatrite. Is that big is that big of a deal? First of all rea tide is 24% and climbing but it does one thing that no other peptide in this space does. It spares muscle. Full stop. It's not a linear improvement. is a phase change. There's the difference between a paper airplane and one of Elon's rockets. Both will fly. Only one of those bad boys is going through the atmosphere. Straight up. Listen. Do you know why the medical world doesn't want you anywhere near this peptide? Follow the money. It's what my wife Brandy always says. The chronic disease industry in the United States is a multi- trillion with a T. Multi-trillion dollar enterprise. Diabetes drugs alone. Drugs, not diabetes itself. Diabetes is a $400 billion empire. The drugs alone are a $50 billion a year market. insulin is a recurring revenue stream, you guys. GLP-1 drug, like drugs, peptides, whatever you want to call them, are more expensive. See, here's what's wild. That's why I said drugs because that's what the pharmaceutical industry has conditioned you to think and that's what they call them. They won't call them peptides because that means they're associating with all the people like me and they're validating everything that I say. Oh, no. We have a drug, you have a peptide. It's a molecular structure the same. Yeah. Then we have the same product. GLP-1 drugs, not peptides. And if you go, "Yeah, but Reddit True Tide's really expensive." Wait until Eli Liy publishes it, puts it out for the public. You think it's expensive? Buckle up, Nancy. GLP1s are a more expensive recurring revenue stream. insulin is a recurring revenue stream. It's like I said, product that actually reverses the underlying metabolic pathway is a threat to that entire business model. What do I always say? A cured patient is a lost customer. 2021 investigation, this is published, BMJ, British Medical Journal, showed the system corruption. It it covered it from A to Z, showed how pharmaceutical funding directly influences clinical practice guidelines to favor expensive chronic therapies over curative or highly effective ones. It's not a conspiracy. There's no tinfoil hat. This is real. It's an economic imperative for these people. They're not, you guys, they're not in health business. They're in the sickness management business. They're in the manage decline business. They're in the trust me bro business. They are glorified Reddit forum influencers who know very little about anything other than sales or marketing. Listen, look at here. This is the most devastating consequence of this metabolic failure. It's the one that's being misdiagnosed and mistreated at scale like at a global scale. Type 2 diabetes is not a disease. Type two diabetes is not a disease, you guys. It's a consequence. It's a clinical manifestation of a body that's reached its metabolical breaking point. The system is so overloaded with energy, calories, and inflamed that its primary fuel regulation system, the insulin glucose axis, has collapsed. It's a symptom of a much deeper sickness. That deep sickness has a brain specified name. Type three diabetes, boom. Alzheimer's, dementia, all the things that they're going, we can't solve that problem. Yes, you can. evidence like in the Lancet neurology 2018 and nature reviews neurology 2020 overwhelming Alzheimer's disease is fundamentally a metabolic disorder of the brain the brains of Alzheimer's patients show profound insulin resistance impaired glucose utilization and mitochondrial dysfunction amaloid beta plaques and tow tangles are the scar tissue the result of this energetic catastrophe the brain is starving in this buffet this sea of plenty with the fuel fuel everywhere. Type 2 diabetes, not three, type two, is the warning flare. Alzheimer's and dementia, that's the forest fire. That's the real problem. That brain fog that you or your parents are complaining about. Listen, that's not a meme that you get. I mean, I'm having brain fog today. I haven't had my latte. Like, whatever it is you're doing, that's the beginning of neuronal energy bankruptcy. You're on your way out. You guys are worried about your midsection, not worried about your this thing right here. this three lb cabbage floating around in between your bones and your skull. It's the direct result of three failures. Neuroinflammation gumming up the neural circuits, insulin resistance, preventing neurons from feeding, and the ATP shortage, leaving those cells powerless. Precursor to cognitive decline, significant is not the right word. Appalling. And we're now injecting this into our children. This future, you're just, you guys are just poking your kids with this. Every time I see a fat kid, I want to beat the crap out of the parents. Listen, if you have a 10-year-old who looks like a beach ball, who's shaped like a freaking circle, and little Timmy sits on the bench at gym class because you have outlawed tag and dodgeball at your school because they're too violent. Dude, I'm going to keep a bag of dodgeballs in my trunk. And every time I meet someone like that, I'm going to take it out. I'm going to beat you to death with as many of these as I could possibly fire at you before you get back in here. If your kid is fat, it is your fault as the parent. Be a leader. You know what my parents never did? Overfeed me and go, "Oh, we just want him to be happy. Here's a sleeve of Oreos and a Coke." Pediatric type 2. Yes, it makes me angry because I'm a father. Pediatric type 2 diabetes is soaring. Instead of holding parents accountable for feeding their kids a diet of processed garbage, the problem is we medicalize the outcome. We diagnose the child and prescribe, you ready? insulin. Physiological malpractice. insulin is a storage hormone, giving more insulin to an already this doesn't even make sense physiologically. Any endocrinologist worth their salt hears this and goes, "Why are we giving insulin to people with diabetes?" Doesn't make sense. Giving more insulin to an already insulin resistant hyper insulin insulinic child is like throwing fire or throwing gasoline on this metabolic fire. It makes them fatter, makes them more resistant, and it sets them on a guaranteed path to early disability and death. We are creating lifelong customers in elementary school. And you think that's not planned? Yeah. This is why reatrides the light, baby. It is not a weight loss peptide. It is a metabolic reset. By systematically resolving these three metabolic failures, it has a profound disease reversing effect far beyond some number on a scale. Dementia and Alzheimer's watch. By restoring systemic meta, by restoring systemic metabolic health, it calms down the neuroinflammation. It restores insulin sensitivity to the brain. It re-energizes neurons. Look at the study molecular psychiatry 2021 showed that the glucagon aspect of retatride reduces amaloid beta plaques and improves cognitive function by restoring cerebral glucose metabolism. All those drugs are doing that though, right? No, they're not. I've already proven that. Multiple sclerosis. MS is an autoimmune disease driven by inflammation, right? The microglea go bananas. Redatrides a very powerful anti-inflammatory. The effects that it has on your brain. Combine this with its ability to promote, this is my favorite, promote remination. Here's why. It does this by providing energy-rich substrates to ilodendrites, which are the things that are making the wrapping to the wires. Reverses the process and begins a repair. 2022 study in PNAS proved that reddit tide and m both of them improve mitochondrial function. Combined together, it makes your body a nightmare for the pharmaceutical industry because all you do is get better. It proved that it significantly slows neurodeeneration and multiple sclerosis. It doesn't manage symptoms, you guys. It attacks the root cause. That's what redu tide does. It's the difference between mopping a floor and going over and going, "Hey, there's a pipe that's pouring water out. Fix the pipe." You think the problem is just fat? You think the number on a scale is the whole story? That's how they get you. It's this beautiful, elegant, articulated, just beautifully constructed lie. They sold you on weight loss. They didn't tell you what you're actually losing, did they? Because if you knew, you'd burn their entire industry to the ground. Semaglutide and trespathide. Oh, I'm not done, baby. Now I'm lit. They aren't fat loss drugs or peptides. They're muscle wasting products with a side effect of fat loss. You know what they're doing? They're selling you sarcopenia in a syringe or a pen or whatever. You guys get these fancy pens. Keep rejabing yourself. Yeah, that's sterile. Listen, here's the brutal, unforgivable human biology that they're betting that you're too stupid to understand. And I am burning this all down because I'm giving you the answers. When you induce rapid weight loss through simple caloric restriction, which is all these things do, that is all semiglutide do. That is it. I've proven it in this entire podcast. I could do this all day. I will go toe-to-toe with anybody. I am right. They just trick your brain into doing it. That's all they do. They're literally caloric restriction. They're just tricking your brain to do it. The body catabolizes tissue for energy. It doesn't just pull from atapost tissue. In fact, atapost tissue is harder. Your body goes, which one will keep this is your you're fighting your own human biology, your own neurology. Your body goes, which one's going to keep me alive in a famine? This muscle that is torching and burning calories and metabolically insanely active or this fat that I can use as fuel to keep me alive. Your body goes, keep the fat, burn the muscle. It goes for the most metabolically expensive tissue first. your muscle, your organ tissue, your connective tissue, which is why semiglutide, tepatide are garbage. Please listen to me. I don't have any investment in these companies. I don't get any money for this. I'm not out here shilling anything. 21 study in Jamba Network open on semiglutide showed that of the total weight lost 50% was fatfree mass. What that means is that's your muscle, your bone density, your organ integrity. And later, wait, it gets even better. Oh, this is going to piss all you Insta Bros off that are selling it to your clients secretly in the gym going because it's all you can get. Later, this is what they found out. They included DEXA scan data from the step trials. This gets even better. It showed that certain populations, especially those not engaging in rigorous hour to hour and a half long resistance training, that number creeps up to over 70%. You're dissolving the very engine of your frigin metabolism to get a lower number on a scale to fit into your high school whatever your prom dress. Muscle isn't just for looking good in a tank top or a bikini. You guys, you know why this is a catastrophe? Because it's your primary metabolic sink for glucose. Primary metabolic. It's the primary glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent center, your muscle, right? It's your glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent unit. Over 80% of the glucose cleared from your blood after meal is shuttled into skeletal muscle through insulin sensitive glute 4 transporters which I've talked about too. So how about we follow this horrific logic chain using real physiology not some manufactured bro science. You have insulin resistance your muscle cells are already bad at taking in glucose. You with me? Okay. Now you take this peptide semiglutide or tzepide only those two. You lose weight rapidly. Just bang. huge portion of that weight is the very muscle mass you need to dispose of glucose. I just talked about that. Now you have even fewer functional glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent units to use. You are now more metabolically fragile than when you started. They haven't cured your diabetes. You sure as hell haven't. They gave you a temp a a temporary. That's it. Temporary blood sugar illusion while making the root cause infinitely worse. You're being metabolically stripmined for profit. Here comes red of truth hide though. Watch this bad boy work. This is where science separates the frauds from all the people that are actually fixing things. Red or true tide spares muscle. It does not it does it it doesn't just not waste it, it preserves it. The 2020 2023 New England Journal of Medicine showed 24% 24.2 to be exact percent of the weight loss also showed body composition profile that was radically different. The weight loss was overwhelmingly fat mass. And why? Because of the damn glucagon component that people go, it's not that important. I just it's not that. Maybe we manage it with with training and diet. That's why we have professionals monitoring them. Get out of here. Monitoring doesn't change the pharmacocinetics or the effect it has on human biology. Glucagon's look at this is why reat trumps everything. Glucagon's. It's not like I am invested in Eli Liy. I'm just giving you facts so you guys don't go out and keep making stupid decisions complaining about your health. Look at glucagon's primary action is to promote lipolysis, the breakdown of fat for energy. It's a very powerfully catabolic hormone, but specifically for only one thing, atapost tissue, fat tissue. So by activating the glucagon receptors, reatrite tells your body in no uncertain term, burn fat for fuel. Hey man, leave that muscle alone. I'll come to your house, make you do burpees until you die. That's basically what it's saying. Further the potent anabolic signaling from GIP and GLP-1 helps maintain lean mass. 2022 study in molecular metabolism triple on this is specifically on triple agonists reatride showed that they promote negative energy balance preferentially from fat loss. It gets better and they can even increase energy expenditure without the catabolic toll on muscle. So your body becomes this is what let me translate this. Your body becomes this targeted scavenging machine preserving your metabolic machinery. This isn't a minor difference, you guys. It's the difference between a cure and a poison. Preserving muscle isn't about vanity. It's about your survival. That muscle is what keeps you metabolically resilient. It allows you to take a hit. When I woke up in the hospital and the doctor took a knee and said, "We took your lung. We did all this stuff. I'm sorry." He also had the care to tell me had you not been in the in a shape you were in and covered in muscle the way you were, you wouldn't have survived. That muscle is what keeps you physically strong, biologically young. It's your defense against the very diseases that they manage. Which is why retatrite isn't just a diabetes product. It's a systemic repair agent for the diseases of modernity. All of which spring from the same frigin root. Metabolic dysfunction, inflammation, and mitochondrial failure. My three biological failures every time. Look at Alzheimer's and dementia, type three diabetes, right? I could do this all day. This is so this drives me nuts. Cerebral insulin levels is the driver. 2024 review nature reviews neurology posted that restoring systemic metabolic health is the primary neuroprotective strategy in Alzheimer's and dementia. How many times have you seen them address that? Anybody that has a family member or is going through it with a spouse or anything or has a friend or works somewhere with people with Alzheimer's and diet and dementia? How many times have you seen that? How many times have you seen them treat that? You never have. How many times have they busted out a vial of red or true tide? They haven't. Why? Cuz it'll solve the freaking problem. Listen, reatride by resolving the systemic inflammation and insulin resistance that created the brain's problem in the first place is the most potent tool for this. It doesn't manage symptoms. It removes the cause. Parkinson's disease. The pathology is characterized by mitochondrial dysfunction and neuroinflammation. Right. 2023 brain research demonstrated red tide shows neurop protection. The triple aagnist also reduces systemic inflammation, improves mitochondrial energy production. It is a direct attack on Parkinson's pathophysiology. And yet, you won't see it for that either. How many times has Michael J. Foxman offered this? Zero. Zero. Instead, they give this guy something called L-dopa, which creates more problems 8 to 10 years down the road. Now, they have a whole new gambit of things that they can treat. And they poor Michael J. Fox, he just can't catch a break, can he? You guys keep giving him longer more problems. Multiple sclerosis. Look at MS. Multiple sclerosis. Autoimmune condition fueled by hyperinflammatory states, right? Frontiers in immunology 2021 showed direct link between insulin resistance and worsened MS outcomes. So listen what what do you think? By dousing the systemic fire, the inflammatory fire. They've shown this red tide removed the fuel from the autoimmune blaze. They showed it. This is stuff you're not hearing cuz it takes away from all their profit. How about NLD, NASH, right? Liver issues, liver disease. This is like a joke for Reddit truth. If you have a liver problem, this is frontline defense. The glucagon action directly targets hypatic fat. Out of the gate, this is where it shines. New England Journal of Medicine showed 90% reduction in liver fat content. It doesn't manage NASH or NAFLD. It reverses it. For every single one of these conditions, you guys, the current model is management. A lifetime of drugs with debilitating side effects that slow the decline. Red Tide's model is resolution. Fix the foundational biology. The house stops falling apart. It's why it's the most dangerous molecule ever developed to the pharmaceutical empire, right? Their entire business is the chronic patient. Patient who pays from diagnosis all the way to death. You know what's funny is if you look at watch they'll give you a great example. You join my black card. I don't want you to be there for life. I'd love to because I love I really love the people that are in my group. I do. I just love them to death. They're family to me. I will bleed for them. But I I I don't sit there and go, "How do I find a way to get you to spend 10 20 $30,000 a year? How do I make them addicted?" I don't. I give you the answers. You stay because you want to stay. That's the way you're supposed to do it. Reddit True Tide creates the acute patient. The patient who gets treated gets fixed and stops paying. It's an existential threat, I say it all the time, to a trillion dollar business model that is built on your suffering, you guys. And they will patent it. They will hide it. They will defend it. And they will attack anything that isn't it, even though it is. They will propagandize against it. They have to because their survival depends on you never getting your hands on something that actually works, from a source that actually cares about you. Because a patient who is stronger, whose muscles are preserved and actively disposing of glucose, who is metabolically flexible and resilient is a patient who doesn't need them anymore. That's what I want you to be. I want you to never need them. I want you to never need me. Nothing. I don't want you to rely on me. I want to teach you how to not rely on me. They sold you a lie that health is found in a smaller, I don't know, pair of freaking jeans, bigger pair of tits, tinier waist. I don't know. But you guys, that that it's a smaller number on a scale. That's what they sold you. Health is a smaller number on a scale. You have to look at the whole picture though. Even if the weight loss comes from burning down your own muscles, right? That's what they don't care. Doesn't matter. Trashing your own temple. The truth is that your health is found in metabolic sovereignty, right? A body that burns fat for fuel like it's designed that preserves muscle that owns its energy systems. Health is freedom from their needles and surgeries and pills and treatments and manage decline and they're poisonously profitable lies that a lot of you guys are you're going to hear this and poo this podcast instead of going I need to share this with everybody I know. I don't know. Red or true tide is a whole lot of freedom. I'll tell you that. I demand it. The only thing standing between humanity and a radical reduction in chronic disease is a very corrupt economic model that profits from suffering. It's not how many lives really, how many lives will be lost because, for crying out loud, we're too complacent, too trusting, too afraid to just demand that we're taken care of and not managed. I don't know. Hope you guys got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.