Hey, what's up, Smashers? TGIM. Thank god it's Monday. We're going to be going over some super funky stuff today. A little bit more complicated video than uh than most days because we've got um we're going to be talking about scapular mobility and movement of the scapula and shoulder and how it works. But we're going to be freeing up a nerve called the spinal accessory nerve. Runs down out through the base of the skull. Passes underneath that middle scaling muscle. And scaling muscles are super neglected. And listen, believe me, you guys, you don't probably don't even think you're using them. You use them all the time. Crank that head forward working on a keyboard driving. Somebody points over there and they go, "Hey, look at that." And you do this because that inch and a half that you just moved brought everything closer. Yeah. No way. But we need to free up that spinal accessory nerve because it affects the it controls the SCM this big strap of muscle right here attaching on the mastoid right here that sternocllymastoid right hence the name sternum clavicle mastoid sternoccllyomomastoid and then the other part is that spinal accessory nerve controls the uh trapezius. So we want to free up that accessory nerve so the trap can move. Then we free up the trap because the trap does elevation depression and a whole bunch of other stuff on that scapula. free up the scapula and then we're going to get rid of that winged scapula. You guys said you wanted wing scapula stuff. Here you go. This is how it's done. We're going to peel away that serrus anterior which is what causes that scapula to wing when it's weak or if there's damage to that long thoracic nerve. Now, if there is damage to that long thoracic nerve, that's a little different. Okay, we can't do that. We have to work around that. So, there's a little more. So, we can strengthen it. We can stretch it. And we're going to free up the uh the trap and the uh SCM by freeing up that the scalines by freeing up the spinal accessory nerve and then strengthening that uh serrus anterior so that scapula moves right. I know like a whole bunch of stuff to do. It's like taking it putting in the hopper for crossfit and then just pulling stuff out seeing what happens. But trust me, this works. Super important. So the first thing we're going to do, you can see the band behind me. We need to free up that uh the scalines. This is funky. So, the whole goal when we're doing this is that shoulder has to sit back when we're going through the stretches. It's three different stretches. They look really similar. So, I'm going to start with the anterior, do the posterior, and then do the middle. And I'm moving my head around so you guys kind of get an idea of what exactly I'm going to be doing because you know what? You have a wing scapula turns into uh motor control issues, which turns into shoulder damage, which turns into a lifetime of issues and a shoulder replacement. Nobody needs any titanium hardware unless you're the T1000 from uh from Terminator, which would be kind of badass actually. So, you're going to grab a band and all you're going to do, all I want this to do, I want it high like this cuz all I wanted to do is pull the shoulder back. Now, if you don't have the shoulder mobility to go this high, put it on the rig instead. All you're going to do is you're going to drag this arm as far back as you can. So, it's dragging the shoulder back. And then, now I know everybody wants to tuck down. That would be the posterior scaling, but first thing we're going to do is anterior. So, you're going to look up a little bit and then you're just going to crank your head over and you're going to feel it all down through here. You might feel a little bit down the arm. That's normal. It's not where the nerve goes, but you kind of feel that. That's number one. You hold it for how long? Normally, you're waiting for me to say 2 minutes. This one you can do for 30 seconds. It's a pretty small muscle. That's the anterior. Tuck down. That's the posterior. And then look straight ahead. Give it a crank. And that's the middle scaling. Now, it's that middle scaling that's the critical one because that's where that spinal accessory nerve passes underneath. So, do those three. That's number one. Number two is we're going to take this bar here. You can see I load it up. Normally, I use a 35 lb bar because it's uh it's more narrow and it hurts more. Yeah. So, gnarly, huh? Super funky. God, that's awesome. Freaking love Mondays, right? So, you're going to grab the uh the bar, set up some weight on here. Doesn't have to be heavy, just enough that you don't want to lift it. Listen, don't try and lift the bar. That's not the point. You're going to tack down that trap. So, we're going to unglue this. Take a little bit of a lunge stance like this. Take that trap and peel it down. Stay off the platform. Don't try and mobilize a bone. It's trying to like trying to stretch your IT band. Don't do that. Okay. So, tack away underneath here. Just like this. Take your head, turn it away, and then just take the arm all the way up. Oh god, this is abysmal. All the way up and all the way down. Diabolical. That's the word of the day. All the way up and all the way down. It's important that you take that chin and tuck it down because the uh trap attaches on the nucal line, the base of the skull. So, we want to turn that head and peel away so that trap gets super tight and just grind it into submission like Gracie's got you in a freaking arm bar. Just like that. Hold it real tight. Yeah. 2 minutes. You know what? That's number two. Number three, going to grab the band here. See, you guys can't even see the band down here. That's why this is so badass. Oh, I swore again. Sorry. Oh, yeah. I got the funky old the the OG games. OG game shorts on today. All right, we're gonna go like this. So, you can see I got the band here. So, what we're going to do is you're going to Oh, I'm going to use my bum wing. Oh, this might not turn out so well for me. So, you're going to take the band, loop your wrist around it, hold on. This is the way the hand is going to be. It's going to be up behind your back flat. So, all we're going to be doing is dragging the wrist all the way towards the opposite side of the body. So, plant the hand. I don't want to do this, but I'm gonna And the band is dragging me. Oh, that's horrendous. All the way against the ring. All right. That's going to peel away that serrus anterior. And it's basically retracting that scapula as far as possible. Now, to come out of this, unless you have a shoulder issue like me, you want to just pick up like that. That's just abysmal. see if I can find a better angle and do that again because that is a pretty sick mobility and it's one that most people aren't going to do right. So, let's see if I can get it from behind. Don't say anything. All right. So, band here. Trust me, I you can see me. So, band like this. So, you can see the band is attached to the uh attached to the rig. And all this is going to do is drag the arm like this. You're going to let the band pull your arm tight and drag it in like that. So, you're going to load up that band. Load it up super tight. Oh, this going to hurt. And then just fall back. Now, the band is pulling that way and it's dragging the arm up under behind me. Now, it's not dragging it up. So, we're not hitting that long end of that bicep tendon. We're just hitting that serrus anterior. Hang out here for how long? Yeah. dose, baby. Pick up. Undo it. So much easier with the good shoulder. All right. So, that's going to peel away that serrus anterior. Now comes the strength part. We want to build up that serrus anterior. Now, serus anterior does protraction. Um, it's the go the boxer's muscle, right? Protra the scapula. So, those little bumps that superheroes have under here. And if you're a superhero, you got the bumps. I love it. So, you want to get there's two ways of doing this. You can do a scapula push-up. So, just get like this. You're just going to squeeze your shoulder blades together and flare them apart. Squeeze. Flare them apart. That's number one. If that's too If you got If you find yourself cheating too much, bending the elbows, don't do it. Good. All the way down. All the way up. All the way down. All the way up. Okay, you're going to do two sets of 10. That's going to retract and protract the scapula, working on that serrus anterior. The other thing it's going to do is unglue that scapula a little bit. You want to get rid of a wing scapula that's got a genuine wing scapula issue and not a long thoracic nerve issue. That's probably the best way to do it. Hey, I'm Trav Smash Works Monday. I'll see you guys tomorrow. Have an awesome day.