I don't know if you guys have noticed, but I see a lot of people in the world right now demanding acceptance for low standards. And this isn't a talk about high standards or low standards. It was just an observation when I was getting ready to do this podcast. And yet those same people complain about not being rich, not being fit, not having great relationships while demanding that everybody lower their standards so they don't feel bad about themselves. What do you think happens when the entire tribe lowers their standards? The tribe gets weaker. We as a collective, as human beings on this planet are getting progressively weaker. It's not getting better. It's getting worse. And we're doing it of our own valition under the illusion that we are being all accepting and all-encompassing and good, kind, wonderful human beings. What we're doing is eliminating the difference between winners and losers. So the losers don't feel bad because they feel they have a platform to stand on where losing is now an attack. You chose to lose. And if people say no, sometimes it's beyond our control. It's beyond your control because you're not putting in the work required to do it because your mommy and your daddy didn't raise you right. Because right now there is a sub4minute mile that was run by a Kenyan woman without shoes. You have no excuse. The problem isn't with needing new information. And it's that you don't apply anything that you have and you demand that when you do learn something new that somebody else should do it for you anyway. Let me explain something. The world is filled with obsession but obsession in the wrong direction. It is obsession towards making sure that everybody accepts me for who I am and my truth. But there is no my truth or your truth. There is only the truth and there are only winners and losers. There's only right and wrong. That's not right wrong there. That is the about as logical as when you say there's a gray area that you can be sort of pregnant. You cannot be sort of pregnant. You are either pregnant or you're not. And if somebody gets in the comments and goes, "Well, technically there's all this." That's why you're a loser. And when you go, "It's not nice to call people that." I'm not trying to be nice. But what I know is that when my wife and I were young, we didn't look at winners and losers and think that there was a problem between the separation between the two. If we were on the losing end of whatever it was that we were doing, we saw the winner and went, "I'm coming for you and I'm doing everything you did, but I'm doing it better." Now, what the losers do is go, "Not fair. You hurt my feelings. You made me feel bad. You have an unfair advantage. You cheated. In fact, you should give me a trophy anyway just because I woke up this morning." If you caught my podcast about how everybody wants to be fit, when you do that in nature, your DNA ceases to exist. Why isn't it the same with human beings? Somebody might go, "It's a terrible thing to say. It doesn't change the truth." The obsession on losing is becoming the norm. The obsession on I'm going to be the one that protects my feelings and creates a safe space and walks away from a situation if it doesn't make me feel good even though I need to be in that situation to progress to the level that I want to live. That's where the obsession rests. Now listen, winning requires obsession. So does losing. But losers obsessed on losing will never win. They'll just talk about it and complain that they have it. Winning is for the obsessed in that direction, not for the casually interested or the the sort of motivated, the kind of excited. It sure as hell is not for the guy who still believes that a vision board and a tumeric latte is going to summon six figures and a six-pack into their lap by Tuesday. Ronda Burn wrote a book. The secret was a rewrite of Wallace Waddles. Gave no credit to Wallace Waddles. The point is, you cannot manifest your way into anything. You cannot think your way into anything unless you're willing to do the other side of that thinking, which is all the stuff you need to physically do. So thinking that you're going to have your six or seven figure business and your six-pack and your amazing marriage just by sitting there and thinking about it and trying to summon it into your life. No. No. I'm sorry. That's never going to happen. Winning is for the disturbed, the touched, the relentless, the reckless, the ruthless. for the man who wakes up with fire under his rib cage that's so violent that he couldn't take it easy even if his life depended on it. I had a conversation with my business partner today and he and I both had the same mind. We had the same mindset. Started talking about how when we take an hour here, an hour there to do something outside of the work required to grow the business that we're growing, the company that we're growing, we feel guilty. Now, no, I'm not saying that's healthy. I'm not saying it's unhealthy. I'm just saying that's how we think. But if you don't have that bone in you that says get up and do more because you can do more and more is required to win. If that doesn't sound like you, where you are obsessed on winning will get comfortable in loserville population. Everybody who hits snooze this morning and still think that life owes them something. Absolutely not. Every loser that I've met does the same damn dance. Never sprints doesn't spit sprint towards failure. That would be noble. Think about it. Sprint towards failure. Well, that would be righteous and noble, huh? At least that would be honest. Nope. this loser that just shuffles in a circle, hits snooze, scrolls a little on social media, makes a comment or two because they don't like what they saw, scrolls again, opens the fridge, has a wrestling match with whether or not they should eat that extra Danish, drinks a can of regret, just marinating in their own disgusting life, talking about how frustrated and overwhelmed they are. He's not overwhelmed. He's undisiplined towards winning and disciplined towards losing. See, you don't need, listen, you don't need a degree in neuroscience to figure this out. You don't need to read Carl Young in his native German. You just need to look at your damn routine in the morning that you do. Do you wake up like your life depends on it? How about that? Start there. The magic morning routine is the one where you wake up like your life depends on it because it does. Or do you wake up like you're auditioning for a spot on a reality show called Men Who Almost Tried? men who woke up and thought about doing something productive and never did. Is that the show that you're trying to get on? Because that's usually where people live. And those are the ones that get angry at the comment I just made because that's what losers do. They procrastinate like it's a profession. We knew a professional procrastinator. Oh, he had lots of money. But he was a liar. Procrastinator. Storyteller. Excuse maker. I don't care how much money you have. You're a loser if you do that. No goals, no urgency. Is that you? Is that you? When you wake up, do you explain away and come up with excuses and validations like it is a trained profession? Nothing. No urgency, no vision, no depth, no goals, no obsession, no objectives. You just treat time like it's infinite and ambition like it's just an option. That's what losers do. They live like they're going to get a second life. Like this is just a rehearsal. Second Life maybe where energy drinks didn't replace water, right? Where Instagram didn't eat 5 years of their existence. That's the second life. Where their just chilling lifestyle maybe didn't cost them every damn dream and goal they said they cared about, that they said they were going to do, that their wife decounted on them to do. By the way, did you have you even made good on the promises that you made to your wife when you stood there in front of that preacher and said, "I do." If you're a winner, you're not like that. Just so you know. But here's the problem. And all of you guys get together and you go, "Oh, I I am I have goals. I just have these things going on in my life. So, I have some exceptions to the rule." Right? You don't sit there and treat your days like time is endless. You're just really busy, right? You're not like that, right? Yeah. Sure. And I'm a vegan monk with a cocaine habit. That's it. That's where I am with this. I'm just done. You ever look at what a loser eats? I mean, start there. It's like watching a raccoon just before they go to death row. Just bagged food, caffeinated sludge, no water, and a body built on sodium, chemicals, sugar, and a whole bunch of self-hatred and loathing. That's not fuel. That's sabotage. this. And then they wonder why they're tired and foggy and walking around like a zombie and why motivation never shows up. It's because your body isn't a temple, it's a landfill. But it gets better. Oh, it gets better. Losers, they love comparing themselves to other losers. Well, I make more than Carl down the street. Cool. Listen, just so we're clear, Carl sleeps on a futon in his cousin's garage and thinks XRP is going to make him a millionaire. Being above him is like winning a limbo contest in hell. Nobody cares. Nobody cares. And if I hear one more grown man say, "I don't have any real goals. I'm just vibing." I'm going to assume his brain has been replaced with aquarium gravel. Because that's about where you're at. Cuz there's no vibing in a storm. And life, gentlemen, just to be very clear, is nothing but wave after wave after wave. I think it comes back to fear, doubt, the stuff that paralyzes most people who've never been punched in the face or told no more than twice in their life. Mommy and daddy, right? Never said no. Why? I want them to have a great childhood, so we don't really believe in the word no. Again, that's why little Tommy wears a dress. You ever hear somebody say, "Well, what if I fail?" So, what if you do? I fail all the time. I'm 181 podcasts in. I don't expect any of them to be astronomically successful. I keep showing up. I don't care. Number one, my show. Number two, my equipment. Number three, I don't care about your opinion. I care about telling the truth. What if you fail? So what? Spoiler alert, you will repeatedly. Congratulations. Welcome to planet Earth. How about the classic, what if I try and work, Spartan? Let me give you a worse one. What if you never try and it still doesn't work and now you've wasted a decade and your spine? I heard some guy say one time, "Listen, I don't try new things because I could technically drown in a bowl of clam chowder." Cool story, bro. Technically, you could also choke on toothpaste, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't brush your teeth unless you enjoy being single and alone forever. Fear is the most sophisticated copout in history. And doubt is just laziness dressed up fancy given a label. Manufactured mental illnesses. They come from fear and doubt. But go ahead, keep using it. When your kids ask you why you never went for it, just tell them the drowning in your clam chowder soup story. Good job, Dad. I'm sure they'll respect they'll respect you for it. You know what? Let me tell you something really strange. There is this magical device, an ancient psychological tool that makes cowards decisive and losers structured. Go figure. And all the Instagram and Tik Tok addicts become warriors. It's called a metaphorical gun to the head. And you know what people do? Well, I don't really believe in saying things like that, though. Enjoy loserville population you and every other excuse. I watched a friend of mine test this theory one time. Sales team, two closers were killing it. Two dead weights floundering around like goldfish in a dry sink. So this guy asks the the underperformers. Both of them, if I had a gun to your head, could you make more calls? Of course they both nod. Could you ask for the sale more often? Yep. Could you push through more rejection? Have better communication skills? Of course they could. So why the hell don't you? No gun. That's it. You don't move because nobody's threatening you. There's no real consequence because the world now accepts and even celebrates being a loser because the pain of your mediocrity hasn't outweighed the comfort of your apathy. But what if you acted like the gun was real? It's on you. So if you actually sit there and go, "But it's not." So act as if it is. You would jump out of bed. You'd structure your day. You'd stop screen sucking like your phone was a nipple and you were a 200lb baby with a boob in your mouth. You'd drink water. You'd train. You'd plan your workouts. You'd push everything you can. You'd do one more rep. You'd start living like everything mattered. And your life today was the last day you had instead of that depressive raccoon with a podcast mic. All of it instantly possible if you just acted like failure actually mattered. But you don't and you won't because your HBO and your Amazon Prime video is still on autoplay asking you the same question. Are you still watching? And you click yes. Listen, you know what? I get a lot of static from you guys. You ever meet a winner? We're all a little off. Not balanced. Oh, you guys in your balance sure as hell aren't chill. There's nothing chill about me and I am not reasonable. That's winners. That's how we are. That's the point. You don't build success and the goals and the life and the vision that you have for yourself with moderation. You you don't escape poverty by being on pills or being polite. Please understand this. You don't conquer your demons by asking them out to lunch. You have to become unreasonable. You ditch birthdays. You skip weddings. You miss important dinners full of people who peaked in high school and drink to remember it. You stop pretending. Your vices are coping and you call them what they are. Pacifiers like porn distraction, weed distraction, alcohol distraction, social media distraction, all of it. Little digital binkies for men who never grew the hell up. The winners though, just so you know, cut that [\h__\h] out like cancer because they know that you can't be obsessed and distract. You can't be relentless and dependent. It doesn't work. Keep trying to tell yourself that you can and you're special, but you can't. If you're still scrolling while you're lifting or you're texting while you're trying to do something productive in your life, you're not progressing. You're just slowing down how fast you die and going nowhere. By the way, you know what? I think one of the biggest things my wife and I talk about because it's winner that married winner, right? Brandy and I, we don't wing it. We don't cross our fingers and hope it works or buy some cheap program and go, "This is going to do all the work for me." Even my unbreakable mastermind, it is a business program designed to help you make a lot of money. $1 million and we'd have over a hundred million in client success since I started this with all the receipts to back it up. But you go ahead with your $10 coaching book and your YouTube videos and tell me how those work out for you. and you have somebody in real time giving you advice to tell you join and let's scale the hell out of your life so you can stop floundering around at the bottom with a nipple in your mouth with that binky of social media that you look at all the things you hate and wish you had them because those are all the things you quit on. That's the only reason you hate them. You're winging it. You're hoping it shows up tomorrow. Tomorrow you're going to run out of tomorrow. Just so we're clear. Winners don't stroll into life to see how it goes. a winter blueprints and maps and schedules and keeps it so tight and then they organize all of their chaos because they know chaos is going to show up. It is not a matter of if, it's a matter of when. And when it does, they don't need to panic because they're prepared. They don't get anxiety because they're prepared. So, they execute because they've already had the plan in place long ago. I know guys who go to the gym and somehow come out fatter. How How is that even possible? It's not that you eating the wrong diet unless it's you're eating everything in sight, but I mean, you don't need the carnivore or the sugar or the blood type or keto or paleo or whatever other diet you're coming up with. It's because they walked into the gym without a plan. They danced with a couple of cables and took some selfies for social media and grabbed a 1,200 calorie Jamba juice and called it a day. As they walked out going, "That was a rough workout. you might as well light a protein bar on fire and roast marshmallows over it. At least you'd get warm. That's where this is. And yet, I see it all the time. It's very frustrating. Structure isn't mo isn't an option for people who want to win for the obsessed. That is the framework for everything that they build. The scaffolding of your entire future. Structure isn't control. It's clarity. And just to be clear, singularity of focus. That clarity, that laser focus, that's what separates the fire breathers from the barely breathers. The market doesn't care how you feel. Like, you want a real jagged, bitter pill, that's it. The market doesn't care if you want to make money. The market doesn't care how you feel. It doesn't care if you're tired, if you're alone. It doesn't care if your uncle said you'd never make it. It doesn't care if your third grade teacher didn't believe in you, if your girlfriend left you for a guy with a yacht. The market rewards value. It rewards resilience. The market never in history has rewarded a victim. Ever. Even though all of you victims are running around talking about all of your traumas and your childhood issues, waving a flag going, "Accept me, approve me." You're still not going to win because you don't accept and approve you. Never mind not having a plan. Start with that. So, if you're sulking in the corner of life because something hard happened, let me be the first to congratulate you. You're human. Now, move. Because a guy beating you doesn't have fewer problems. He just carries them better and cares about them less. Winner. I've never heard a winner say, "I can't." Ever. Ne. Never. You know what a winner says? Who can help me? Not I'll carry the cross myself. Who can help me? Who can I pay? Who can I call? Who can guide me? Who can coach me? Who can help me? They don't say, "I'm not skilled." They go, "Where do I learn? Who is doing it better than me? How do I pay them to teach me that skill set?" You guys are so backwards in your thinking going, "Where do I find the cheapest, easiest thing that's going to teach me to have to do and have and be everything that incredibly successful man or woman is?" You need to just go up to that successful man or woman and go, "How much is it going to cost to learn everything that you do?" And whatever the cost, time, money, and energy, pay that person. Winners don't wait, they build. They find a door and they kick their foot right through it. And if the house is on fire, they light the cigar with the flames of the home. You don't need permission to win. You need to get a little crazy and a whole lot obsessed because it has nothing to do with time. I just I need a little more time. Anyone that says, "I just need a little more time, bro." You need a bigger set of balls. Stop pretending your lack of resources is the reason you're not winning. Your problem isn't a lack of resources. It's what I've said before. It's a lack of resourcefulness. I I think maybe have to look at the time up here because I have my um Q&A campfire Q&A in about 15 minutes. See, I stack my schedule because I want people to win, but I want to make sure I give the information out and I never miss. You think it's easy that I never miss? No, it's commitment. So here, let let's get all kinds of offensive. Let's get offensively offensive. You are a grown man or woman with no schedule, no vision, no urgency, no real strength, addicted to vices, addicted to victimhood, addicted to comfort. That's not being an adult. That's a toddler with bills. If you think that's harsh, I don't know. Let me tell you what's really harsh. How about this? getting to 40 with stretch marks on your self-worth and not a damn thing to show for it, but a high score on Call of Duty or Fortnite with a pile of broken promises to yourself and everybody else that believed in you. That's not life. That is very slow, deliberate suicide. So go ahead, get offended, get pissed off, get triggered, maybe instead though, just get obsessed about what you want. Figure it out. Figure out the thing and then just go do that until you get it. Pay whoever you need to emulate whoever you need to work as long as required. give as much time, energy, and money to whatever is required to get there and just damn well do it. Winners and losers aren't born different. They respond differently. Losers, bad day, bad week, bad year equals self-destruction. Winners, bad day, bad week, bad year equals self- construction. Losers blame. Winners build. Losers collapse. Winners recalibrate and get their life back in the direction they need to be. Losers give up. Winners just reload. You weren't taught how to win. Fine. That's not an excuse. You were handed comfort and convenience and a 30-day free trial of Netflix. But now you know. So now it's your choice. You're welcome. You can stay a spectator in someone else's dream, which is what you are doing. If you are working for somebody else, hating your life, and watching other things around you, movies, television, series, social media, you are a spectator in someone else's success story. What are you doing? Or here's the option. You can become the obsessed man or woman who built his own dream. Winning is for the obsessed. I said it at the beginning. Always was, always has been, always will be an obsession. Doesn't require permission. It demands proof and receipts. That's all it does every damn day. That's all you've got to do. But until you get obsessed in the right direction and go, I'm obsessed about winning and I don't care what shows up, who shows up, what's in my way, how much time, how much money, and how much energy it costs me. I will be so resourceful that the only option I have is to move the direction of the victory I want so hard, so fast, and so intently that it would be unreasonable that I fail. That's what winners do. I got to go. Never miss.