So, I gotta tell you, I have been fielding, it's thousands of messages from you guys. So, thanks. Like, keep throwing questions at me. That's why I'm here. It's interesting because I think and I'm going to be explaining the Wolverine Protocol one more time because I I think there's so many Oh, there's so many Insta coach bodybuilding, Insta Guru influencers pedalling crap. It pisses me off because yeah, there's a company that I own that helps people, but that's not why I do this. I've been coming out here. Do I get any money for a podcast? No. For a YouTube channel? Not nearly what you think. I actually come out here because I I care. I want you. I'm tired. I've been involved in healthcare for 25 almost 30 years. And above all, do no harm. The invention of the influencer is a nightmare because they learn a couple of big words, throw them at you, and unknowingly you buy their product and they're garbage. And listen, I'm not trying to hate on anybody. So, if somebody goes, "Oh, it sounds like you are. Maybe you just shouldn't be so sensitive." Or just take that thumb like I talked about yesterday and swipe to the next YouTube channel or Instagram or whatever it is. Maybe I'm just not for you. But I'm going to tell you the truth because I want you to get better. And by the way, everything I'm about to tell you, hypothetical, educational, experimental for mice and kangaroos and Shetland ponies. It's not meant to treat, diagnose, cure, solve any problem you've got ever. If you know, you know, even though you know otherwise, right? Yes, it's a Christmas mug if you're watching. says, "The bell still rings for me as it does for all who truly believe. I got this on the actual Polar Express with my wife and son and daughter with our friends Dion and Ryan and their kids." And uh it was fun. It was fun. It was wild. Felt like I was in the movie. Anyway, listen. Here's the Wolverine Protocol. I'm going to be real quick cuz I have a webinar in about 35 minutes that I do every Sunday to pitch my program and sell you guys on something. It's funny. Why would I not be transparent? Yeah, I give away a ton of stuff on the webinar. I teach you how to do all kinds of things, but yes, it's so you join my mastermind, my mentorship, because nobody does it better. I come out and I give all I got. I'll bleed for you guys. I think I've proven that already. But hey, this is up to you. If you guys want, you know, a millionaire mansion life and health life and healthy life and fit life and crazy marriage, amazing life and you keep buying $40 programs. I can't help you. I know what I'm worth, which is why people pay me, but I come out here for free to help you. So, listen, let let's start with this because the Wolverine Protocol, it's driving me nuts. The stuff I'm starting to see, and maybe it's because I'm talking about it, my phone's listening, but you're not broken. You're not broken. I don't care what's going on with you. I don't care if you have a ruptured Achilles, your ACL has blown out, you've got a shoulder that sounds like it's filled with gravel, you're under reprepaired. And let me explain because the reason you're still walking around with the same knee pain, the same shoulder pain, the same itis of whatever type it is, the same elbow tendonitis, wrist tendonitis, carpal tunnel issue, which is not even usually an issue with the carpal tunnel itself. It's usually a cervical spine issue. That's another conversation. or some post-surgical stiffness that just never goes away. It's because the people that you're listening to, these influencers, these supplement charlatan peddlers, the Instagram biohackers, oh, I hate that word, with collagen unicorn blood discount codes are selling you the wrong protocol. They're calling it Wolverine, but that's not my Wolverine protocol. What they're pushing is Wish.com pseudocience. Listen, this stuff drives me nuts. You could tell it pisses me off the moment something gets popular, especially if it has a cool nickname like Wolverine. Oh, it gets hijacked, right? It's like looking at whatever God creates, Satan counterfeits, right? Same thing. It's how I look at all this. Some Insta coach with a gym selfie in a Shopify store is going to start selling bottled up oral BPC-157, slaps a wolf on the outside of the label and then calls it healing revolution. Except the problem is they're selling you a broken version of a very successful working protocol. And and before everybody gets in the comments, like I told you, you don't ever have to listen to me. You are not obliged to stay here and listen. So, if you don't like what I say, you feel free to f right off and save your negativity and misery for someone that actually cares cuz I don't. But if you get in my comments, I'm going to figure out a way how to delete your comment cuz I just don't want any part of you. Anyone that does not go absolutely 100%. You're you're a [\h__\h] weirdo. You didn't have to watch. You didn't have to listen. That clearly makes you the dumbest person on the planet because you chose to stay just to be miserable. It's because you want something to rage at because it gives you self-worth because you have none. So maybe maybe just level yourself up and pay attention and shut up and learn. Maybe if more of your teachers were like me and kept a basket of dodgeballs next to them at the desk just to fire one at your dome when you were acting up, you guys wouldn't be like this. These people selling this broken version of the Wolverine protocol because it's oral. BPC does not work orally even if you say yes it does for gut health and when I say gut health just the stomach not large intestine small intestine very little because by the time it gets to the small intestine it has gone through a wood chipper there's nothing there so you can't you're left with fragments if you understand that's not anecdotal that's biology that's how the system works that's physiology that's endocrinology that is your gastro rointestinal system. Hydrochloric acid is like boot camp for everything and is specifically designed you know pepsin trison kimotriin they're designed to chop up protein molecules. So I I don't understand when people it's oral it's designed for this. Either it is completely toxic because it's designed to to resist first pass degradation. I'll get to that in a second. Or it's just a bunch of fairy dust sprinkled on something with a cool label and the guy happens to be on a cover of a magazine and go look at me. I'm a bodybuilder but knows two things. jacking [\h__\h] That's like selling, listen, it's like selling somebody a Lamborghini with no engine and going, "This is a hypercar." No, it looks like a hypercar. BPC-157 cannot heal an injury orally. I'll I'll show you. You can't swallow peptides and expect results. That's not how human biology works. That's not how the digestive system works. And honestly, it's not how tissue regeneration works at all. So, I'll break this down in a way that even even the most inept collagen pedaling protein powder influencer can actually understand. Peptides are short chains of amino acids. Think of them like like a biological text message. That's it. They're not fuel. They're not some weird secret sauce. They are instructions that your body already knows what to do. They tell your body what to do, when to do it, and how to do it, how to prioritize the repair. That's it. But they're fragile. If you understand that, that's why these rookies that take a vial and shake it up. May as well throw it in the garbage. They're fragile. They need to get into your That's just mixing. Never mind when you ingest them. You can't do that. They need to get into your bloodstream intact to activate specific receptors at the site of injury. If they don't, they do nothing. Just walk through what happens when you swallow uh something like BPC57 because everybody gets on that and goes, "Oh, that's orally bioactive." Show me the blood work. I'll tell you every time. Show me the blood work. Show me the blood work of somebody that injects it and gets the instructions and gets a benefit and somebody that takes an oral and goes, "It's been working for me really well. Congratulations. Placebo effect, which is fantastic, but it's not healing a damn thing." The capsule hits your stomach. It's it's a pH death trap. Like I said, between 1.5 and three 3.5, it's like tossing a snowflake into a furnace. Stomach acid immediately starts to chop up, denature the protein bonds. It unravels the structure like a ball of yarn thrown into a food processor. All that whole shape that it had, gone. And then come all the enzymes, right? Pepsin is the biggest one. This is the stomach's primary proteolytic enzyme. Its job, slice up peptides into smaller fragments. deptides, tripeptides, and finally end up with just individual amino acids. By the time what's left hits your small intestine, you've got a soup of some basic building blocks, which is what it's designed to do, but you have no signal, no molecule with a purpose, just a bunch of scattered noise, and nobody's listening to the static. It's not possible. And even even if by some miracle a fragment gets absorbed into your bloodstream, it goes through the portal vein and hits your bloodstream. It's not intact. It can't bind to the receptor because it's not intact. It doesn't activate anything. You wasted your money. I said it in a post. Eating a big giant nothing burger. You get highriced pee. Here's the part that really pisses me off. These insta coaches know this. They know this. They And if they don't, they shouldn't even be talking about it. A lot of these guys, they let me learn a couple of big words and read some headlines and know nothing about the research or how the stuff works and then tell everybody how great the product is. Most of the time they don't. I just inside I just want to call some of these guys out because they drive me nuts. This one dude drives me this bodybuild. I just want to smack him around cuz I think he's full of [\h__\h] They've seen the research. They've read the warnings. They've watched people inject and get real results while their their customers, their own customers, keep chewing a bunch of placeos and making them rich. But they keep selling capsules because it's easier. Because people go, "Oh, I don't want to do an injection." Nope. Capsules. I'm in. But you're buying marketing. You're not buying results because it's marketed as what? Safe. And people are used to taking pills. Just go to your local drugstore. How many needles do you see sitting on the shelves? None. Because it doesn't scare off the supplement crowd. That's why. But just because something is easy to take, doesn't it doesn't mean it works. Tylenol is easy to take. Doesn't regenerate a torn superpanatus. Tylenol is really easy to take. My dad was taking 16 to 18 a day. Super easy to take. Tylenol and something called bufferin. He took them all day like like they were Skittles. And he died at 67 years old of endstage liver disease because of all the damage from that because it solved nothing. Listen, I'm not in the business of comfort. I'm in the business of getting you guys results. The word optimization makes me want to throat tap somebody cuz the people that say that probably can't even spell it. But the reason I'm saying this is because I actually come out here and give a crap about you guys. I'm probably one of the few doctors that goes, "I want you to be healthy." If you go to Elite Biogenics and you go, I'm buying the Wolverine Protocol from that company mine. Great. If you don't, I still want you to have the information. This isn't a big infomercial. This is here's physiology. Here's why it works. Here is the entire mechanism of action. You make an informed decision. Find me anybody else that's actually doing that. Listen, I can do I got stuff to do. So, now that we've nuked the fairy tales, let's talk about what actually does work. So, you actually understand this. The real Wolverine protocol, it's consists of only three injectable peptides. PPC57, TB-500, GHKC, the copper. Each of these operates through a very unique biological pathway that requires an injection. I'll say this again and again, not some vague healing claims that you keep seeing. I'm looking for my phone. It's over there cuz I would hold it up. real trackable, replicable mechanisms that show up in both lab data and real world recovery. It's not anecdotal where somebody's like, "Yeah, it totally worked." And then you get in my comments and start trying to get on my case, I will bury you. Irrefutable. That's what physiology is. You don't have a magic physiology that makes yours different. So, if you're going to argue with me, save it because I'm actually out here to You want to argue, if that's you, you want to argue to be right. I'm giving you facts so you can be right. I'll break it down. BPC-157, it's like a, if you look, if you were building something, this would be the foreman, the construction foreman. It's the best example I can give you, right? I use tried to use one with Formula 1 cars, but some people got really confused to be honest. Maybe the explanation sucked. Maybe the metaphor sucked, right? Who knows? Maybe I got it, nobody else did. So, imagine it's the construction format. Uh, BPC, body protective compound. Body protection compound 157. This is a peptide that is derived from human gastric juices. And if you go, "Oh, shouldn't it take the abuse of the stomach?" No, that's not how this works. And I'm not going to get into the whole explanation because that would just keep me on here for another hour. It's not just stomach support. That's the biggest part about this because that's people go, "Oh, it's just for the stomach." No, this upregulates something called VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor. We already know endothelial cells line the gastrointestinal system, the vascular system. You need these. You need them to be strong, healthy, and pliable. And that's what the copper comes in for as well. But the upregulating this VEGF leads to the creation of new capillaries, right? That's angioenesis. More blood vessels, more oxygen, more nutrients, and much faster repair. Also stimulates something called the fibroblast. These are the cells that lay down all the collagen, which is the primary structural protein in your connective tissue. So, it's how it holds all your [\h__\h] together, right? BPC also modulates something called nitric oxide. I'm not talking about myioardial inffection and all the stuff that people take. The nitric oxide pathway controls vascular dilation. That's why they give it to you for something called angina. But it needs to do this because it also mitigates inflammation by modulating inflammatory signaling. And it even shuts down the pain response. So it changes it opens up the vessels to allow more blood flow which then gives you more nutrients, more oxygen and more healing, right? So the actin comes and I'll get to that in a second. Stem cells show up faster. All of this is working together. That's why you need them all. If you guys are going, I'm only take one of these and I'm I'm just going to take BPC-157. You're missing 66% of what this is. Don't do that. I'm just telling you, don't do that. So BPC BPC57 just to put it simple turns broken tissue into a very specific zone of healing in your body at the location. Hypothetically if I was running a mouse experiment and I was just conducting some research and I wanted to maybe see what it would do. I don't know it would have to be u 1 milligram at the injury subcutaneously. It's not just about feeling the difference, which your mice will feel the difference. Your tissue is going to rebuild in the mice. If you know, you know. It's [\h__\h] weird world with this free speech that isn't free. TB-500. Oh, I got to move it. TB-500. This is like like cellular Red Bull, right? Or Redline even more, right? If you know what if you know you know Red Line is like, don't even drink that whole thing. It'll put you in orbit. It increases, this is where I was going with the BPC57, right, with the vascular d the dilation because of the nitric oxide to allow more flow. It allows actin to get there. This is it increases something the TB-500 increases something called actin polymerization, which means it helps cells mobilize. Larger tube, more comes through, right? Vascular dilation. Now, do you see how this works together? Mobilize, divide, migrate to the site of the injury. That's so critical because injured tissue doesn't heal by accident or by having wishes. I'm not talking about prayer before somebody says, "I'm insulting. God's my man and I'm all about God." But your body has to send help. It doesn't just show up. TB-500 helps the cells get to the injured area much faster. Well, if they have a larger highway to travel down, they're going to get there even quicker. TB-500 also promotes angioenesis, which is the formation of all those new blood vessels I talked about. reduces something called a pro-inflammatory cytoine and it it just keeps the inflammation down before I get into a big explanation about it. And it keeps scar tissue from forming. So you don't end up with a shoulder that does this. You actually end up with a shoulder that does this because it doesn't lay it down in this half-hazard way. Scar tissue is inevitable, but it has it it lays things down in a nice organized fashion. So it maintains all the flexibility that you had pre-injjury. And honestly, if I had to pick one of the peptides that has such a global effect in such a massive way, never mind the the cardiac repair, it heals heart tissue, even fibrosis of the heart. It's amazing. Athletes heart, there's so many excellent things about TB-500, I would choose TB-500. If there was any one I had to take all the time, and I only could choose one, this wouldn't even think twice. It's This is the cool part, though. It's systemic, which means it works across the entire body. So, even at injury sites all over the place, it is. is you don't have to be local with this one. It's not like BP BPC57. Let me try that again. So, I'm hungry and I'm lit. BPC57 has to be sight specific. TB-500. Uh, in the mice, pick a spot on the flank. Subq 5 milligrams every 5 days. For how long? You know what? I I can only give you so much. some point you got to pay me for help. The last one is the copper peptide, the GHK-Cu. This is uh probably the most overlooked one in a ton of of peptide stacks. I'm hesitant to use that word because it binds copper and activates enzymes that repair DNA. Big deal. Just understand. Repaired DNA good, broken DNA, bad. increases something called TGF beta, which it doesn't matter what it is, but it stimulates collagen, elastin, and glycosamine glycans. Glycosamine glycans are the building blocks of cartilage and soft tissue in the entire body. So, what they do is it instead of painting over broken bricks, it pulls out a brick and replaces it. That's the easiest way I can explain it. It enhances stem cell recruitment to the injury sites. Again, go back to BPC57, larger tube, right? Vascular dilation because of the nitric oxide. Faster, more fat. That's why all of this works. You have to look at this thing as as a concerted effort, not a singular effort, right? And then reduces oxidative stress, which is I think I said it on my post, it's like parking a bouncer in front of your mitochondria. Mitochondria you want healthy and cranking because those are like little furnaces inside each and every one of your cells. And one of the coolest parts is the copper peptide helps regenerate nerve nerve cells. So nerve tissue. So you don't get all these, I said it before, these weird dead spots that sometimes you get an injury and maybe you guys have it, maybe you don't, but you have a spot where you broke a bone and there's a dead spot on the skin. This helps mitigate that and hypothetically eliminate it. Wink, nudge, nudge. This GHK-Cu literally reverses age related damage. It doesn't just heal, it restores function. If I was going to give this to my mice or my kangaroos or my ponies or whatever it is that I'm using in my experiment, hypothetically, it would probably be somewhere around 300 micrograms a day in the abdominal fat. Did I say that fast enough for you guys to understand? Here's why injections work and will always work. They bypass digestion and go straight into the bloodstream. Once they're in circulation, peptides can bind to the target receptors. So, they're going to work immediately. There's no first pass degradation. So tendons, ligaments, muscles, nerves, skin that they hit all this stuff and then they trigger the actual bio the like the biological cascade that leads to regeneration. It's not You can tell it pisses me off because they see these orals come out and everybody's hopeful that they work and they never work and then they get mad and they become cynical and skeptical because they bought a bunch of bunk from some idiot that goes, "This is going to work. It's amazing." Trust me, bro. If it doesn't enter the bloodstream intact, it can't hit a receptor. Period. No receptor, no signal, no healing. That's why this works. It It triggers the actual biological cascade of events that leads to regenerating tissue. Injectables work because they obey the laws of human endocrinology, not supplement marketing. So, got to look at my watch here. Got about 15 minutes. If you're taking oral BPC or anything else orally that's a peptide thinking that your torn ACL or suppanatus or anything else is going to it's going to help. That's like texting an ambulance instead of calling 911. You're relying on a bunch of hope instead of actual delivery. It's there's you you want hype to help your body and marketing to help your body. You need physiology to work and you're listening to people that care more about an affiliate code than your recovery. How many times have I marketed and pitched you on this podcast? I haven't really. I said one. If you're going to go, go. If not, then don't. But I want you guys to get better. You want to heal, inject the damn thing. Inject instructions. Use the real Wolverine protocol. Tell these influencers that are pedalling oral versions of this, trying to convince you that it works to go pound sand. The stack has helped hundreds of thousands of people recover from injuries that were unfixable. Torn rotators, knees, labreums, meniscus, posttop fibrosis. That one's huge. Holy, the number I've seen like that in weeks, not years. You're not broken because of a bunch of bad luck. You're not. You're stuck because you've been sold bro science by a bunch of knuckleheads that have a Instagram account. Most people aren't in pain because their body is incapable of healing. You know that they're in pain because their healing signals aren't getting through. So you got a bunch of static interference in the way. Your body wants to repair. It never doesn't want to. Your body innate intelligence knows what to do. I use the example of when you cut yourself and fibbrin, fibbrinogen, vitamin K, all that stuff, thrombin, prothroin, none of like clotting like tissue repair. None of that occurs with you having to consciously think about it. Your body wants to do the right thing. The signal is getting messed up. There's a bunch of static. This fixes a signal. Remember peptides, they're already in your body. What you are using already exists. That's why it can't be patented because it's just a compound in your body. It's a signal. So, it sends a signal says, "Do this better. let me give you a 50x ro yeah 50 times ROI and your body goes okay let's do it that's all it does it's not a drug it just need your body just needs the right instructions to get to where it needs to go and it needs to be delivered at the right place at the right right dosage for the right amount of time in the right form so if you're still swallowing a bunch of supplements while hoping for tissue regeneration listen that's like hoping you're going to get shredded from watching a YouTube workout maybe it feels productive I don't know but it's Not you look like a spaz. Don't do that. BPC-157, TB-500, GHK-Cu, all injectable, clinically validated and grounded in real endocrinology, human physiology, measurable outcomes. Find the blood work of anybody on an oral peptide. I'll wait. You can't. So, honestly, here's a choice. keep chewing capsules and taking pills and gummies with a discount code hoping it's going to work because well you really like their account and they seem like they have a lot of followers. I don't care if you have a thousand followers, one follower or 10 million followers. I really don't care. I just care that you guys get better. I care that if you want to make a million dollars, somebody teaches you like me how to do it. You want to heal your body, somebody teaches you like me how to do it. You want to have a great marriage, somebody shows you how, like me, how to do it. That's it. So, you can you can keep chewing up hope or you can inject the truth and the signals and actually heal your system. One is hype, the other is biology. Only one actually works. Just so we're clear, that's the real Wolverine protocol. Because I wasn't even going to come out here and do this. I had a whole other thing I was going to do, but I'm just tired of seeing it because they keep coming across my feed. No fluff, no BS, no shortcuts, no unicorn blood and fairy dust. Just science, real physiology, human biology, and the signal that tells your body to do things better. I got to go. Never miss.