I've gotten a lot of questions about SS31 and M C and the relationship between the two and honestly a lot of the bro science and bunky nonsense that's going on out there and you make your own decisions. You make your own conclusion. I'm not here to tell you what to do. And uh that is my medical disclaimer. This will take me maybe 2530 minutes to explain, but I want you guys to understand exactly what they do and then hypothetically what kind of experiments you can run with these things and how beneficial they really are. Honestly, I don't even need 2530 minutes. That's about 25 30 minutes longer than it takes, as harsh as this is about to sound, as it takes most of you guys to ruin your own biology based on a 15 to 30 second Instagram reel from some biohacker or self-proclaimed expert whose greatest scientific achievement is filtering their photos or trying to trash talk everybody that doesn't agree with their ideology because what they're really doing is losing money and credibility. So, I understand. Listen, you guys are I don't come out here for me. I don't I don't need to do this. And you guys know that I come out here because I genuinely give a crap. And I want you guys to be successful and have all the information. If you asked me, like I said, about engineering or being an attorney, I have no idea. I don't know how to do it. But this human biology, yeah, I know that stuff really well and I just want to give you all the information. A lot of you guys are being played. You're buying peptides from guys who think that the Kreb cycle is a new spin class or some kind of fancy word and they'll argue about it and say that they have proprietary blends or orals or what they're telling you is accurate or they spit a lot of hate or negativity. But I don't even see the value in that. It's embarrassing. I'm not here to give you some talk. I just want to basically perform an intervention. I think you guys need to understand. Listen, if you look at the resting mitochondrial membrane potential of the average, let's call him Dave, the average Dave's, he's 40 years old. He's a an American male and his resting mitochondrial membrane potential is scientifically classified as pathetic. Pathetic. Listen, this is important because MC and SS31 have everything to do with this, but it's running at about 60% efficiency. And you know what else operates at 60% efficiency, you guys? is a 1973 friaking Pinto. And you guys all know how that ends. And if you don't, you need to watch Oh, not Spies Like Us. The other one where they tap the Pinto and it blows up. Anyway, Pintos are garbage. Except they're great for drag races. Pintos, Monzas, if probably throw a Gremlin in there cuz they stuff these monster engines inside these tiny little cars. I used to see Pintos at the drag strip all the time. I'm a gearhead. I love wrenching on cars. It's fun for me. But listen, just to come full circle before some of you guys get all upset about me going on a rant. The problem isn't lack of information, folks. It's a surplus of stupidity. And today, you really have access to the two most powerful scalpels in the longevity toolkit to cut out idiocy, MZ and SS31. And if you confuse these two after I'm done explaining this, please, this is I want you to have all the information. All of it. And like I I always say this. I don't care if you buy from Elite Biogenics. I don't care. I don't care. Don't go buy someone else. Go buy from my competitors. I don't care. None of this matters to me. That's how genuine I actually am when I come out here. I want you guys to have the stuff. But and I also don't care if you join my black card. If you want to join the black card membership and you want to get information and understand everything and really get in with a tight group, then great. If not, that's cool. I hope you get as much as you possibly can without ever spending a dime. I just know that I've learned most of my valuable lessons on the other end of a very avoidable expense had I just put out more time, money, and energy in something in the right direction. Like I said, buy from Elite or don't. Buy from join my black card. Don't I I don't care. I want you guys to have the information. But it's not a lack of information. And even if you do join, and somewhere in here is a link. I don't know. It's down at the bottom. Great. But there is such a surplus and abundance of stupidity. So I want you guys to get that because if you confuse mod C and Essa and I see it. I get these messages. Hey, they're the same. Do I need to take them at the same time? Do I need to take one before the other? And no. And most of the time it's backwards. I'm going to personally come to your house and make you do burpees until you die if you confuse these again. Let me get something straight. This isn't biochemistry. This is a biological warfare. And you I all at all times you are I you are always in a biological warfare. Understand this like from a guy who's been through hell and a lot of you guys actually saw me go through it. What a terrible experience that was. I'm going to tell you the hardest part was seeing my wife. It wasn't is seeing her upset. It wasn't me. Listen, I can live without a long I can function. It sucks. But it was worse seeing my wife and how upset she was. I adore my wife. You guys really have no idea. I am so crazy in love with that woman and there's nothing I wouldn't do for her or my kids and that's why I come out here so you guys can just be the best version of yourself and not the rah my psychology is great I don't mean that you are a juggernaut this robust piece of biology that can just take a hit and keep on going and you don't need me cuz if I make you rely on me and I say you have to join my I don't know peptide of the month club or something gay like that I I don't I don't want you to ever need me because then I fall into the same category as a managed decline or all the other Insta hacks and insta bros and PhD wannabes that are out there that are trying to explain something which who really don't care. And so I I just never want to fall into that category. So listen to me. You're either the weapon or you're the target. That simple. Which one do you want to be? Weapon or target. So Mod C and SS31, how about this? Just explain what the hell they are. So Mod C is, and I won't get into what it is, the whole mitochondrial open reading frame blah blah blah. We don't need to get into that. It's encoded in your mitochondrial DNA. Not, and this might not make any sense to you, but it doesn't. I'm just trying to get you to understand. It's not encoded in your nuclear DNA. Your mitochondrial DNA. This 16,569, I believe, base pair ring that you inherited, by the way, completely from your mom. Solely from your mother. Honestly, that fact alone should make every man listening to this question their entire existence. M C is a mitochondrial signal. It is a It's like I grab my phone. It's like a text message from the matriarchal power plants that run your life. And we look at all these other things going, "Well, this is where I need to be. This is where I need to focus on." This runs your entire life. It is sent directly to the nucleus to tell nuclear DNA to get its damn act together. It works through the AM activated protein kynise pathway, the EMPK. It's the cellular sensor, more like a fuel gauge, right? It shows where your energy level is. And when it's activated, when it's turned on, it doesn't ask nicely for glucose uptake, which is its primary mechanism of action. It like thumps the door with AI don't know, just blows the door off. It It demolishes the door. It kicks the door off its hinges and demands it. Mi is the command that flips, that switch to the on position permanently. SS31, on the other hand, is it's not a signal. It's its architecture. It's a scaffold, right? Follow me. Its entire job is to find a phospholipid called cardio lipid. Cardiolipin lives exclusively on the inner membrane, the inner mitochondrial membrane. And it's the structural glue. Oh, this is important. If you understand the electron transport chain and how it creates this proton gradient and spins the turbine, it turns out ATP. The whole explanation that I gave in a probably about 3 weeks ago in the podcast. And if you want me to ever do stuff like this and just go give me basic biochemistry, doc, just explain what this does, I'll do a podcast on stuff like that, you just have to tell me. I'm trying to be as accommodating as I can with what you guys want. But believe me, there is a lot of information rattling around inside my head. So the cardipin is the structural glue that holds complexes 1, 3, and four of the etc the electron transport chain, right? The ATP machine together. So when you age or when you get sick, when things happen, when there's damage, cardiolipin gets oxidized. This isn't a good thing. It becomes this rusty hinge on a very critical door. So the etc the electron transport chain starts to sputter and falter. So now electrons leak out and they create ROS's, reactive oxygen species. I've talked about these a bunch of times, but this is just to give you an idea. Imagine this. I'll give you the easiest visual possible. Reactive oxygen species, they're shrapnel that tears your cells apart. It's the collateral damage of something upstream that got damaged. SS31 binds to cardioipin and then protects it from oxidation and restores the structural integrity of the entire energy production line. So it it's not like anything else. It's not giving a command. It's this nano hard hatw wearing engineer wielding welder and metal and a blueprint to stick all the broken pieces back together. That does that make sense? So, let me eviscerate the most profoundly idiotic claim in all of the bro science wannabe expert world that I've ever seen that you need to prime M c with SS31. So, you need to use M you need to use SS31 rather before you use M C. That is a marketing play to get you to buy more product. It doesn't even make sense. Whoever came up with that should be forced to listen to I don't know the worst podcast, the worst sound a cat caught in a wine press just on a loop just this terrible noise because it's a fundamental misunderstanding of causality. I'll explain so you guys understand. It's biologically illiterate. It doesn't even according to science it makes no sense. Here's irrefutable logic. SS31 is the repair tool for existing damage. MOT C is the pre preventative upgrade that stops the damage from happening. Okay, so now you understand what these do. Using SS31 first is like rebuilding the engine of a car that's currently driving off a cliff is pointless and redundant. And if you don't yank the steering wheel and two-foot the brakes, that car is going over the cliff. That's the problem. M C is the steering wheel. It addresses the root cause metabolic inefficiency that leads to oxidative stress that damages the mitochondria in the first place. Follow me. This is why it doesn't make sense. I That's why you need to understand this. By implementing MOT C, you're systematically lowering or systemically lowering the production of the very reactive oxygen species that makes SS31 necessary in the first place. You're fireproofing the building before you call the fire department. The correct logical biologically sound sequences to establish a new I guess higher metabolic baseline with M C. Then and only then you have to assess if you even need the targeted reparative intervention of SS31. You might not even need it. The insanity of the inverse protocol is it's staggering to me. It makes my head hurt. So listen, here's the second critical differentiator of this entire thing. Duration. So if you look at if you look at Mottz C, it's what I call a forever peptide. The concept of cycling is it's as absurd as cycling oxygen or sleep. You don't sleep and then decide for 2 months you're not going to sleep. You just sleep every night. You sleep or whenever you sleep, but you sleep every 24 hours. But here's why. Because it's not an exa. It's not an exogenous drug acting on a receptor that can downregulate. It is a nutrient. Oh, this is where it gets fun. It's a nutrient. It's a signaling nutrient. You are deficient in it as you get older. So you're simplist simply replenishing a defic a deficit of a native human molecule that operates through this myriad of pathways, AKT, NRF2 or not, but you're doing it to upregulate your entire metabolic machinery that turns out and turns out energy and makes the system run perfectly. Your body doesn't build a tolerance to its own fundamental signaling. You don't cycle water, you don't cycle sleep, you don't cycle MC. The end. Now SS31 is cyclical 100%. It's very potent. It's this foreign therapeutic compound, powerful, targeted. It's directed right at the mitochondrial membrane and can absolutely lead to adaptive responses 100%. The body's own maintenance systems seeing a constant repair crew even though they're from MIT, they're it's going to become lazy when they keep showing up to the same site even though they don't need it. Imagine the membrane is repaired. It doesn't need to bind to cardiolippin. working perfectly, but the crew keeps showing up. Eventually, they go, "This is just noise that I'm hearing. Then when it shows up when it's necessary, it doesn't work." You use it for focused periods of time. Hypothetically, 6 to 8 weeks for your kangaroo. That's about clinical standard that I would if I was ever talking or doing any consulting. That's what I would say. That's going to give you the specific repair outcome that you want. And then you go off to allow your body's innate and now MSI enhanced systems to take over. It's much more of a surgical strike than it is a full occupation of wherever you're going. Right? Timing matters, by the way. It's not woo, it's chronob, it's hormones. Because people ask, "When do I take it? What's the best time? How much do I take?" All these questions are valid. Some of those questions I can't answer on here. And yes, it's not a plug for my black card. I don't care. Don't. But that's the only place I'm technically. And if anybody else is doing it, hey, you're playing roulette. I'm not doing it. I will tell you this though. Dr. Trevor Bachmire on Rumble and Telegram. I could say anything I damn well want to there. So, you know what's coming out there? All of this and then some. So, I'm going to tell all of you guys, hang out over there. Go. I want I do it. Totally selfish. I want a million people on Rumble and a million people on Telegram just taking notes and applying it to their life. I don't want a dime from you. I just want you to go over there and know that the information is never going to stop flowing out of this brain right here to you guys. That's it. That's all I want because they're always going to have my back because I can just keep on talking. So just keep that in mind. Telegram and Rumble both Dr. Trevor Bachmire. D R T R E D O R B- A C H M E Y R. There you all one word. There you go. So Matsi hypothetically for the kangaroo experiment. The morning non-negotiable. I'll say that again. The morning. Stop taking it any other time. Your cortisol is peaking. Your sympathetic nervous system is engaged. You are in a catabolic energy consuming state. Follow me. So M C's primary mechanism of activation is cranking up AMPK. It's flicking the switch to on. Right? So the catabolic since this is the catabolic energy sensor, follow me. Taking it in the morning is a force multiplier. It tells your body, okay man, the day has started. Let's go. We need maximum metabolic flexibility, glucose uptake, energy production. We need it all. Let's go. Taking it at night would be biologically dissonant. It conflicts with the nocturnal rise in mTor activity which is geared towards repair and anabolism. Right? You take them when you wake up. Period. That's it. You just take Moxy when you wake up. That's it. SS31 honestly it's it doesn't matter. Not I'm not even going to make it up because there's nothing agnostic towards time but it's consistent. Its job is not is structural stabilization 24/7 365. So there's no circadian effect. The key is maintaining a very steady state concentration in the bloodstream to provide this constant protection to the where mitochondrial membrane. Pick a time. Just stick to it. Doesn't matter. Take it at noon. Take it at 217 in the morning if you want. Just make sure it's always at 217 in the morning, noon, night. It doesn't make a difference when you do it. Just make sure you're consistent. Yes, that part matters more than anything else. Now, let me explain why most of you guys are all sick, tired, and dying a whole lot faster than you should. All pathology. All pathology. Follow me on this. This will change your life. All pathology, every single disease state, from the common cold to metastatic cancer, is a manifestation of one or more of the three core biological failures. I talk about this every single day. This is the holy trinity of suffering and disease. So, I need you to get these because I'm going to show you how gangster M C and SS31 when required are and what to do about it and how to create the most robust mitochondrial system. Never mind, back up. Not even just mitochondria, the most robust human you can become. Just follow me on this stuff. That's it. And if you don't, great. But the problem is the information because I'm giving it all to you. So, the three biological failures, insulin resistance, systemic inflammation, and ATP shortage. Every day I talk about this. The cellular deafness, right? The insulin resistance, the cellular deafness to the most, this is the problem to the most important anabolic hormone in the entire body. The cell's front door is locked. Not like the NNMT lock like locked. And glucose is left outside to cause it just shreds everything in your bloodstream. It just causes havoc in your bloodstream. Inflammation problems. This is the root of metabolic syndrome right there. Done. Now, systemic inflammation, which is a product of this. Now do you see why this is married together which is a state of perpetual lowgrade immunological panic the NFCappa B pathway is stuck at full throttle like on and just right to the floor floods your system with inflammatory cytoines IL6 TNF alpha this is the soil in which all chronic disease grows just so you know and you fuel it by taking away the energy to solve the problem the ATP shortage this is the energy crisis so you are the inverse is You're fueling the pathology. Do you understand that? You don't have the energy on tap to solve the problem. So the inverse is you're giving the fuel to the pathology. Failing mitochondria cannot produce sufficient ATP. Adenazine triphosphate. So your cells are suffocating in a very nutrient-rich environment. It's cellular bankruptcy is the easiest way I can explain this. M C is a very strategic nuclear weapon that annihilates all three of those pillars at once. It's the only molecule that does it with such elegant and systemic precision. Only one. Nothing else does it no matter what. And it sure as hell I'll tell you right now, there's not a single oral version of this that is ever going to work. The end. Mic drop. I'm out. That's how well this It's Friday, so it's date night tonight when I'm done. So, I'm not going to stay on here all day, but I love you guys and care about you guys enough that I want you guys to have the answers. So, here's how MC works with ATP. It doesn't just cuz if you understand the mechanism, it's very easy to see it in your own physiology, right? At least for me, that's how it is. I just tend to visualize everything. It's like I have a laser pointer and a whiteboard and I'm going through all this stuff in my head. So mod mustaches make your nose itchy sometimes. It doesn't just make more ATP, it makes better ATP. And before you guys get in my comments and start saying ridiculous things that are unnecessary, yes, there are better forms of this entire thing. upregulates glycolytic and oxidative phosphorilation pathways. So it ensures here's why it ensures optimal substrate flux into the TCA triricaroxilic acid cycle the KB cycle but its genius is in its effect on the ETC the electron transport chain because it enhances the coupling efficiency so it reduces the electron leak for those who don't understand what I'm saying that's let me just explain real quick I'm not saying that you flunked physics or biochemistry or anything just follow me it means that you take the same amount of fuel NADH and FADH2 to and you generate, this is where it makes better, right? You generate more ATP while producing less waste. The waste is the ROS, the reactive oxygen species. It's like a turbocharger with as much as I can't stand emissions control on my diesel cuz it jacks it up. I took it off. It breathes a lot better. Hypothetically, I didn't do it before the whatever EPA loses their [\h__\h] mind. I'm trying really hard because I know there's some kids that listen to this. Honestly, I don't want to have anybody being offended cuz I curse, but I cuss. Sorry, I'm the doctor that cusses, but I'm trying to do you guys a solid because it matters. It's like slapping a monster turbocharger, twin turbochargers, intercooler, the whole thing. Up pipes, down pipes, the whole just monsters with a built-in catalytic converter is where I was going with the emissions issue with the EPA. More power, less pollution. Now, from a car standpoint, that's a whole other conversation, right? If you guys know, especially if you're a diesel guy like me, I love Dude, that L5P in that Yes, this is a total subject change. That L5P in my Silverado and I built that thing. It is a pavement shredder. So savage. Diesels just make torque. It's like my Grand National at GNX. That thing just would just rip the meat right off the turbocharger. Monster. It's like a Buick Regal with a category 5 Hurricane stuffed under the hood. Anyway, so here's how this MSI works and how it basically solves this devastating triad. So ATP crisis, the energy crisis is pretty much averted because you get more efficient mitochondria which gives you maximal ATP synthesis. You get more of it and I just explained that with the NADH and the FADH2 and how it works, right? With KB cycle, the inflammation gets put out. It it does it by radically reducing the mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production, which goes back to a more efficient. Now, do you see why this stuff geeks me out because I love it? But now, do you see why this all is married together? You just don't put pieces in place and just hope they work. It's not like random Lego blocks and wondering why you didn't build the Millennium Falcon. So, it reduces the ROS production, which is the primary trigger for NLRP3 inflammosome. So, MC C removes I realize it's unnecessary, but I need you guys to understand. Matsi removes the spark that ignites that entire inflammatory cascade. NFCappa B calms down and the cyto the cytoine storm disappears. It doesn't even subside. It just pretty much goes away. And the last one is insulin resistance which gets annihilated by MS C. And before the questions that come out, which is okay, if I have a HbA1c issue, pre-diabetic or I am type two diabetic or even type 1 diabetic, you have to be careful with that. By the way, I'm just going to leave that there. That's more of an in-depth conversation with me if you want to go down that road if you're type one just because there's some other things we need to talk about. It's not as simple as type two. Still solvable, not as simple, that's all. And it requires dedicated discipline. Like I was just talking to my buddy Justin Wel. And if you don't know him, you got to look him up. Justin's a good dude, man. He is 6'5, tattooed, bearded muscle dude that is just got a heart that's the size of this entire world. He is such a good man. He and his wife just good people. And we were talking about discipline because he has ironclad discipline. And I've known that from the day I met him. He's one of the very few that lead from the front. But that's what that's what type 1 diabetes mitigation solution. I'm always hesitant to say it like that conversation requires. So the insulin resistance is such a problem in human physiology. So M C and like I said before you ask, can I take this and my type 2 diabetes will go away? No. Can you take this and do all the other things that I would have you do for your kangaroo that's got type two diabetes? Absolutely. It'll go away, but you have to follow the rules. And can I take this instead of redatruide? No. Can I take this and you see where I'm going with this? Instead of NADH or NAD+ rather? No. So there there's a lot of things that you need to understand that are getting lost in translation with the bro science or the the YouTube fanatics that really have no idea what they're talking about and should probably just stop for a second and go, why am I really doing this? Is it to help people or is it to help me? Cuz I'm not doing this for me. I have the knowledge floating around my head. Man, my mustache is so itchy right now. So this mod C is such a masterpiece because it induces a state of I said it the other day, brutal, brutal, profound insulin sensitivity. like you turn into a glucose vacuum. It cranks up EMPK activation almost forcefully and forces the transllocation of glute 4 transporters to the cell surface. I think I explained this in Parkinson's. Wait, well have skeletal muscle by the way. It doesn't ask for glucose uptake. It says give me it right now. And then it shoves glucose into the muscles where it belongs. By the way, clearing a bloodstream, restoring metabolic harmony and beauty in your system. It is the ultimate antidote to the western disgusting diet. So now let me explain SS31 and how it works with ATP because they both work with ATP. One is more direct than the other. But this one SS31 is more working with ATP and repair. It's the tactical solution. It's the team that comes in and does all the repairs when the when the shrapnel is already torn up the cell, right? It's binding to cardipin in the inner mitochondrial membrane stabilizing the super complexes and I talked about this already of the etc the electron transport chain. This remember I said it's a a um an architect right this structural reinforcement directly reduces proton leak and improves the proton motive force which I talked about right that's what spins the turbine in the etc. Yeah I got to be sorry I get excited this stuff's awesome for me and it maximizes the efficiency of ATP synthes complex 5. So it's a it's a direct repair of the energy production machinery it doesn't change the command structure it fixes the broken factory equipment. Does that make sense? But this isn't optional. Mitochondrial health is not a biohack, you guys. It's not. It is the sole determinant. Please listen to me. It is the sole determinant of your physiological fate. You are your mitochondria. Every thought, every heartbeat, every muscle contraction, every I'm moving my hand, every breath you take, everything you do is funded by ATP that is produced by the mitochondria. Health is mitochondrial function above all else. disease is mitochondrial dysfunction. If you think in terms of black and white that way, it's a very easy process to understand. It's when people start throwing complexities at you in order to make you feel like you need them. You need their magic solution. No, you need to understand your biology. In which case, you can come up with your own magic solution and understand what needs to be done and not get taken to the cleaners by people that only want to separate you from your bank account. Just trying to help, man. So, let me explain a hypothetical protocol to end all protocols. Oh, this is the secret sauce I wasn't even going to talk about, but now I'm sitting here and I'm feeling jolly this Friday afternoon. It's like a stack that addresses that biological failure triad with overwhelming force. By the way, M C, let's start right at the beginning. All right, you ready? M C. This is your biological baseline. It's the perpetual foundational upgrade that systemically addresses insulin sensitivity, inflammation, and energy production. This is daily and this is forever. Can you take it every other day? Yeah, but don't be cheap. Here's why. Because people go, "Well, but it's really expensive." Yeah, type two diabetes is expensive on the people that love and care about you. It's expensive to your health, to your biology. Being obese is expensive. Being weak is expensive. Being broke, being stupid, being alone, being miserable, being angry, being vengeful, being vindictive, being bitter, being jealous, being having cardiovascular issues, having gastrointestinal issues. Those are all expensive. You guys listen to me. I'm really trying to help, but those are expensive as hell. So, don't be cheap when it comes to spooling up how strong the equipment is that allows you to exist on this planet. You are being sold a bill of goods that you have to rely on somebody else to do it. No, you have to rely on yourself and your decisions to take yourself there. That's what you need to do. And listen to the right people. But it this addresses the three failures than honestly I think better than anything else I've ever seen. And Matsi is a forever peptide. So, you can take it every second day. hypothetically a certain dosage anywhere from two and a half to five. Not going to say the rest of the word because heaven forbid the left gets wind of it or somebody trying to be a miserable toddler gets wind of it and tries to do. There's a million things. But the reason I'm saying it is because I want you guys to have the answers. You want the real answers? Just go to Rumble or Telegram. Just go over there or hang out with me on the black card. I don't know. I don't know what to tell you. But that is every day is better than every second day. How about I leave it like that? And this is forever. It is daily. It is forever. There you go. The second one hypothetically reatrite. This is like the ultimate enforcer of your systemic insulin problem. The GLP-1 agonist. I get it with GIP and glucagon that creates the necessary caloric deficit and weight loss. But here's why that's important. It stop thinking big is beautiful. Stop it. Stop it. You're being juvenile when you do that. You're being ignorant of your own biology and your biology hates it. So instead of just yelling and trying to defend something because it disrupts and destroys your entire life because now all of the stories you've told yourself and everybody else crumble, you will defend it so you maintain your delusional state. Knock it off. This is your body. When you're on death's doorstep, you will do anything you can to have another day. I promise you that. So don't let yourself get to that point and be in a state that you are begging or regretting or anything like that. Please understand, I've been on the other side of this equation and it effing sucks. I hated seeing my wife locked out of the hospital and then she snuck in every day. Slept on a tiny little green couch. It was no bigger than this desk. The second time I was in in the hospital about a month later when they carved me open. And so I'm just trying to tell you, man, this is stuff to help you. So it removes the metabolic weight, the burden, the cross it has to carry from your organs, your system, your joints. It makes the target your liver and your muscles more receptive to the glorious signals of M C. So you get it now, right? Redatide makes your system more of a magnet for whatever MC is going to do for you, which I've already explained already. So it's the synergism is phenomenal. But now throw in SS31. This is this is like my buddy Dan, right? Just a seal just comes in and in cyclical bursts. four to eight weeks hypothetically and then four to eight weeks off right the same amount of time on the same amount of time off after though after your baseline is established with MC you don't take them at the same time there's no need in fact it is backwards I told you that you're driving off the cliff and you're that doesn't make any sense just stop you don't need to take it beforehand in fact if anything you have to take it afterwards because you need to get the system doing what it's doing first so its job you need to be established with MSI first so SS31 comes in let's say a month Afterwards, Matzi, Reddit, True Tide, 1 month, 6 weeks, 8 weeks, then you might not even need SS31. So, taking it is pointless. It's just a little gimmicky the way they're like, you have to take one before the other. The logic is backwards. If anything, you should take Modsy before SS31, which is what I talked about at the beginning. But its job is to seek and destroy any remaining areas of significant mitochondrial damage after the Matzi establishes the mitochondrial function. And it does it particularly in high priority zones. The mioardium, the brain, the retinal pigment epithelium. This is why it's so important to time everything properly and understand physiology. NAD+ the payroll baby. This is what gets everything paid. This ensures that your search wins one cert 6. These are the repair proteins I was talking about. They're funded with co-actors to actually go out and execute their duties. DNA repair, mitochondrial biogenesis, making more, and stress resistance, getting in the ring and going, "All right, bring it. You become Mike Tyson." They're the perfect complement to the commands issued by Mott C. This is not random noise or throwing things together to see what they do. Hypothetically, MC read a true tide, NAD+, and then after that's been running for 4, 6 weeks, eight maybe even, now you run SS31 if necessary. How do you know? Because you still feel slightly off your game. And how do you know that it's working? All of this because you feel freaking fantastic. If you don't, what you bought was bunk or it was oral. There's that, too. Using SS31 alone, you can do for very specific acute purposes like great example postsurgical recovery, intensive training block, you four weeks of just crazy. You're training for some kind of Olympic event, targeted repair mission, short, very powerful cycles. That's smarter. Can you mix this with something like my ultimate Wolverine protocol? Absolutely. The one with PEG and everything in it. PEG MGF using SS31 with MOC C. This is the pinnacle. But listen to me. M C is your daily operating system. It's it's the sun, right? SS31 is the occasional comet that swings by for some deep cleaning orbit. Just comes in, cleans it up, and then bounces out of here. You run a cycle of SS31 once or twice a year to perform a toptobottom refurbishment of a system that's already running at peak efficiency thanks to Matt C. Do you understand that the synergy is monumental? So just let me go over this real quick so you guys understand this cuz I want to go inside and hang out with my wife. You guys are still thinking about right now probably okay when is this over? When is this guy done? And what am I going to have for lunch? So let me just give you all this stuff. Okay, what does M C solve? It solves the problem of being metabolically obsolete. It is the master regulator that restores insulin sensitivity and just demolishes, abolishes inflammation and eliminates the energy deficiency problem that you have like this. It's preventative, foundational, and it is for the rest of your life. What does SS31 solve? It solves the problem of structural decay. The master MIT educated repair man that fixes damaged mitochondrial infrastructure. It's therapeutic and targeted in a very short cycle. Now, do you understand the difference? Stop getting Please, somebody's going to get mad. Don't get mad. Instead, just go, "Man, this guy actually cares enough to come out here every day." Stop getting your science and your advice and your stacks or whatever it is you're doing for your coaching, your business. It doesn't matter, all of it, from people who use the word vibe. Your mitochondria don't have vibes, man. They have membrane potentials and they have redux states and they follow the immutable laws of biochemistry and physics. I'm just trying to make them simple for you. We are not these optimizers. We're engineers. The human body is hands down by far the most complex machine in the known universe. You can't even comprehend just how savagely amazing this machine is that's having a conversation with you right now. And we finally have a blueprint and the tools to get in and real repairs, not mask them with managed decline or bro science bunky nonsense sold in a bottle for too much money. You understand the future of your health and your function is not pharmaceutical. It's in the three biological failures solving those and primarily in your mitochondria because that's the platform that all else is built on. The ATP is what funds every single thing in your body and you have an option right now to do something about it. Every time I come out here, you can go, "Oh, I'm going to try that. Oh, that's going to work." This is up to you. Now, remember, like I said, I'm on Rumble. I'm on Telegram. Same name, Dr. Trevor Bachmire. You guys need to head over there just in case anything ever happens because, yep, I'm at that state in my life right now with the entire world. So, let's make sure that you guys always get the information. All right. Anyway, I love you guys. I hope that helped. I got to go. Never miss.