 geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez geez, geez geez, geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez as a client yourself. And some of these are going to fall in that outcome portion of the process, whether that's not getting stage lean for the show that you're prepping for, not getting lean enough for the photo shoot that you're wanting to do, feeling like you have a lack of control when it comes time to land the physique on that day, whether it be for that show or that photo shoot. And you feel like year after year after year, your physique's not progressing because your weak body parts aren't improving. You're not moving your physique towards that ideal physique that you want. And that's going to be problems that need to be addressed within that process of world-class coaching. And a lot of this happens generally from a lack of attention to your process. Coaches over time will tend to automate portions of the process, not really make it an N equals one coaching of the client. And this becomes a major issue for your outcomes that you have for yourself, your outcomes that you provide to your clients, because you're going to learn a lot through coaching experiences that you have and the coaching experience and environment that you're in, and kind of how that's going to be provided then to the clients that you work with. So whether you're a coach or athlete, being under a world-class coach is a massive learning process that not only expedites your ability to progress, but it's also going to allow you to learn more, to be able to apply more, whether it's for yourself or for the clients that you work with. Now, our goal here at J3 University and J3U Coaching is to empower and educate physique athletes and coaches in order to elevate the industry standard. That's why we've created all the courses at J3U University. That's why we've built that team of coaches at J3U Coaching that have been mentored by myself and John and gone through all the coursework. It's so that we can provide a service and provide education on what world-class coaching should actually look like. So we're going to be answering thosEQuestions for you of how do I actually get better? What does science bridge with experience actually look like? And we're going to be able to limit those mistakes and fast-track those results. Now, for these three things that we commonly see, the first one is not getting stage lean or not getting lean enough for whatever it is that you're preparing for. And the main issue here is incorrect prep timelines. Now, the solution to this is obviously having accurate prep estimations or accurate diet phase estimations. And a lot of this comes from how your process is ran as a whole well before you actually start the prep. So you need to understand how much body fat do you have to pull off? What does it look like to actually pull that amount of body fat off over a period of time? And what does that have to trenslate into how much time you need to diet? That needs to be kind of mapped out with a reasonable fat loss per week and have different scenarios that could pop up with some wiggle rooms because life's not always perfect. And that needs to be a part of that planning process well before you get into dieting. So that's going to be counting the non-dieting weeks. So this would be deloads from your process to drop fatigue. This could be periods of time where you take a little bit of a diet break so that we have that time in advance built in. And it doesn't take away from our ability to actually deliver that result on stage or that result for your photo shoot or whatever that end date is for you. Now, with the coaching process, we should be thinking about this well before the diet phase actually happens. And so we're actually going to be planning the phases leading into it to end at a body fat percentage that allows for the prep timeline that is going to be proposed to actually be executed on and delivered with the final result. So we need to be having this timeline built out well ahead of time. At J3U Coaching, as a part of the onboarding process, we actually build out that entire timeline from where you are to your end goal with the phases color-coded so that you can actually see how we're going to take you through that process and so that you know what those endpoints are so that we're not taking you 10, 15, 20 pounds above where you need to be for the end of the off-season where that debt needs to actually be paid on the diet phase and it makes the dieting process absolutely horrible. We're going to check these client variables throughout the entire process. Monitor your response to these estimations and make sure that we're staying on track so that these timelines stay accurate and we keep you on pace for actually reaching those goals. Lesson number two is lack of control on show day. This is the epitome of delivering the result on the day that you need it. Your show day, your photo shoot, your wedding, whatever that might be. If you don't have any assessment in what peaking that look looks like, then you're going to be operating in the dark. We set up the timelines with that extra wiggle room so that we have that ability to test that peak look and we're actually able to create a repeatable process that is foolproof and actually delivering it on the day because we did our homework well before we actually dieted. We did our homework in the dieting process. We tested the variables before we actually got to show day and we're able to repeat that process on command with situations like you see here. So when we build these peaking processes, we have a spectrum of where your best look is going to be and variables that can push your look up or down through the spectrum. And this will have been tested well before the actual peaking process. So on the left, you can see the flat look is around 220 pounds. We're plugging in some food and fluids with sodium, build that look up to 224. We find that ideal look there, but we continue so that we know where that ideal look starts to wane. We see it starting to get spilled around 226.5. So come show day, we know that it took two meals with X amount of carbohydrates, X amount of fats, X amount of sodium, X amount of fluid to get you to your best look. And now this becomes a repeatable process that's going to always deliver on show day. And off the back of building this process is why we won as much as we did last year with J3U Coaching, having around 20 pro cards won last year across the entire team. So a really productive year for us, but it's because we don't operate in the dark. We operate within predictable processes. Now, the final one that I commonly see as a problem is weak body parts stay weak. Either you think you're educated enough to do trening on your own, or there's not a needs analysis that's built out by the coach in order to match what the client needs. And we don't create that five-step approach solution process in order to actually address the problems that you have. So this is going to be a pose-by-pose breakdown or a full physique analysis of what you actually need to look your best come your show day or your photo shoot day. What do we need in regards to the movement analysis? So actually putting clients through a movement analysis, seeing what you're good at, seeing what you're bad at, seeing why you have the weak body parts that you have, and then applying this and learninGHow we can massage these plans to be the ideal plans for you rather than the ideal plans on paper. Because over time, the biggest thing that's going to create results is adherence and sustainability of that adherence that are all pointed towards what you actually need as an athlete. So with the coaching process, we should always be going back through this five-step approach in order to make sure that the plans are specifically set up for you to sustain that adherence and actually create better outcomes in the long term by fixing the core root issues of the problems and why your body parts are not actually getting better. So this is how we do this in a detailed manner and are always assessing after each phase whether the trening volume and the exercise selection address these weak body parts so we can pivot or continue down the path if it is solving those problems. So finally, really the big thing that we want to make sure that you understand is J3 University and J3 U Coaching, our biggest thing is about delivering results. We merge what we understand from a science perspective and a physiology perspective with what actually works with the N equals one clients. You can see this with the J3 U Coaching team. You can see this with the people that have gone through the coursework and applied this with their own process or with their own coaching process and honestly, just the results talk and they speak for themselves but this is where world-class coaching needs to head is having this really, really refined detailed process that is able to take the physiological understanding of what drives hypertrophy, apply it to the N equals one case study of yourself and actually build sustainable, adherable plans that are going to pull the best physique out for you and your clients and learning that process through experiencing that coaching through J3 U Coaching and learning it in the courseworks at J3 University. So make sure you check that out. We'll have the links in below. If you want to build your best physique this year, make sure you don't miss out on your opportunity to hire a J3 U Coach because your options are to either A, keep doing what you're doing and spinning your wheels and not making the process that progress that you want to make, pulling stuff from social media and YouTube to try to piece together and piecemeal a plan that's not actually built out specific for what you need or you can hire a coach at J3 U Coaching so that you can get a customized coaching process to fast track your progress, understand that you're working with coaches that have been through the entire J3 University coursework and have oversight from both myself and John Weakley on your athlete process so that you can expedite your ability to develop your physique and take that information and actually apply it to people that you're working with if you are running a coaching business.