 Au Auksisks Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis Auksis to what we might be suggesting. But we're going to dive into the ones that we really think are the baselines that are probably the essential ones that are going to make the backbone of everything you're going to be doing as you escalate up to the highest level. Things don't get overly exciting, but it's what we should be still just nailing and nailing over and over so eventually people do get it and stop using all these exotic, fun, not fun research products. So anyway, Luke, how's it going today? Yeah, really good, man. I'm excited for just like everything we've got going on in the conversation for today, I think is, I don't want to call it an oversimplification, but maybe a better understanding of like the big impact pillars or movers that move physiques up to the highest level, that we don't have to complicate the PED side in order, overcomplicate the PED side with these nine-letter peptide type stuff alongside the basics and that if we just understand the primary pathways in which we're trying to influence with this side of athlete development, then we can really focus and hone in on the other aspects that make good physique athletes. So I think this will be a good, hopefully, eye-opening episode of what's actually needed to progress a physique with this side of the equation and kind of some of the whys behind it as well. Did you ever get into like a stint of going down the rabbit hole of something like overcomplicated that you just shouldn't have gone there and realized like retrospectively that it just was kind of fruitless? Yeah, I think it was probably before, it was my early days of bodybuilding, like just polypharmacy without understanding of why the polypharmacy was there, right? Like usage of multiple different compounds and multiple different orals at the same time that looking back were so very similarly mechanistic-wise that it was like almost pointless to take these in these different settings or classifying compounds, right, as like all-season drugs or whatever it might be. But the overcomplication side of the perspective more so came like as I got more knowledge within this realm looking for something that everybody else wasn't doing. And I think that's kind of where like when you start going down these research rabbit holes and reading papers and especially while I was in grad school, like you're around research papers all the time in grad school, especially with where I was at at grad school. So like your inclination to read that type of stuff is even higher. And so I was just kind of going down these rabbit holes of all these different potential peptides and compounds of like never really fully plugging them in, but just like looking for that thing. And in reality, that thing was consistency, progression of the basics, and honestly learning how to train. Even after training for seven, eight, nine years, like that ability to provide a stimulus becomes so high. But yeah, definitely searched for the overcomplication, but I don't think I ever let myself go down that path too far. Yeah, I was there. Like when you're younger, it's still foreign to you, and so there's interest there. And you're already training. You can already do that. But there's like the unknown of what do these things do? So you try to like find every single thing out about them and that because they are like stouted to be like these amazing things that could be occurring. Like when I was looking around at that time, it was all pro-hormone based, right? So you could go in a supplement store and buy these things, which they had just nice names for them. Like they were designer steroids or pro-hormones, but at the time these were actual oral steroids that just weren't on the specific like banned list that they have laid out. So you had these like compounds that like never came to market that were being brought out. Like a common one now is Superdrol. Back then it was coming over all kinds of different products or there was Halidrol, Epistain. Then there was all kinds of derivatives from that. There was some type of like transdermal, Trinbolone, metabolite. I remember that was out too. And so you were like trying to sort through all these, which who knows? It was so hard to decipher back then. But I would try to learn everything about them because they were so interesting. And then like you could get in easily. I knew guys that would buy a supplement. You see like three different oral steroids in it. It's like stacking orals and that was the base. That was the starting point, which, oh my gosh, if you could have seen labs back then, right? And it's just kind of like out of sight, out of mind. But I think this is kind of where I would get into like the first must have. And I want to refer back to this conversation when we get to one of the other things because I went down another rabbit hole. And it's still pertinent, I think, to today. But our first one to really hit the must have, and I'm sure everyone out there is like, duh, I know, guys, this is what it's going to be, is testosterone. This just serves as the base of all cycle design. Yeah, I think it's understanding, too, like testosterone relative to the need of the athlete. Like I hate labels. And sometimes like you'll get, we get this in our sales calls with Zach. Sometimes Zach will have like, you guys are the low test guys or you guys are the whatever high DHT derivative guys. It's like, no, it's like compound stat design relative to the needs of the athlete and relative to what they can tolerate. And so I think the reason, like the no duds test is the base, but the reason that you start there is because it's based off what the athlete can tolerate in order to maximize the benefit from the test side of the equation. Especially when you start getting into one of the things that we'll bring up later is potentially the synergistic effects of maximizing what you can pull from that portion of stack design relative to what that athlete can tolerate. I think is an aspect of getting the most out of the physique development for some of these athletes. I think that's, I don't want to say under discussed, but maybe just like kind of missed in translation portion of what stack design should be. That was my first injectable cycle was testosterone. And that's what it has always been promoted to be and not to make an argument of like, well, that's what's always been done and that's what's right. But there's some good rationale behind it with using testosterone as your base as when we see other compounds and even looking at the literature side, other compounds put in place. We could look at nandrolone, which without having estradiol come along, you don't see a lot of the benefits that testosterone brings as far as being like neuroprotective for the brain or improving lipid profile. Profile at TRT doses is what I'm speaking to around that. But the estradiol part of the equation, if you remove that, even you testosterone with aromatase inhibitor and suppressing estradiol very, very low, you see then like even testosterone becomes neurotoxic. You see alterations in your lipid profile. And same thing goes pretty much for like systemic organ stress. You see poor aspects around inflammation, even in like skin issues that come about or even acne, things like this. So the estradiol part of that, what you get with testosterone is what bring all the other health aspects that we really do want. And now we've mentioned this before, like estradiol in and of itself has its own roles in the anabolism process through insulin sensitivity, improving endothelial elasticity and blood flow. So and then even along the lines with improved GHGI, GF1 conversion, which you do. I know there's arguments around estradiol going really, really high, and that doesn't aid GH or IGF-1. And I think this is when we're looking at, you know, females and we're not looking at the actual data around testosterone aromatizing into estradiol, because that aspect is where we've seen that it does impact GH to IGF-1. And then also we're kind of filtering through research of if a female is taking a synthetic estrogen, that actually also seems to inhibit this GH, IGF-1 axis as well. So that's a lot of murkiness there that I just spoke to. But a big picture here is that you want some estradiol present with testosterone to aromatize to really maximize that GH, IGF-1 axis. So estradiol, estradiol is very important. We have health benefits. We have anabolic benefits. This is why it serves just the base of cycle design. But we got into a podcast a while back, like high test versus low test cycles. And where that goes is not you're not really needing to choose one or the other. It's more of like what your individual responses will kind of like dictate that. And also, what is high versus low? Because you tell someone you're on a gram of testosterone. They're like, oh, that's it. And then someone else is like, whoa, you're on a gram of testosterone. And so like what is high or versus low? But essentially, what does testosterone bring after you meet your needs for estradiol? It's just more of a testosterone molecule that's binding on the antigen receptor. And so if you can't tolerate more estradiol, why just take more testosterone and use an AI? Like that is absolutely one route to go. And when I was younger, that's what I did because that's all I knew to do. And there's aspects around that that could be beneficial because, hey, testosterone is cheap. If anything, it's underdose. It's not usually like going to be a different type of compound. So for a young guy, this is very accessible. And to use an aromatase inhibitor, it very well could be done. And you could take testosterone to a higher amount than what you could tolerate without that AI being present. It is one option. The issue that I just go back to is that if you over suppress estradiol and you're also the young guy not checking your labs, you might not be getting the fullest out of your health protection aspect or even out of your anabolism benefit around it. So this is just something that you just have to manage. But whether you go high or low, again, it's just going to be based off like that individual need. Yeah, and I think your point of like the lab work side of the equation, I think just it's rare to find the person who's going down the route of cheapest PD by doing test AI setups is also following up on the lab side of the equation to make sure they're not suppressing estradiol. And I think that's kind of where when you kind of point to the second staple of or three or the second must use for like maximizing an offseason, you have to start to go the direction of primo slash masteron in that category of you're improving your ability to handle a net total milligram to meet your needs in order to progress. I think it's just unavoidable. And I think it's something that you can start to work in fairly early if you have access. But I think that's kind of where at some point that person is going to have to pivot. And we talked about this in a previous episode, like the budget side of bodybuilding is not discussed. But if we start to talk about the budget side of bodybuilding and as you progress, this is one of the places where the budget has to start to increase as you get further and further into your career. Yeah, definitely. I was very much unaware of what it was going to take when I was first starting using gear because like the prophylactic supplement side in the lab work side was just not there. And when I first started working with a coach, I sent like the supplement stack I needed to be on for health. Don't get me wrong. It was kind of over the top at the point. And it's also like use discount code this. It's like, all right, thinking back. It's like, all right, probably didn't need all that. But either way, it was I was like, whoa, how do I afford all this? Because I'm just trying to afford gear right now. And then also lab work added on top of it because you're right. Like a lot of it just isn't isn't factor in. And really, a lot of other stuff is more expensive than the gear itself for like earlier on usage and how much you actually really need to be using. So I don't I don't think it's just like terribly expensive. I know when you bring up Prima Bolan, I can't afford Prima Bolan. It's like it's not that much more than some of the other compounds or the type of dosages that you might be running. But I think Prima Bolan would be like my my ultimate second compound pick. Just being that it's probably, you know, we're looking for a compound with the greatest divorce from the androdistic sides. We want just like basically pure anabolism. We don't need any more estradiol. Definitely don't need at this point any any more DHT and Prima Bolan is not. It is a DHT derivative. It is not DHT. And pretty much with this case like around like, oh, you need testosterone for DHT. When you're on TRT, this is more of a consideration. But what does DHT really work on is the engine receptor. So whether it's testosterone binding, Prima Bolan binding or DHT binding, you pretty much fulfill the need of total andronicity of a cycle. What's your dosages go high enough? So there's really not a case of something where we want to make sure we get more DHT conversion. So, again, this goes back. Like you have your testosterone dose. You meet that estradiol need. Then you bring in this secondary compound. And Prima Bolan fits well because we've seen in females that utilized a very high dosages with fairly minimal side effect profile around. And so you can get a pretty clean anabolism without all this off-site target action occurring. And Prima Bolan still has – you can still access farm-grade Prima. Think like some Turkish, you know, Bayer amps. But, again, the rarity of those, most people are going to get those. Like, I can't even get these things, right? So you're usually looking for, like, UG, Prima, or Masteron could be a case. Both these being suited because they've been, at some point in history, utilized, FDA-approved for human safety. You know, people might bring up Boldenone as it's, like, kind of the cheaper option potentially and a higher MIG per mil. However, there's a lot of problems around Boldenone. A lot of people don't tolerate it really well. So, yeah, it's a choice. But pro and con, I still think it leans into using Prima Bolan as a primary constituent of, like, a second choice in cycle design. Yeah, and just before we get too much further in this conversation, I think we could still – just for clarity's sake in conversation, I still would classify these three must-use as specific to male and female. I know we have a tendency to kind of pivot into male pretty quickly, right? But on the female side of the equation, like, optimizing the baseline hormone environment with some sort of HRT replacement therapy, if it's there needed, that's going to be a must-use. You're going into superphysiological dosing with preferably a Primo if you have access to it, but some sort of DHT derivative often. And then when we get into the third one, that'll be alongside a must-use in that scenario as well. So don't think this podcast, because we tend to go down to, like, dosing or the discussions of escalations on the male side, like, it's certainly applicable on the female side as well, like, using that bioidentical hormone in the testosterone for replacement therapy, health considerations, recovery capacity, just subjective daily life perspectives, and then matching your needs with the DHT derivative as needed as you go into superphysiological exposure. Like, it's a similar conversation for a lot of similar reasons. And you brought up some points already about why Primo could be potentially beneficial on the female side. So I think that's something I wanted to make clear just within this conversation. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the off-season? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from off-season to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and live Q&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. You know, Primo, it's an optional female side. I think early use, I go back and forth kind of between this because there's just pros and cons, really, with still like auxandrolode on the female side being one that I might be a little more preferential as a secondary compound if they needed TRT, just because of fast deployment and fast removal. Because I've seen some issues around preamble and where, you know, it's an anti-dester, so it kind of lingers for a bit. So if you have like a six-week cycle that you're going to be on, this is really looking more like 10 weeks because of ester clearance. And then if you have someone that, you know, starts to run into issues, you want to pull it out, well, you're still going to have this kind of lingering compound present with auxandrolone. It's kind of in and out, so at least you can see some initial like androgen exposure and what that actually response is. And with dosages and things being different for females, does it present the same risk of like males running the oral cycle, like how I was kind of introduced initially on with my designer steroids. So anyway, yeah, that just one little like caveat around the secondary compound choice for females. But, you know, and the interesting thing, I think Master Run's gotten so popular, it seems like cost has gone up. Like the last Master Run that I got, it was nearly the same cost as the Premo Ball. So cost you can almost not really argue with. There's some minor differences around the two. So which one you choose will be a forever battle, but you won't be able to find the science and literature behind it. It just comes down to results. And let's say we've had a lot of clients, a lot, using all types of different setups. And I would still put money on that. They're not a vast difference between these compounds. So 100 percent. Twenty, 21 pro cards last year, I believe. So I think we're good. But finally, GH, TIDF1 axis, growth. Oh, oh. Yeah, so let it out of the bag. But anyway, another, the earlier conversation of like the rabbit hole that I went down, this was 2015. So I was going into like my first USAs. And this is when peptides got popular. So everyone thinks peptides, this is the hot thing right now. Like, man, these were hot like 10 years ago. Or just started to come out. So it was all about GHRP was coming out, GHRP. Then you had ipomorelin. And you're using like, you know, MOD. What was it? I forget some of the names of these things. But anyway. Finding different ways to combine them together to where you're like producing more growth hormone. You're not also you're extending the half-life of these with other compounds. But you're having to time them like with before meals. So like insulin's not present. And it ended up being like I would need to time these things like three times a day. And like, but man, I'm like eating so much. How do I even do this in a fasted state? And by the time I was like done adding up the cost of what I need for all these peptides, I could have just been taking growth hormone. And they're just in, you know, we later kind of find out that these are not even nearly as effective as actual growth hormone. But why they are promoted so much is because you can access them a lot easier. Yeah. Relatively now, like you go to like all these research sites, just buy them. And so what happens with that? Well, everyone has a site. Everyone has a code. So everyone wants to make money off of you. So, yeah, they're going to be promoted and pumped up to be the greatest thing ever because people are going to make money off of you. That's what you need to think about when you're getting pushed in whatever it is. You know, even all these other new molecules and peptides that are coming out that sound like the next greatest thing. We talk to people that actually utilize them. It's still the basic stuff that works even better. Like I've talked to guys using SLU PP332 and MOTC and these things, and they're all very interesting. And they absolutely do something. But there are no game changers by far. It's still like you want a fat loss drug? Yeah, clenobutyrol. That's still like the go-to. You want something for growth hormone? Growth hormone. It's not all these far out weird peptides, secretagogues. So long story short, what did I resort to? Growth hormone. What are all the top pros still doing? Growth hormone. So what is the number one like or we're just talking about number three. We should say number one peptide, but number three choice essential when you're moving up the ranks would be growth hormone. Man, I really shot that pivot in the foot, didn't I? Now we can rate it like this is the S-tier compound. I know that's real popular right now, like tiering out all your peptides in the box. But yeah, growth hormone, it is up there for the balance between mitigating fat gain in the offseason, being able to partition more towards muscle. I think that's kind of the indirect growth hormone way. Growth hormone really aids muscle building. But of course, through IGF-1, you can still have some aspects around building too. But then also for the prep side equation, same thing goes. Just improved ability to mobilize fatty acids and with that partitioning effect, ability to retain tissue as well. Now people say, oh, you stay fuller on prep. Well, that is just some of the water retention that's around growth hormone, which that apps like, hey, we're getting on stage. For a look. So if it's fullness from water, fullness from contractile tissue, doesn't really matter. You're just looking for the aesthetics and growth hormone can definitely bring that aesthetic look in that regard. But I really think that where this aspect really shines is through its ability to mobilize fatty acids. Yeah, and I think it's a staple as well in regards to like, it's not so much there anymore. But there used to be this veil of like, I've got to get to a certain level before growth hormone comes in. And I think that's just like, couldn't be further from the truth. Like you remember, like you're looking at the results from nationals. And I still remember the days like NPC magazine where you get the magazine. It's like the picture of the winners on the front and you're looking through all the pictures. It's like, man, when I get to that level, I'm going to start using growth hormone as my way to air quote level up. Right. And it's such a, in my opinion, a staple on the non-androgenic side that I think should come in extremely early in someone's process in regards to pulling the most out of the least. In your ability to manage phases as best as possible from the body composition side of this perspective, but also from maximizing your ability to accrue tissue. And I think this is where when you get people on onboarding that are a little bit hesitant on that side of the equation, it's just like taking them through the education process. But man, I, I, I S tier compound, right? Like it's screen from the rooftops, like have this in play if you have access and affordability on it. Like if you can devote the, I would, I would rather someone take less health supplementation and take this and be able to maximize their progress on that side of the equation and manage the health through the way they manage their, their day-to-day metrics in regards to sleep and all that kind of a thing. Cause that's going to be more impactful anyways. Yeah. Yeah. You're right. Gosh. You could put out like a laundry list of supplements that are like negligible impact, but you nail the other aspects and you'll see more markers move. Right. So definitely think like that, that, that could be some sacrifice there. I think more of the issue is like when you finally find the right sourcing, cause people just say like, Oh, it's really expensive. It's actually not anymore. It's very cheap and you very well would be paying the same as like for like one of these peptides that you get. It's just coming across the right access to that, which maybe that is where you invest in some type of quality coaching where you might make friends and that's all I'll say about it. You know, when you make friends is when you make, make, uh, your networking expand and you create resources for yourself. Yeah. But for sure. You know, that, uh, that that's really where it is. Cause I remember like back when I was first exposed around growth hormone, the cost was tremendous for someone coming up. Like I got my first like contract. It's like, Oh wow. Now I can afford growth hormone. It's pretty much, it's like that covers that. Um, but now it's not the case at all. It's re it's kind of ridiculous how, how much I was paying relatively to, to now. But yeah, back to the point here and what you bring up too is like, uh, with growth hormone, you're going to be able to leverage more, get more out of the anabolic steroids that you're utilizing too. So to Luke's point, you can have some risk reduction just because of that. Now in reality, are you lowering your steroid use because you added in growth hormone? No, no one does that. So it's likely just added in on top. Right. And that's, that's one of your progressive points. But to that is that you might've had that in and made some really good progress and not have had to push up the steroid amount as high as quick. So, you know, point points there. But a lot of times you're kind of doing, you're doing both at the same time. But, uh, if you look through like current bodybuilding cycles all the way back years, these are the main components of it. It's like testosterone. There's a secondary compound in place, prima bolin, and then growth hormone. Those, those three things will get you extremely far. Uh, you can almost argue you wouldn't need anything else. I've had people that they don't, they don't need to do preps with even trimbalone or oral steroids, um, or even fat loss drugs for that matter. Like this, these are the three that would really take you, uh, nearly all the way. Now, don't be wrong. Doesn't mean you don't need to utilize or can utilize other things. But if I had to pick like three, you're only given three. These absolutely would be my top three picks. Yep. 100%. I don't, I don't know that I have much to add other than just like the female side potentially. Yeah. Yeah. I guess the female side, like it, it coming in extremely early on as a non-androgenic and something that can help with especially the management of body composition would be the primary reason I'm thinking about using it with female. Um, I do think people tend to be a bit hesitant with the usage on the female side, like starting extremely low where like, you'll see like people, people on onboarding will come in with like one and a half I use and play, which I get like, you know, you know, maybe not full knowledge on around it, but man, it just, it does seem to be a bit of a, what's the word on golden ticket on the, on the body composition management side on the female side that man, a lot of the girls that I work with are three, four, five I use, um, or just like giving anecdotal coaching stuff rather than, than anything else. Just to put some like perspective there, like, uh, obviously these are females that call it 130 to 160 pounds. Would you say on average, like of what, like a weight dose kind of perspective there? Yeah. Yeah. Probably 125 is the bottom end range and the high end range of that's 165, 170. Yeah. I think that's pretty, pretty good range. And I, I just, it's never a doubt that as I go higher in that usage alongside, obviously these girls are most of them are going to be running compounds alongside our ability to be able to manage these phases, just become extremely improved, especially on the all season side, because I think that's where a lot of girls get themselves in trouble and why I think a lot of the female preps are so brutal. Now that being said, like there's aspects on the prep side that need to be managed and fixed along through that process that improve your ability to prep. But man, I just, if you, if you can get females to a place that is extremely productive, but not too far gone, um, on the body fat percentage side of the equation, it makes flipping into the following prep just so much easier. And I just, it should be a staple in that all season setting for females, in my opinion. Hmm. It's interesting because when I look through like the literature on growth hormone, like in it, in it, again, this, you're looking at very specific type females that are in this. Usually they're older. Um, also not, not training or not on tier T, not using any bulk steroids, et cetera, et cetera. Uh, the growth hormone effect is not to IGF one is not really as profound and females tend to hold more water off of it. Uh, so I, I don't know where the dosing idea came because basically it looks like females would require a higher dose to get the kind of the same effect out of, um, out of, from a male. However, now that's in those specific type of study that are, that are occurring, but I don't see that translate to growth hormone being less effective in females that are in kind of our space. But I bring up a point around body weight because when you look at what like Luke's talking about, 130 pound female, like four years of growth hormone, it's like 0.03 I use per pound of body weight. If you put a 250 pound male on that, that's looking like eight I use. So you're looking at a dosage based around body weight of a similar effect that could be occurring. I'm all okay. I shouldn't say I'm going to be really vague here. I don't, I was like, just said, yeah, this person, uh, I, there was a female out in the world somewhere that I saw their labs, their serum IGF one. And again, the whole thing on serum IGF one is not for this. It's like, it could be that could be kind of meaningless, but whatever. It's a reference marker here. Her serum IGF one was in the four hundreds, uh, nanogram per mil, which is like super physiological. Um, you know, anything over 300 absolutely is. So it's like, whoa, uh, she was on, you know, like around two I use a growth hormone. Like this is like a tremendous response. It's like what in the world? And so what, what she was doing is, uh, mixing her growth hormone and calculating it based off the tick marks on the insulin syringe when it was a very high potency mix. So she's actually doing three and a half. I use a growth hormone. I was like, ah, that makes a lot more sense. But for a male three and a half, I use them. I just put them around the 300 nanogram per mil mark. Or for this female, uh, absolutely took her super physiological into the four hundreds. So, you know, just to give some like, you know, other antidote around what your coaching experience is obscene is that those female dosages relative, you know, pound for pound could be still very effective, uh, on the female side. Just, I don't know where, like you start at one IU with the female really recane from. You don't really go beyond that. It's like being, being very conservative with growth hormone. Um, but everyone's very liberal with anabolics. So I think the thing here though, is like slowly titrating up growth hormone. And that's where I've had even guys jump into six. I use a growth hormone. They're like, how do you even sleep, man? My hands like are, are like waking me up at night. My hands are numb. It's like, yeah, you see, start, start low and titrate up. But, um, yeah, to your point, like females and males, it's still a solid go to earlier on in the process. Yeah. I think just last piece of anecdote, I think the synergy of it with anabolics is understated in females as well. I think that's where you get that differential in like the research design versus what we see in our space is that potential synergy just is a little bit more robust probably than what can be gathered in the research. Well, interestingly enough, if you think about it, you're starting to look at with a female on exogenous hormone, all John's steroid and estradiol within reason. Like usually we are females are still less than a hundred picagramp per mil on estradiol, which that looks very, very similar to a male hormone profile to a degree. Not, not nearly as high as engine. Of course, of course. Yeah. But that's where we differentiate between what we see in the research world where you have females that are, a lot of them are, uh, nil on testosterone and could be very high in estradiol. And you don't see a lot of effect out of that because you need some energy in there. But with our, with our competitors, you're starting to see that hormone profile shift to where start getting even more out of your growth hormone. That's kind of where that synergy is for the two, both of them growth hormone will do more for your anabolic side. Anabolics do more for your growth hormone side. Yep. And I know, I know we kind of ended with some anecdote, but I think that's where we like cross this conversation is like, how does this look like in the applied setting? And if you guys are like struggling with this or struggling to find like, that's why we've trained all these J3 coaches. We've got a whole team that's been through the entire coursework and mentored under us for a long time. Now, some have been mentoring under me for three ish, three and a half years. So, um, a lot of resources there for you guys that we've built as well. Yes. This is a, where you see science-based coaching and education. There's just a huge discrepancy out there around like evidence-based education and coaching where you just kind of miss the mark of like people that just don't haven't had the experiences of in the trenches. And they're just like, you know, research paper, you know, just holding it up, waving it and like, look at this study. It's like built my whole program off this study and coaching approach. It's like, if that's all you're going to do, you're going to completely miss the mark and not collect the anecdotal experience side. That is heavily evidence-based in creating the scientific method of how we create these type of models of coaching and teaching. And that's where I feel like we differentiate of being science-based practitioners. Like we're using a scientific method in coaching to come with this antidote that is been methodically kind of pulled apart and comparing that to also the evidence side of the equation and just continuing refining the process. And I think that's where we really bridge those gaps really well. So anyway, everyone, thank you for tuning in. We'll talk to you next time. Goodbye.