 l-arimasin,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt,ṛt, exercises that, you know, they're not all created equal. And actually some might be actually hindering your progress or holding you back, but we could have some emotional ties to some just because they're fun and having fun is great. But if you try to get more advanced, you might have to deviate away from more so of what you want and get, make sure you're doing what you need. So we have four that we picked out that we're going to dive into of why these might not be the best choices. We'll, we'll, we'll, we'll harshen. We won't harshen our tone too much, right? We'll say don't completely avoid them, but these might be ones that we could find some alternatives where you can get more out of them. And so let's just kick it off. Luke, we'll go right off the first of the list. What do you have for us? We don't, we don't have to be the PC version of ourselves. We can tell people that the behind the neck press is a no-go. It's, it's a, it should not be in a program design. There's no place for it in bodybuilding application. And it's, it's not going to be something that's going to provide a robust stimulus while taking into consideration the potential for injury. Um, when we look at like delt development in the front delt, specifically in pressing patterns, there are so many other patterns that fit that goal, um, and can do it in a place that's much safer for the shoulder joint. And to be honest, half of you watching this podcast can't even get into the behind the neck position without load pushing you there. So it's not already, not already, not already is it like unsafe from a position of like where it's loading you. But the only way you're getting in that position is by load taking you there, which is an extremely unstable position for you to resist force in and is not going to be robust as far as the stimulus goes and the amount of mechanical tension you can generate. And it's going to greatly increase your potential for injury. Um, and so I'm going to not be PC here and say, if you're a bodybuilder, this is a no-go for any program design. Yeah. I would just say like, sit, sit there or even overhead and try to move through that pattern without a load in hand. Like, can you do it? Look at the side profile without the barbell just hitting you in the head. And most of us can't do that. We had just terrible external rotation of the shoulder to where really it's like, that's me right there. Like, this is like the barbell, like having to go through my head to get there, but also maxing out like the end range of my, my shoulder to get in that position. I would have to go into cervical flexion and really tuck my chin down, which isn't the end of the world. I would say over time and how we constantly stay all day long with like looking at our phones, working at the computer, and then we're getting a training and we're then going back into cervical flexion that this could lead into neck issues over time. And we're seeing lots of people lose their cervical natural curvature, their fine spine. I actually have lost mine. Like my cervical spine just looks straight now, which then leads to more disc loading and more neck problems over time. So there's that component to get into it. Then when you go into cervical flexion, everything else kind of follows, right? So you have to go into the thoracic flexion and then usually your, your scapules would have to kind of rotate up, which just leads to being a very poorly braced pattern. So with that, all that being said, you're kind of in a very compromised position to really output and the bottom of this shoulder press when the bottom should be your, your greatest for your stimulus, but also limiting range of motion, which you want to lengthen out the delta as much as you can, which you could, when you start, um, AD ducting the shoulder a bit more horizontally, bring it a little bit more in front of the body. Then another thing to this, that is that if you're doing a lot of pressing work in general, you're probably getting plenty of front delt stimulus to where you don't need to have some now overhead press. That's very preferential to giving just direct front delt work in, um, that's not everybody. If you have some massive chest and you need more front delts, then sure. Like an overhead press would be the way to go, but let's do it an overhead press. We don't need to do a behind the neck press that has so many limitations behind it. Let's get something that's just a little bit more out in front of the body, usually 75 degrees down to like 45 degrees is perfectly fine to bias a bit more like upper pec and front delt without having to go like straight, even upright or even behind the neck. Now, if for some reason you're in a category that requires some type of like overhead press, by all means, you need to do an overhead press. I'm thinking of like, I don't know if you're like in a strong man, right? Like they have to press overhead. Like you have to do that, but I don't see them doing behind the neck press still. So that's not a requirement of their lifts. So, uh, you know, you could overhead press, but do something that gives you a bit more freedom of motion, like a dumbbell if you need to, or there's even machines that, uh, can allow you to get in better hand arm positions to get that range of motion and not go directly overhead, uh, directly behind head. So where you have those issues like binding the shoulder up as well. So, um, and you know, with that being said, we see like most of the, the shoulder can be the most controlled usually when the scapula is, um, not fully retracted or protracted kind of in the middle. And to get in that position, you might have to really retract the scapula's back, which is also shortening all those rotator cuff muscles a lot where they're not going to be able to output as much force for the stabilization of the joint that you need in that type of position. So there's just a, there's just kind of a long list here of why not to do it. And I can't think of a lot of reasons why you would want to do it. Um, yeah. Other than to look cool on Instagram or to, yeah, it doesn't even look cool. I don't know. Kevin LeVron did like four plates behind neck on Smith. Uh, that looked pretty cool, but if you're not Kevin LeVron and you're not doing four plates behind the neck, then you're not looking cool. So just cross yourself off that. Um, yeah, I think it's just such a lack of application to the needs here. I think even if you were wanting to train like overhead stability positions, there's, there's other ways to do it where it's not detrimental to your potential for training or bringing in a lot of risk injury. But speaking of shoulders, I think we can kind of pivot into movement at number two, number two, a front squat. I know we see bodybuilders do front squats. I there, it's a, it's a cool exercise. I had my stint of doing front squats, um, in the Smith machine though. But, but the whole time it was like getting strangled while I was squatting. Like if you're into like BDSM and you just want to train and get choked at the same time, you naughty girl. Uh, yeah, do a front squat. Cause that's what it's like. Just constant. Like, and you're probably like, well, John, you're doing it wrong. Like dude, get some, get some big delts and try to let it sit right. Like if you don't have the right structure to let a barbell rest next to your throat, like it's going to choke you out. So one point you need to breathe while you're doing your resistance training, especially when you're doing like eight to plus reps, 12 reps, you're not doing some type of Olympic lifting. That's just like a couple of reps and you're done. Right. Um, also moving down the list is your ability to actually get into this like, uh, 80 ducted, uh, highly externally rotated spot to actually have the appropriate, like clean type grip in your front squat. And all that could be like needing to, to be able to brace your core and stay in this position. So you can actually keep the barbell from rolling off your shoulders, which is drives you nuts the whole time doing a front squat. It's like trying to fight just to keep the barbell from rolling off. And you, you get done. You're like, damn, did my quads even get worked? I don't know, but I'm exhausted from trying to hold this barbell up at the bottom. So I just constantly want to roll, roll off. Then what we have to do, right? As bodybuilders, just do the old arm crossover. And it's more of this balancing act, right? Like here. And you may be holding on to straps, even if you can't get like all the way there, the classic, like out here. Yeah. Yeah. Hold on to the straps, right. Which, which that can work. But from that position, you're also losing the ability to really like engage the lat, embrace the core. So it's not as stable. So now you're, you're dropping into a less stable pattern to go. Luke, take it the rest of the way. Well, that's our first issue. Moving down. Uh, where's the key part? Um, let's like talk about why people like front squats. People are like vertical turf torso angle, so much quad. I'm in a great position to target quads. Well, if you can't brace it first off, what's not going to fail is going to be, or what's going to fail first. It's not going to be your legs. And this is like one of the biggest problems that I see with this application is that with bodybuilders, especially the more experience you get in that load getting really, really high. We have to take body parts to extremely close proximity to failure consistently in order to drive that adaptation. You're not going to get there with just managing the load when you get more progressed and advanced. Secondarily, Mr. Vertical Torso Angle. There are other ways to get a vertical torso angle that are much better to brace, much easier to breathe, and much more likely to take your legs to a closer proximity to failure. Let's list them. One, the hack squat is going to simulate a vertical torso angle that you can use and get a lot of dorsiflexion to get a lot of quad. Number two, we can use bars that transform like a transformer bar. I know, John, you've got one of those on the way. You can use a safety squat bar that's going to pivot that load forward. We can use heel elevation with one of these bars to get even more vertical torso angle. So it's just like all of these options that we have that are way easier to brace and way more likely to take lower body to a really close proximity to failure, where to me it's like it takes all the benefit of the front squat and is like, why are you doing it? Like, sure, maybe you get like the ability to resist load and like anti-flexion, but I mean, is that really applicable in the bodybuilding sense? I just don't see that. If I'm picking my exercise with the priority of anti-flexion, what am I even doing? It's not a front squat. It's like, this is why I front squat for anti-flexion. Like, don't you do it for your quads? No, man. I just don't want to get folded in half. It's like, well, if that's the case, I would say, why don't you go do a barbell row, a bent over barbell row? Like, there you go. Like that's even a better case of like resisting anti-flexion, developing your thoracic extensors, your traps, your lats, everything that would keep you in that position over the front squat when your priority is actually just trying to train your quads. So it would definitely be pivoting to this other movement pattern that would be able to not have those limitations like Luke mentioned. And I think we can jump to number three, which will be our, I think this one is going to upset some people because it's like, well, Ronnie did it. And actually the last two are, well, Ronnie did it. And that's all we need to say. So if you're Ronnie and there's only one, please keep doing what you're doing. But if you're not, just be open-minded to listen to us. Is the V bar bent over a landmine row, whatever you want to call it. I've seen it called multiple names. Like just it's a T bar row. You hook on the little V bar and do rows with it. Right. So there's limitations within a lot of this. For one, we mentioned this on our last episode around bracing and staying in bent over row patterns is that if your erectors are getting worked in another like RDL movement for the week or a back squat that you're doing, having another day that loads the erectors, it might just be too much to manage fatigue wise to where you're, you're limiting one of your other movements for the week. Now that might not be the case. Like if you're earlier on lifting, you could do a bent over pattern. You could probably RDL and squat the same week and you could probably recover still, but as you get more advanced, it's going to be problematic. So with the bent over row pattern, this could be an issue. When we actually look at the V bar itself is where it's really the problem is that hooking this little V bar on is that the hands come in from the, uh, the shoulder width, which to pull now it pulls in a straight line that you'll end up hitting your chest before your elbows actually get sufficiently back behind the torso. So just it caters to a really short range of motion. Then most of the time you're having to stand up quite a bit upright just to balance your weight and be able to adequately brace, which you stay in this kind of 45 degree bent over pattern, which just shortens the range of motion even more. And to brace it more, you kind of need to push your belly out, right? A brace, get that intra-abdominal pressure. So you're just kind of hitting your belly with this thing, which it just doesn't give you a lot of range of motion, which we know longer range of motion and training in that LinkedIn position of muscles gives you the most stimulus. But I know people say like, but I feel it in my lat. Like I get a lot of lat contraction and I don't doubt that you don't feel and have the perception of a lot of lat because the, the elbow stays very close to the torso. You do train the lat pretty short, but remember sensation isn't the same thing as tension in stimulus. It's like, because when the muscles long, sometimes you don't feel a lot of that. That's when we know we get our most, most stimulus out of it. So, you know, with that being said, that range of motion just is, it's kind of poor from a hypertrophy aspect and, uh, you would be better options to do than this, like a V bar setup. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and live Q and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I think, I think injuries is another one to consider with this just because it's not going to align very well from a force perspective. I see a ton of like elbow injuries from this, even with like doing the actual T bar, like the screaming, yeah, buddy, picking up the bar and then turning it into like half hinge, half row, um, some like erector tweaks and things along those lines. I think it's something to consider, um, where we look at like the longevity of you as an athlete, um, and pet peeve. And I, I love the prime company because they make some of the best like equipment out there for adjustable range of motions, but trying to T bar row with the prime handles and just like constant wrist flexion with the flaring elbow is like medial elbow pain one Oh one. And people will do like the V bar simulation with the prime handles in flexion while flaring elbows. And it's just like, it's just like a force vector brain smudger. I'm just like, this is just asking for wrist slash elbow slash shoulder problems. And most of the time it's elbow for most people, but, um, yeah, that's the, that's the last piece with this that I would say with the V bar or something that's simulating it, like the injury profile potential is, is, can be pretty high. Yeah. Like if you had a bar that was able to have some rotation of the handles, cause I've seen some like that, uh, you know, that, that might be a better alternative. Uh, from there, like I would really say like, I would rather save my erector work for days that go on my legs squat or my hip hinge as those movements really would challenge them with enough load to give them the stimulus they need. And I really saved that on my back and pull days. So I would move this to a chest supported option that way bracing is taken out of it because what is, what does the thing, what is my goal when I'm training this V bar row? It's like, well, a lot of people don't know. Just, I trained my back. It's like, well, what part of your back is it, is it lats? Is it rear delts? Is it traps? Is it all the above? And if it is all the above, like just something that would be balanced would be a chest supported T bar row that probably had some type of like 45 degree, um, you know, uh, supination to it. So you're not, not neutral, but just something in the middle of neutral and pronated. Um, that allows you a grip width to track and keep your wrists stacked underneath the elbow at the top of the movement. Uh, that would probably be the better alternative. You'll be able to get more range of motion. Um, also it's a very similar loading pattern as, as your, your landmine, you know, V bar row. So it loads higher on the bottom, the length in position, which is kind of ideal of what you want, but then able to use a chest brace and pull into it. So, uh, that would manage your fatigue. I think you get a lot more stimulus out of it for, for growth than, uh, using your V bar row. Yeah, I agree. And I think that's kind of all the points that I would say, find something else. We've got so many options of back equipment now in some of the more well-equipped gyms that you could, you could find so many replacements for this, even in less equipped gyms. Like I'd rather see someone doing a single arm dumbbell row than doing a V bar row. I mean, obviously not the best and we're not going to get into that today, but, um, I've been doing them just like if, if you've got very minimal equipment, I'm not going to go there. We're not, if, if you have very minimal equipment, like even that's better than the, than the, than the V bar. But I think that brings us to point number four. Yeah. Oh man. We're about to, but Ronnie did it. Uh, Ronnie did it. Yeah, buddy. Conventional deadlifts. That's where we're at the conventional deadlifts. So, um, now where do we start with this? It's a, it's a, it's a great exercise for the right application. Uh, like from a, a beginner standpoint, you know, conventional deadlift, it, it has a little bit of quad, a little bit of glute, a little bit of rector. It hits a little bit of the entire body. It's very big systemic stimulus, which is great. Um, because for a beginner, you don't need a lot of stimulus to grow these body parts. Um, however, when we look at conventional deadlift, even more so a sumo deadlift, it is getting to where we're not fully, uh, getting into like in ranges of joints that fully lengthen muscles to where we get the most hypertrophy out of them. Uh, so that you're kind of limited with that. And you're also getting to where you're trying to get to mechanical efficiency with these lifts, like the bar is close to possible. You're trying to get your like hips as close to the bar as possible to leverage it. So we get better mechanics to lift more weight. And in turn, when we're lifting a lot of weight, it means just a lot of fatigue to manage. And if you're not in a joint positions that really challenges muscles at full muscle links, it's not going to be a lot of stimulus as well. Um, cause as you get advanced up, that's what you'll find is like, what are you trying to develop out of when you're doing your deadlift? Like what is, what is your like goal muscle here that you're trying to lift? Like, and I think you would have a hard conversation with someone saying like, well, just my posterior chain, right? Like I want the whole thing big. It's like, well, what's actually limiting you when you're doing your deadlift? Like, is it your lower back? Is it your glutes? Like, what are you really trying to get? I think if you're able to, to state that, and I think most people would, because I think as you get advanced, you'd be seeing which body parts are probably lagging behind is that we could shift this to prioritize that body part a bit more. And by shifting the form around this, I think you can start managing the load and not as much fatigue. And then you'd be able to increase your volume for the other muscle groups that you're likely need to bring up as well, since you're starting to get more advanced. Yeah. And I think that's kind of where it's like, it's, uh, you're trying to like hammer and attack now by using like a sledgehammer. Like it's just, it's such a global stimulus that the deeper into bodybuilding you get, the less application it has. And I would rather see you spending time hinging with like RDL, SLDL so that that, you know, application of loading is much more specific to hamstrings or glutes, depending on which one, um, you pick or kind of biasing it towards glutes or hamstrings. But, um, that's kind of where I would, I would say like just the conventional deadlift, the longer you lift, it's just going to take away from your ability to train. Um, and we've all done this. Like if you've deadlifted after a hard session, like the set, the day after, like if you have a session, the day after, like you're still filling that into the following day. Um, and I've even seen it potentially with some of the stronger athletes, like two and three days later. Um, you're just like your lower back is wrecked and you're just trying to systemically recover from the, you know, six 50, 700 pound deadlift that you, um, that you pulled. And I think in the world of log booking, we can honestly even progress some RDLs into pseudo deadlifts. Like the more you get into like the block pull area where you're trying to get into hinging, but then it's like kind of a sumo, um, block pull deadlift slash RDL. It's, it kind of starts to borderline it, but yeah, I just, it doesn't have much application in that sense. And I think there is one application where a deadlift variation could come in, like just to give it some pros, like I'll trap bar deadlift with some girls that, um, on the wellness side that can't manage actual loading on their back. Um, just because I'm trying to get them into like a squat ish position. But I think that even furthers a point. It's like the deadlift I'm using is for squats simulated positions, um, for people who can't manage a load on their back. Right. So it's just, it's, uh, it just, it's, like I said, it's a sledgehammer when a lot of times you don't need the sledgehammer. Yeah. I think then people like, well, what about rack pulls? I think rack pulls goes right under conventional deadlifts because you're just more of a joint stack position. And now you're even getting away from like really training a glute, uh, which is if anything, the deadlift could potentially, we'd say it's, it's more of an erector and glute exercise, uh, that you're just getting into more of, of the final hip extension part of the movement to where you can just move more load and actually just stack the joints better. So it's like, man, there's so many better exercises if you want to train the glute or you want to train the erectors. So I, I agree with you, Luke, that moving into like an RDL, SLDL, like whatever you want to call it, just shifting the form to bias. That would be the way to go and keeping it with bodybuilding in mind. So being able to still control the eccentric, that's like the money part of the range. If you're a bodybuilder control the eccentric. And that's the problem with doing deadlifts is that usually it's a rip off the ground with the concentric and the eccentric lacks a lot of control. So you might say like, well, what if I, what if I do control it? It's like, okay, do you just have to make sure like that that's not eating up volume for the rest of your session? So I do believe like you should enjoy your training and you should have fun. And if you want to have fun deadlifting, by all means, go ahead. Just as long as not limiting what your true goal is and just have to truly be able to ask yourself that. And if it is, then it might need to be switching, which you absolutely could maybe, Hey, you, you work up to your set of your deadlift and you leave it there. And then you do some back down sets of RDLs, right? Or, or something that's your, that's your compromise. And then programming this into would be where in the session does it go? And we've talked about, you know, as you move from being beginner to advance, some of these compound lifts might need to start shifting towards later in the session. So you can manage the load. And I've done this with my RDL. It's, it's towards the end of the session. I do my hamstring work first. Then I can do, I actually look, I've moved to a barbell RDL because my dumbbells were just too big. They're too big to manage. So, but I moved to a barbell RDL after I've done hamstring curls and I control it. I don't, I don't tap it off the ground or anything. It's a pause with my muscles doing the pause and then moving back up controlled. So my load management is, is, uh, so much better than what I've done in the past. But this keeps where I can get more volume. I can train it to a close proximity to failure. And it's not taken away from all my other days. Or like Luke said, you wake up the next day, you're still like brain fogged and irritable and you can't focus cause you're still messed up from the day before. So, uh, yeah, just, yeah, I think it's, it's really important. I think the learning aspect of it is the last piece, like with people who struggle with it, it's like making sure that you have enough touch points with it to learn it, like the, whatever hinge you choose. Right. Cause I think that's a big piece of getting the most out of hinging and not having it be heavily fatiguing for lower stimulus is making sure that the ability to learn the pattern is done in a very controlled environment with high frequency of visiting it. Um, like even higher experienced people like Darren won't mind me sharing this. I'm doing this with Darren. He has a day where the RDL is a bit more load based earlier in the session progressive. He's got a day where there's a second RDL that's late in the session. That's extremely form based. And we get videos on both so that we can match the later session one to the earlier session one. So it's huge. And he just ran out of room on his dumbbell too. So he's switching to barbell and we're going through this whole process again. It's like Darren's an Olympian. Like he's doing this stuff. Like he probably should be too. Yeah. Like through our list, like again, exercise is to avoid it. It's just a lot of, it depends around them. But when we're speaking in terms of bodybuilding of what, what's your goal, we're looking at mechanics and trying to make generalizations around everyone's mechanics and hypertrophy goals that a lot of these lifts just don't check a lot of the boxes and there's better options that are available for people to move within. And that could be directed more for the goal of hypertrophy. So, you know, there's not necessarily bad exercises, just bad applications of these exercises. And so that's just what wants you to get more proficient on and kind of lose your emotional ties that with an exercise and Luke and I have both been there. There's just exercise that we like that are fun, but in the back of mind, we know it's not probably what we need to be doing. Um, but again, like I said, you know, enjoying your training is, is a part of that. And if you enjoy your training that much, you probably get more out of it than having something programmed in that you really don't enjoy. But once you experience better results, I don't know, that's, that's a lot more exciting than just go doing an emotionally based lift once a day. So I would, uh, I'm all about the results. So that's how I would program around, but tell us down below, what exercise do you think is just the no go that everybody builder should be avoiding? Let's debate it. All right, everybody. We'll talk to you next time. Thank you for tuning in.