 actually lower. It might cause some just head scratching. Gosh, what is even going on here? So we're going to dive into four reasons why that may be. And I do have some client lab work here pulled up of some serum levels of IGF-1. And I don't want to do a deep dive here, but just because you might have a lower serum IGF-1 level does not mean it might be depictive of your local IGF-1 levels. And what's really the most important thing here is that growth hormone is going to skeletal muscle and you're getting local conversion in the skeletal muscle of IGF-1. And that very well could be the most impactful thing that you have for muscle growth. And so there's some debate around that. Should we even concentrate on these systemic serum levels of IGF-1? But it is kind of the best thing that we do have to go off of as just for testing purposes. We can see kind of what our response is to GH conversion to IGF-1. This is primarily would be looking more so what the liver is able to convert to IGF-1. And with that, there's the debate around, well, your systemic levels of IGF-1 might have some negative impact to local IGF-1 and be kind of like this negative regulator of it. However, there's very well still could be a correlation of higher systemic IGF-1 and higher localized IGF-1. Just like we've seen people with growth hormone deficiency, they have low serum IGF-1 and also low autocrine paracrine localized IGF-1. So without a deep dive there, just know that that is a thing. So just because you don't have a really robust effect in your serum IGF-1 levels does not mean you're not getting a good localized effect. Now, to the labs that you see in front of you. These were clients. Actually, one of them is myself. But we have an IGF-1 level in a previous lab. Now, this was an off-season phase. This is standardized across. The previous, the client was at 355 nanogram per mil. So a little over the normal level into super physiological territory. Now, in the same amount of growth hormone, moving into a higher dosages of push phase. So he's kind of coming up in this was a mid-cycle lab. He's now at 161 nanogram per mil of IGF-1. See, what is going on here? Oh, no. Now, our other client, we had someone that was at 293 nanogram per mil using the same amount of growth hormone. However, this was two weeks out from a show. Now, moving into a post-show phase, growth hormone was kept the same. But we now see serum IGF-1 levels are 554 nanogram per mil. So through these, we're going to look at some lab markers that are going to influence these. And what you might say, like, how do you fix this? How do you get more out of your growth hormone? So you don't want to be having this limitation and not getting all the IGF-1 that you can get. So the first lab we're going to look at is estradiol. And by far, by far completely, this is the most impactful that I've seen, for one, literature-wise, but also just anecdotally through all my clients that I do work with. Now, the labs that you saw with the low serum IGF-1 following, this client, we had an escalation of his DHT derivative. And even though testosterone was up higher to, it was actually at 700 milligrams per week, it absolutely crashed his estradiol level alongside this amount of DHT derivative, coming from a 68 of estradiol down to a 5.8. And I would say it's very important, everyone, that you are testing an ultra-sensitive estradiol level, as there's many things that are going to be cross-reactive, especially as a steroid user, with estrogen and not being sensitive enough when our estradiol levels are very small in men. So just throwing off this range, it might not give you an accurate depiction of what your true estradiol level is. So make sure you do use an ultra-sensitive test. So this was the big standout in this lab work of this estradiol is low. You see, when using testosterone by itself, it can raise IGF-1 levels. However, when you use an aromatase inhibitor or using non-aromatizable drugs, say like nandrolone, you don't see that same type of growth hormone response. So that testosterone aromatization to estradiol is very important for your GH2 IGF-1 conversion and just growth hormone production in general. So how this all works is that there is, estrogens play a role in secretion of growth hormone from the pituitary gland. So it's important, even if you're not using growth hormone, just for your own natural production of growth hormone. It also can regulate peripheral growth hormone sensitivity. So sensitivity at skeletal muscle sites and also regulates expression of IGF-1 and the IGF-1 receptor, both in the liver and also localized in skeletal muscle. And so this is, what do we want to do with this? So this was, for one, just make sure you are monitoring your estradiol levels and aiming for a sweet spot is what there should really be. We can maximize this. And it's not just trying to get estradiol as high as humanly possible, as there could be negatives around that, not necessarily negatives to your IGF-1. Usually we see kind of a max out point, but there's the other negatives to estradiol, maybe gynecumastia or impacts in sleep or mood. So what I typically see around labs is somewhere from 30 to 100 picogram per mil. Some people go a little higher picogram per mil, but it is absolutely androgen dependent. So for this individual using 700 mg of test and let's say it's another gram of DHT derivative, they could stay on the higher end of this and maybe that feels really well for them and we're maximizing their CIS serum IGF-1 levels while someone else might just be on TRT therapy and they might be down at this 30 range. So the ratio is what's really important here. So to get to this, we just want to adjust the PD stack design. So for this client, we're going to raise up testosterone and lower that DHT derivative to then bring up estradiol and maximize GH and IGF-1. Now, another lab that we're going to look at is vitamin D. Now, this is the same lab work where we saw lower IGF-1. Now, again, like I mentioned, estradiol is the big player here. However, vitamin D plays a role in growth hormone and IGF-1 and we see that vitamin D can enhance IGF-1 production. There's been positive correlations with serum IGF-1 levels and serum 25 hydroxy D, which is what you're testing for when you test your serum vitamin D levels. And in these people that are deficient in vitamin D, when you increase their vitamin D intake, it also increases IGF-1. Now, the mechanisms around this are a little murky and have not been fully elucidated yet. So there's just limitations of what it's really doing. I mean, likely the target action is around the liver impacting gene transcription, IGF-1, and potentially even IGF-1 binding proteins, which is what IGF-1 binds to. And it carries it around, keeps the molecule stable to move around for tissues and extends the half-life. And so likely that's the mechanism, but again, it's not fully there. We just know that if you're low in vitamin D, usually that also causes low amount of IGF-1. And there are the vitamin D receptors present in skeletal muscle too. So this isn't very well, just might not be habatically, but very well could be within that local autocrine, parocrine production of GHC-IGF-1. Again, maybe this is a smaller player, but it is a lab that very well could be influencing this cascade. We just don't have a lot of data and research around it. But what I would make sure is that you're ensuring that you're getting a serum vitamin D level up to 50 to 70 nanogram per mil. Not going over that as too much can be a negative impactor for several things. And this might just be supplementing with 2,000 to 5,000 IUs of vitamin D per day, but adjust that based on your needs. So don't just assume that you should take that. Always go off your lab work when using something like this. Another lab that could be impactful is cortisol. Now this is the one for the IGF-1 level where we saw it was really low in contest prep and it came up into post-show. However, utilizing the same amount of growth hormone. And interestingly enough, estradiol level was the same as well. And so it was one of what else could this really be? And cortisol is secondarily from estradiol. It's probably another one that could be more impactful for your growth hormone to IGF-1. We see individuals that are in caloric restrictions have lower amounts of IGF-1 production, but cortisol can disrupt the hypothalamic pituitary signaling, suppressing growth hormone pulsatility. So if you are someone who is not even taking growth hormone, a natural individual or someone that's just using steroids and not using growth hormone, it absolutely could just affect your baseline GH IGF-1 secretion. However, just elevated cortisol could directly reduce hepatic IGF-1 production just by antagonizing potentially the GH receptors in the liver. It also could cause IGF-1 binding protein dysregulation, potentially lowering the half-life of this IGF-1 being present in the system locally and peripherally. So cortisol absolutely could play this role in contest prep. It's kind of a tough situation though, because it kind of is what it is. However, there are things that we might be able to do kind of mitigate it. One thing I would mention here is that cortisol is very much a very moving target for serum lab testing in the blood. You have a peak first thing in the morning upon waking, then it usually declines towards the evening, but it's a moving line. So if you got like really poor sleep one night, you might just have really high levels and it might just be a transient thing. While that might really depict your daily amount of cortisol that you're getting exposed to. So you just have to take that with that assessment in mind. However, you might see someone like in a very, very stressed state where we absolutely do see lower GHIGF-1 be far above the normal range, which kind of normal amount for cortisol would be 10 to 20 migram per deciliter. So in this client, you know, we're getting a little bit over that 20 mark. However, we know the situation environment that the client's in is in this contest prep. So we just want to do everything possible to try to manage stress, whether that's, you know, incorporating mindfulness or relaxation techniques, making sure sleep hygiene is absolutely nailed. If you want to do like massage work, even heat therapy, I usually don't recommend a lot of cold therapy for the purposes around hypertrophy and muscle tissue maintenance. Also managing training volume is huge. You don't want to just keep training more and doing more drop sets and supersets into contest prep. Make sure you're just moving towards straight sets, keeping your total session duration shorter, more frequent sessions would be more ideal. Then the big one here is manage your rate of fat loss. So the more aggressive of fat loss you're trying to run, potentially the more fatigue and more cortisol you're going to be inducing. Also consider your total stimulant load as if you're causing more like using more clenbuterol or ephedrine or you hand being in caffeine and, you know, X, Y, Z to just use all these stimulants. It might be impacting sleep, which very well might be further elevating cortisol and bring up fatigue. And then with supplementation around this, things that may help with just trying to attenuate some of the rises in cortisol could be ashwagandha or even phosphodyl serine has been shown to be very effective as well. Magnesium and even melatonin, which could aid sleep and in turn improve your fatigue management and lowering cortisol. In the fourth lab, we're going to look at, and again, this is one that's a little bit lower on the tier of what that could be impactful. However, it is one that can very well be is CRP, a C-reactive protein. Now I put hs-CRP, which is high sensitivity, because that's what you'd want to be testing when you are measuring this, as just the normal C-reactive protein is not a very sensitive measure to measure really less than five, which we even know going over one has some risk of just low-grade inflammation that could lead to several different types of disease states that could occur and is the kind of the underlying cause for metabolic disease, cardiovascular issues. So for C-reactive protein, in this test that we saw, this client had a 4.27, which previously he was on the lower end for CRP. This is the same client that had a drop in his IGF-1. Now CRP is a pretty moving target as well. If you had a hard training session that day or two prior, you could just have some transient elevation CRP, and that might be an acute rise versus this chronic low-grade inflammation that could be occurring all the time, which is really the one that is more problematic. So you kind of look through all the picture. Like at this client, I gave you three different labs with the CRP, vitamin D being low, then also low estradiol, which I would pick out of this one, hey, it's probably really the low estradiol that was really impactful. But nonetheless, this protein produced by the liver very well could show a state that might not be as conducive for your growth hormone getting converted over to IGF-1. And what we see with higher levels of CRP is that this might be indicated that there is more systemic action of these pro-inflammatory cytokines being produced like interleukin-6 or TNF-alpha, and all these could have impacts and signaling for growth hormone to IGF-1 expression. And they could lead to hepatic resistance of growth hormone receptor sites. So your receptors for growth hormone on skeletal muscle, it might make them a little bit more resistant to actual growth hormone binding and causing that pathway to occur to IGF-1 expression. You also have those same type of cytokines causing impedance to mTOR signaling, inhibiting muscle protein synthesis and recovery. So there is a degree of inflammation that does occur post-training, which is positive. You do want some of this to occur. However, if there's an overabundance of it, it actually causes muscle atrophy. So if you're in a state of just someone that's highly stressed and highly overtrained, you're seeing just muscle tissue dropping and they're not holding onto tissue. This is very much the state of like a contest prep that they might have this high low grade or higher inflammatory state occurring with some low low grade inflammation. And this is also a reason why we just want to make sure you're using enough PEDs and as more is not always better. And we see with you, we're driving so much oxidative stress inflammation that also might be leading to just decline in health and cardiometabolic parameters that don't lead to improved, improved outcomes in hypertrophy because you're impacting your insulin sensitivity, not able to partition nutrients towards, um, this metabolic tissues like you're wanting to and the decline in health, then you're going to have to fix that. So there's just the health aspect to really consider around this as well too. But what to really do about it? Well, for one, reduce inflammation. So make sure diet, we're absolutely hitting two to four grams of mega three per day and including, which is tough for bodybuilders, polyphenol rich foods. These are going to be ones that are like colorful fruits and veggies, like, uh, different types of berries, red bell pepper, uh, drink green tea would be high in polyphenols as well, or even a dark chocolate as another one too. Then optimize recovery. So focus on sleep, make sure you're utilizing, uh, deload weeks or, you know, a string of rest days in a row when you need to make sure you're managing stress. Cortisol is absolutely going to be tied into this one as, as well. And then for what we really ideally want to see on these lab work is a CRP that is less than one. So these are our four lab markers to look out for. Hopefully you can maximize your growth hormone and IGF-1 levels, get the most of your growth hormone. If you want more information like this, head over to J3 University and check us out.