 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. What should we do in the coaching world? We have trying to bridge the gaps of science and also outcomes. It's exactly why Luke and I wanted to bring on Andre Adams. And he's to help us to help us to help us to help us to help us to help us do this because he aligns so well with what we do because he aligns so well with what we do in J3U and bring you outcome-based and bridging those science gaps, education for top-level athletes. And Andre being an, you know, a well-accomplished IFBB men's physique Olympian, he's also runs his own coaching team called Team Adams Contest Prep. I saw on your, on your, on your, on your, IG. Yep. You also had the past 12 months, five pro cards, 20 NPC overalls, and is also an, NASM master trener and PPC specialist, and now working with NASM to now bring that into the NPC IFBB and establish some just improved coaching standards for all of us to operate within and also leading a lot of the seminars that are occurring across NPC and IFBB shows. So, Andre, welcome to the podcast. You're doing a whole lot for the industry, and we're just honored to have you to talk with us today. I appreciate it, John. And Luke, nice to kind of get some face time with you. I've seen you in the J3U courses. I feel like I know you already. It's been a pleasure, guys. And I tell people, learning is a continuum, and you hit the nail on the head. As far as the NASM and the PPC, for you guys that are new to that, that's Physique and Bodybuilding Coach course, we're really trying to look at just setting the standard in the league and really just taking initiative so that people are constantly learning and evolving. And I've taken the J3U courses as well, and those have been extremely beneficial for me. So I appreciate you guys for that. And I'm excited, man. We've got a lot of collaborative opportunities. And there's going to be things that everyone, right, we've got pockets of knowledge in the industry. And when you put all those heads together, those great minds, those great forward thinkers that actually care about driving results and helping athletes, you get some really wonderful experiences. So proud to be a part of the team, man, and excited for this podcast today. Oh, it's been incredible to see where the industry has gone over the past few years. Because I think back when I started, like there wasn't any information out on bodybuilding. It's like you could maybe find some in some forums, but who knows who was in the forum, you know, hidden behind some type of handle. And you maybe could get some a few coaches that were out there that were putting people on stage, or you go to your local guy, which maybe he just did a show in his past on advice. But now we're at this point where, wow, there is like some completely leveled up coaches that even great coaches that just don't have that like main spotlight on them. And all this, you know, people like ourselves, just improving that coaching standard to where it is kind of removing some of the coaches that are, you know, probably maybe producing real more risk for the athletes and really needs to be. And so, you know, what I see when that competitive bar raises up, you got more coaches bringing that level of standard kind of raises everyone up, you know, in the industry. I know a lot of people get, I think, intimidated when we see the evidence-based, you know, practitioners coming about and you feel maybe a little threatened and defensive around it. And everyone's kind of like, it's this anti-science thing, but really embrace it because it's a way that we will all have to have to level up to. So good stuff. That's exactly right. And, you know, you'll see some of the rhetoric around it, like, oh, it's, you know, it's a money grab and it's, it's this and it's that. It's like, just, just what you said, it's really about just elevating the entire industry, making it, you know, a safer environment for our athletes, reducing risk and liabilities for the league. I'm, I'm honestly, I couldn't be more proud of the league for standing behind it. And this is like the launching pad for what's to come. You know, with again, great thinkers like yourselves and, you know, we got George Farah coming up, right. We got our seminars where we're doing all these collaborative things with other industry experts. And, you know, John, you and I lightly touched on like HTMA mineral balancing, right. We call it biochemical therapy. There's, there's other things we're introducing and integrating into our contest preps that focus on overall health and wellness that maybe 10 or 15 years ago, nobody was thinking about. So it's, it's an exciting time to be in bodybuilding right now. Well, Andre, we, you know, for the viewers listening, we, Andre and I, we put on our stories, like a bunch of questions to, to prompt from our listeners, but one already could have stands out that I want you to hit since we're on this topic. And I've seen this conversation happen. I think there's a lot of misconception around NASM. And I think a lot of people have a perception that is just like, Hey, just this general fitness education that you get and that, or even what they're talking about, about the coaching credential for your physique course, that that is confused with the CPT course. And, um, I, you know, I like you just to address that piece. And then, you know, one of our question was like, how to, how does like other courses, like say J3U, um, or other education bodies, there's a lot out there, right. How does that kind of all fit together in what someone would want to kind of take the steps through their, their own journey? Yeah. So that's an excellent question. I actually love that question. You know, I saw on Tyler's announcement video, you guys probably saw me getting tagged in a lot of things and interacting. And it's a great question, right? Because historically to your point, John, not a lot of, you know, educators in the industry necessarily, uh, we're, we're known for bodybuilding, right? So if you take NASM, right, gold standard, kind of global leader in fitness education, but primarily known for, you know, we'll call it like lifestyle clients, right? Um, people think OPT model, right. Optimum performance trening and strength, endurance, stabilization, all that kind of stuff, which is good. Those are the foundation things that maybe we progress when we first start. But for bodybuilding specific, we started developing this course abouT4 years ago, right after COVID. And, you know, in a nutshell, 23 SME subject matter experts, um, myself as one of the contributors to that course. And our lead SME was actually my good friend, Dr. Guillermo Escalante, uh, Dr. G and I just did another, um, podcast and John, I think you, you might, you may have been, uh, you know, interacting with, with Dr. G at some point, I think during the development of the course, I can't remember. Um, but yeah, we, we definitely brought in 23, you know, very bright minds, um, high level summary there, right? We've got MDs, we've got PhDs, Olympians, prep coaches. Uh, so really good mix of qualified people to speak on very specific areas. You know, like my contribution, for example, was the trening programming modules, right. As an NASM master trener, that's kind of my, that's my thing. That's my jam, right? That's where we tend to excel at. Um, you know, we had someone else handle the AAS and PED section. We had someone else, you know, handle the nutrition and, um, you know, metabolic section. So, uh, we tried to get as specialized as, as we could, and then have it peer reviewed by, uh, again, other industry experts and, and subject matter experts. And, and like I said, this is really the launching pad. It's the framework to take anyone from a personal trener to give you like those foundational skills as a prep coach who works primarily with athletes, but it's certainly not a Bible or an end all be all. Um, this is a continuum. And I think one of thEQuestions was, well, I've already got J3U, or I've already got NASM PBC. Should I take the other one? Are they, you know, and my easy response to that was, look guys, I've, I've taken them both. They're two totally different things and they're fully complimentary. Um, you know, you guys are able to go down a little deeper than maybe I'm able to do because, you know, there's certain things I can and can't say within the realm of NASM. Um, however, the practical side, right. When we're talking to evidence-based science, um, latest and greatest scientific data and research, we got coaches experience and we got client outcomes, right? Those three pillars, you guys are extremely practical and can take, you know, real life scenarios and outcomes that are repeatable and speak to those. Whereas, you know, there's certain things, again, I can't go too deep into the, um, anabolics, um, on my end, right? We can talk about it from a risk standpoint. Here's what coaches need to be aware of. Um, things that you're going to encounter with your athletes. Here's the mechanisms of actions of, you know, anabolics, androgenic steroids, cutting agents, all that good stuff, diuretics. But I can't go as far as to say, Hey, you know, I prescribed this to an athlete and here's the outcome I would recommend as NASM trener. Right. So that's where I think they're fully complimentary and you guys have a different, uh, perspective and expertise that really, really compliments the, the PPC course. Yeah. I think you, you had made a great point that, you know, your, your education is going to be a journey and you'll have a spectrum of learning that needs to happen. And as you, you know, getting your coaching, you're going to find like areas where like, maybe you're not as proficient. That's not as much of your background. And you find some course that you dive into there. Like right now I'm doing like a deep dive in like GI for dietitians specifically. It's like, so, you know, your journey is just a continuum of always learning. And, uh, Luke and I both would take a number of courses. So it's not just, you're going to take one, you're set. It'll always be occurring. So, and, uh, even then we've had people, I'm sure you've had people with the NASM course too, that I've gone through it a few times because you'll pick up more as you keep going through. So it's a great, just like reference and resource, uh, to, to have. Um, yeah. So, uh, so Andre, with that being said, uh, you coach a lot of athletes yourself, of course you're an Olympian. We have some actual stuff that we can dive into now that is getting into the client result outcome-based coaching experience, which I wanted your insights on. People wanted to know specifically for me, these, thesEQuestions. Now, let me, let me ask you, do you have kind of a, uh, a niche of, of the type of, um, client you coach, do you do more female? Is it more men's physique? Cause that's kind of your background or a mix. It's a good mix, but right now we're definitely, definitely known for our females. So today, 2025, you know, we coach about 85% females, which is the polar opposite of where I started. You know, I actually started working with athletes around 2014, 2015. Um, I had been pro for a couple of years, got my NASM, you know, master trener cert, and I started just helping kind of, you know, a few friends and you know how that goes. Like a few friends, you produce some pretty good results. You're learning more as you go. And then it's a snowball effect. Um, but I would say back then it was primarily physique. So, you know, I started out in men's physique, got my pro card there, um, qualified for the Olympia there, did the Arnold and all that good stuff. 2016 through 2017 classic physique came out. So actually took a year and a half off to grow. Um, I went from just to give you some context there from about 200 pounds to 240 pounds for classic. And then, you know, obviously had to come back down and make weight and all that good stuff. And, um, I did pretty well in classic, not as dominant as I was as a pro in men's physique. Um, but you know, made top five a couple of times, runner up and didn't qualify for Olympia. Um, got a few injuries, bought my gym and launched a nutrition store and went full blown with, you know, with coaching. So, um, I came back last year just for fun, but it did trensform. I'd say abouT3 to four years ago, we started really, really dialing in on females. So started with like bikini. And then obviously when wellness came out, that was huge for us. It's like right now with fit model, right? It's an opportunity for coaches to really just, you know, go all out in this first year or two snatch up some pro cards and establish yourself as, um, you know, a really good coach in that specific group. So, um, really good split though. IMean, I still do work with guys. Um, we've got quite a few competitive men's physique, classic physique and bodybuilding athletes, but yeah, 85% women these days. All right. Well, that's, that's perfect. I think for our first questions that we can dive into here. So, um, man, I think the lab work questions are like never ending. Um, it'll always be something just to keep learning on too. But, uh, one was like pretty focused in that. So I've come across a few females with terrible lipids profiles, high cholesterol, et cetera, how to mitigate these or lower that in particular is what they were curious on. Yeah. So I love this question too. And, you know, if you guys follow, we did an IG live, uh, I think a week or two ago with one of our, uh, team naturopathic doctors, Dr. Indy, and we actually went really deep into this topic. And to your point, John, we could probably spend a whole podcast on any one of these, but we'll keep it high level, but informative and actionable enough. For me, I always start with, when we're talking like lipids, um, for one, we kind of, we've got to delineate, is this a natural or enhanced athlete, right? If we're pushing, you know, oral DHT compounds, things that are giving us unfavorable profiles with triglycerides and cholesterol, we can, we can be proactive about it, right? Because we know what's going to change over time with their, their lipids. Um, but some of the main things I like to start with is controlling glucose, right? So a lot of athletes, anytime we have repetitive trening patterns, you'll get a bit of insulin resistance. Um, you know, if we're at a extreme deficit for long periods of time, right, you're still going to get some insulin resistance. So I like to control glucose first, um, things like GDA, berberine, metformin, those types of supplements. Uh, obviously GLP ones are like, you know, the, the hot topic lately. We can, same thing. We can go down a rabbit hole on those if we want. Um, but you know, anytime we can control glucose, that's also going to have favorable impacts to things like our cholesterol downstream. And, you know, for me, if I've got an athlete, especially our females, uh, but this applies to males and females that would be, um, enhanced and maybe they're using some oral, you know, DHT compounds like an Anivar, uh, or Primo, anything like that, we can more aggressively support their triglyceride and cholesterol profiles. Uh, we'll call it proactively, right? So supplementing with some of my favorites that, uh, myself and Dr. Indy would normally prescribe I would be like, you know, B3, niacin, um, CoQ10. Uh, I love citrus bergamot, uh, red yeast, rice, curcumin, soluble fiber. Um, a lot of these things, omega-3s obviously to keep those HDLs up. Um, so a lot of those natural type supplements that will help just maintain those profiles before it becomes an emergency situation. It seems like in the female crowd, you're probably have a lot of the, the lifestyle aspects probably already in place. Like they're not individuals that are pushing crazy amounts of food or, um, you know, eating a bunch of rice crispy treats post-workout to get all these carbs in or, uh, a ton of like saturated fats to where a lot of just the basic dietary interventions might've already be there. And usually they're already doing a lot of cardio. So like you've already kind of pulled that lever. Um, it almost seems in that population, when I see lipids getting skewed a lot, there is probably a genetic proclivity already kind of there. Um, and then if you add on the enhancements with PDs, the supplement side, if you've already pulled that lever too, you might have to go to, you know, see if the pharmaceutical route is needed. And to add on to your, your point too, is I would be cautious on the supplement side, just because I state this just because the mechanisms of action of a lot of those supplements that are out there. Cause you see them, like, you don't know how they work for a lot of people. Yeah. I'll take red yeast rice and citrus bergammon. And, uh, both of those work through like HMG CoA and through like, like a similar to a statin. So you might be stacking things that are kind of doing the same mechanism of action. Um, so just be, be cautious of like you are overlaying these different interventions that you're not just doubling up because it actually could be harmful in a sense. So, uh, just something, something to be considered of. Yeah, absolutely. And, and, you know, you pointed out something good that, you know, my mind usually jumps to competitors because we work primarily with competitors, but to your point, you know, for those lifestyle clients and again, myself actually, um, on my mother's side, right? Maternally, um, there's definitely some genetic predisposition to high cholesterol. So I've always had to be extra cautious with mine because mine will go through the roof instantly. You know, anytime I'm on prep within the first month, my cholesterol profiles are shot. So, and same thing with, you know, obviously my mom is not a competitor in any way, and she's struggled with this for the last 20 years. So you do have to be mindful of that and just making sure that you are checking the boxes on those normal habits and routines, right? That you're eating clen and exercising regularly. So start with the basic foundation, but then to your point, if you've got a lot of those systems in place and you're still having, you know, extremely unfavorable triglycerides, cholesterol, it's not a one size fits all, right? You've got to really, um, do your homework and see what's going to be the best solution for you. Yeah. We, uh, we, of course we plug Merrick health for if you're needing that medical intervention, um, get some like thorough lab work to assess. And then from there connect with the provider that might, if you need to go, the pharmaceutical route would be the way to go. Like even speaking to, for my wife Renee, um, hopefully she's not listening. It's like my ears are burning, but oh, we've tried everything to lower LDL things. Just her, uh, you know, her why Hawaiian genes just love to be high in LDL or April, like light bro protein, little a is higher too. So it's like, even, even then it's like a little bit more atherogenic risk. Try to everything. And it's like, this is just a genetic thing. Like you're on prep, you're offseason. It's just high. So that's when like the pharmaceutical intervention might be considered from there. So, um, well, on a similar topic, you brought up anabolic and females, which now like the, the follow-up question that comes from there. Um, just of course this, this question, uh, approach to anabolic steroids for females and how much very generalized. That's like, uh, lectures upon lectures, right. Of, of material. So maybe, maybe we can give some, some, just some outline of a framework of mind. Yeah. Yeah. I'll give you my thoughts. And I actually love your, I've, so I've taken your female module guys and I actually love the approach that you guys have. Um, I share the exact same mindset. So, you know, anytime we take an athlete, especially someone who's like novice new to lifting for one, when we talk about approach to AAS, this really comes down to the individual, their personal goals, their genetic makeup, um, their timelines, obviously, but I don't like to throw, uh, PDs at anyone when we're starting out, right. If you haven't done the foundational work, we're not going to rely on PDs to, you know, put you on stage right away, right. You should be really, really pushing your genetic potential and your limits naturally for at least one to two years minimum before you even consider, um, any anabolic, in my opinion. Now, is that a blanket statement? IMean, there's always going to be exceptions, right. Just like with our guys, right. And there's no different, right. You might, you might've had low testosterone at age 25 and we got to address that. Um, but just in general, I like to, to start there really, uh, maximize their genetic potential. But then when we're looking at things like blood work, so, um, and I don't think they mentioned blood work in that question, but that's the first thing that we want to do is see what range they are in. So when we're looking at females, I do prefer the J3U approach where we're really focused on optimizing things like their base level of testosterone, looking at the relationship and ratios between progesterone and E2 or estradiol and females, um, really before adding any additional compounds, right. If we can optimize the body's hormones and get those into a really good position, honestly, I like to run there and see how the body responds. First, if we're not achieving the physique outcomes we need, or you've got someone that's built like a bikini athlete, but she says, coach, I really want to be a women's physique athlete. Now it's a different ball game, right. And now we got to get a little more hyper-specific and maybe start thinking about other compounds. Um, right. But obviously it's a low risk first. And, you know, I think John, this would be good for you guys to reiterate too, but I really liked where you guys broke down on a milligram for milligram basis, the effectiveness of different DHTs and different anabolics, right. They all really have a similar effect on skeletal muscle. So we got to look at which ones are going to be, you know, the most effective with the least amount of risk and then start phasing things in appropriately, um, with appropriate deloads and durations, and then constantly having that feedback loop for, you know, the onset of any realization because, you know, blood labs are one thing, but they're also not going to tell us, uh, some of these, uh, potential risk factors and, um, other things that I do again, that might be a little bit unique. So we do a combination right out of the gate of blood work. And then we also do the HTMA hair tissue mineral analysis. So if someone's testosterone, let's take a female, right. Just for day to day quality of life, we like to say over 40 nanogram per deciliter testosterone, right. Normally you're going to measure day 12 to 14 of their cycle. If they're getting a cycle, um, that's kind of a base, right. But optimally, I think you guys like to go around 50 to 75. That's, you know, a little bit more preferred for most females. Um, so I usually start there and let's say that it's suboptimal. We're at like 30 nanograms. So it's not terrible, but it's not quite, you know, in that optimal range for, uh, an athlete, you know, IMight look at their HTMA first, and then we look at what mineral imbalances and ratios are driving that dysfunction in the first place. So instead of treating the symptom and going straight to HRT or TRT, um, we would actually start with biochemical therapy first and aggressively support that. Now, if they're, you know, let's say they have run a cycle in the past and they come to you for coaching and their testosterone's crashed out, it's nine. That's, there's no amount of, you know, uh, mineral balancing that's going to drive that all the way back within range immediately. So there's times where we might have to implement, um, testosterone, get them in range, then support it with the mineral balancing. Um, and again, start looking at, do we need other things like, you know, maybe there's growth hormone hormone hormone peptide therapies and, and, you know, some different things that are maybe lower risk. Yeah. I think there's a lecture that I put in there too, that kind of runs through the levels. I don't know if you've kind of ran through that new lecture that's been put in there, but running like level one, level two, level three, level four, and then some special cases within those as well, as far as considerations for that. I think there's really big goal of the coach to have some expectation management with clients as well, relative to that risk profile of the athlete and communicating with different levels within the sport. Um, and I think this is huge, especially for if you coach females, there's a lot of younger females getting into the sport. Um, and I actually had a conversation this morning with one of the younger females on the team about delaying, dipping their toe into exogenous PD exposure because that athlete process is still in the process of being perfected. Right. It's like, and there's, there's so much that can be raised that glass ceiling of potential when you go through that process of optimizing like their ability to tren and doing that on the forefront before we go into, uh, the PD side of the equation. Um, and I think that kind of where that HTMA would fall would be perfecting those baseline variables before you progressed up. And now there are special cases where, and I put one or two in there that potentially skip that level two of HRT, go straight to the exposure, but it's, it's rare. Um, and it's something that I think needs to be taken with understanding that the long-term risk might put them in a place of a different viewpoint of a lifestyle. If they, if they're not aware of it, um, and there needs to be some real conversations that are had, um, where the clock, the coach prioritizes the client, not their outcomes for the business. And I'm really passionate about this topic. I coach a fair amount of females on my team as well. Um, and it, it needs to get very specific to risk profiles relative to that athlete, because I've got some WPD girls that, you know, are no holds barred, but I've also got some wellness girls that arecompeting at the top levels, but still have some pretty strict limits with what they're, what they're capable of doing or what they're willing to do to be competitive. So, um, I think there's a big coach conversation piece of this, that we not only need to lay out mechanisms of action and risks and what does the financial considerations for health management look like, but we also need to have some expectation management so that the coaching process goes smoothly. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3 team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, actually, Luke, I love that you mentioned, you know, the coach's responsibility too, because I don't know. I think a lot of coaches are in it, you know, especially when they're just starting out. A lot of them are athletes that are maybe trying to pay for their prep and they start coaching other athletes. And it's like, uh, let me just rack up the wins. I don't really care about your longevity or what happens, you know, you get a bikini athlete who right out of the gate is put on a really aggressive, exogenous cycle. And then all of a sudden she's got realization for the rest of her career and it's not necessary. Right. Um, so a bit of irresponsibility on the coaches, but athletes also have to take some accountability, right? You know, as athletes, guys and girls, we have to do our homework, make sure that you do have confidence in, and you're able to be fully trensparent and you feel safe and open with your coach, you know, talking about these things. So I can't encourage that enough because that's something that, um, I'm very passionate about too. And, uh, I think also just writing out that initial newbie gains phase. So, you know, that's a real, real thing, right? There's a lot of science behind it, but John, you and I can, can tren as hard as we want for the nexT3 months, but the, you know, the incremental amount of muscle mass we're going to put on compared to someone who's just starting in that first year, they can, we can do the exact same trening. They're going to get a little more advantage. So I like to ride that newbie gains phase out before their body starts to adapt and plateau a bit. Um, you know, and, and it's not always necessarily to jump straight to PD. So, uh, yeah, I definitely like that approach guys. And that's a, that's a long topic for you guys that are watching. Like, IMean, that's going to be one that we could really do a deep dive on, but start checking those fundamental boxes, start with blood work, you know, encourage you to check out the HTMA biochem therapy. If you haven't done that, it's, it's complimentary. It's not a replacement for blood work. Blood work is that snapshot, right? I can go have a cheat meal and drink some alcohol and hit legs. And then my, you know, CK and my BUN and all my values are all off versus, um, the HTMA, which is actually taking three to four months of data that's accumulated minerals that have accumulated in the tissue analysis. So it's a little bit more, um, I don't want to say accurate, but it's a little, it's more context. It's a bigger picture of the story, right? Your, your potassium could be high on blood work, but could be completely normal on an HTMA where it's just a, an acute response to something, you know? Yeah. I think it's great job showing a long-term tren of the state, a mineral balance that you've been living in. Yes. In that, in that moment, your lab work can show, uh, potential of what that momentary state is. So, you know, like you said, I think they'recomplementary. I think there's, there's probably pros of where mineral analysis and certain minerals are really good in hair, but maybe not even replacing in the serum, which you still need to be looking at as well. Um, and there's probably, uh, if you had a, a fiscal, you know, confines, um, probably labs still getting that base first. And then hopefully maybe you can do an HTMA's addition. Like, hell, we would all do all the tests, right. And be like superhuman. Um, I realized some people have some confines to work within too. So, um, stair staircase up in your testing. Yeah. You need to from there. Um, I I'm going to skip, I know we have onEQuestion, but I'm going to skip to this next one because someone brought this up and it seemed like a kind of like a jab at NASM. And I, and I want you to give clarity there because I think they were just, uh, you know, not accurate, but it says, why, why is all the medical stuff necessary when ASM clearly states to stay in our lane? Right. And honestly, I, it's a good question. Um, because I talk a lot about this on my NASM peak physique podcast and, you know, here's why it's important for you guys that are wondering. Um, so from the NASM side, yes, it's very important to stay within your scope of practice. And that's why we do. And I, I encourage this for any of you guys that are coaching athletes, build your network, right? We've got a medical team that we partnered with here at our contest prep center. We've got Dr. Indigo, our naturopathic that we talked about with biochem therapy. You know, we've got specialists for each one of these things, um, that specialize in different areas because here's the thing as a coach, there's going to be times where we kind of blur the lines, right? Um, yes, we have a certain scope, but we also have a duty and a responsibility to understand when an athlete is at risk or potentially, um, you know, heading towards risk, even if that's not our scope. Uh, so for me, it's, it's essential for prep coaches to be very well rounded and definitely have a basic understanding of at least how to interpret blood work. Does that mean that you're a doctor? Absolutely not. You should not be prescribing or recommending, Hey, you should take this because you know, your hemoglobin is high. You're, you know, your RVC is off. Um, your, your liver enzymes are elevated. So take this. Now there's times where again, as coaches, we can, we might have to give recommendations and guidance, but, um, never try to play doctor, right? Always out outsource and refer when possible to medical professionals, partner up with them. If you can, um, you know, we brought them again in house on our team so that we do have some of that expertise because again, it's not my place to understand that, but I should know when one of my athletes does blood work and there's a few big red flags staring me in the face and Hey, is this athlete, you know, in a healthy enough position to really push hard through this prep or do we need to pump the brakes and shut it down for the season? Right. So that for me, that's why it's necessary to understand, um, things like, you know, blood work and some of these more specialized issues, uh, hormone dysregulation, you know, down regulation of the thyroid, right. We get metabolic adaptations on prep when we're in a deficit. Um, and those are again, areas that we, we can understand and then we know when to refer out. Um, but even non-physiological things like eating disorders and behavioral eating patterns, I'm not specialized to diagnose or treat those, right. However, I certainly can suspect that we have a bit of that going on and refer them out to, um, a registered dietitian, for example, right. Or someone that specializes in that area. Yeah. I think people need to realize like, you know, in your general lifestyle client or even your athlete, like how often do you go see your doctor? Like ask yourself that it's like not very often, right. How, how much contact are you when you're with your nutritionist or coach, uh, some of them might be weekly to even daily at moments. So in, in that line of practice, like you're going to see your client more and potentially be a first line defense of some bigger picture issue that they might need to go see their doctor about. And then if that is the case, you also need to be familiar with what that doctor's intervention might be as you can have a supportive role in that. Um, I just had a client, we pulled out of prep. She's having a lot of GI issues and where that kind of led to us like, Hey, we should do some GI testing. It turns out she had like H. Pylori. She had SIBO. So now am I diagnosing this, this, you know, and giving medications? No, that's out of my scope. I aligned her with the physician that we coordinate with, but there's also dietary interventions that I can do that support her rebalancinGHer gut, et cetera. So, you know, I need to understand what the doctor's doing and, and why that happened, kind of get this root cause approach. Uh, so that's why we do need like a pretty big scope to be able to understand, especially if you really want to move up to higher level clients. Right. Otherwise you're going to stay in this just very generalized practice and you won't be able to solve a lot of problems. And we, we've spoken to like where artificial intelligence is going. And if you're only able to provide a very generalized service of like, make five meals for my client and make this workout plan, like an AI is going to be able to take your job. You know, you need to be able to expand beyond just like general practice now and problem solving, through those experiences where you can really improve your coaching business. So. Yeah. You hit the nail on the head there, John. I love the collaborative approach, you know, work with those medical provider or those specialists and you're going to pick up a thing or two, right? I'll be honest. When I, when I first started getting introduced to the HTMA, which is about a year, year and a half ago, it was, it was totally unfamiliar. It was like looking at Chinese or hieroglyphics. I'm like, what in the world is this? It's that Dunning-Kruger effect, where just when you think you kind of learned everything that you need to know, you're like, oh my God, there's this whole other world that I don't understand. And now that we've worked with, you know, 50, 60 athletes and put them through the biochem therapy, you start to see common denominators. You start to understand and realize common solutions and strategies. And, you know, so yeah, you've got to be collaborative and don't have an ego in it. You know, if it's something that's outside of your comfort level or your scope, partner up with those collaborative specialists. Well, Andre, I'd love to shift gears a bit because your area where you've already said you shine is in trening. And Luke is, well, we all are. We love trening. So I want to, I want to jump to this next question on, and Luke, you actually just did a big VIP call on this too. It's like, do you think stronger, more advanced people need less working sets? Oh my gosh, we're back on the volumEQuestion. It's never ending. This is a good question. I'll chime in from my perspective and mine, mine is going to be two things, right? I've got the, from an NASM, put my NASM master trener hat on, and then I've got my Andre the athlete and I've been trening 20 years hat, right? So my personal experience versus like the way I'm taught. You know, for me, it always depends on the individual, but let's just start by prefacing it, that it is a whole heck of a lot easier to maintain muscle. Once we built that foundation, then it is to initially gain the muscle, right? So let's take any of us, you know, another good example would be like Kai Green. Do you think Kai Green is trening as intensely as he was when he's competing against Phil Heath? No, but he still looks pretty darn good, right? IMean, it's a lot easier to maintain that. And even, even myself, so there's a whole nother rabbit hole. We could go down with set point theory. If you guys are familiar with set point theory, we're basically causing adaptations and we're changing those homeostasis levels of, you know, muscle mass, metabolic adaptations, depending on what we're consistently doing for a long period of time. So yes, when you've already developed a certain amount of muscle mass, if you're just looking to maintain it, you probably could get away with less working sets, right? Theory tells us in the books, if you're touching up that muscle group with moderate intensity, let's say 15 to 20 sets, one time per week, you're going to at least maintain your muscle, okay? Now, that being said, most of us aren't here to maintain. We're here to make improvements. We're here to grow. We're here to push it to the maximum, right? We're bodybuilders. So one study that I actually talked about on my podcast last year that I appreciated was published by MedScience. I want to say October, 2023. It was Tocito Souza Jr. And the study indicated that there's a dose response effect to higher trening volumes for developed athletes. So that's going to be the key when we're talking like normal, let's say the normal average Joe at your gym, or even a sedentary person versus a well-trened athlete like one of ourselves, right? The study actually showed this dose response effect or this adaptation where they're still achieving results without diminishing effects up to 52 working sets per muscle group per week. Whereas, you know, with beginners or intermediate clients, it was less than 20. That's kind of the range that NASM would normally recommend as well. But you do get these adaptations where when we're trying to achieve higher results, we're trying to shift that set point higher. We're trying to hold on to more skeletal muscle. You can actually go to higher volumes over time and they produce results at 52 sets per week per muscle. So that's my long-looking answer. Yes, you can grow and actually do more volume. But if you're just looking to maintain, sure, you can drop the volumes and maintain pretty easy. Do you want to go first, John? Or do you want me to? No, go ahead. You have your trening bit. So I would push back on this a little bit, especially when we see the expectation of a recovering athlete, right? So this is the trenslation piece that I would start to kind of intervene with, like the trenslation from research into actual application. You cited 52 sets per body part, correct? Like it was a thing kind of like that. Right. So the most advanced athletes were able to still record results over that 12-week study at up to 52 sets per muscle group per week. Yes. I would need to familiarize myself with this study to dot I's, cross T's through it. Was that like on the small muscle group? Because I remember like the Schoenfeld study where I was like 45 sets. It was like for biceps and I counted all the bicep work of like rows and pull downs and direct bicep work. Or was that across every single muscle group? Do you recall? I don't recall. I'd have to go deep into it. But let's just take a broader muscle like a lat or, you know, chest. You know, so if you hit chest, focused chest exercises, you know, twice a week and your volume is 20 to 26 sets of total chest exercises, right? It doesn't seem too unreasonable. Twice a week, you could get to your 52 sets. I'm probably doing that today, if I'm beinGHonest. Okay. Yeah. So my thought goes to the Schoenfeld study, which is what I was going to point out, like the cross trensfer. But secondarily would be your narrowing window of adaptation as you progress in regards to like reps and reserve and proximity to failure and making sets like actually count. I think we can bEQuite a bit more efficient with one setups, driving more mechanical tension per set. Secondarily proximity to failure in setups that allow for someone to take it to that level. And then tertiary would be program design that allows for long term progressions with not having to consistently interrupt it with deloads. Because when we have like short term breaks within program design, we keep having to take deloads over the long term. We're taking a lot of weeks off of driving and progressive stimulus, which is kind of where I would start to push back on the 52 sets outside of stubborn body parts. So this is kind of where when we balance program design and cups. So like if you've heard me talk about like a three cup theory, three cup theory being squat, hinge, pressing, all of these have cross trensfer into these and you fill these cups up different amounts depending on the athlete's needs. This is kind of where I would say we could probably push people further into specialization in the advanced world than we do now. Of like filling cup up quite a bit more than what's the general volume recommendations of the 15 to 20 sets per week. Just coming off a block with like Darren Farrell, classic physique Olympian, who's going through some specialization. We got him up to like 30 sets per week for hamstrings. However, when we look at continually progressing the physique as a whole, there's no way that he could have progressed that trening block consistently from a progressive stimulus standpoint. So I think there's some cross trensfer into anecdote that we need to see at that level and at that level of strength and the ability to output, we probably wouldn't see recovery capacity be able to maintain that level of trening in my opinion. Yeah. It's a fascinating concept. And I'll, you know, also say this, right. All sets are not created equal, right? If you're Ronnie Coleman and you're hitting 52 sets of 800 pound deadlifts, that's going to look wildly different than a bikini competitor doing some banded clamshells for 52 sets on our glutes. Right. So we would have to take that into consideration for sure. I would also delineate our natural athletes versus enhanced, right? As we all know, muscle protein synthesis, muscle nitrogen, a lot of those things are going to be much lower for natural athletes and the recovery. Right. So I always like to point out like the SRA curve, so stimulus recovery adaptation, and we are basically breaking down that muscle tissue, right? Providing the stimulus. And then we get into this window where we start the recovery process. And then we get this super compensation and the super compensation brings us to a little bit higher than homeostasis levels of muscle. Right. And we're continuing this curve over and over until we establish as much mass accumulation as possible. So it does definitely depend on the trening intensity. Luke, I like that you pointed out some of those different mechanisms, right? There's more than one way to achieve hypertrophy. And, you know, NASM, there's a couple different things. I won't go too deep into that, but we've got a five stage. It's the optimum performance trening module, right? We're primarily trening in the, you know, strength, we'll call it hypertrophy phase or muscular development phase. And within that framework, I like to implement things like progressive overload. For those of you on the call that maybe you have heard of like said principles, specific adaptation to impose demands, and we're starting to cause adaptations. And, and to your point, you've got to really look at your athlete to understand if they're still getting results. Are they still progressing? And maybe I'm progressing weight. Maybe I'm progressing volume. Maybe I'm progressing duration or intensity. So there's a lot of different ways that we can continue to progress the stimulus without necessarily only leveraging trening volume. And I think, you know, thEQuestion was on working sets, but again, it doesn't really take into consideration the amount of weight and intensity within those working sets. Yeah. John, you want to chime in? Yeah, sure. I had, I had a quick, like kind of find this little paper to, because you had to be too interested. And now I kind of recall a bit more about it. There was three groups within that paper, right? And they, it was a, every two week they added sets in to then peak up to either 22 set, 44 set, and then like a 52 set. And that high volume group for, for a lot of measures they did have improved growth hormone hormone. And there was like a two RIR. So it matters, right? Like of proximity to failure. And I think these researchers are so cool because it's where now you shouldn't take this and make your 52 set program. Right. It's like, no, no, no. This gives us insight into volume accumulation. And what kind of is conferring like a driving factor in muscle growth hormone hormone? Because what do you happens after the 12 weeks? Could you do this on prep? Could you keep sustaining this? It's like, well, this might be kind of unsustainable. But this is where we, we didn't find like, Andre puts his like coaching experiential hat on, right? You're like, yeah, I'm probably not going to make a program with 52 sets immediately if I did that. Yeah. Okay. So I remember this paper because it was progressive volume over time. Right. And I think we talked about this in the sense that you trenslate this in the program design of testing the limits of volume accumulation for that athlete. And then you kind of find where that athlete's limit is relative to their proximity to failure and their ability to drive tension per set. And then you kind of go from there, which is kind of what I, I, I like another piece. So that was, this question was around like stronger athletes they mentioned as well, which is a unique one, because we have some athletes we coach, right. That has just a greater propensity for strength adaptations and not as much for size, which I don't know, Andre, if you found like you have whatever, two bikini athletes, right. And one's crazy strong. The other one's not, but they have the same muscularity. I am sure like the systemic fatigue to manage the really strong athlete presents some very unique challenges versus the one that is not nearly as strong. And same goes with like some of these open bodybuilders that I've coached ones that are really strong. They move very fast with fatigue and they have to be watched very closely. Their output's so high. I don't know if you want to maybe speak to that because I think that's something really interesting that many don't think about. We just think about volume, but the, the, how that volume, that one set increment might be impacting, um, for the level that the athlete can execute or even the strength level, uh, might really determine how you might manage things as a coach. Yep. Yeah. And that's, that's where you have to really get hyper-specific, right. Where the cookie cutter plans don't work. And to your point, you could have, I could put two bikini athletes on, uh, an in-body scanner and they have the exact same amount of skeletal muscle. You know, they aesthetically, maybe they look pretty similar, but this one's work capacity is through the roof. And this girl, I can throw 25 sets at her on a leg day without really, you know, breaking a sweat. And the other one is completely burnt out after anything more than three to four sets per exercise, you know? So that's where, you know, I start to look at different things. Um, there's also one thing I take into consideration is like skeletal muscle fiber type, right? So if you are Michael Jordan and you've got all this, you know, type two muscle fiber, this explosive fiber versus having a higher percentage of maybe slow twitch fibers in your muscles, this can also make a difference. So, you know, if we've come back to just base level, how does hypertrophy work in the muscle? We're providing a stimulus, we're creating muscular tension. Uh, and those mechanisms would be, you know, if I look at exercise induced muscle damage, we've got metabolic stress. Those are kind of secondary hypertrophy drivers. And then you've got, of course, the, um, tension in the muscle, right? That's going to be, uh, you know, time and attention, how much force we're loading up on the barbell. So you can lever, you can leverage any one of those three mechanisms. So there's times where athlete B doesn't have the work capacity as athlete a, um, she's not able to push as hard or push as much weight. So we're going to focus on metabolic stress. I'm going to give her, you know, consistent sets of 12 to 15 reps, moderate weight, shorter rest periods, uh, and really try to, um, Andre, you might've froze. If you can hear me know if I lost you here, guys. We'll save you on freezes. Nope. We're back. Yeah. I didn't know if I lost you. Can you guys still hear me? Yeah, you're back. You're back. Okay. So we're going to keep going with that, you know, looking at metabolic, um, stress, you know, for an athlete who maybe can't push as much weight, you know, that athlete, we could look at shorter rest periods, uh, maybe a little bit higher work volumes, but lighter to moderate loads for her, um, or more frequency. And we're, we're leveraging the secondary hypertrophy benefits like, um, you know, exercise induced muscle damage. And then, um, you know, maybe some metabolic adaptations to the muscle versus just smashing a lot of weight and she's doing three plates on the hip thruster. Um, so you do have to really craft those plans specific to each person's work capacity and, and also things they enjoy, right? IMean, not everyone enjoys pushing that hard when they're trening. Yeah. Personal preference, sustainability and trening is kind of like your base pillar sometimes of, of, of programming. Uh, maybe not as much, uh, in preference, depending on the goal, right? Uh, as you get more hyper-focused on your goal, you might not be doing things you always love. So, uh, they put split squats in my program. Damn you coach. Leading with Bulgarians. There you go. So, so no, that it was a good question though. And, you know, even thinking like high level about the, um, you know, the, the volume back to the volume thing, you know, if we think about wellness competitors, for instance, where we're intentionally driving disproportionately more muscle mass in the lower body, you, you girls out there got to love trening legs and glutes and the volumes, you know, for looking at the total Trening split, I'll give you some, um, examples. You know, I've talked to, obviously I have some wellness Olympians on our team, but I've also talked to like Francielle and Issa, um, you know, I'm close friends with Cass Gillis and it's funny. I'm always listening. I'm always want to hear what are, what are they doing? What are these girls doing? Their trening splits are so wildly different based on where they're at. So the amount of volumes that they're lifting, some of the girls you'll see, um, like Issa is actually a smaller girl, but super muscular dense, and she can push a lot of weight on hip thrusts. I've got some of our wellness pros that are twice her size that can only hip thrusts half as much before, you know, they get low back pain or, or the mechanics are off and there's compensations. So I have to have a little bit different approach for them, but it can vary wildly by the athlete, the intensity and volumes. Yeah. Go ahead, Luke. Now I was just gonna say, this is kind of where we get into that cup theory, right? Cause you're opening for wellness. You're dumping a lot out of that shoulder pressing upper body trening cup into that lower body to allow for bias adaptations there. And so that's where we see that. And then I'm not going to open that can of one of your profiles to here and send me down the path of another passion of mine, but Don, you go ahead before I spend time talking about injuries and wellness. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. I swallowed something and now I'm dying. No, I did have a follow-up question around that. And I just go on offer from our questions that we had listed, but since you coached a lot of females, bikini wellness, and are there some real standout trening issues that just, you always see repetitive that like, if you had to speak to these females that are listening out of like just the red flags that you might want to put in, like, Hey, these are things that just, we could probably cross off the list of like not having a lot of, you know, bearing a lot of fruit in your trening program, anything mistake wise that just kind of, you always see that just drives you crazy. You know, it, it's a mixed bag for us, if I'm beinGHonest, but if I really just zoom in and focus down on like, let's just take a, well, now that we got fit model, we'll say fit model bikini wellness. I'd say 90% of the females that come to us have very underactive glutes. And even if their trening volumes are actually relatively high on glutes, they're not necessarily executing those movements with good, you know, body movement efficiency. No one, I think, you know, we're talking about setting the standard for fitness education in bodybuilding, for example, a lot of the novice coaches aren't even thinking about body mechanics or postural compensations anymore. Right. When you deal with a lot of females, you can deal with a lot of scoliosis and asymmetries left to right. So I do like to still just ground myself in things like body mechanics through something as simple as like our NASM overhead squat assessment. You know, you can also do aromasingle leg assessment and look for compensations through the low back, maybe a bit of lordosis. It could have some upper cross syndrome. They could have tight hip flexors or calves that are driving dysfunction in their body mechanics when they're doing any type of lower body. It could be a squat leg press, hip thrust. You know, if you if you guys can just picture, you know, a girl on, let's say, like a Nautilus hip thrust machine or a booty blaster, and they've got this big arch underneath their back, you can put your hand underneath their back, right? They've got a bit of lumbar lordosis, right? So a bit of deep arching to the low back that's completely inhibiting their ability to drop into posterior pelvic tilt and really get in those glutes a little bit deeper. But you might see the same athlete moving three or four plates, right? So there's compensations, and they might be developing bad movement patterns or overdeveloping the wrong muscle groups. So I think just widespread the biggest mistakes I see, bad form, compensations, you know, postural compensations, we'll call it. And then just like the guys, right, girls tend to do a little bit of ego lifting, too. And, you know, they'll be doing RDLs, and they look over and the girl next to them is or the girl on Instagram is doing, you know, two plates. So then they want to do two plates, but their form is crap. And, you know, we're starting to not develop the muscles we're targeting. So that's my trening philosophy is always just bringing those weights down, drop the ego a little bit, focus on perfecting movement patterns. I'm huge on high time under tension. So you'll often see us, let's take a hip thrust, for example, or a gluteator machine. You'll see us do doubles or triple progressions or triple contractions, excuse me, where we're maximizing time under tension. We might do some isometric pause reps, other progressions like drop sets or rest pause sets. So, you know, that's the main things I see is just bad form or the tempo. You guys ever see that? You get the little speed lifters, they're doing a leg press, and they're just speed lifting. It's like, no, let's slow this down. I want you to feel each rep. Do you find that your volumes usually come down once you make those corrections for someone? Absolutely. And it's funny, because, all right, so I'll give you an example. I've actually got two trening platforms. You know, the primary one I use is Apotheo for our competitors. But a lot of our newer competitors and lifestyle clients actually tren in our trener system. And you can give for each workout, they can give feedback and rate the workout intensity, right on a scale of one to 10 drives me nuts. I'm like, I know, as for team Adams, we're known for legs and glutes with our females, we have never created a leg day that was a three out of 10 intensity ever. Like our leg days are brutal. And sometime I'll get those newer clients, and it's like, they'll finish one of our full leg days. And intensity, you'll say like two out of 10. And I'm like, I'll pick up the phone, like, all right, tell me exactly what you did. I want to know exactly what weights you use. And then when I get them in, if they're local, I'll get them in for PT. And then I see the issues, right? They're just rushing through the workouts, not feeling any of the reps, just going through the motion. So yeah, it's just really slowing down and feeling the workout and, you know, thinking about what muscle am I trying to activate with this exercise, really building that mind muscle connection. Yeah, I think that's such a great point. And we make really a point of it with all of our coaches and J3U, like using video analysis, which not to look cool on Instagram, but to actually like look at your mechanics, kind of break down, like, how can you improve execution to get more out of your sets? Or if you're doing a movement, you're like, I don't really feel this muscle at all. It doesn't get pumped. I don't have any soreness. Like, it's like a feel is, you know, it isn't everything, but something should be happening. So maybe we need to correct these, this setup. And then from there, maybEQueuing. And I think that's an excellent point. That is, for me, it's been an ongoing learning still to this day. So I'm still every time I'm in the gym, like, how can IMake this movement improve? And so it's, form corrections is an, you want to call it an art of trening, but to a degree, it kind of is. So yeah. You know, one other thing too, I had, you just sparked the thought, John, as you were talking, when we're talking about queuing, I'm huge, huge, huge. One of our staples is activations. So, you know, a lot of people, because we're all strapped for time, right? We're all busy, whether you're running your own business, competing, coaching, or working a day job, kids, whatever it might be. So a lot of people will skip the warmups. I actually do ground myself in corrective exercise and our warmup and activations. Normally it takes you about five to 10 minutes, but you know, we come in, let's say we're doing legs, we're going to foam roll or inhibit some of those overactive muscles. Maybe it's biceps femoris, maybe it's the calves and TFL. And then we would stretch or lengthen those muscles second. And then after that, we'd go into some activation. So IMight have our girls throw a band around their knees and do somEQuadruped kickbacks or some sideline clamshells. You know, one set, 15 to 20 reps each side, waking those muscles up, especially those underactive or those lagging areas. I'm going to pre-activate before we go into our, what we would call our integrations or our compound movements and start our actual workout. But I'll also implement that same strategy for lagging muscle groups. You know, for our guys, let's take rear delts, for example, right? A lot of guys struggle to round off those rear delts. IMight do some banded pull-aparts and some, you know, YTAs or prone cobras and try to get everything activated here before we go into our shoulder press and our rowing and our compound integrated movements. Okay. Solid, solid. Those are all great tips to take away and be able to utilize, which again, trening, you can just never learn enough. I feel like that we should spend more time on trening and for all the drug questions we get, far less time on drugs. So, but anyway, Andre, we're coming up on, on our hour here. I wanted to give you a chance to, you know, give some people some insight of like, where you mainly have your, your contacts or where you're mainly, if you're on Instagram or YouTube, I don't know about YouTube, but if you want to share that, I'll also leave it down in the description below for anyone that wants to contact you, but where can we learn more from you, Andre? Yeah, I appreciate it, John. You guys can actually find me on Instagram and YouTube at Andre Adams underscore official. I've also got our coaching page, which be the Team Adams prep page or teamadamsprep.com. That's where we do all of our biochemical therapy and the fun stuff. So if you guys are interested, we've got some free videos you can check out there. You'll meet some of our team partners like Dr. Indigo Vasquez and, and you know, our other resources there. And then, yeah, IMean, honestly, I welcome anyone to reach out. Like you said, we get so many questions, John, you know, I've got a whole like document full of additional questions that, you know, I'd love to get into on the NASM peak physique podcast. So if you guys aren't following that one too, subscribe, you know, it's, it's something I call it a project, right? It started as a project about a year and a half ago after we launched PBC, just to let people know some of the topics and, and bring guests on like yourselves to talk about different things going on in the world of bodybuilding. So you guys can always find me on there and I'd love to even morEQuestions. You know, if people want to reach out, John, we'll just rack them up. We'll add them to the list. I think we got enough for a whole little mini series here. Yeah. With questions, you can just keep them going, going. So anyway, anyway, Andre, really appreciate you having on. I'm sure of yours will be, you know, very appreciative of all the insights that you had from your years of experience now. So again, thank you everyone for tuning in. We appreciate you and we will talk to you next time.