 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Are you really ready for contest prep? And some people think like, all right, I'm recourse, I'm ready. I want to get on stage and do this thing. But are you really ready? And there's a lot of questions that you need to go through. To make sure that you need to make sure that you need to make sure that you need to make sure that you need to make sure that you are in this position to fully see out a contest prep, truly get stage lean. And Luke and I are going to hit a lot of topics that I don't think a lot of people do consider that are going to make your contest prep so much more effective if you can check all these boxes. Yeah, and I think it's, it's a life audit, right? Like, I don't think there's one or two things that you can point to that are the only things that we should be checking the box here, but we'll kind of run through them as we kind of move through that. But I think just to kind of start with the obvious, like the keep it simple, stupid point of is your physique ready? Like, are you at a place where you can run a contest prep in an acceptable amount of time that allows for an acceptable rate of loss that's not too overbearing or too much of a rate of loss in order to try to get there and potentially detriment your physique at the end of that. And that kind of range is a bit variant. I do find somewhere for me at like 16 to 18 weeks is kind of where I'm wanting a lot of my guys and girls so that if we're doing like 20 to 22 weeks, we're not spending the entirety of it dieting. But man, this is so undervalued. And this is the part of the contest prep that is set forth by the six, nine, 12 months leading into it. I think for this audit and just to put someone so they have a time component that they may maybe keep a little track of because our timelines are our biggest thing that we utilize and bodybuilding make sure we finally land someone on stage. Right point because the biggest mistake made is running at a time. And so what I would suggest is that at 30 weeks out, so this is getting into the tail end of your offseason, start looking at weeks out and start assessing and reverse engineering your body fat levels. And this might be looking at your past offseason of like, where's your current body fat? And how's that compared to last season and how many weeks it takes for you to diet down? And so that might then say, oh, you know what? Like I'm already at my stop point. Like I won't make it. I need to stop now because think about Luke said 18 weeks out where you're going to have maybe six weeks of like kind of this whole maintenance phase to happen that kicks you back to 24 weeks out. And so this last six weeks of your offseason, you can start assessing if do I need a slight fat loss phase before prep or can I extend out all the way to being 24 weeks out hold and then start prepping. So don't don't start just assessing this like, all right, 16 weeks out, let me hire my coach and we'll start prep because you might find out, hey, sorry, you're actually 24 weeks out or you won't make it to that show. So start that audit definitely earlier on. And we've spoken timelessly about timelines, but it's unbelievable how important they are. And before we move on, like I do understand that there's some people who listen to this that maybe in the earlier years of bodybuilding where you're not sure when you're going to be ready for a prep. Like you're just trying to keep your head down and work and prepare your physique to be a better version of it than when you started that push phase. And you're just kind of waiting for that moment where you realize that physique's ready. This is where if you're working with a coach, a lot of times I'll set up planning calls around this time frame. That's like 30 to 35 weeks out of what a potential prep would be in an all season in order to have that planning call to know what we're pivoting into next, because it changes how I run that back end of the all season push phase decision making, according to kind of what John was saying. So when you're mapping out your timelines, even if you're running a more open ended timeline where, hey, like I'm early in my years, I just want to be the best bodybuilder I can be relative to my level of competition. I know that's going to take time. Just sit down and have like a state of the union. Every time you get to that point where you maybe got six to eight weeks of all season left, it could potentially pivot into a prep, make sure that it's not going to pivot into a prep. Or if it is, you'll be able to make those back end all season decisions, because some of you guys are just kind of in that. I need to improve mode and kind of waiting for that decision to be made. On that point, I'm going to jump ahead of our points, Luke, because it should be said earlier on is the psychological readiness to a contest prep, because when you're looking at timelines and I've done this before. I do this all the time is looking at a show as like your ultimate goal date. Right. So you have whatever it is, the the Tampa Pro or maybe it's your local city classic insert city name here. And so it's like that is the show and IMust do this. And we could get so honed in, focused with the blinders on that you lose sight of what what what is the real goal? Is it stepping on stage at X, Y, Z show or is it stepping on stage like truly at your best on the day? And I know everyone is like, yeah, I want to be my absolute best. And sometimes you have to be able to disconnect of your psychological focus in on that exact show and be a bit more open to just landing your best look on stage. And I know not all of us have the luxury of having a lot of shows around them. So that might be limited for a few. But if you can prep if this earlier on, like Luke is saying, and you have a few shows that line up on the calendar around when you could be potentially ready, it allows you the flexibility to land your best look and not get locked in to a show date where you actually could use more time. And now if for many people out there, you might be in a country where there's only like a couple of shows a year and that's the reality of it. So you do have to adhere to that well. And that's when, hey, if it earlier on, just build in some buffer weeks and also psychologically realize that you're not going to be at a pro level size and condition your first show. And so make sure the process is about just giving yourself the most enjoyment out of this and realize like refinement takes time. But there's a lot to more to add on to psychological readiness as well. And I think this is an athlete development process. Would you agree? Yeah, man, the athlete development process is so underrated. I actually brought that point up because I had some check ins early this morning that were kind of timelines that have been moved around based on athlete readiness. Like we started a diet phase and then we're like, hey, we've made a ton of progress, but not to the level of expectation we would want to put a physique on stage or just kind of answering that question. When is my time? And really the answer to that is just athlete development builds skills that allows the life side to match the physique readiness side. And then those mesh together for a prep to come to full fruition. And actually kind of this pivots well for me because I have a client and this person will know who they are where we're actually running a mock prep right now off of the back of she came to me with a lot of issues that had to be fixed. And making sure that metabolic health and just overall hormone health and her ability to respond to dieting is a huge component for her as someone who hadn't made it to the stage ready and in their previous showing. And so like we spent a lot of time in all seasons fixing a lot of this and then having a diet phase that went okay, kind of pulling back out and making some modifications and then going back into this one. It's been a much more efficient phase because we're getting better as an athlete at the execution side, but we're also fixing kind of some of the response portion of the variables. So metabolic health, hormone health, et cetera, in order to allow for that prep to happen in the future. And so this is something that needs to be taken into consideration. Obviously, if you're earlier on, you're probably running into less issues, but especially for more advanced people, like it's so underrated how much efficiency can help if you, if you take the time to actually fix things appropriately. I've seen that largely on the female side and a few females that I have coached that they've come to me or they've started the process of a prep and those areas weren't addressed in like lab work and health marker checks before entering prep. And then you finally get this client and look at their labs and like they weren't having menstrual cycles like estrogens like bottomed out or they have some type of thyroid suppression issue or I've come across people havinGHashimoto's and more immune response because they're already overstressed, over dieted. And so now we're having this immune reaction occur and that can just lead into like more GI issues and just the snowball will continue forminGHere. And they come to a very unproductive, frustrated point on prep and they don't understand why their body's not responding. It's because a lot of these health metabolic checks weren't in place further on in that pre-prep phase to make sure that you have optimal hormone and overall health to be able to even execute. Contest prep because the basics of health are going to have to come first before fat loss in what a physique wants to do. I'm not saying that we're not going to have some health risk here pushing the bodybuilding. You still have fat loss occur. But if your systems that make you productive in fat loss are dampened, you're not going to be the best ability to get stage lean. And so that's what needs to happen first before like entering a contest prep is like you have to have that metabolic health status in a good spot and be able to check those things with like comprehensive lab work. That's why we use Merrick Health and send all of our athletes there and consult with the providers that are with it with our coaches to make sure those plans do align really well and get our athletes to really good points. Yeah, and I think patience is a huge thing with this like it's not always depending on how far you are from the norm. It's not always like aromasingle fix a few weeks later start the prep right like sometimes it's we have to return to some sort of normal right whether that's your relationship of food relative to body composition like that ratio of food going in relative to start point or whatever that might be. That might take a couple up and downs to fully fix it right. So I think the patience is the big key with that point. Yeah, and I think getting into also making sure you have the ability to have patience later on your prep is to do like a stress audit because the worst case is when you're going to be at the tail end of your prep just flooded with all kinds of stuff that happens in life. And the accumulation of time requirement in prep to where forget patience you're going to be stressed out and anxious the whole time. You won't have the ability to be patient in that type of situation which is I think this gets into areas where people aren't considering because I think we just think about the physical component of like yes, I have the muscle. Yes, I have the ability to get clen, but do you have the environment set up to do it and part of that is just like what is your ability to manage stress to get there. And I think that's looking first at like a job. You know, what do you do for a living? So in our assessment forms, that's what we have like what is your occupation? How many hours per work per week do you work? Is that a home or do you drive to work? What's commute time? Considering all those things because for one, it's going to eat up time. But also, if you have extremely stressful job, like wow, this could be extremely limiting to getting someone lean. And I've, gosh, worked with all kinds of clients. You know, first responders can be really problematic because schedules variability. And also depending on what type of first responder you are, you can get thrown some really high stress situations. Or even just a normal shift worker is also a stressful one. For me, when I was like bodybuilding earlier on, I worked nine to five as a clinical dietitian in the hospital, which is not stressful. So it's pretty laid back. It's conduced to bodybuilding. However, the fun bodybuilding, I'm also coaching clients on the side and then trying to prep. It was like time I get up to the time my head hits the pillow, it's go, go, go, go, which of any little wrench gets thrown in there. Man, it was stressful. It could throw me off for the entire day or entire week. So do you have the ability within your current job to execute a prep is something to consider. And they would say like, what do I do? Quit my job? I was like, well, no. But you need to make sure like if there's ability to take time off work or how you might be able to shift your schedule around. Like these are things to start considering to be able to fully see out the prep. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I think that kind of goes into the time audit, too. This is why I promote block schedules so much, because you have a very good understanding of how much workable time in a day that you have. And being able to understand, like, you may be able to start a prep and manage that pretty easily. But what happens if your prep is a little bit tougher than it's maybe been in the past? Or it requires a little bit more effort because these life variables are a little bit higher in the stress component. And so we get to, instead of 45 minutes of cardio a day with 12K steps, you're 60, 65, 70, right? Like, that's the time component we have to be willing to be able to give to this in order to make sure the outcome is there. And that's part of that personal life stress audit is, can my schedule even account for this? And if not, like, maybe it's not the time to do it. Yeah. And, you know, within time, it's like, okay, you have the time. Excellent. What does thEQuality within your obligations entail? And this gets into what your environment is your prep, which I really like that saying. Because, you know, what is your relationship status look like? Not status, but just, like, thEQuality of relationship. I've had lots of clients, like, trying to go through divorces while they're prepping. And that is a lot of stress on the body. Or even, you know, what is your gym setting look like? Is it supportive to bodybuilding? Do you have a network around you that is supportive as well? A lot of people earlier on in bodybuilding, none of their friends and family, like, get it. And they're kind of, like, tired of you wasting time on this and ready for you to move on. And so you might get a lot of those comments back and forth, which isn't very conducive to bodybuilding when you don't have people that are supportive around you. So, you know, that's when you're starting to look at, do you have the environment that's going to be productive for prep in, you know, form? What I look for to be the best at bodybuilding is to make that environment the most conducive to my goal possible. So that's looking at my job, my relationships, you know, my gym setting, people around me, friends, family, supporters. Do all these people push me forward and make me better? Or are there ways that they're limiting and not allowing me to be the best version of myself that I do want to be? And that's when you need to start maybe considering that it's time to change your environment. Yeah, and it's, it's, uh, people, people get a little bit hesitant with this because some will go to the extreme of, like, the Gary V suggestion of just get rid of them, right? Like, just get rid of the people that are closest to you if they're that much holding you back. And that kind of, like, puts you into understanding your why a bit of, like, why are you doing this? And needing to align those variables together. Does your why of pursuing competing match kind of the expectations of the family and or personal environment that you have around you? Um, because when those match and when they align, like, the most unbelievable results and productivity and outcomes are, are capable. But when they don't, it's just a tren wreck waiting to happen. I think that can be a, the why question is a hard one for a lot of people, which your why is kind of like behind your, your purpose and passion. And, but that's also leading to, like, we talk about Menslow's hierarchy of need, right? Self-actualization, which I, I feel like for a lot of people that gets a little blurred there. And I feel like maybe they think it's making their better version, but it's still very, you know, more superficial of maybe a status or a recognition. Even if it's like a self-recognition. And I think sometimes self-recognition might even be the idea that that's going to be a self-actualization, seeing out your best potential. And you just feel like everyone else is kind of like holding you back and you're, you're, you're not able to like fully see that out. Um, I think that's when you have to get real honest with yourself. Like, is this truly going to be the best version of yourself pursuing bodybuilding at that level? Um, or is it just you wanting to just have that status or goal kind of checked off? Cause I know a lot of people that are like, I have to bodybuild. Like, this is everything to me. But you kind of see like, it's hurting everything around them too. When, you know, maybe they have a wife and a, and a, and child and like, or truly like their, their purpose should be focused around their relationships and being a father or being a spouse. And ultimately that was what defines you. And it's not, uh, just something you do like bodybuilding is just something you do. It should not be who you are. I feel like pursuing bodybuilding is just trying to get absorbed in this thing that you do and taking you away from this ultimate purpose of like being a dad or being a spouse. And so I think that's a big differentiator of that should be clear of like, don't allude yourself to thinking that bodybuilding is your purpose and passion. And it'll lead you to the better version of yourself when it's hurting all the people around you and they see it and you just can't cause you have a little bit of the blinders on. I know that's kind of a deep like soapbox rants and it's kind of a little philosophical in there. But I think, um, it, to the, to the ultimate point of like, are you ready for prep? Like, uh, it's kind of like considering those conversations. Cause I had this similar conversation with a client of mine who was competing, but it really wasn't doing the best thing for his life. And where he really was excited about was business and growing that more. And you kind of read a bridge across roads where you have to kind of choose, like be the ultimate in your business or try to be the best in bodybuilding. And which one's going to lead you to more happiness and business? Was it like loved it, thrived? It doesn't mean you can't be involved in, you know, having a business related, uh, in bodybuilding. And so he stopped competing. Simple as that. So, uh, he's so much happier. So anyway, just things to consider. Right. Did you just tell my story or did someone else? I promise that that wasn't your story, but I guess it is your story, right? Yeah. It's similar. Um, but it's funny, like it's, it's, and I was, I was going to pull the like Southern Baptist, just preach amen and just like kind of reverberate. Right. But it's so true. Like the fulfillment and enjoyment. I know from my personal side of just being the coach and mentor that I get out of the sport of bodybuilding allows me to appreciate the sport that much more, even more so than when I was in it, pursuing it competitively myself. And that's kind of where thosEQuestions start to lead is like, where does that, why come for you? And I was a decent competitor, but it wasn't my purpose in the sport. And that's kind of where you start to see that. And I think what ended up happening, and I kind of want to pivot this into the last port part is it made me better at aligning with my athletes because I was able to pull that out of them and like build frameworks for them to execute on based on that. Why? And I think that coach athlete alignment is huge. And I think that's a huge one. I think there's like the ability to execute is a huge one and listening to your coach and just putting your head down and executing, but also communicating what's happening to you are like big aspects of that coach to athlete alignment. But I think when we're in tune with that, why it allows us to be better at serving the ones around us. And for me, it just made me an even better educator. It made me a better mentor to the coaches that work under me. It made me a better coach to the athletes that I work with. So it is pretty, very important to understand kind of what that is for you. Yeah, and just on that same line of thought is the coach athlete alignment that you bring up and making sure like part of your environment support system is the coach. And so for one, do you have all those people available to you? You know, someone that's kind of head of the entire program, nutrition and trening, PDs, all the oversight. Do you have like opposing coach that's kind of building out your multidisciplinary team, right? Do you have someone that's maybe doing PT work for you? Those are kind of your three big bucket type coaches that you might have around. But then you have those people. Great. Are you coachable? So you actually just because you have the best coaches there, they're not magicians, right? Like you do have to be able to be open and adherent and listen to them, but also have coaches that can take your feedback as well. So there's a balance in being, you know, open lines of communication. And then within that, being able to execute out those plans. So I've had some athletes with great potential that just aren't that coachable. It's almost like they, you know, too much for the that's like, and almost a detriment to you. So just to just to tack on a bit there, Luke, about, you know, coach athlete relationship. But you brought up something else in how your change of pursuit went into coaching. And part of that in work, I want to bring up the financial side of this. So important. That's gosh, I will earlier on just wanted it to work. And, you know, I just I'm going to do a prep. And I remember when I first started working with with Matt Jansen, like I hadn't taken a lot of supplements that I probably should have been on. And he sends me a supplement list. I'm like, man, I can't afford all these supplements. So just that alone was already a bit overwhelming. So I'm like trying to budget and figure out costs like on the fly to make this work and just naive of what everything's going to entail. And now it's even cash. It's even more expensive to compete because there's the travel costs are so high. Or if you're a female, like, wow, like some of these suits are like a thousand dollars for a suit or more. So it's starting to like plan out and get educated on what is it going to look like budget wise to compete? Because the worst thing you want to do is get towards your last weeks and have budget limitations to where you can't really execute your prep the way that you want to. So it might be like, hey, maybe you need to save up and make sure that you can push back the timeline and then you can go all in on your prep that way. But I had a girl at the gym a while back. She was like using credit cards to buy supplements and like tack up this like thousands of dollars of bills in her credit card just for a prep. And then after the show, like she even stopped competing after that because it wasn't for her. And now she left all these bills. It's like, gosh, what was what was the purpose of all that to dig you into a hole? So I think being in a good financial position, that freedom from that will just create a lot less stress and let you be more productive in turn in your prep. Yeah. You talk about like the life audit. I think that financial piece has to be part of that life audit. Absolutely. 100%. I don't have much more to add. Like, it's just so important. Yeah, I know. I'm AI'm a big preacher of like Dave Ramsey's financial piece of adversity. So I love his little podcast clips, like the ones that come on Instagram. They're so and they're yeah. Yeah, I think this. Yeah. So plug like we're not financial advisors even close to it. So you want some like some good basic financial like framework to work with. And I think Dave Ramsey has some some good stuff. And then, of course, if you're if you're business owners like Luke and I, you're probably already have your financial advisor and you don't need something elementary like like that. But anyway, the basics apply here. You know, don't buy stuff that you don't have money in the bank for. So exactly. And that all inclusive to your your bodybuilding prep needs. I think that wraps it up. Yeah, I believe so. I was trying to think if there's anything else that we we really left out there. But I think the big piece to this was the big life audit that a lot of people don't consider. And just thinking about your your the physical side when if you don't have all the environmental side, you know, and the why behind it, those aren't all lined up. It's going to bleed into the physical side because this is all interrelated. So go through this this podcast, make your check loss list and see if you have any of these items that need to be addressed and try to keep optimizing your contest prep. Leave any comments, questions down below. We'll address those. And next week will be men's health week. And so we're going to address like just burnout identity and the mentorship that you never got as a male coming up to see out your the business side, the bodybuilding side and everything around that topic. So look forward to that conversation and we'll talk to you next week.