 arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement arrangement bodybuild instead of just invest time into working more where we probably make more money, advance our lives and then afford bodybuilding. But we're going to try to make it all work even when we're poor. So that's when Luke and I are going to talk about today is how can you bodybuild on a budget? Or maybe you're just, you know, very thrifty and you just want to bodybuild on a budget anyway, even though you're totally loaded with money. So let's dive into our conversation of where some first areas are going to be highly expensive for bodybuilding and Luke, have you bodybuild on a budget before? Oh my gosh, man, I have been broke as shit trying to bodybuild. I think I remember we were in Tampa and I was in grad school at USF and I was living off of money that I had made working as an engineer my senior year of undergrad and some time after graduating. And you're like watching that account go down and down and down as you're in grad school where you're like not making money volunteering as a strength and conditioning coach because you're at the bottom of the totem pole. You're in grad school. I'm getting to the school at like 445 in the morning and leaving at 8pm and you're like no other room for like work to get some income flow other than the clients I was working with at the time, which was not many at that point. And you're just like, I don't know where my next dollar is coming from, but we're going to figure this out. And I think, I think where this starts and I love this topic because I do think it can teach you a lot about being a really good bodybuilder if you do it well. I think mastering the basics of becoming a really good bodybuilder for a lot of athletes comes in this timeframe if it's done in the right way. And that's because it forces you to simplify the process. And this is what I love about this timeframe is you really develop through mistakes that you make because you're oftentimes you're earlier in your process, but you also learn how to be a better bodybuilder because of you having to be so tight on your margins. And I think a lot of places where this happens is just to kind of start is simplification of the nutrition process and executing that on the day to day because you don't have extra money to go have meals out to eat. You don't have extra money to spend on the, you know, popular food for the, if it fits your macros trend. It's really just like extremely simple, same meals every day and bought in bulk. And that's kind of, I think where you start this budget conversation is with the food. And you know, I think right before I touch budget, I mean, food, I want to touch budget because you brought it up is that that's where you have to be extremely versed in is being able to manage a budget to begin with. Um, for the one that's just like, if the money's here, then I'm going to go buy things. You'll quickly run out of money. So I think like what I would need to know before is like, what is the money that's going to be available for the month? And then breaking down your, you know, your necessities of what has to go out, then kind of what's left over. And then you have an exact amount per week of what, you know, you can put into food or gym or supplements or whatever it may be. And that's the process that should even start to take place. Um, I'm a big, like Dave Ramsey fan. And there even is the every dollar budget app, um, or what some people still go back to is the old school of like cash and envelopes to where you absolutely have right in front of you of like what you can spend when you go to the grocery store. Uh, but knowing, I think at least that of what you have to spend, uh, is going to be the start point. And then from there we can get as thrifty as humanly possible. And I think the most expensive aspect is going to be the nutrition side and grocery shopping, which I think is a great place to start. And, uh, for one, um, for me at least I lived at home till I was like 25 because I, I wanted to maximize my training. Cause don't get me wrong. Like why would I move out just to live, you know, 15 minutes from my parents still. And, but I'll have my own place. Cool. But now I can't afford food. It's like, no way I want gains, man. So I'm gonna live my parents and I'm going to eat meals at home or utilize their food when I can. So think about that. Um, but of course, you know, move to the schooling that you need to advance your career, but that's, uh, at least the start point of how can you bum off your parents before you need to, uh, get other food elsewhere. Uh, then from there I would be looking to like, how can you buy, you know, bulk food? And yeah, you know, that might be a Costco membership where you could get like large packs of rice and chicken meats, uh, at a little bit cheaper cost and stock up. Uh, the issue is like, maybe you don't have that income to put out from, from a big buy perspective upfront. Um, then you might need to be just going and buying like individual stuff. But I think the Costco membership to like a bulk food supplier could be a good way to go. At least the start. Yeah. I think that's one. And I've seen, I've even seen people go to like restaurant depots to get chicken. Yeah. Have you ever done that before? Um, yeah, you can get like chicken at like a dollar 80 a pound sometimes like $2 a pound. And it is a lot. I mean, but it's, it's the same thing you're going to run into, right? Like if you don't have the cash up front to buy that bulk, then you're probably not going to be able to do that. But that's another like version of being able to buy quite a bit and keep it extremely budget friendly. If buying in bulk is, is a way that you can kind of go about this process. And if you can't, that's okay. Go to your local grocery stores, you know, shop around, look for coupons that they have as well, but just go ask the butcher, like when's the last day right before you discount meats? Like they'll tell you, um, and give you some idea of when you should be going and shopping for your meats. Cause I'll, I'll go to the store. I'll see like 50% off on this one today because it's coming up on its date that he needs to be sold by. Um, then you can just freeze it. So ask the butcher, you know, and that's been the expensive part of grocery shopping is going to be meats, which chicken is going to be the, the go-to, uh, chicken breast gives you a better opportunity to, to adjust macros a bit more. However, chicken thighs are still going to be viable and cheaper. Uh, but there's just more fat to them. But again, if you're in this stage of life where you're trying to budget that much, I don't think a contest prep is going to be happening. You're probably extended offseason would be ideal. So chicken thighs might be, you know, very much the route to go here for a protein source. Like when I see like, man, to get like lean ground beef, like beef is pretty pricey now. Fish is super pricey as well. Turkey can be okay, but still chicken is like the go-to cheap option that would be one of my primaries that I would be utilizing. And if I need extra fats, I've just put like olive oil to my meals to keep that simple. Or even peanut butter would be really cheap. Um, you might look at eggs, you know, buying large amounts of eggs could, could be caught like a little bit more effective or even tuna. The other thing of eating too much tuna all the time, you might be accumulating a lot of lead, uh, mercury, not lead mercury. Um, that's a mercury. Yeah. I had, I had my old manager at GNC. He actually got mercury poisoning from eating like tuna three times a day when he was in college trying to bodybuild. So it's like, it's a thing. So, um, yeah, just, uh, be mindful of, of that. Uh, wouldn't do it too, too often, but I think, you know, tuna, eggs, chicken, these are probably protein sources that would be ones to go to. You might be able to get some whey protein that could be relatively at a cost, you know, effective. It's just like, don't look for like the whey isolate hydrolyzed way. Like you don't need that. You know, it's okay if it has a little bit more carbs and fats to it. Again, it's just trying to be thrifty here and get, get protein sources in. Yeah. I think that, um, again, this is like the simplification of the process. Right. And so then that comes to the carbohydrate sources is like rice. You can buy in big bulks of, of bags for like 20, 25 bucks. And it, it lasts you for forever. And, um, I think that should be probably the primary source of that. You can actually get oats pretty cheap as well. Like don't go for the fancy, like flavored oats in the packets and like all that crap. Like just a quick one minute oats of the grocery store brand. Cause the grocery store brand is always cheaper than like the brand names and just have that be your, you know, source of food for carbohydrates as oats and, um, rice. Like if you have some wiggle room in your budget, I do think some sort of fruit would be good for micronutrients. And I think that's something you could consider, but fruits do get pretty expensive. And if you're going that route again, looking for the fruits that are on sale and then macro matching it to your, your diet as, as you can, can, I would, I would look at frozen first just because they, they likely could be cheaper a lot of times. Um, and that way they last cause that's another thing to consider is food waste, which you don't want anything going bad because that's lost money. So look at your frozen fruits as that could be an option. Um, or if you do find a deal on some fresh fruit, freeze it, it's, it's the same thing as buying frozen in the store. So, um, I think you can fit those things in even, even vegetables, like some vegetables are cheap, like, uh, like cooked spinach is, is so cheap frozen. That's one of the cheapest ones that I ended up going with on a budget to have some type of like veggie in place. Um, and yeah, I think through those, you can absolutely, uh, be thrifty things, things to not the aisles to not go down would be, unfortunately, um, you don't need sodas. You don't need all the sugar-free flavoring stuff. Like, like Renee and I will go to Walmart and like, if you looked at our shopping cart, it would be all like chemicals of like all the sugar-free crap that you don't need is like where you find at Walmart. So it's like, you don't need any of that, you know, and that stuff's super costly that cuts a big chunk out of the budget. So unfortunately you just need to do more, just like a little bit blander stuff. Um, even condiments, you don't need condiments, just use salt, pepper, garlic, um, or be thrifty wherever you're going around. If you're at school and have mustard packets around, we'll grab some mustard packets and, uh, you know, borrow some from wherever they're giving them out at. Um, so I think there's, there's a lot of things that are easy to waste money at the grocery store, uh, that could add up to. Yeah. I think that's, I really liked the money in the envelope thing because it gives you a finite amount to be able to spend so that you don't go down that path of spending it on like the sugar-free options and, and all these other, uh, non necessity things, um, that you could potentially have. And I think it's funny, like, cause if you know me now, you know, like Starbucks is my thing. And it's like, when I was in grad school, I didn't allow myself to drink coffee because I didn't want to spend the money on the coffee. Right. And that was like going through school and being, uh, uh, street the conditioning coach and barely sleeping. Like I still didn't spend that money because at that time, like all my funds was going towards bodybuilding. So it was like something so simple that now, like I had the luxury to enjoy, but it just wasn't in the budget at the time. And I'm not saying that's what you have to do, but it's just, this is the kind of things that you might need to sit to the side to, to be able to do this. And, um, I think like pivoting off of, of food. Well, I guess we could talk about like meals out. I think the last piece would be like not indulging in meals out and like the big cheat meals as a part of your process. Like you could just add more food into your plan if you need more food. Yeah. Um, but Luke, I have a date. Where do I take her? It's like, sorry, we're bodybuilding girls, distractions. Um, but yeah, you know, if you have the money, then you have the money for that. You're trying to be that thrifty. Well, maybe you're packing a picnic and we're all bodybuilding food on our, on our date night picnic. Uh, but another idea that came to mind would also be, you know, when I was in high school, I worked at a Mexican restaurant from, man, I was a bus boy to a waiter to expo to a bartender and we get food, we get food there. Um, that's, you know, there's mess ups and orders. It's like, Hey, there's a chicken fajita plate that we had an extra one. Like perfect. Like I get chicken fajitas. Right. Um, so you might consider places of employment. If you're, you know, you're in school and you're coming up, you just need jobs where it would be beneficial around your bodybuilding. And of course, around your financial aspects. Um, like I also worked at GNC for a long time because I would not, because I would get discounts and supplements, but it was the extra perk or you get returns of things and Hey, that's a, that's a product that I could take home. So, you know, think about where you might be able to, to leverage that with where you can work. Um, I think places where you worked with food, because at least like here in Texas, we have H-E-B that's our main grocery store. They get huge discounts on, on their groceries. I think it's like A-50% discount on their groceries. Like, Oh my gosh, if I knew that I would have gone to work at H-E-B back then. I wouldn't have worked at GNC. I wouldn't have worked in a Mexican restaurant. I would be working at the grocery store and that would have saved so much money. So yeah, think, think about where you can work to, to get some extra perks and discounts. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and live Q and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. I think from there, it's probably like recovery habits. Cause that, that's, that, that could be a pretty big money sink if you're not careful. Don't you think? Yes. Also completely free. If you want to utilize the great ones, I know. Um, which is, I think where the conversation goes, like as much as like, it's really cool to have needling and all of these fancy, like light therapies and massages and things along those lines. I think there's a lot that happens before that to manage your recovery capacity that would go just like a really, really long way in regards to proper programming and sleep habits and consistent hydration. And even just taking care of your body from a movement prep perspective as a part of your programming that are all free things to do. Like the, the biggest thing that you're spending on these are time and yes, you don't get time back, but man, you talk about a really good investment of your time. It's like, it's keeping you out of the need for a lot of these other things you're having to spend to help with recovering on your process. Easily just prior towards your sleep. Like I think young people are terrible with sleep. Um, and that would have been a huge one. Just keeping for me just a consistent sleep routine. Like I'd stay up really late. I get up really late after that and it'd be inconsistent too. So just having that in place would go really far for progress. Um, if foam rolling would be plenty for like, if you need a tissue work and then like hot tub, hot bath soaks also would, would aid. And it's just another free thing, free thing that you, you could do too. Um, so, and I think, you know, uh, after that, of course there's gym memberships to consider. Um, of course, you know, it, it adds up of course, but there's also like when I was in school, like we get access to our, like a rec center and, um, or if you're like Luke, you probably were had access to the athletic, uh, gym to, to train. So I feel like training could be easily done without a gym membership. If depending on what, where your current stage of life is now, if you, if you do need to get a gym membership, there's nothing wrong with going to like a gym. That's half the price. Like I have a gym membership to anytime fitness that I use when I travel or just need a quick workout in it's completely sufficient to make a ton of progress in, and you don't need like the highest end gym around that you're paying a hundred bucks a month for hell gym membership. Now I probably just the basic one, a hundred bucks a month, but I think, I think our anytime, I wouldn't say it's like 50 a month or something like that. Um, that's crazy. That's maybe, maybe it's 40 a month. I forget. But, uh, anyway, uh, you absolutely could find, you know, a more affordable gym membership and don't need all the, all the bells and whistles for the fancy membership that most of that stuff you're not going to utilize anyway. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's, and that's kind of where a lot of this starts to come from is like simplification of the process again is, is making sure that you get the most out of what you have. And, um, you can go a long ways by doing things right on the forefront with a gym. That's not extremely, um, versatile. And I think that that's kind of like the big thing to understand when it comes to managing that cost. Like, sure. It's cool to see the Instagram videos of like the bad-ass bodybuilding gym. That's $150 a month to join, but it's just not in your, in your cards at the moment. And a lot of these gyms have free training days. Like they'll, they'll open up during one, one week during the month of like letting people come train for free for a day. So you can go get your scratch that itch on those days and then go back to your anytime and, and kind of go through that process. But, um, I think that's a big aspect to manage because it's easy to fall into the trap of what is everybody else doing and where is everybody else training? Um, and then spending a larger portion of your budget on it. Um, I think the next one is something that you got to consider as a coach as well. When you're understanding the client on incoming, like what is the flexible budget for supplementation slash PDs? And I think this is where if, if you're fitting coaching into your budget as a part of this process, whether you're just looking at your own process as an athlete or working on this with a coach, you have to, which is where having this budget is really important. Be extremely objective about how much flex money you have to spend on the supplemental side of the process. Yeah, I agree. Uh, when I was younger, I wasted way too much money on supplements. I could not have taken like just a, like even a fraction of what I did back then. Like you're looking at the latest pre-workouts and things that I thought were going to be impactful that just truly weren't. Um, I would find just a, a creatine monohydrate, a multivitamin in an omega-3 supplement. I would, I think that's the only three things that I would take then. And that would be extremely cost effective. And I w I wouldn't take some fancy sports based multi either. I would probably get a one a day and, um, I would want a quality omega-3, but then I would also like get just a, a reasonable brandy, like creatine monohydrate. That's all you really need. You know, if you need a boost for like training, drink some coffee, that's going to be cheaper than a pre-workout drink. And, uh, I think that would save just, gosh, that would have saved me a ton of money then. Um, I think having a coach would have gone really far for progress, but again, that was something that I wasn't going to have a budget for. And, but if you do, absolutely. That would make a big difference. Just find a coach within your level and someone that it could be a newer coach that still does a good job, but that's just someone that can give you the time. And that's, what's going to really progress you. Now, if you don't have money for a coach, that's also okay. I would join a community that could help give you some guidance and we're a community join the J3U forum. It's $20 a month. We have people that post their full training programs and be like, John Luke, what do you think about this? And we're like, here, change this and improve this. Or they post their pictures and like, what do you think? Like you need to work on these areas. And so like we're guiding people and giving them coaching advice for only 20 bucks a month. Like that's extremely reasonable. And you get access to hundreds and hundreds of questions that we've answered to help guide you. There's plenty of other communities too, that would be like beneficial to join or even apps that around, you know, from quality coaching, you know, teams that would help also give you some guidance too. So that's what kind of like the areas that I would be looking at. And then reading is free. So I would just be trying to self-educate as much as possible. And from, from quality resources or listening to podcasts like the J3U podcast to, you know, just deem more education, improve your own, your own process. But, but Luke, you, you brought up PDs and that is going to be the tougher one to budget in and people do budget them in, right? So it would be going with extreme basics of the cheapest of the cheap, which is just going to be like testosterone cycles. Um, that might just be using the, not being able to afford the primo to go alongside it. It might just be using the AI to control, you know, estrogen growth hormones probably off the table because you probably don't know the right guy that gets you the cheap growth hormone. Um, anyway, so you're kind of left with doing some, some pretty basic stuff at that point, but, but doable. Yeah, definitely doable. I think it's, I think it's just like understanding, like that's kind of what's in your ballpark. And again, it's kind of where I think this needs to be said, um, cause we mentioned it earlier, but you shouldn't be trying to prep in, in this scenario. Yeah. I, I, I don't think it's, it's smart. You're just leaving so much on the table in regards to being able to bring the best package to stage. Plus when you actually get to showtime, like man, just like, especially if the show's not in your hometown, like tan and show registration fees, especially nowadays, Jesus, it's, it's crazy. Like it's easily a couple grand to compete. And it's just like, if you're bodybuilding on a budget like this, like it's just not in the car. It's like, you're better off building your physique and making the first time you step on stage, something that's head turning. And I think that that's going to be the better investment of time and money. Absolutely. Invest your time into building a career to where you'll have the financial means later on to fully pursue bodybuilding to the absolute fullest you're able to, but just trying to half-ass like school work, bodybuilding is going to lead you to a lot of years of just half-assing or to not even have a career to fund bodybuilding. Then by the time you're old enough, you'll be too old anyway. So yeah, yeah. That's a one, one to truly, truly consider and think on that. If I was to go back, it would just like, Hey, put all your time into building a career. That's going to be able to fund bodybuilding. Stop trying to make bodybuilding. What's going to be funding your life? Uh, because that is the, the less liable one to happen for, for a lot of us. Um, but yeah, what, uh, other things around budget just to consider is, and this isn't direct things related around bodybuilding, but it's what's going to eat up a lot of your budget and not to get into just general life coaching here, but you know, live, live within your means just to begin with. I know coming up, you know, the hierarchy of needs is you want status and you kind of have to let that go, let ego go and just live a humble life and not give a shit about what people think about you when you're driving that beater Honda. That's like 15 years old, but you don't have a car payment and you have something that's reliable. Um, that's kind of be the way to go. You know, where could you limit your expenses, uh, to make the lifestyle and free up, um, you know, more finances towards, you know, bodybuilding or even having some savings would be ideal for a bat for a backup plan when, when kind of shit hits the fan. But same, same thing goes with like your, your living situations, your rent, like maybe you need roommates and finding, um, you know, someplace that isn't on the most awesome luxurious side of town, uh, to where you can save a little bit extra money. So anyway, not to get on a long tangent around that, but just absolutely live within your means and see where you can reduce, uh, spending in those other areas to free up, um, your budget. The worst thing that I see is having a, a paycheck that just barely covers your living expenses and you're just kind of paycheck to paycheck. It just makes it so tight that you have no freedom and your constant stresses around finances, which, um, is something that I never wanted. That's why I always started, I stayed at home. So I had that freedom and didn't have to feel that strain of, of just meeting in the meat or sometimes not like I had friends were like putting stuff on credit card and like, man, it's just digging the hole. It sounds so stressful. It's like, forget that. Like I, I never wanted to be in that situation, but, um, yeah, but, but budgeting will be key. Yeah. I think it's, I think it's a massive portion and especially like if you want to see your true potential in this longterm, like there's gotta be a cross point where you devote more money to it. So like develop that career so that you can do that. And if you guys have questions, like put them in the comments below, like hopefully for those of you on the budget side, like hopefully we see you in the forum so that we can help you. Like we've had people winning shows and winning pro cards in the forum that have prepped themselves off of the forum and our, our podcast episodes. Like I've had a couple of over the last few weeks that have reached out and thanked us for it. So hopefully we get to see you guys in there. Um, but if you guys have any questions, comments, like put them in the comments below and we'll be happy to answer. Thank you everyone. And we will talk to you next time.