 busting plateaus, busting plateaus, naringin, airborne, busting plateaus near your genetic potential. What's up everyone I am John Jewett from J3 University. We elevate physique education. And today we're going to dive into what you should do once you are reaching that genetic ceiling. And then you were moving from an intermediate more so to an advanced lifter. The progress is really starting to slow down. And you're having to pull more out of every single set to try to take advantage of your stimulus to drive progress. As we know, it can just become screeching to a halt. So we're going to look at a few different things like combo sets, resistance profiles, that really cater more to once you're getting more into the intermediate, advanced level, when the stuff, the nuanced stuff, starts to matter more. And let's dive in. A little framework here of the challenge of advanced progression is that progress is going to slow, and this is going to be normal. And it makes sure you kind of know where you are in progress, because a lot of people might think they're advanced when relatively they're not. I've had guys where they're like, man, I'm only adding one rep to my set, or I only went up 10 pounds in this session. You went up at all. That's amazing. So for a novice, this might be to where they're able to progress every single session. This could look like a rep added in the 10 to 20 rep range, or even some degree of load added to lower rep ranges. Why I differentiate is because in certain exercises, adding load could be a real challenge. Like for a dumbbell lateral, for a set of 10, it'd be really hard to go up to like from a 40-pound dumbbell to a 45-pound dumbbell, while adding five pounds on to a compound lift for a set of six. It's a very small percentage increase, so that's much more doable escalation. New moving to the advanced, the same type of progressions might be occurring, not quite every workout, but maybe every other workout. And then it just kind of tapers down as you get more advanced to where you're seeing slower progressions, and these might take several workouts to really occur. And I think you need to differentiate between getting advanced and getting stalled. And these are different things. People can stall for several reasons, which we'll dive into a little bit, but I want to just make sure you have the preface here of like, how do you even know you are advanced? As far as training goes, this is kind of where your logbook is very insightful to know that. Now, things that you need to do before you try to move to advanced programming is optimize your recovery first. So a lot of people do reach stalls simply because the training inputs there, but they're under-recovering and they're not able to adapt. I like to think of your recovery as being in a room with a ceiling. So let's pretend this is my ceiling. Ah, not very high, is it? So basically, I can fill in my room. The room is filling up with water with training stimulus, and at some point, I reach the ceiling. And basically, I can only have that much training stimulus present because my room is maxed out. So what we can do is like, hey, I'm only sleeping six hours a night. I miss meals during the week. I'm also extremely stressed. Like Renee, my wife, she's just on me nonstop all day, and I'm just constantly in a state of peril. So what we can do is how do we raise our ceiling? We need our remodelers come in. They're going to tear our roof off. They're going to raise it up to a 12-foot ceiling. As we nail our nutrition, we try to sleep seven to eight hours a night. We try to manage Renee the best that we can and be kind to her. And in turn, our eight-foot ceiling goes to this 12-foot ceiling. Guess what happens? We now have more room for training stimulus or better training stimulus that then creates adaptation. We now have the recovery resources to drive that to happen. And that very well could push you through when you're seeing slower progress and not necessarily meaning that you're advanced. You just need to advance your execution as a bodybuilder. A thing that I think is extremely important is track. This is when tracking has to be ideal because to know anything that we're talking about here, be able to assess whether your program's working or it's not. You need some data to look at, and your logbook is going to be the best tool to know if you're a novice, intermediate, advanced, and if that rate of progress is actually slowing, and if your last session was an adaptive stimulus that was enough for you to grow. Also, your logbook is very indicative of your recovery ability. So if you're not progressing your lifts here, and you're like, I feel absolutely smashed, well, likely you're under-recovered, and that's why your sessions aren't progressing. But if you're like, I feel amazing, and my sessions aren't progressing, likely you might need some more stimulus to occur. And the last thing I'll leave you with here before we dive into some techniques to move through these plateaus is be patient. It's going to take time. Like the skill set of training is one to master over a long time course, but also just reaching some peak muscularity is going to take a few years to really get there. Okay, so now getting into hypertrophy programming, what's kind of a first area that we can look to? And there's several areas is getting more advanced of things that you can start leveraging to improve your stimulus. Because basically we only have so much money to spend before we go bankrupt with our training stimulus. And what happens? Well, then you start accruing debt, and then the debt collector comes, and then you get kicked out of your house. You're no longer even allowed to train. So with basically training stimulus, you're allocated so many sets per week that you're able to implement for a body part, right? So I want to bring out my chest. I'm allocated eight sets for the week to do so. If I spend 10 sets, I already know that kind of pushes me beyond what I can recover from, and I'll quickly fall short and have to deload and et cetera. This leads into injuries. So as you get more advanced, you're going to notice this window really tightens up for your recoverable amount of training that you can program for. So you might have like, man, between like six and then to maybe 10 sets is where I can kind of work within. But we want to make sure you make the most out of every single one of those sets when you're advanced. Because you're easily, if you're not paying attention to things, you can train with like six crappy sets for one week, and you don't really get a stimulus that causes adaptation. So what's one way that we can really try to max out a stimulus of a set? And one thing is improving the resistance profile. Now this comes down to looking through our exercise selection. And again, for a beginner or intermediate, this isn't going to matter as much. Like a little stimulus goes a long way. Like you can have like not the best resistance profile as long as you train like full range and like get to failure. You're going to get plenty of growth out of that. But again, you need to get more specific as you get advanced. And what can work well is trying to get what we're aiming for is the most tension in the muscle, ideally throughout the full range of motion. But there might be a preferential bias to making sure that we're loading that length and range, when that muscle is fully stretched out. Because what we're seeing a lot in the current hypertrophy literature is that at training at long muscle lengths with also peak tension creates more muscle growth than having more tension at shorter ranges and not a lot of tension on those long muscle lengths. With that being said, we can start looking at exercises we might want to be swapping to that can align with that really well. And so one example here would be a cable lateral raise set to align resistance with arm position at the start. So if you had your cable, we want to set it up to where it runs right in the beginning of your lateral when you're coming up at 90 degrees with the arm. So it's really hard at the beginning. Then as you come up, this cable kind of lines up with the delt and drops off some. This would have training high tension at long muscle lengths. Another example of this is maybe you've been doing just standing dumbbell curls. Well, when you stand there with a dumbbell, how does it feel? What's your tension on your biceps? Like, oh, it's like no challenge at all. Then as you're coming up, you hit 90 degrees. Then it gets really hard. Then it kind of drops off a little bit, right? Well, we could change this to do a biasing curl. Probably saying that wrong, a basing curl, which is a single arm cable curl. Could be a dual cable curl if you have the setup for it. But same idea is that pretty much relatively at the start of the curl, you have this cable meeting the upper arm at 90 degrees. So you get peak tension right at the start, the long muscle length. Then as you curl up, it lets off a bit when the muscle's getting short and can't produce as much force. So now we're seeing that this resistance profile matches the strength profile really well of the muscle. Another application here would be looking at variable loading machines. These would be like your pry machines or some Panada pieces work, just fit the profile really well too. But what I like to do is go in the gym and look through these machines and how they operate. And ideally, like you have a machine that has some type of pivot arm on it where you load plates onto. Well, typically when this pivot arm is parallel to the ground and it's longest length parallel to the ground, so as this comes up and this weight's moving upward, it gets over the pivot arm, and now it doesn't have a lot of load to it. Well, ideally, when the muscle's at its longest length, right, your arm's stretched out, we also have that pivot point at parallel to the ground to where it has its most tension, its most resistance there. So we can start trying to find machines that align really well to load muscle at its long muscle length. The variable machines are great too. These are like your prime machines. So if you have a prime back row piece with three different pegs on it, your top peg, usually at the start of the movement, it's going to be really hard, so it loads lengthened, which is what you'd want, and then drop off as the muscle's shortening and the muscle can't produce as much force. So this is a way that we're taking now a set and making it more effective because you're going to get more mechanical tension throughout the broader spectrum of that rep range. And ideally, when you have these exercises set up right, when you're approaching failure, normally when you fail, you'll see something like you'll curl, and then something might get a little slow, then it might speed up really quickly as you get better leverage or the resistance drops off. With variable loading or when you match at a long muscle length the tension, what you'll notice is throughout the entire range of motion, it's going to be a grinder rep, meaning like you're matching the output of the muscle exactly with the resistance. So when I'm setting up like these prime machines, that's what I'm looking for in that last rep to finish. So if I'm doing a row and I'm pulling it right at the start, it's like super hard. I'm just kind of going the whole time until I finish the rep, and I can still complete the rep. With, say, a normal like barbell row, it's usually like you row it up like halfway, and it's like that's kind of it. Then maybe you go for another one, and you only get up a quarter of the way. Because it's so heavy off the bottom, it doesn't lighten up at the top. So with these, we are able to extend the set a little bit because it's not fatiguing out certain ranges as quickly either. Now, another thing that we would consider too is as you get more advanced, it's starting to swap out more of your traditional lifts that are free bar based into ones that could be more machine based. Because that's just the reality of it is that some of these old school bodybuilding lifts that we love or even powerlifting lifts can be great for hypertrophy, but also they're very systemic stimulus. So a barbell squat on your back like you're having to, for one, brace the entire upper body, the core, you're bracing your lats, the delts have tension in them as well, contracting your biceps to keep the bars stabilized. Then in turn, you're loading your rectors, you're loading your glutes, you're loading your quads. Your calves are having to create contraction as well. So it's a lot of muscular contracting, which creates a lot of systemic fatigue. It can make you feel gassed having to do enough volume. And then what happens? It's like, well, hell, I'm only trying to squat for my quads. It's like, yeah, but why are you training everything else then if you only need to build up your quads? You might need to get a bit more specific and get into machines that are a bit more braced to relieve some of the loading off of all these muscle, other muscle groups. So you'll be able to improve your volume quality for that specific muscle group. So example here might be moving from your barbell squat to like a hack squat or a pendulum squat. Or if you've been doing barbell RDLs, I love them, but you might want to move to just machine hamstring curl work or maybe even Smith machine RDLs as it can remove some of that bracing requirement of that lift. If you've been doing bent over rows, moving to like a chest supported T-bar row. And lastly, like another thing to address here would be tension drop-off points of different lifts. So we're talking about matching resistance profiles and strength profiles. Like with a dumbbell bench, like you see my hand is out farther from my shoulder. So there is some loading that's going to occur for my front delt, for my chest. But as I press a dumbbell up, what do you see? My fist now aligns with my shoulder. So there's no loading that's really happening necessarily for the chest to contract more to bring the dumbbell over, right? The joints are stacked. So at this part of the range and very top of the bench press, it kind of becomes more of this tricep lockout. So if you're really focusing as a more advanced athlete of like, hey, I don't need the systemic growth anymore of front delts and triceps and chest. I really just want chest out of my dumbbell bench. Maybe we consider tension drop-off points to where we're just pressing out of the bottom, maybe three quarters of the way up, and we don't exhaust ourselves with the lockout where there's not a lot of loading being present. We just stay in this kind of partial length and range of motion to pull the most out of the set. Now, this video has gone on a little bit longer than I expected here. So I'm going to leave us off here at improving the resistance profiles. In our next education series on this, I'm going to jump into combo sets and how you can apply these into your programming.