 Welcome, let's jump in to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. John Jewel. And I'm your cohost, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Based your next split on what show day revealed. We are here today to talk about how do you trenslate your stage look, what you need to improve in, and that actually put that into a program that's going to make those changes occur. Have you done a gun too quickly to jump into a gun too quickly to jump into something different and completely revamp the system where they may be they didn't need to. And how should we be looking back on what worked well and implement that in the program ahead. So Luke. What's up. Tell me. You're just telling me for we're on the podcast. Your trening is taking off. Yeah. And you're enjoying again. What is. What is. What did your split. What are you doing. It's four days. It's kind of built around trening with Colton. So I was like, all right, these are the days I can probably tren with you at this time. So it was like Monday, Tuesday, Friday. And I was like, what do you tren on the days? He's like, legs, legs, and back. And I was like, great. So it's kind of built around that. And I plug, push in kind of in the week based on kind of where I can fit it in. So it's either Thursday or Saturday. Usually I do push. So it's four days a week. But honestly, man, it's like it's the first time I've loved trening, like loved, loved trening. Again, in probably over two years. And I, you know, with a lot of this, I think even our topic today, it is about why we probably all started. This is just loving to tren. Yeah. And that's usually this guys you see that end up doing the best in bodybuilding. What, what in this, this new setup for you or not even the setup, but what is it about now that is making you love trening and excited to go into the gym? Yeah. Yeah. I think it's just like getting back to my roots of purely bodybuilding trening, like stepping away from the sport. I felt like this pull to try to like try new things, which was horrible. I should have never tried new things. I should have just like kept trening. But I'm also trening pain free. I've gone through a few injuries in the last year that have made trening really tough. Like not being able to fully squat, not being able to fully hinge because of some of it, which is like for me, like what gets me up out of bed in the morning, especially squatting. Um, so there's an enjoyment factor to that. And I think that's kind of the big thing. And I think it's something you can trenslate into this conversation because in programming, like I think one of the reasons I love programming so much is there's the analytical nuts and bolts piece of it. And then there's the emotion, passion, enjoyment portion of it. And we have to overlay those in order to create the best solution. Um, and it's such an interesting dynamic, but for me, that's definitely why I like to be able to squat pain free. Now it's like the first time I've strung together five weeks of squatting pain free in probably over a year is really nice. That's awesome to hear. And I, I think for so many people that is just be able to string together successful trening, especially as you get older. Uh, but that, that is like the core principle. I think even with dieting is going to be sustainability and enjoyability. And if you have those things, especially if you enjoy what you're doing and it's something that's set up to where you can continue doing it without breaking down or getting injured, that's going to be a trening plan. That's going to lead to results because you can be consistent with it. And so with yourself and even with what we're talking about today, I think that that's, that's the core principle. What we should probably start looking at is, you know, what were you doing over your past program from that worked well? And where did it kind of fall apart and how does that align with your, your stage needs? Right. So maybe we start this off like, well, you're coming off stage and you were told you have gaps. Yeah. And so you have these gaps. What do we do about them? Where's our, where's our first step here? Yeah. It's an interesting dynamic to manage because I think there's certainly a component of you have to keep your strong body parts strong. Like you don't want to go so far down the rabbit hole specialization that we push the potential for maybe regression or barely maintenance in like those really strong body parts. Um, I see a lot of this when they, when someone wins their first overall and they kind of go into pursuing the pro card, it's like they get off that stage. Right. And they're like, ah, I'm losing the side chest because of my hamstring and classic physique. And it's like, well, you know, there's a lot more to the side chest than just the hamstring. Right. And so this is where the needs analysis portion comes into play for me is because I actually do a pose by pose breakdown relative to the previous year now and relative to what we were on stage to the other people that we beat or the standard of that level that you're at. So Olympia, if you're a pro or national winner, if you're an amateur level athlete. Right. And so what those two comparisons tell me is if I worked with you in the all season from like right after your last show to this one, did the program design that we do bring the physique up in the ways that we wanted it to answer that? Yes or no. If no, you kind of need to look into why. Um, was there injury profiles? Was there, um, anything that could have prevented that? And then secondarily, I confirm this with, are we moving the physique of direction in the direction of being morecompetitive or not? And then that's kind of when we start to review, like what was done over the last year. And really, I think we need to start with what can we pull from the previous year that worked rather than starting from a blank slate. And you've been working with someone like this, in my opinion. Yeah, I think that's a great start point. Because I know a lot of times we're just looking ahead of like, what is the next program that I should be doing? And we see like in the J3 forums, people post up their new split layouts all the time, but you never see what they were previously doing and how that was working. And that is such a valuable data to have. And I think that is a good takeaway for people is that you also to not be changing your program so often that you can't pull away something from that to be able to assess. Like you need time for this to work. And for many of us, especially listeners, that you're likely in that intermediate phase where it's going to take a while to see a program kind of play out in the results that it produces. And that's going to be several months, which very well, like Luke is saying, comparing from an off-season to an off-season or, you know, better, like what did it trenslate to progress on stage? So you can see that kind of change. And maybe the stage shots aren't necessarily the best ones because stage shots are very right. But maybe you have your same setup, home setup in same phase and body fat that you can compare it to and be like, oh yeah, man, my back really came up this past year. But this body part didn't. And then you can look at, oh yeah, well, I was doing 30 sets of back. Like maybe I don't need to be doing 30 sets of back now. Okay. Back down to 20. And man, my side delts really didn't move much. Oh, well, I was only doing six sets of side delts and they were at the end of push day. It's like, all right, so where should we move some volume around here? That's the example of how you should be thinking about looking at your physique across months of time, looking at your program of how the volume was set up and where you might consider reallocating it. Now, with that being said, if you are beginner, intermediate, but hell, even advanced, it's not also just about shifting volume around because that is like the nuts and bolts on paper of programming. But there's also, I like to call it the art of trening or just what is thEQuality of that set? If you want to get more on an analytical side, how are you applying that tension within the set? And is it quality? Because just because you're doing only six sets of side delts, maybe it was a really shitty set of side delts as well. So, you know, could we improve the exercise choice and the loading profile? Well, also, like Luke mentioned, were you running into injury issues or, you know, like for myself on side delts, like my forearm gets beat up if I'm doing dumbbells or cables and things. So it needs to be like a lateral machine. So that's like a limiting point for me. Or maybe you did get injured, you tweaked something. Like, why did that happen? Is there a movement pattern that we need to address or some type of dysfunction? And those are going to be put in to the plan. But I think, you know, before people want to just jump to move in volume around and split around, also assess, like, what is your quality? And that's where the video analysis piece should really be there for you being able to assess. And more people that I work with, this is the key component of improving thEQuality of that volume, not just moving the, you know, sell sheet around and the numbers around. 11 times out of 10, John. It's like if there is a problem, it is in almost every scenario has something to do with one execution or two picking the right movements for the way that individual moves so that they can drive a higher quality stimulus and then not have a glass ceiling above them. And, like, from a performance perspective and seeing progressions over time, progressions in the way that we deliver mechanical tension. So I would, this is, like, the one place that IMight have an absolute is there is no one I have come across that has perfected trening. So, no, in or it slips, like, even for myself, like, you, you slip back into old patterns or the pendulum swings a bit. You, like, start chasing a bit more load reps and form sacrifices a bit. You're like, I'm just moving weight. Like, I don't even feel my chest getting any type of much stimulus as it was. Like, I'm losing the pump. All right. Then you move to a new exercise. Like, oh, man, this one connects so well. Why is that? It's probably because you start to get more intentional again, moving to something that's a little more novel. So about 100%. Like, this is the time post-show to reset the form if it's been slipping and just be more intentional with the exercise choices that you are making and making sure those choices also are ones that you can sustain and not fall back into previous injury profiles. I've started doing this recently just real quick on this point. Like, I said this to Colton this week or last week. I started doing this with my athletes over the last couple months. It's like when we, let's say we're doing a progression model where if it's like an 8 to 12 rep, we get to rep 12 or 13. That's when we move load up. Like, treating the load jumps as form resets. Like, you should earn the ability to be able to do that load jump and you need to, like, film it all angles, fully reset form, make sure that you're delivering the stimulus with this increase in load. Because that's honestly where it starts to slip, right? It's like you put a new load on the movement pattern. You want to hit a logbook number or you want to get it in your rep range. And so, like, the hips start moving on the lyinGHand curl or the head starts going backwards and forwards on the chest press. And so I've been using that recently and it's been helping a lot. Like, it slows the progression rate down, but it slows it because it's more accurate, which is a great reason for it to slow down. Yeah, I'm post-show right now and my constant struggle has been chest development. And one thing just going into this is like, all right. And it came from my buddy, Matt, that I was helping with his trening because injuries crop up a lot. So we really slowed down his eccentric to trensition to concentric. And he's like, man, my pumps are, like, crazy now. Like, and not that we're chasing pumps, but just meaning, like, hey, there's a really strong stimulus going to the target muscle. It's like, well, why is that? It's like, well, we can keep form more locked in. You're more intentional, right? So I'm like, all right, let me slow down my stuff, right? Let me really make sure I have the right cues. And lo and behold, it's like, oh, wow, my chest is getting smoked now in a set. I'm like, all right. Every session I go into, it's like I reference the logbook. I know what I did more so so I can set it up appropriately. But in the set, it's still, like, nailing the execution, not thinking about the next rep that I need to hit to make sure the logbook progresses. It's the next rep is can I keep squeezing this peck how I need to. And I hate using those terms. It sounds very bro in that, like, I'm now, like, a pump chaser. And that's not the case at all. But when you are, like, have a form that's very standardized, that's locked in, that's tardying the muscle you want to, that's what you should be chasing these sessions. And then the load and rep progressions you will realize as you're more advanced will come very slow. And just like now, I'm post-show, and there's a lot of times I'm not making progressions. And I am just totally fine just leaving the same load on. And when the reps come, they come. And I'd rather have that progress up than just chasing loads so quickly, which seems like when I chase load quick, that's when I really lose the intention of where I want the tension to go. So that's been a big change for me. It's like I nearly am doing, like, four-second eccentrics on all my lifts now. But, man, the trening quality has been really high. And maybe we should talk about these kind of generalities of volume start points when you are coming off your show. I can speak to, like, my own case of what I've done, but maybe as a general piece of, like, all right, you're done with your show. Here's your trening you led into peak week with. What do you do kind of after your show, knowing you do need to make a change because you have some gaps in development. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. I think the start point is the week leading into peak week, kind of where that volume set total is for each body part. Probably cumulative shouldn't exceed that total number of sets. So this is going to look like maybe trading sets, right? So like maybe let's say delts is the issue. Like maybe we trade a few back sets for delts sets or whatever, right? Vice versa. And so we do those changes according to the order of priority, which if you guys have been through level one, you've seen how I build out an order of priority on a needs analysis. But that's kind of like step one. And then step two is I just don't like massive increases in frequency. A lot of injury profiles crop up with frequency being too high and sustained for too long. And in my opinion, the post-show phase, like the immediate phase of trening post-show is meant to like set the framework and the groundwork of logbooks and execution and a close resemblance of what you're going to tren in the push phase. But it might not be the maximum frequency that you're going to drive, especially when you start looking at those like ticky-tacky movements, like the ones that get added to sessions to hit your total volume landmark for the week. Those are like probably the two pitfalls I see is like frequency too high and then volume too high because they see that gap and they just throw a ton at it. So my start point is always reference the trening leading into peak week. That's going to be pretty close to my start point from there. And I know that it's a safe start point because they should have been recovering from it leading into peak week. Now, the caveat is like picking someone up from a different coach that might change it a little because there's recovery metrics you would need to discuss on how well they're recovering at that point. But yeah, that's typically going to be the start point for me. Yeah. One key thing you said of like if I had someone like, where do I start trening this week that they just came off a show? And I was like, well, I know your past split you were recovering from. And now that we have more food and sleep is improving, like it's like a safe spot to start with. So like post-show, like what you're leading in a peak week, likely we could just start there. But that first week is still like, let's film lifts. Let's make sure we're doing form resets. I usually tell people keep like a rep or two in the tank to make sure you can put priority on the form reset that takes place. Because just like you said, people are excited to go tren and just slaughter something. And with like, or even more volume or the effort's really high, then they're just tanked after that. And I just go back to this thing of like why the post-show immediate is not like the optimal time to grow for many. It's so easy just to get tanked hard, especially if you've been digging down for a show. But I digress. With that aspect, that could be a start point. Or if you had someone that likely that they came from another coach or something, they had a split design. It's usually, hey, laying them into straight sets, make sure that's there, then adding in the rest day. So if they're running something like push-pull legs, push-pull legs, like, all right, let's do push-pull legs off. And then we shift that frequency apart so they have more recovery between sessions. And that takes care a bit of the total weekly volume and giving them that extra rest day that they probably need. As far as someone now that would be a little bit more apt in the programming design, I think you could move someone already into slightly specialization of a split. I agree. Yeah. But set up, like you mentioned, that they're not exceeding the total volume of what they're doing leading into the show. Because that's probably where you get problematic is most people want to bring up body parts without losing other ones. So, like, the volume stays the same on the strong body parts and doesn't, you know, then increases on the weak ones. So, like, I'll say, like, in my case, I was running push-pull off, push-pull legs on prep. So, like, legs basically once a week. Yep. Well, now, post-show, I did change my split. But there's more rest days now. So, it's push-pull off, push, kind of like pull legs off, then push legs off. So, legs essentially, my same volume got spread across nine days instead of seven. Yep. Pull, same volume, got spread across nine days instead of seven. However, push volume stayed the same, but the frequency slightly moved up. It moved from, like, now I hit it every three days when it was every three days and every four days repeat. So, there's a slight increase in frequency, but the volume metrics came down on the other days, and there's more rest days between. So, there's less overlap of beating up connective tissue too. So, that worked well. However, I didn't bump volume up in body parts. It just stayed the same or in turn went down for the weekly total. Ride that out, right? Then you assess as you're getting more recovered. And I'm more apt to hold that all the way to post-show once you're done. And then if you're bringing gear up, because IMade this mistake, is gear goes up, strength goes up, all good at first until you get really strong. Then if you've had increases in volume at the same time, it all leads to, like, a stalemate of, like, breaking or just being really fatigued. So, you know, I would probably ride that out for a good period of time and, like, have several weeks before you're, like, assessing to make increases. But it kind of treks back to our previous point of that. When gear goes in, people are excited to, like, get strong. And, you know, I'll admit I'm guilty of that, too. So, likely, hey, back to our first points. Like, video your lifts. Earn the right to increase load progressions. And more so, make sure you're standardizing your form and putting tension where you need it to. And likely, you'd be less likely to run into those problems like I have in the past. Yeah, 100%. I think people tend to forget that it's an environment of volume going up anyways because the progressions are going up. Like, the amount of work you do in a session is a measurement of volume, right? Volume load. Yeah, volume load. So, it's, like, when you plug in all these variables that, like, are going to push your lifts up, it's, like, okay, you're taking a volume jump in and of just doing that. Like, just ride it out for a bit before you start pushing it. I really don't start plugging volume progressions in. For most people outside of my, like, really adept people that, like, reporting and tracking, like, probably three to five weeks into that off-season phase. Probably closer to the five-week mark in the off-season phase because I just, I know where people can go if it goes in too quick. Anything you want to add on, like, kind of the ones that are already running specialized splits? Because it's almost the same principle, but maybe you want to touch on it. Say you have a wellness girl that's trening legs three days a week and went up her session from prep into post-show. Is there an adjustment you make there? It's kind of the same principles, though, would you say? It's almost like if the, if what you, I find these easier than the other. The reason I find these easier is because you know what the problem is or you know the problem you're trying to solve. And if what you were doing made massive improvements from, you know, show before the prep you just did and the prep you just did, it's like, why would you not set up something that is extremely similar? You know you're going to push forward. Like, there might be small adjustments. Like, think of someone like an Emily King, right? Like, she was trening upper leading into her pro qualifier when she won her regionals and won her pro card. And then the season between winninGHer pro card and stepping on the pro stage, she trened upper like three times that entire year. Like, those are the small things that might change, right? You might just pull more from the weak body parts, the things that aren't needed, and put that back into the sessions as a biggest priority, especially in specialized classes like bikini and wellness. But those to me are the easiest because it's almost rinse and repeat. Like, yeah, some movements might swap here and there, but honestly, like, if you're progressing something and you get a really good stimulus out of it, why would you seek to change something that's providing a growth hormone hormone hormone stimulus so well? Other than novelty, which then starts to get into the dynamic of enjoyment versus progress, right? But that's kind of my view on it. I find the specialized ones easier because it's almost like as long as it moved the needle at the rate we would expect to, like, just kind of double down on it. Ogon, something you said around enjoyment because some people are, like, excited to get back to certain lifts. Are you okay plugging in lifts that you know, like, might be more precarious in the post-show phase? I don't want to, like, overstate fatigue because some people are, like, most people are, if you've been running, like, a squat throughout, you just start it back up or it's just built in with a progression in place that's, you know, okay to manage. Is there anything that you don't do or you're okay doing in certain instances with, say, they want to do a hip hinge or whatever? I don't think the movement's the problem. I think it's how we approach the movement usually. It's like if we're going in with, like, nose torque and, like, yeah, I'm about to rip this thing off the floor and just, like, shake for the last rep, it's like, yeah, that's probably not a great way to approach reintroduction of an RDL. Like, if you're week three in a program design doing this, like, that's a problem. But no, like, especially my more advanced athletes, like, they've got a level of maturity with trening that they can be objective where I am reintroducing something. They know kind of how to approach one to two reps in reserve in week one, slowly progress that up, and be patient with those progressions in the first few weeks. IMight even, and I've done this a lot recently, like, deprioritize the movement for a couple weeks. So, like, put it after some pre-exhaust work so that load's not the issue, but we can tren the neural patterning and, like, the skill acquisition of relearninGHow to, you know, do a Smith machine squat or whatever that might be. So, no, I don't ever think it's, like, movement restriction. I think it's more, like, how does the athlete approach that movement outside of, like, I'm not going to deadlift someone off the floor, but that's just not really going in many hypertrophy programs in the first place anyways. Yeah. I think another piece here is starting to, if they haven't already, because prep is a hard time to, like, start to addressing, like, dysfunction in movements. And usually we get pretty regressed in our hypertrophy trening to where everything's very braced, a lot of bilateral movements. So it doesn't require a lot of stabilization, which some of that needs to come back. But also if you're someone that was running into injury patterns, you might need to now program into your split or the front end of your prehab, like, prehab work to address some of those issues, which would be, like, is it functional movements? I don't want to say functional movements, but, you know, and bodybuilders were a lot in just, like, one plane of movement. So you might need some movements that challenge, like, anti-rotation or anti-flexion, some of those degrees to then be able to set up to go brace properly for your hypertrophy work. This is especially for those that if you were running into injuries in the offseason or you have even a hard time connecting with certain body parts, it might not even be the right movement. It might be needing to kind of reprogram neurally how you're setting up and bracing for that movement. Now, that's a pretty complex topic to just speak on. It's kind of a lot of stuff to be able to show. But it should just, like, just want to plant that seed for individuals that that could be a case, especially if in your posing assessment you're seeing discrepancies between body parts. And the asymmetries between body parts, a lot of times it's not just like, oh, IMust be, you know, biasing on one side when I'm doing my pressing, so I'm just going to move to some unilateral work. Maybe, but I would almost bet most of the time is that there's an issue on that side of the body that needs to be addressed from a dysfunction aspect. So it's like my left shoulder is not quite the same as my right shoulder. It's not because I don't execute the lift the same. It's because I have some rotator cuff weakness there that doesn't stabilize the shoulder. And in turn, I don't output the same on the delt. So I need to address that, like, prehab setup to where I can then output well in my session. So just an example of that for something to think on. Same with, like, a squat and, like, hip strength and being able to get the most out of your quad that looks small. So some program pieces that should be built into your split design. And this post-show phase, now that you have the calorie influx, is the time to be able to start making some of those changes stick? Because in prep, it's really hard to fix stuff that's been broken. Yeah, it's like that's such a rabbit hole you could dive into. I think that's just another episode for another time. But it is where you do reintroduce that. It's definitely the place to reintroduce it. And I do think it's also the place to introduce patterns you think may raise that glass ceiling for you. Kind of like IMentioned earlier, like, you might even have things that are keeping you at a certain level of progression. From, like, movement selection that doesn't fit you. Like, now you need to start tinkering with this idea of different patterns to raise that glass ceiling if you can. And another thing to program, and I think it gets, like, a little bit underemphasized, is core waist trening. That's just such a big centerpiece on stage that so many people lack in. Or over time, it's going to lead to issues in your look kind of fading. It's like, it's not just going the off-season, add on muscle. Like, you need to keep your aesthetics. So continuing to do, like, built-in abdominal trening, like, vacuums and things like that, of course. That fall off easy in the off-season. But then also being able to tren bracing of the core and, if you need development of the core, doing that as well. So there's kind of, like, three pillars there to make sure you are hitting. I feel like the old-school bodybuilders, they, like, really hit a lot of waist trening as a big emphasis. And I don't know, you don't really hear it talked about that much. But to see, like, guys get easily beat just from having poor waist control or kind of, like, going one off-season, being able to control it on stage is huge. So keeping that in the off-season, I think, is very important. Yeah. Absolutely. Anything else to hit around the trening? We kind of went more of the trensition from prep to post-show in the general setup. But I think that is the big piece of it for a takeaway. It's just how you do it well. It's just, like, when in doubt, go towards quality is the summary. Like, thEQuality in your rep execution, thEQuality in the volume that you're performing, thEQuality in the way that you recover between days, I think, is a big thing. Like, that's a – we didn't even touch on that. Like, the rest days are there for a reason, right? Like, people love to do their mobility activity, extra fluff session, like, you know, go in the gym, do something. It's like, man, recoverinGHard is a part of treninGHard, too. I think it's just when in doubt, go to quality. It's so easy to – it's like, yeah, we have the enjoyment, emotional aspect around trening. Don't let that take you to a bad spot. It's like, oh, yeah, you know, this push day, I think I'll pull my tricep work off and do it as a two-a-day. It's like, no, no, like, you should just tren and have, like, a true, like, rest day. At least one day a week where you do nothing. No cardio, no mobility, no extra mini session of ab work or whatever it is. So I think it's something that could be definitely underthought on in the offseason is the recovery piece. So you can't just, you know, out-tren poor recovery at all. But anyway, we'll wrap it up there. Next week we're going to cover the coaching mistakes you don't know you're making. It will be more so judging around flat versus full versus what someone looks like if it's just fatigue and what to do about it. So anyway, thank you all for tuning in, and we'll talk to you next time. Thank you.