 tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact tact All right. Longevity and bodybuilding. Is that an oxymoron? It might be. There's been untimely passings of many bodybuilders, unfortunately, and it's a serious thing that we all have to face with just the mortality reality of it and what we're actually doing this in the sport of bodybuilding and not just having the blinders on, which it's a conversation that just keeps coming up because it seems more prevalent with people passing or we're just more aware of it either way. What our goal and role in J3U is trying to put great physiques on stage, but also reduce the risk where we can. So we want to cover today what starts that conversation of risk reduction and how do you take responsibility? Is it the coach? Is it the athlete? Then what are the real takeaways of what you can do? So Luke, to you, do you think we're just more aware of these situations occurring or is there actually an increased risk or people more risk adverse now than what they've been? No, I think it's a combination of like bodybuilding is so much more popular that you get a larger subsect of the population participating in bodybuilding on top of the fact that you have, um, potentially a little bit more usage. Um, and then we're also made more aware of it with social media. So you kind of like combine all three factors. Like it's, it's pretty, it's pretty common knowledge. Like, I don't think it's that hard. Like if you pull from a larger subset of people, you're going to have more incidents of death. Like that's just like easy math, right? Like, cause usually when we look at this from like a, like if you were to look at from like a research perspective, right, we're looking at it from like a percentage of incidents that occurs with this. Right. And so if you pull from a pool of a hundred people versus 10,000 people, like you're going to have a lot more people in 10,000 than you are in a hundred. Right. And bodybuilding just expanded to be across so many different people with the popularization of social media that one, I don't think it's that surprising that we're seeing it more often because of just the number of bodies in the sport, but two, um, every time something happens, you hear about it, right. Because of social media. So I think it's a combination of two factors there for sure. Yeah. Even with, in the research side, there was a retrospective study done, a Horowitz in 2018. And they look back at, it was nearly 500 steroid users over 12 years compared to non-users. And the average age was around 20, 25 years old. And the mortality was three times higher than non-users. Um, now 1.3 versus 0.4%, which if you looked at percentage wise, doesn't seem high, but Hey, if, if I was in the other percentage that I could have, uh, not passed away, that would have been a big, big deal. Now this is an, um, association, not necessarily causation, but it's pretty hard to control, uh, confounders in retrospective studies, uh, like that. But, but, but nonetheless, like common autopsy reports, right. And all these bodybuilders that we see, the number one thing is like cardiovascular disease is usually what people pass away from, or it's some type of like, uh, acute electrolyte imbalance with diuretics usage. And maybe there's a combination also of a heart risk present, um, that just sets off the trigger cascade to have some type of myocardial infarction or, um, uh, stroke or something along that lines. But either way, the greatest risk of usage, your short life or quality of life is the ultimate risk. And I think it's one thing if you passed away early, but also, I mean, if you took the last 15 years of your life and it was less than quality too, was another piece of this. So, yeah. Um, so yeah, it is a real thing to consider. And, you know, when I was getting into this, like, you know, the, the, I was on the prize, right. Like do what you need, what you, what you need to, to get the job done. However, I was a little older getting into it. So I was always a bit more cautious and knew these things that had, that had risk. But do you think starting out, like, is it, is it the athlete's responsibility to own the, you know, be their own advocate in this? And if, or is it, is it the coach? Um, where do you, where do you kind of lie within that? It's, it's, in my opinion, it's always the athlete's responsibility to be an advocate for themselves. Like I think, especially with like nowadays and how readily available information is, it's so easy. If you are wanting to pursue the sport, especially if you're wanting to pursue it at a high level to like gain a deeper understanding of what this actually means. Cause like, I know, like even when I was starting out, like it was still extremely hush hush. Like people talked about it, but not really to the level they talk about it today. And it was like, kind of get shared that you could go get like lab work done and check on that. But like people weren't really talking about it publicly or commenting on it. And so there's a lot on the athlete side. Now the coach certainly has a responsibility to, especially if you're a coach that coaches like entry-level bodybuilders, like to help them understand what risk looks like at higher levels of competing. Cause like, it's hard to fully grasp it until you get there of like what that risk looks like. Now, totally understand there's a spectrum of risk that occurs based on the genetic potential of the athlete you're working with. But like, you do have averages for these athletes. And I think a lot of people get into bodybuilding thinking like PDs are a part of it and just kind of go with the flow and they don't like fully comprehend like what the risk is. And I think you have a role as a coach to educate people on that. Like, especially, and I don't want to give bias towards one versus the other, but I think especially in the female realm, there's a lot of naivete around like the level of drug usage at the top levels of the sport in some of these classes and top levels of the sport, meaning like the people turning pro all the way up to like the Olympians. Obviously there's some genetic potential things that limit usage for like the top Olympians potentially, but usage is still really high. And so we need to understand that and people need to know like, that's what it takes to reach that level as they get into it. So that like goal sets can be set according to like the expectation of risk that they should want to kind of go into. Yeah, I guess that gets another thing of like, when to use, and that is part of the, what should be addressed today. But the reality of like high level physique competition is that the best physiques in the world genetically are going to be, they are using these things. And so if you're sub genetic elite, the usage is going to be there and could be to a greater degree. However, you don't start at that degree like day one, it's like titrated up. And that also gives you opportunity to keep honing your skills as a bodybuilder. I, I think the, the role is shared between like competitors and coaches, like for the competitor, you do need to get some like self awareness of like the health risk and the prevention strategies around PD usage. It's you have to think of it as like going out on like a, a racetrack, like even beginners, if you go out on a racetrack, like you have to take the safety course or even hell drive your car on the highway. Like there's driver's ed, like you have to take some education because there's going to be risk involved. There's no formal things to do around PD usage, but you, you have to take it upon yourself to make sure if, and be your own advocate. So I think there is a degree of that. However, you know, go back to when I was, you know, 25, 26 and going to do this thing, uh, the time it would take to learn all those things. And also up top of like going to school and trying to have a career outside of bodybuilding. Um, it could be really confusing to you and have, make sure you have the right guidance in that system. That's why I have J3U, no plug, no, uh, shameless plug there, but, um, but there should be still a degree of like you becoming self-aware. And I think now we, we have so much awareness that there's not much of an excuse that you couldn't find quality information around some good guidance. Um, cause ultimately you're responsible for your choices and being a self advocate of your health. Like even, geez, even going to a doctor here in the U S, uh, you have to really be an advocate for yourself too. Even these mainstream medical, but there's a role of a coach too. Like for one, yes, the client wants a desired outcome, but you're also responsible for navigating risk management from a liability and an athlete health standpoint. I think people throw liability out the window. We start talking about PDs and just, uh, just the things that come across my desk around what's used. It's like, you know, can you ever get sued around these things? But, um, there's definitely times where you're going to need to protect a client from their own self. And that's a piece of it. Cause I see as you're going to be looked at as the authority figure when you're the coach and take on athletes. So you have a very high responsibility to be fully educated in those areas. So it, it, it goes both ways. Yes. End of day, you're the one putting whatever in your body, but you're looking to your coach as the authority on those things. And there's a big trust extension that goes there. So no, that's kind of grayer. And people might disagree. If you're on YouTube watching, let us know. Who do you think? Is it more of the coach, the competitors responsibility? But yeah, I think, uh, I think both can happen, but outside of responsibility. Um, I think we should first look at like as the competitor, I think that's in, in, in the, in the coach, like what does it look like first steps here for trying to reduce the risk of these things? Yeah, this could start in so many places. Um, reducing risk, I think has an education portion. I think the biggest education piece is how much the way you run your daily habits, how they can negatively or positively affect your health outcomes. So this would be like, not just like the stress management piece, but like sleep off plan meals. How do we manage our offseason phases with how high body fat percentage and body weight goes? Like all of these, like ability of an athlete to execute. And I, I think a good way to talk about this would be almost like PD preparedness. And the way that I would like think of it in this way is you don't take a first time competitor and talk to them about competing at a national show, right? Like usually you don't like, unless it's just some freak that's been bodybuilding for 10 years and just never competed. You, you're talking about them being prepared to do a regional show. Like that's the level of expertise they have. So when we look at like PDs, like the ability to take that step into risk has a level of preparedness that's required to be able to, I would almost call it warrant that step into using PDs. And then what that looks like from the coach front is in my opinion, education around what taking that step looks like long-term. So this could be like the probability of you needing replacement therapy for the rest of your life, the potential for what it looks like to actually manage blood pressure, walking through the athlete of what the costs are for lab work, health supplementation, medications. If you're someone that's going to end up needing medications and like making sure they're a little bit more prepared on that front. Cause I think everyone's excited to make physique progress and get on PDs and then doesn't understand the underlying management. I think risk control starts there. Cause like if someone doesn't even have the, let's say available funds to do the things that you need to do to monitor, like labs or health metrics or anything along those lines, like that person's nowhere close to being prepared to stepping into the PD world. Yeah. And for anyone, if you're in J3, you know, but we do have like a PD user, like preparedness questionnaire in the coursework to walk through, which creates a lot of this. If you aren't in the course, then this is what Luke just said is a lot of the framework to it is for one, have you spent time like maximizing your variables? And a lot of people just haven't. And even we'll get a lot of people that have plenty of time using gear and still don't have the variables nailed down. And we're still finding ways, right? Even knowingly trying to do things right of how to do them even better. So, but you know, I think even starting out, like can you achieve your physique you want naturally? Uh, for a lot of people, once you creep higher up, you might, you might not be able to, but I think there's a lot of good merit if you're younger to even do a show naturally. So you just don't have the drug factor and you can truly understand the training nutrition and all the peaking process and dieting process and training hard. Like there's so much value in that. Um, but then from there, making those choices, I, you know, it's, it's understandable. Um, what's needed for your division? What is the earliest entry point to get the, the, the most effect from the least to step up to that next stage of competitiveness, which you're, if you're at this local level, like use what you need to do at that level. And that starts earlier on with, you know, we have in J3U phases of introduction for escalating gear and how you go about that. And then I think the red flag, if you're a competitor, if you're looking to work with a coach, fill out their assessment form and they don't ask you, what were you previously doing? What were your issues you had with these things that you were doing? Um, looking back at your, your past show or, or check-in pictures to now. And what was that result that you had from that response? And so there should be some assessment of what you previously doing, the effect positive and negative. And then your PD program is built to start around that. And I see so much of that missing. It's just like anything, right? Like if you had a training program to know where to go, you need to know what you were just currently coming from, same with PDs. So it gives a good start point, but that, that assessment's missing. For me, that's a red flag for someone that's going to be giving out a cookie cutter PD program. Brought up some other good ones, Luke, too, around, well, we'll all face this even at pro levels of like, uh, financial issues, uh, but quality of access to, um, it's great. You have to, you have to take PDs, but if you don't have the quality to, to use, then that's another issue. I think the biggest shocker when I was starting out was the health supplements that were needed because I was in college and I wanted to be a pro bodybuilder and I worked with Matt Jansen and, you know, I had absolutely had money for all the gear. And then he sent me this health list of supplements and the, it was extensive. I was like, I can't afford all this. Um, of course, what do you do? Well, you, you make it work. Uh, but I think to have some awareness of like, Hey, these are the things that, that, that are the non-negotiables that need to happen would be really important to have in place. Um, you know, shifting from there, like we do talk about, what about health tracking and, uh, that should be in place too. That's just some simple ones that people can do that. I think it missed a lot because we talked about cardiovascular disease being the most common issue that you run into. So if you have these measures in place, Luke, like what would be your, your top ones? Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results, along with our comprehensive physique curriculum. You'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and live Q and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah. Uh, blood pressure is always top of the list. Like I think that's just so easily to manage like on an acute perspective. Um, I live, I really like resting heart rates. Um, really kind of gives me a scope into like when someone's trending into a bad spot. Um, and then consistency in lab work is a big one. Like I'm, I'm a big fan of every 12 to 16 weeks. Um, what you put on that lab panel might be a little bit specific to what that athlete might struggle with. Like we have our J three U panel at Merrick that you can always look at, um, for that comprehensive list. But, um, those are like the top three that I would say, I think there's, you can get into subsets within the lab work section of like, what are you looking at in there? But, uh, like that off the rip would be like my favorite three probably. Yeah. Uh, the, those are easy ones that are very doable at home to do. Um, I think the, the more or not the, the lab works not of course, but I've obviously the more feasible for most people. I think the, the next step from there, um, would be some type of either a chest CT calcium score or echo, echo cardiogram that could happen every couple of years, uh, just to track changes. If there are any, and then how you trend, if you do have some changes that are occurring, um, that would kind of be a, another big step, um, for, for also. But then I think we have like the female aspect too, which don't forget the ladies, which I think a real basic one is a yearly, like, uh, gynecology visit from a, from a good OBGYN, right? Um, being able to track your ovulation and menses, uh, because many females could go years without menstrual cycles, which has a lot of risks that come along with it for organ health, heart, kidney, brains, and then even, uh, tracking, you know, a lot of ladies are impacted quickly by our side effects, like changing in the voice. Um, you can have like a voice analysis app and track your changes in your tone of your voice. Um, if it's like facial or hair changes, just pictures and standardized lighting are great to be able to do every couple, every like year to see if you are getting these changes that are occurring. But, uh, yeah, I think those are some of the, definitely the metrics to start tracking along the way. Then the actual big picture, I think of mitigating risk, um, is for when those things do pop up. And of course the supplement side's important, but then being able to bring in pharmacological agents, like, you know, we have a lot of people that go through Merrick to have those brought in by physicians, whether it be a blood pressure medication or it'd be a statin if that's appropriate, or a lot of people are going to PCSK9 inhibitors for lipid levels. Or some people, I know we just said our podcast and read it through a time, but a lot of people are trying to lean into this as like their main ones for like metabolic syndrome because bodybuilders basically look like a very lean muscular version of metabolic syndrome. Um, however, I, I'm yet to go there for the reasons that it's so limiting for the goal of bodybuilding. Uh, but anyway, uh, yeah, pharmacological inventions for pharmacological problems can be a lot of what needs to happen. Um, from the actual usage standpoint, I think things to keep in mind is that the worst thing you're going to take are antibiotic steroids. Like out of all of the things that you do, those would be have the most deleterious and effects on your health, but also produce the greatest results too, right? Um, but dose and duration are key to long-term health risk mitigation. So that's why I'll just, we harped on earlier, like starting with the lowest dose that you can get the revolt from and then escalate as you need up over time and they're in build in phases where you, if you can use less, you absolutely do so. And so that's why we have a framework we put together in JTU where, uh, there's justifications for, do you need more or less during this phase? And a lot of times it's training performance that guides us and there's still just people just throw in gear with no rationale. It's really frustrating to see, but you know, ultimately training is what's going to be the big factor here of needs in the visual effects too, right? Um, it needs not just to be getting stronger, but, but, but building tissue. And just like not only the framework that's built within the level one, but we've also got the female one as well as like the levels of like progressing a female athlete through that and the female module too. Like it's just there, everything has stages of progression and like people love to think they're like expert and be in the expert, like side of PDs is when as an athlete, they're just still acting like a beginner or an entry-level athlete. Um, especially on the training side, the training side is kind of the biggest one, but, um, yeah, I mean, look, I think, I think if you talk, walk through the process of like conversations with your athletes and you are able to kind of take them through what it takes to manage health, like the right process, the right strategy, the right budgeting, everything for that athlete can be set up in order for them to be able to do it. And it's just having resources like we have at J3 coaching for all of our athletes. Like we have resources galore for them to be able to get everything kind of set up. Yeah. You definitely don't want to be an advanced drug user. It's not, it's like the worst thing you could have for progress. Like you want to be as far away from advanced drug user for as long as possible. Yeah. It's like, no, I want, I want to require like 20 sets of squats, 10,000 calories a day, and then five grams of gear per week. Like I want to be there now. Like you don't want any of that. You can, if you can squat 135 for a set and grow big legs and eat 2000 calories and take 200 milligrams of testosterone. Great. Like that's, and you miss your Olympia. That's absolutely, that's great. That's what you want. But yeah, as you move up, all those things will need to be escalating along, along the way. It's just, it's a, it's a stepwise approach that just should be happening, which I think people don't realize that, you know, if you're, you're 25 in this, you have 15 years before you're like really into the peak level of this. I mean, look at, look at your top guys, a Samson or an Andrew Jack, you know, these guys are like over 40. We're at 40 years old. So there's, there's longevity and time left here, but there's not time for everybody. Is there because there are masters level competitors. And I think that gets a point to understanding your exit strategy from this and where people probably hang in there too long and there's just a finite time to make the most. And so I realized if you're a masters level competitor, you got this later on that you're not going to have that same time duration and that path might look a little bit more escalated quicker. However, you're also probably going to get harder with negative effects faster than someone that's younger and more resilient. So it's just things that you need to balance and consider. And the same planning is all the same, but I would say you're, could be at a more mature level to make those decisions. However, that doesn't mean you still haven't pulled out all the variables yet that someone, maybe your younger counterpart could have because they got into it earlier as well. So it's still things to consider, but you know, in five years of going all in with gear, doing things with training and everything that you can see as right as possible. I think you're going to have a real realization of where you're going to fall. From there, it's going to become taken, taken inches to keep moving that needle. So if you go down that path and within that time period, if you're not some pro and you're surpassing all your peers, it likely might be the uphill battle and take a while. And that could be fine if you love it. Absolutely. You know, but realize that that goal might start pulling away from maybe what your ultimate goal in life might be and seeing the best version of yourself, whether it be a father or a business owner, or even being able to enjoy your later years of life. So you have to really weigh out. Is that, is that the choice you want to make? But I would absolutely have that exit strategy. Even if you're younger bodybuilding, you need to be thinking ahead and planning for life after bodybuilding. Financially, how can I do the most while I'm in it to not require it? And I see so many bodybuilders that just aren't doing that part and taking advantage of it while they're in it. And I see guys that are continuing to compete because they rely on the money from it, which they're in a different segment than a lot of like amateurs that could be tuning in now. However, what bodybuilding is stealing from you is time. Time you could be putting into the thing that really could set you up for later on. And I've heard that, you know, the saying like bodybuilding steals a young man's time. And that like 30s to early 40s years, man, those are some prime money making years and setting yourself up for long-term stability and financial being in a great position. So don't let them all be stolen from bodybuilding as long as being productive, but plan ahead, plan ahead and make your exit strategy, get the most out of it while you're in it and then peace out. Yeah. It's tough to talk about it that way. Right? Like, but it is like something that you've got to think about because there's going to be a time where you step away and that exit strategy could have you still in it like the sport. Right? Look at like all the, I don't want to call them the old timers, but like the guys that are still in the sport. I think of like a great example, I think it was a Milos because he's still, or hell, I'll even bring up a Chris Tuttle, right? Like they do their podcast together. They're great examples, different age segments. But they're active coaches. They're still following the sport along. They still lift and train and have a healthy and stay very fit. You don't need to have 20, 30 pounds of muscle. It's all for you. Like no one else cares. The people that, that are really in your circle, they will not care someday. Like if I'm the smaller version of John, um, it won't matter. So you can still stay involved in it. What you got into it for was loving for training. Like I started training when I was really young, I wasn't taking steroids when I was like 15, 16 years old. I just love to work out. Uh, the part that's addicting though is the progress. And once you've like pulled progress out with steroids beyond what you naturally can, can do to go back to training, it's just feels like you're just doing these maintenance or you're in decline mode. So there, uh, you, you sat, you have to just really shift. I think you're, you're thinking and framing, um, and being able to set a new baseline and just go in and love training and tinkering around with things and still letting them not be your main, uh, metric to try to progress forward in, but to, to like, Hey, I'm going to add five pounds of muscle this year. Like probably not, but there's other ways to enjoy training just like you did when you were younger on. So, yeah. Is there anything else you'd want to like, touch on like within this topic? Like there's obviously athletes you turn away because this conversation gets a bit too combative, but there's, there's probably like still ways to manage that. Yeah. Yeah. I've, you know, earlier on when you're like, at least in the coaching role, um, you might be more apt to just take on the client that. Yeah. Cause you just need the client. Cause you need the client, right? Like I, I did it and they were overly, you know, overly want to be overly aggressive and, or, or they're just going to do it anyway, which is a liability. But you have to remember, like they're coming for you to be coached. I think I just didn't speak as authoritative in, in that role as I should have. And they were going to come to work with me. I probably were in any way, a lot of them, they hear J3U or what I do. And they think like there's going to be just a usage that's low to not optimize the result. And that's just not the case, but it ends up being lower because they're doing everything else. So shitty. And so, so I can pull so much out of them that they, they don't need as much, or if it's the same, they get so much more effect out of it. Right. And then that sets them up for like years of like productiveness and staying in the sport longer. So I think stand behind, you know, why they're coming to you and keep that authority. And that's what I would have told my younger self. Like don't, don't bend in how your approach is just because you want to make sure you build up a roster. So that's just mistakes, mistakes made earlier on. But I think that's it, Luke. I would wrap it up there. It's a, it's a hard subject. It's kind of a downer subject in a way, but also uplifting too, because there is so much information that is out there to help reduce the risk and try to make awareness and improve this for everyone. But anyway, thank you all for tuning in and we'll talk to you next time.