 all right, naringin,Kapit, all righty, everyone, welcome back to this week's episode of J3U after hours on a Sunday, Alex, how are you man? Freaking tired dude, so this is the day after our workshop seminar, open gym, banger of an event dude, like yeah, do you think the best one we've had? I, it's going toe to toe with the one we had last, last year, we, you know, we, you and I kind of had, no, I think it was, I think it was better, I think more bodies showed up for sure. Yeah, yeah, I think so too. I think the, some of those listening, the leg day workshop was a lot more education based, and then like, hey, train if you want, but this one was like, we're going to highlight some issues training upper body, let's get y'all on the gym floor and do it. And the leg day workshop, I remember leaving and was like, man, like, I didn't get talk to this person and talk to this person. I felt bad. This one, every, I talked to every single person there. Same. Same. And that was huge. Obviously you can't spend, like, you want to spend the whole two hours with them, but it's like, all right, you got this movement now, we got to go to the next, go to the next. But yeah, I think environment wise, it was great. The atmosphere, like, dude, I don't know about you, but I had like teammates like flying in and like eating up at Airbnbs and like, I didn't even know they were friends. Yeah. So it was like really cool seeing like everybody kind of like come together with some unity. Yeah. That was a big highlight of it for sure. Yeah. I mean, that was the whole, that was like my whole logic in this event was, you know, and it's why I started doing team workouts years ago was I wanted to develop a team, right? Not just like a group of individuals all over the country. And so now we've got that on a broader scale where it's, it's not just Alex's crew or Colton's crew or Chris's crew or everybody. It's like, we're J3U. Like we want to build that as like a unified body because we're all like all of our athletes are in the same circuit. Like they're all, you know, shit kicking regional shows, national shows, whatever it may be. And we want to build camaraderie within that. So I think it provided like a good opportunity just to get more people like intertwined in this network that we've kind of developed. It was very surreal, man. Like, dude, I had a client drive from Wisconsin. I'd want to drive down from Detroit, like all over the country. We're coming to this. And I feel like we didn't really do a lot of marketing. I think it was just people were excited to be a part of it. Um, and so again, for everybody's listening, he went like, thank you guys so much. It was, it was a blast. That was the most, that was the most amount of people I've spoken in front of for teaching. So that was super fun. I was very sweaty. Um, but yeah, dude, I, I got back home yesterday and that's why my voice is shot too. Cause I was like, I've, I've talked for seven hours straight. Yeah. It was so cool, man. And, and again, it's like, we all kind of had our little segment on speaking like each of the coaches did. And I thought that went really well. Um, so, but it was cool. Like I've had clients today, like, Hey, Colton helped me with this. Braden helped me with this. Chris helped me with like, it was very much so like, not every, everyone like didn't need me. They were comfortable asking everyone else on the team. And that's exactly what it's there for. You know, it doesn't matter who your coach is. But then like walking around, you hear people introducing yourself and they're like, Oh, I'm with Alex or Oh, I'm with Chris. And it's, it's cool that like, no matter who their coaches, we're all on the same, same group. And that was, that was a true highlight, man. And thank you all for everyone who came, the people who couldn't come, but message us ahead of time and like, let it be known. Like they, they wanted to come and at least appreciated us offering it up. Cause that's the biggest thing, man. And like, not to, not to harp on it, but like you, you pay attention to the people who don't come, who don't mention anything about it, but like need it the most. Like, where were you? Like we were an hour away, two hours away. Like we weren't, I got, I got people flying from Boston and from Houston. And like, you, you ask me for help. And then here you look like, here it comes. And then you, you don't even mention that you can't come or, you know what I'm saying? It's like, it's like, that's why we do this, you know, but then on the flip side, I have some athletes who I specifically told, Hey, this ain't going to be your style. It's going to be a lot of people. It's going to be a lot of people in the gym floor. You're going to get overwhelmed. I know this isn't your style. Let's plan something else. Just kind of a small group. And then we'll do it that way. Yeah. But yeah, I wish more people, I wish everyone did. I wish everyone would come because my goal is like, everyone takes away one thing. And I honestly can say, I think everyone did. Yeah. Yeah. And it's cool, man. Cause I think that that goes back to like, I would let any coach on this team coach any of my athletes if I had to, right? Like I trust all of you guys to do this job at the best of your capability. So it was really cool to get like, to see what you were talking about of like other athletes getting to work with other coaches. And again, understand like, that's what we bring. That's literally the whole purpose of what we're doing as much as it sounds like a holy sales pitch, but like, that's what makes, I think us better as a group is because we all work together. This isn't like an ego match of who's the best coach on the team. It's like, I can look to you for advice. I can look to brain for advice. I can look to like anybody has their own like niche that I can like lean into. If I have questions of how I can make somebody better. And so seeing that in live, like in person was so dope. Um, and yeah, it is interesting. I think because there obviously like we spent a lot of time hyper analyzing training footage, but there's just so much more value in person always. Yeah. Cause again, we can move, we can adjust, we can pivot, we can do whatever. And I know we're going to have more of these throughout the year. I know we've talked about like Dallas being the next one. And I know that like, I've talked to Luke about it. Like our goal is to continue to make them a bigger and larger events, like over the span of days rather than just like one singular thing. Yeah. So as we learn and kind of figure out what we're doing with this, like, I think this was a really great trial run for like the, the amount of people, like how we ran it. Um, it's only going to get better. Right. And that's again, why we're here is we just want to make you guys the best that we can. Yeah. And I don't look, I don't expect like, look, if we're, if we're in Dallas, I don't expect my Birmingham people to make that. Like, like, I think it's really awesome. People who like flew from Texas or flew from Boston, but like, that's not expected, but like you're within like three hours. I kind of expect you to be there. Like, like I don't expect it as in like, I'm going to call you out if you're not, but like, I know me as an athlete, if I wanted to get everything out of what we're trying to do, if, if you're just like not much else going on and you don't come, it's like, Hey, like that could have been really beneficial for you. Um, so yeah. Well, it just shows, it just personifies, which, and I'm not saying the other ones don't necessarily, but like it showed like the people who showed up, we know we already knew most of them want to get the most out of this. Yeah. Right. And they just like further, like reiterate that again, I had, so I had one of my wellness athletes strapped down from Wisconsin. Yeah. I was like, and I already knew how bad, like she wants to be the best at this. And it already shows in her process, but this is just like additional, like drove 11 hours to come down here for the day and then drove right back home. And then it puts it on us. Like when we see that, Oh, they're getting, they're leaving and getting, if I was giving them a hundred, they're about to get one 50. Yeah. They just gave me one 50. Right. And so it's the beautiful thing about it. But yeah, all in all, it was great. We're going to keep doing more. Texas will be a blast next. Um, and we'll keep on going as long as we can get accrued. We'd love to keep doing these. Yeah, dude, we've got a lot to talk about, dude. We're a little late on this one. Um, it's on me. It's my fault. Wednesday. I had a lot of, I had to get my house prepared for people to stay at it. Um, and also was sick from the Arnold. So that was super fun, but, um, we'll go over that. Do you want to go over classic or open first? Yeah. We'll talk about how was the Arnold for you, man. You went with a sponsor. Dude, it was, it was very, it was interesting. Like it was really cool. Um, it was, I think a lot more work than all of us had anticipated. Um, we got there Wednesday and then Thursday we spent like 14 hours setting up the booth because you can use the unloading dock in the convention center, but you have to pay like $2,500 to do that. We weren't going to do that. So we had to park like two blocks away and just truck stuff in. So I got like 35,000 steps. Um, and then Friday it was a lot, dude, there was a lot of high school kids asking for free hats and free shirts and asking if they could do pushups to win shit. And I was like, probably not. Um, I was like, you know, my Jason, the owner, I was like, he drove 19 hours from Texas to be here. I don't think we're giving away shit. Um, but it was super cool, man. I didn't like, I literally was eight like once a day. Cause it was just so busy. Like I didn't have time to do anything. I didn't get to train. Um, I literally walked around like half the venue once to go for, try to find food. I avoided the young LA part. Like my life depended on it. Yeah. Cause bro, it was like a high school football stadium size venue. I will say from the outside looking in the Arnold looked like a banger, not an expo, but it, and it looked like the good old days, but it looked very, um, um, fitness and influencer based. I think the Olympia is a little more like bodybuilding based, um, which obviously you're there with a brand like that, that does help. But yeah, it's like sometimes that market in that generation, they're wanting the free, it's like, how much free shit can I get? And, you know, obviously I wasn't there, but it may be tough to like have sales conversions. If everyone wants to just do pushups for t-shirts. Yeah. It was, it was interesting too, because like I would go back and like, see, I just remember growing up and like watching people like post all the stuff they got from the Arnold and be like a billion different, like pre-workout samples and stuff like that. There weren't many supplement companies there at all. Like raw was there, but they were giving out drinks and like the nootropic pouches. Red bull was there. Um, ghost was there and a lot of new was there, but that was it as far as like any supplement lines go. So I didn't really see a lot of free stuff being given out period. Um, like I know young LA had like a free shirt, but it was like, dude, it was like a six hour line. But then meanwhile, Ronnie Coleman didn't have a line. That's weird. I think the longest his line got that I heard was 30 minutes. So it was really peculiar. Like I expected, I think just going into, I expected to see a lot more like freaks. Yeah. Like we, we talked about like when we were getting ready for this, Jason was talking to me about like what sizing I think we should get. And I was like, dude, I think we probably need a good bit of like three and four XLs. We sold out of smalls, mediums and larges first. Yeah. So, but it was cool, man. Like I would, I would go back and do it again. It was, like I said, it was a lot. Like I was there from like eight to nine on Friday. And then Saturday we were there at like seven and I left halfway through to go to my, my grandpa's birthday and then drove home and then got a sinus infection. And then now we're here and my body hurts and I've taken a lot of Tamiflu and Advil. And I had clients like, like a lot of clients, like you going to the Arnold, you going to the Arnold, a lot of my younger clients. And I was like, when was the, like, I've, I've actually felt like I should have gone. I was like, well, I didn't realize everyone was fucking going this year. It wasn't ever really that much talked about, but now next year it's a four day thing. So like VIP service in line to be on Thursday. Um, Axon Sledge will have a booth. Um, so we're going to have to make sure Ty wins this year so we can get in on that action. Yeah. Jump up the pecking order there. So you're his coach. I'm his handler and I'm just in the caddy. We need that. Um, but yeah, overall dude, um, I, I, I definitely, I want to go next year, but I would want to be at a booth at least like for a day. Yeah. You know, like I, I couldn't do the, as I've been before and like when I had athletes competing, but for me, it would just want to, like, I would want a designated spot behind, behind the lines in the crowd, even if I'm working, like if I'm working a day, two days, cool. You know, um, but yeah, me and also talked about too, cause they did the whole like team in a car team in an Airbnb as a brother, we're going to go like, we're going to get our own spot, our own car. Like that way, when you are not at the booth, you have kind of your own time. Yeah. Yeah. That's where we, I wouldn't say we like messed up there, but like granted, there's only like five of us total. Yeah. And when we went into it, Jason was like, yeah, dude, we'll probably, you guys will probably be able to roam around. Like we won't need a ton of people there. Like dude, it was all five of us like pulled up together, stayed the whole time, left all at the same time. Like we had, and every day I'd be like, yeah, dude, I'm going to train after for sure. And then I'd get to the end of the day and I'd be like, well, I've had one meal and one liter of water and a ghost. I don't think I should do that to myself. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's how a guy, that's how this weekend was, man. I was just ripping a ghost on the way in. I ate. So Friday night we were training and I was like getting a little flat and I was like kind of pissed off. So we went to Kava and I had two double meat bowls and like five things of PETA. And then I door dashed cookies at like 1130 and then banged out some growth. And then I wish you could have seen me post Saturday. I was like, I actually looked good for like once. I was like, Oh shit. Yeah. Um, but dude, I just kept hammering. I woke up hammering food. And then like from the moment the workshop started, it was ghost into pre-workout indicator lights and just ripped it. Um, yeah, I felt, I felt really good. Well, I've, I've been on the two meal a day train, unfortunately. It's like when I trained with Braden, I got done and I was like, man, so I'm not leaner than him. Maybe I can try to get fuller than him. So I had like 3000 calories of Chick-fil-A Thursday night and that didn't work. And Friday we went to train. I think I was running on two meals that day because of how like I had a lunch meeting that went over. And afterwards I was like, well, I'm flat. So I went and got in and out and I woke up Saturday and I was still flat. I didn't eat before. Cause I woke up at nine and we had to be there at 10. Um, and so I had shout out Mike Beatty. He gave me a rice crispy treat and a core power. And that's all I had from the time I woke up until like 6 PM. Jesus. Yes. We're flat. We're flat. We're really flat, really dehydrated, but I'm not lean enough either. So I'm just kind of like fat and flat and you'll be, you'll be by Friday. You'll have a wicked side check. We'll be back. I'm just going to really slam some roof this week. Um, that was cool, man. That Mediterranean place you sent us to was really good. I was going to go and then I got caught. Like I ended up having a guy sign up for coaching. I was like, well, I can't, I can't. So I got an, I got another one in prep. So we'll just see how that goes. Um, yeah, dude, it was cool, man. I think the next one's going to be even better as far as like making it a numerous day event. I think if you have a destination. Yeah. Yeah. Cause people do people come in on Fridays anyway. So it's like, which like we invite them to the gym. We just don't like officially announce it, but like, fuck it. If we just did a bang out Friday, then like dinner and then Saturday, um, if I go home Sunday, I think that'd be awesome. You want to get into, uh, open recap? Yeah. Let's get into the Arnold man. So, um, You were right. We were right on the money. Like that was awesome. Um, you know, obviously it's like, we're, we're not going to talk any of the negatives on Martin outside of this, this physique. Um, but yeah, man, like, you know, obviously I think our hearts all wanted Nick Walker to win. Um, but then like our hearts also love Andrew Jack. So, um, personally, I was just glad it wasn't hottie just cause I, I enjoy the changing of the guard. It's nothing to me, anything against hottie. Um, but yeah, it was really cool to see the call outs that were really confusing. I thought it was between Nick and hottie, like the entire time. Yeah. My, my kind of breakdown was some people who don't know the scorecards, Nick didn't win at all on Friday, which kind of was blasphemy to be honest. Um, but knowing he didn't win Friday, he could have literally done whatever he wanted after that. And he still wasn't going to, you know, cause he was far superior Friday in terms of body building, fullness, leanness, hardness, conditioning, everything, but just structure. I think that was current day, the best Nick Walker that we've seen. I think it is wildly fucking impressive that he did it himself. Like, I think, I think that's like the point that he needed to prove after last year. Right. Cause when he, when he announced he was coaching himself, everybody was like, okay, you know what I mean? They thought he was just being a cry baby about it. And then like, dude brought a significantly better package. I think in a, again, I love Andrew. So I don't have any qualms against him winning per se in my eyes. I still think Nick one, like that is open body building. Um, this was, this is my, and this is going to be a very peculiar observation. I want to get your thoughts on it. I think part of what fucks Nick is how he walks out on stage. Cause if you go, cause he, well, he walks out his waist was one thing, but when he gets in a front relaxed, his legs are, he has plenty of width. Right. But if you see how he walks in that video, he walks really narrow. Yeah. It makes his legs look smaller combined with a relaxed waist. It makes his waist look bigger. I'm like bro needs to waddle out there. Yeah. It's almost like, like I heard somebody say, I heard them say this on bro chat. It's like, they're looking for reasons for Nick to lose and they're looking for reasons to Andrew to win and they find it. Right. Um, and I make us make sense of Andrew winning. Absolutely. Like it's not a robbery. It's not whatever. It's just personal preference. I thought Andrew was Mr. Olympia to be completely honest. Um, but in my stance on that is like, you, I remember saying, I was like, how much longer are we going to ignore the fact this guy's 305 on stage and fucking, you know, peeled and like, yeah, he doesn't have shredded glutes, but do Debs. When I coached him, we won nationals. He didn't have shredded glutes, but if you grabbed it, it's not, I think there's nothing there, but people back, Oh, he doesn't look in shape. It's dude. He just, it ain't, it ain't coming. You know, it's just unfortunately Andrews, unfortunately Samson, but I genuinely hope this leads to the Olympia Samson and Andrew finally twin towers wanting to, um, and then I think Nick and Derek will be three, four. Yeah, no, I agree, man. I think I just hate it, dude, that like, it feels like they're never going to let Nick have it. No, Nick will never win. No. Um, unfortunately, unless, and that's not, unless people are off, you know, um, I think Matt, that Nick beats Derek. Um, he's just bonkers, man. Like it's just wild. And, and people are like, Oh, you know, look at it. It's as good as as good. It's, it's not as good. That's just his waist. His waist is just thick. You want to see someone who can't control their gut? Look at Martin on Friday. Like that's like, like Martin doesn't have a pretty waist. It's smaller, but it's not, he's not controlling it any better. So it's like, if we're not docking Martin, then for his waist, why are we docking Nick? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, dude. And that's, I think like, well, I think an example, dude, Kai green, like back in the day, that's like poor waist control or like even Phil Heath at the latter end of his career. Like I'll do respect the guy, but like Nick just structurally has a big waist. I think, I think it's front double. He still needs to change how he fucking poses it. Like either needs to pick the full expansion or the full crunch, not halfway in between. I think it like buddies out his detail, but like, I, I think it's just such finite points that it's like, you guys will find like the fact that he wore fucking glasses could have been the reason for all they care. Right. That doesn't look like a mystery. It wouldn't be at us. Yeah. It's like, dude, it's like, bro, you see him from the back and you're like mother, bro, his side tricep look good. Yeah. Yeah. And that, that's where I think it's like, look, okay. Nick Nick's O2 on the front shots, but like he wins every other pose. And like, while he's not winning the ab and thigh, it's not a 10, eight round. It's like 10, nine. Like ab and thigh is not bad. I don't know. But, but again, props Andrew Jack, like super awesome. Like he's what he's done in three years is incredible. I don't think we'll see another Andrew Jack for a very long time. So yeah, I just, I think that we need to just enjoy this time of bodybuilding, man. And I think that's something we could take away positively from like, you know, all, like all the drama and stuff that was around the show. Like a lot of the people now, like, I don't know if they don't remember, but it's like, man, look at like we did, we lost John Meadows. Um, we lost, um, I can't think of his blanking on his name, but the bull, um, the classic George, um, we lost Dallas. We lost Cedric. Um, of course I'm drawing a blank on, um, Ben's friend. Um, Oh, um, um, phenomenal classic physique better too. So, and then the open one, Luke Sandow, Sandow, also Luke Sandow. We lost Neil Curry, like Sean Roden, uh, we lost Sean Roden. We've lost so many people in this sport and it's like, we need to remember that, that like these guys aren't here forever. So whether you love them, whether you hate them, whether you like the rivalries, whether you hate the rivalries, like that, I think sometimes they may forget it too. Like we're not, we didn't have, like, we could still have all those guys I just named around, but they're not. And so like, don't take for granted the, what we're getting as fans with all of them, whether you love them, hate them, support them, block them, argue with them, use their discount code. Like, dude, I'd give anything to see Dallas and Luke up there with Cedric. Like that would be so awesome, man. And like, life's just so short. Um, I don't, our, in our industry is so small. It's so fucking small. Um, I wish people would, would remember the, you know, the John Meadows, like I wish people would remember in times like that, like, Hey, like we're doing something really special here. I wish too, there's less, less fucking hate, like for what, you know what I mean? Like, like we won't, we won't delve into like the Martin shit, but like, it's not any of our places to hate somebody for their own hat. You know what I mean? Like, yeah. Or at the same rate, like, okay, we'll, we'll transition into classic, like talking about, you know, everything going on within that. It's like, I don't understand why Sam Sulek, who we used to all love the second, the bro found fame that he earned. Now we, everybody has a reason to fucking hate him. Yeah. Dude. So I was thinking about my take on Sam. It's so unfortunate that he turned pro because you're not ready to compete as a pro. We all kind of knew that. Like it wasn't a surprise to us, but imagine how cool it would be if we got to ride that journey with him, like Connor fucking McGregor, Patty, the baddie. And we got to, we got to witness him when, when the Jay Cutler, you know, go to junior Nats and get seventh, go to nationals and get a first call out and then him ride the ranks. And then he finally gets the pro card. How, how much like, I don't know if he would, if he would do anything for his followers now, but I think it would give him much more of like a, a journey in the game and like earnest stripes a little bit more in that regard where we could have fun watching it. Cause now the dude, the dude needs to be too 90 before he ever cuts down again. You know, he needs, he needs to learn how to pose. Like we all know the flaws, but it's just, it's his second competitive season ever. So like, that's my take is I wish we got to see him on the come up for long. That's what dude, like, this is what drives me insane. Like where, where I will, I will, I will play devil's advocate. I will say as a professional, you should probably have your posing figured out, right? Like there's, there's no question in that. And he does have the, the, the financial resources and also the connections to probably work with any posing coach he could ever fucking dream of. Right. Yeah. That being said, he's 24 fucking years old. It is his third show and it's the Arnold. Like I would love to see any other 24 year old right now, confidently say they could stand on that stage and nail it. Yeah. Yeah. I would, I would shit my pants 10 times over. Right. Like his posing wasn't perfect. Again, he's done three shows. My posing six shows in is still not perfect. It was definitely not perfect. Three shows at the same age. And I wasn't on the Arnold stage. Um, but I think we like kept it detached from that of like, nobody was going in and expecting him to win. I don't think he was going in it to expecting to win. He didn't boast shit. So yeah, he got eighth. That's awesome. Like he, he looked, I think with all of this though, to remind ourselves, like he's 24, he coached himself and he brought a better package than last time. What more do we need? Yeah. Like comparing him to Wesley is asinine. That's retarded. Yeah. It's yeah. He looked like a little boy next to him. Like it's mean. And, but like, that's not his, his playing field. Yeah. Like obviously he's a pro, but like, I wish he would have gone and done Detroit. Like I wish he would have done a little smaller show. Um, it was right after it, but you know, I think with him, man, I think I'll be curious to see what he does the next couple of years in competition. If he still competes, um, if he just tries to grow, cause I mean, dude, like he could do whatever he want with 3d and gym shark and like all that, like, hell he could have sat out there, Arnold and just been at the booth and made probably a lot more money. Yeah. Dude, he took a leap, bro. Like that is a, a bold leap to take. And I admire it heavily. Um, I think you're right. I think it should have been like a body B one or two below or like a smaller grade classic show to like see where he stands. But like you're, I think where a lot of people are also mistaking all of this is they put him beside Wesley, right? And everybody's like, Oh my God. It's like, Wesley has been, in my opinion, aggressively slept on for like the last five fucking years. And people are just now giving him like recognition. Like, no, the dude's been a freak dude. Wesley is, if you hear him, hear him talk, hear him speak, you hear him, how he carries himself. He is the closest thing to Arnold. He's got good charisma. He's got a good look. I was saying this on the, um, the D2 podcast was, um, if you put him in every other classic competitor on a beach somewhere, they're going to be like, well, that's Mr. Olympia for sure. Like Wesley, it's like, he just has the look. Um, I think they're doing the right thing with his legs. Now they're not getting them like absolutely skinless. So his legs disappear coming in a lot fuller. Um, I think he beats Mike cause Mike has to actually make weight now. Um, we will never see that Mike that took a point from Bumstead every, we will never do that. Um, I'm very confident in saying that. Yeah. We, um, touched on the Wesley stuff. Then we'll move into the Mike stuff. It's like, to me, not to me, I think he's the epitome of the criteria of classic physique top to bottom through, through how he poses, how he's built. Like it is that right. And I think prior, I think now that obviously Chris has retired and moved out, like now that he's not being compared to Chris, now people are starting to actually recognize where he stands with the improvements that, that I do agree upon, but the Mike stuff, dude, like, okay, first of all, we talked about this already missing by like seven pounds is rough. Like that's, that's rough. Like that obviously tells us that we were hoping we could get an inch or half inch that we didn't get. There was him, there was a men's physique pro who's an Olympian who missed check-ins by an hour. Yeah. And then somebody else. And I'm like, how are we doing that as the best in the world? We're not knowing when to go check in or we're not making weight. Like, and then Mike apparently missed the cutoff to sign up for Detroit. Yeah. And that's what Fuad was saying. He's like, yeah, like you were two hours later, three hours later for the sign, like, so like, why didn't you just do it the day before? Like the Detroit just didn't pop up. Yeah. It's like very, you know, but that's the thing, man. Like, and dude, you've ran athletes too, like close to the weight cap, but we're undecided. We always go lower. We always go lower. Like no matter what, like you can't just show up and bank on the higher one happening, especially when they didn't hide you higher at the Olympia. And it's like, it's just, it's small bouts of like professionalism. It's like, why isn't this getting done with someone who potentially should and could be Mr. Olympia? Like you're, you're, I don't want to say like, he's, he's doing himself a disservice from winning, but like, you're kind of probably not going to win it now. Cause like, you've been a problem now twice there. I'm not saying they hold grudges, but like, they're going to hold this against you for a little bit. Like it's, it's a, yeah, it's, it's not a good look. There's a, there's, I know there's going to be a fine to be paid for the Arnold, especially. I'd be curious how much that is. Yeah. So when you sign an IBB contract, you were agreeing, Hey, I will be there at, at this weight, at this cap, like you're, you're agreeing to do that. Now I know like promoters don't hold it against them if they bail out or whatever, but you know, I definitely don't think they should have even given him the option to have done open bodybuilding because it's like, no, no, you don't get a pass. Like you, you didn't do your job. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, they're selling the likeliness of you too. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So it's, I, yeah, I'm curious as to how much you just had to pay out of this because that's, that's what I was telling you, dude. I was like, bro, one, if I missed a weight cap, I'm already going to lose my shit. But two, if I have to pay like thousands, I'm assuming of dollars on top of that, you will find me dead in a sauna before it's all said and done. Yeah. Yeah. And if you're struggling that hard to make the way, like go, so they go to a different class, but I genuinely think they know that if they're not in that, a higher weight class, they're not going to, they're not going to win. And that's why they're like, well, maybe it's worth seeing if we can get away with it. Cause if not, we're going to lose anyway. And we'd rather like blame it on a weight scandal than, you know, getting beat. But I think Wesley would have beat him. Absolutely. He would have beat about Detroit too. He just, in my opinion, he needs to go to 212. Something. Yeah. Something because that's not, but then again, like, I don't think it does any better for him career wise. Um, doing 212, like 212 is no offense to anybody, but like, it's not the popular division, you know? So it's almost like make a big thing of it. Oh, I'm going open and get huge for two years. Like, I think he would just fall off the face of the earth if he went to 212. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, either way, like we gotta, we gotta pick something is fiddle fucking around in classic. It's not going to hold him much longer. Right. Um, and it's a, it's almost a bummer. Like, dude, I love that look you brought where he took a point from Chris, but like he was, he was high at what two inches taller than he was. I mean, dude, I wish I could get high to two inches taller than I was. We'd be fucking chilling, dude. But that, that thing, it's like, it's not fair. And like, if you're, you were, you were the issue at the Olympia, why everyone had to get rehided. Like, you don't think they're going to be watching you, dude? Like it's, I don't know, man. It just bums me out. It's silly, man. It's silly. Um, oh, let me send you a picture of the dog. I might be adopting another dog, guys. Um, dude, she's a, like a 65 pound, like micro pity. One second, look. It's coming through. Deliver, damn it. But dude, she's a little beefcake of a creature. She's like 65 pounds. Oh my God, I can't wait. If it'll go through. Her name is turnip, but I'm going to change it to peaches because she looks like a peaches to me. Oh my God. Bro. Yeah, dude. Is she good with other animals? Yeah. I'm going to take Gru tomorrow to do like a meet and greet and see how they do together, which I know he'll be fine as he's a gift from God himself. But, um, yeah. So, yeah. Oh dude, I can't freaking wait. A little beefcake, bro. So, she'll be coming to shows for sure. Oh, yes. Um, oh, she's precious, man. Um, dude, yeah, no, that's exciting. Um, what do we have? What do we have come this week? Anything? I've got, I got my guy in Turkey competing in two weeks. Yeah. I've got a guy, I think he's, he's doing like three shows. I think his first one, it's out West. I think it's in Utah. Um, yeah, he's going to do two weeks too. I've got a couple, a couple rolling in May. I got Memphis and Nevada the same weekend or, uh, Vegas the same weekend. I'm trying to think what else, like, we're just now kind of seasons opening up. And I think that's when you and I thrive a lot more. So I feel like we're like, from like December to about now is like the limbo phase where like people are moving into prep. We're kind of getting into it, but like, we're not like in the groove necessarily. Um, so I'm excited to get this season going, dude. Cause it, it, it opens up heavy and stays heavy throughout the rest of the year for me, which I'm thankful for. Um, yeah, I think what else? It's funny. Like, um, cause like, I don't like, I don't know what, what stage he's competing in, but I'm like, guys, it doesn't matter. Like, I know he has a show. I think I know what I'm doing. Yeah. Send me the link, dude. Tell me what time zone you're in. I got it. Like, yeah. So I was with my, my guy with Turkey. I was like, where's your show? He's like, I went to Morocco and I was like, okay, what time do you get up? And he sent me time. I was like, all right. We'll be fine. Like I use the world clock so much. I'm like, okay, it's there. It's there. We're good. Yeah. Yeah. I was like, I just gotta be, I gotta like, I'm gonna have to end up going like that, that weekend or that like Thursday through Saturday, I'm just going to have to like stay up until midnight to peak him. But I'm like, well, it'll buff out. We'll be fine. It's usually fun, man. And then, then what I would have them do is like, they would tech, like, I would set my alarm for like, right about like estimated time, like of when, like, they'd be like, you know, going on and stuff. But then I would also have my phone on like, obviously not on do not disturb. But Hey, just call me if anything's going on. No, you know, like if you need me, but yeah, all my overseas peaks went really well. So I'm stoked for me, dude. It should be, should be fun. It'll be good. I'll send you pictures after this, man. He looks really good. We got like two kilos to drop to make weight in the next 11 days. I'm not, I was like, bro, that's fucking, that's a breeze. It's not hard at all. Yeah, dude. Then we just get into it. And I don't know how many shows we have together this year. I have no idea. My first ones are in Texas. And then. Yeah. And then I don't, I don't really get going to August. Okay. The weekend in August. Do you have anybody doing battle? Damn it, dude. Damn it. No, I'm not in Tennessee till nine of champions. Fuck. Yeah. So it's like fucking Indiana and Tampa and Utah and Houston, Dallas. Yeah. It's fucking. Yeah. Georgia, the Southern muscle, Kentucky bourbon. Who you got at bourbon? I won't say. I'll tell you off air. Okay. Tell me off air. Cause I got somebody in bourbon too. Um, I've got, Oh, Tennessee. I've got someone in every Tennessee show. Um, I've got two Alabamas. I've got an, uh, Iowa, Missouri, a Utah, a Colorado, another Colorado, uh, Nevada, Turkey, New Jersey, Florida. I think that's everything. It's going to be, it's going to be a doozy of a season, man. I'm just like ready to be stressed out about shows. Like I fucking live for that shit, man. Me too. I love all you guys, but off seasons get so boring. Yeah. Yeah. I think preps are, preps are just, uh, they come to life during that. We're in the shit now, bro. Like seeing AJ yesterday, dude, I was like, Oh dude, this feels hot. We're so back. We're so back. Um, but yeah, dude, it's going to be a good season. I'm stoked. Um, Austin Brown starts prep like four weeks. Um, so it'll be fucking a banger. Um, he's huge. So I'm at the Arnold, big boy, big boy. Shout out to Austin too. Him and, uh, the machine. Yeah. Yeah. They fucking arguably I could have given them third, um, but they got fourth at Detroit pro. Um, they're going to keep on going. I don't know what show they're doing next, but it's in two weeks. What show is it? It's not the Arnold UK, is it? I don't think. No, it's not that. No. Oh yeah. Follow IFBB. The machine is fucking machine. David's good, bro. Crisp. Crispy. Crispy. Crispy. Yeah. Yeah. That was cool to see, man. I'm very happy for those guys. They fucking kill it. Um, trying to think. I think it's everything. Well, definitely. This was going to be a cut and dry short one as we just wanted to keep you guys updated. Uh, next week we'll record this week. It'll come out next week. Uh, we'll definitely do a little bit of a longer one. So in preparation for that, this will be out on Tuesday. On Wednesday, we will be putting up Q and a boxes. Please pretty, please ask us questions. It helps us out a ton. Helps you guys get the answers you want need from us, whether it's about bodybuilding fitness or just, you want to get to know more about us as coaches or people or what the fuck ever please ask it. We love to answer all of them, no matter how weird they may be. Um, if you're on YouTube, like comment, share, and subscribe. If you're listening on Spotify, leave us a five-star review and follow share with a friend. Pretty please throw it on the Instagram for your boys. It helps us out tremendously. And until next time, thank you for listening to J3U after hours.