 Welcome to the J3 University podcast, i'm your host, John Jewitt, i'm your cohost, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard and deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. The rise of the enhanced lifestyle. Today, Luke and I are going to dive into not just PDs and competitor uses, that's been going on for a long time, but it seems like, geez, everyone is using PDs or some who knows what kind of research chemical or that's the hot item, but it's become very normalized now. And it's an interesting time, just not just in the competitor space, but just really society as a whole, as it seems like there is a more prominent use of just even other drugs that used to be illicit are now kind of more becoming either legalized or just more normalized in usage. But at least for a day, I want to just dive into the conversation around what this looks like for the non-competitor that is using enhancements and where this kind of all is stemming from and risk around it and what that model might even look like for someone that is taking part in that. Yeah, I think it's, I think it's an important conversation to have, especially with kind of like you said, the prominence of usage with it. And I think a lot of the expectations around like handling people or handling clientele that are kind of in this category. And I think it starts with education. I think there's a pretty big piece of education that needs to be discussed in like expectations of what health management should look like and potentially the risks that are associated because I don't know about you, but I've seen a lot of these people just kind of jumping into PDUs just because their buddy's doing it or because they feel like they need to be, have a better physique to stand out in a workplace or whatever that might be. Or even if it's just because they're extremely competitive individuals, like in the CEOs or like high level business individuals, just looking for that edge that kind of going down this path without any objective conversations about what are the risks associated with this and how do we manage this the best way? And I think that I think education is probably the best place to start. Wouldn't you agree? It is. It's, it's, it's interesting. Like when you think on it, where do you think is kind of coming from? Like what factors might be driving the increased popularity PDs as part of like this enhanced lifestyle? Obviously the usage of just PDs has been always been around whether you're in the Cisco extends outside of just fitness, right? Like whether you're a CEO or a student, like back in school, people were taking Adderall to study longer or even if you're like, you know, in business or something like that. But it seems like even more prominent now. So do you, do you see something that's popped up more in culture to where this is like a become an increased in popularity? There's two, twofold things that I see. One, I think you have people like Chris's that are popularizing the sport. Like it's becoming something that's a lot more attractable to a lot more people. Secondarily, there's no longer the veil of the curtain between what you see in the magazines and what you see on social media versus gym population, because it's a little bit less faux pas to talk about it. Like for the longest time in culture, it's, it was one of those things where people wanted to look like the people in the magazines or the fitness models or whatever. And they were trying to do it with just nutrition and training as best as they could, not understanding that there was that background usage of like enhancements. But now that it's a little bit less of a, like I said, faux pas to discuss it and talk about like, this is what these people are doing. It's almost like less than the air quote evil of it. Um, where it's an understanding that I can't get there without this. So if I can't get there without this, and this is what I want, what do I need to do in order to get there? Because it's becoming an extremely outcome focused society of like, what does my presence from like an image perspective become with the popularization of social media and the development of that and building brands around yourself? Um, and I think that's probably a lot of where it comes from. It's interesting with social media because as you know, and as you know, like if you search something or you click on something or you sit on a page long enough on Instagram, that's your feed and everything will start getting populated more around that type of content. And so it's quickly to easy to be just kind of immersed in enhanced usage. If that's something that you start looking at and even starting to target with marketing that would leverage that interest as well. So all of a sudden you, all your cultural norm becomes this enhanced individual. And so I think this normal look is no longer really normal. Now it's become, well, the norm is this like steroid using bodybuilder and it looks like everyone's doing it. So I think that's a part of how the normalization might see in like at least someone's that is coming across like shows social media and has those types of interests when a very well it's, it might, it might only be immersed in your own little circle of influence and not the reality of what's going on in the world. But I think another interesting area that's immersed is just the HRT wellness side of things. You know, there's a lot of things that are driving this. I think as a whole society is looking for more preventative strategies around medicine versus just, you know, the old Western model of just don't, you know, fix it once it's broken. So, you know, with the emerge of that, I think you're having all these clinics come up. However, a lot of these clinics are also kind of operating in a gray area. Like there's, it's a newer area of medicine. So there's not full regulations on certain things. And even like we see peptide hormones that are coming out, which they're not FDA approved. However, they're not like banned either, but you can still access them through physician scripts, which is kind of strange. Uh, so yeah, I think the emergence of those clinics and giving accessibility to this enhanced lifestyle for wellness has also driven that the accessibility is just there. And being that it's through positions that are prescribing, it seems like this is a, now a new way to increase your, your wellbeing. So I think just the combination of the two and where society now is we're, we're very open to being different in any capacity. And so, and more acceptance of even taboo areas. So if you're, you know, an enhanced bodybuilder, Hey, natural bodybuilder, don't PD shame me because this is my, my choice. Right. Uh, but as a whole, I think we're becoming more open to like what's going on in different parts of the world, the societies in trying to be more accepting of other people's decisions. And that's just kind of like you said, remove the veil behind what people are doing and, uh, things that are, it's pretty wild really on social media. Cause even things that are very illicit, people are like just showing and openly talking about like, these are still like in your country that you're talking about very well to be in a legal act and a legal thing that you're doing, but you're just so open to share it now. So it's almost become like, uh, a removal of ethics and morals and legality around these things that still have moral ethical ethical and legality issues surrounding them. But, uh, yeah, that, that emergence has come. So here it is. We're here now and, uh, it's accessible and people want that. So back to your thing around, uh, education of what this really looks like and kind of maybe a starting point of, if you're getting exposed to this, where do you begin and how do you, how would you navigate it? Yeah, I think, I think there's a couple of ways you can air quote begin. I think there's self-education that needs to happen. Um, and then really the, the hard part with self-education is finding the source, like AKA, like that's why we kind of have all these courses built to kind of educate around, uh, and especially with the new PD module, just like how in depth that goes into every aspect of potential PD use. But, um, I think having someone that, you know, is educated at an extremely high level on this topic, manage your process is one of the better ways to learn, especially if you communicate your end goals and the level of risk that you're willing to take well with that coach. Um, I, it's funny because like, I just built a new lecture for the female module around prescribe or not prescribing suggesting PDs, um, based on, uh, kind of like the level of risk for the athlete. And I think this is a big aspect of like the education process is learning like what would be in your level of risk for kind of your end goal set and kind of your lifestyle, um, that you are willing to, uh, or the risks you're willing to take on to achieve those goals. And I think a lot of times that comes with a conversation with the coach, like having that kind of education. So I think step one is hiring someone who's extremely knowledgeable in this area set, um, goes through the process of explaining like how frequent lab work pulls are going to need to be prophylactic strategies, going through your medical history in order to be able to understand what you might be predisposed to from an essentials of PD usage. Um, and then your own self-education through coursework, because the thing about the wellness clinics operating in the gray area is we do have practitioners that are getting into this on the money side who may not be the most versed in this area of hormone replacement therapy. Um, I've personally seen a lot of bad practice happen within these areas. It's not to say that these all wellness clinics are like this. There's a ton that are really good. Um, but your way of protecting yourself is through that self-education. I think that's, that's where it starts is hiring a coach and then courseworks after that. Yeah. Yeah. And I, unfortunately, I think I realized a lot of people dive into this without, without a coach and, uh, yeah, like a lot of us, we want the gains and don't worry about repercussions around what that might look like. I think it's also important to just kind of be able to understand expectations of what that might be for yourself and setting the big picture goal of when you're heading down this path. And so if you're not competing, your goal should not be to look like an Olympia level bodybuilder because it's a very different type of approach to be able to take. And I think expectations and the, the reality of what utilizing these substances might do for you. Um, the fantasy might far exceed the reality of what it's going to do. And I think you also need to be setting up for, um, the idea of what, at least what I would say would be an enhanced lifestyle that I think would be, you know, acceptable is that these things should be enhancing your lifestyle and your wellbeing and not taking away from that. And I think that's the real line in the sand of where at least I would see this is that, you know, if for one, starting with some type of assessment of, is there, you know, hormone discrepancies or aspects around your labs, you know, micronutrient issues that are not optimized to fully fulfill you in a physical standpoint, a mental standpoint and a quality of life standpoint. And if they're not, well then filling in those gaps and improving your life's lifestyle, your quality of life and your wellbeing absolutely aligns with someone that, you know, would be at that risk model. And then how far can you push that up to achieve that physique or that mental capacity that you're looking for? Well, I think that you draw the line of like, well, when it starts diminishing wellbeing. And I think that's why it's important to have, just like we do with our competitors, these check marks that we're keeping up with and realizing that this is an expensive endeavor and a timely endeavor because you're going to need to be doing, you know, lab work every 10 to 12 weeks to make sure that you're not running into these issues and you know when to pull back in these areas, which Luke and I, we can talk a little bit about the different areas that you might be exploring going down this, this path. But I think where you should really realize that to gain the most out of this type of approach, just like with the competitor. And unfortunately with the lifestyle and aspect, I think a lot of people aren't leveraging the nutrition, the training, the recovery tools that you could to the fullest and just jumping into getting enhancements. And then those enhancements aren't getting realized with as much result as you thought there would be because you don't have the baseline framework of quality nutrition training in recovery in place. So do make sure that you are fully maximizing those areas. And if you are going to like some type of wellness or HUT clinic, these are things that they should be asking you questions about. So I think those should be like some pop-up, maybe red flags if you're getting in with a good clinic or not. If the first thing is they send you is like, here's your, you know, your drug list and your, and your costs that probably wouldn't be the clinic to go with. You might want to be going with one that's also assessing like what's recovery, like what's your training, like what's your nutrition, like to align with what your goals are for this, this lifestyle to take place. And why it's also important, like if, if you don't want coaching, at least, you know, there's so many resources of you and, uh, you know, not one-on-one individualized coaching, but even group setting type coaching that could take place or even apps that can, you can utilize to maximize those other areas, something that to help you bring up and get the most out of when you do go down this type of enhanced route. Yeah. And I think, I think that's where maybe the self-education piece comes in is being able to recognize that red flag of like someone talking about this from an, in a clinical setting. Um, especially when it comes to like, man, I see all these clinics that like still require people to come in for administration of like HRT shots. It's like, uh, it's just wild to me, man. Um, and I get it. Like with Jim pop, like there's adherence issues and, um, especially for people who are on like the replacement therapy that don't have the goal sets. But when you talk about people who have goal sets, like we are now for like physique, like that's not going to be an issue. And so you need to be talking about what's best for the management of your health metrics and going in once a week for a bowl of shot is not the best way to, to manage things. Right. And so, um, kind of like moving down that path, I think kind of like you mentioned, um, I think ensuring that you have all the variables in place is a big aspect. Again, this is where like having a coach to me, I think it's just so valuable, even if you aren't trying to compete, um, because they can be like the light that guides the ship. And for a lot of you that live in this category, like this is a secondary consideration for you. Like a lot of you are running businesses or, uh, have careers that pull a lot out of you. And so what this allows you to do is get the most out of the day to day with the nutrition and the habits and the things that this coach requires of you to do, um, while not having to stress over it quite as much and have it become more a part of your lifestyle. And that's where we develop people into being high level athletes and what we call like an experience level dieter where at some point, like three, four years down the line, you've done this long enough where there can be some sort of self-management system that comes into place as you kind of, uh, escalate that skills as an, as an athlete. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and live Q and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. I know Luke brings back up the coaching piece. You're like, look, I don't have money for coaching. I just want to put it into my drugs. Um, but when you see the bill, sometimes that some of these, you know, clinics that are, you know, taking all the necessary steps in just assessing you properly and wanting to just give you the big list of drugs is that some lists we've seen are no shit, like $3,000 a month for the products and supplements and prescriptions and the, the, uh, you know, consulting that they do, which holy crap. Like if you had just, you know, lifestyle coaching is a lot less than competitor coaching, you know, 200 to $300 a month. You have someone that could be an advocate for you to watch, you know, secondarily look over your labs, uh, make sure that that is aligning with your physique and mental goals and kind of like double checking to make sure you're not getting, you know, taken advantage of for honestly, but some of these clinics can do that. There are some, some good ones out there for sure, but you know, having just a little bit of funds going towards that would go a long way for how much you would be investing into this enhanced lifestyle piece. So, you know, just, just make, make that consideration point. If you do choose to go down that route. Uh, but, but with that being said, I think where we do see the big list of, you know, prescriptions take place is just far beyond what really should be the start point for a lot of people. And I think, um, you know, we could dive Luke into kind of what that, what that set up, that framework might actually look like for someone that's looking for enhancements and what that, uh, risk could actually probably be trying to keep it as low as possible. Um, which I think the easily the start point here is like, if you get your lab work done, if you're male or female, it's usually just trying to optimize your natural hormones that are in place. So for guys looking at a TRT prescription, same with females. And this might even be depending on where in life you are as a female and what your past history is could be, you know, estrogen replacement or even progesterone replacement. But these three hormones are usually the base starting point, at least around the hormone optimization piece. Um, there's some other ones that are out there like, you know, looking at DHEA or pregnenolone, but as a general idea, that's kind of what you're looking from a start point, but realize too, that you want someone that can fully assess of like, could you improve this without going straight to hormones? Because depending on where you're coming from, you might just be in an acute suppressed state and could come back, but that's not for everyone. Um, I think what we see with a lot of these clinics is that you're jumping into just too high of dosing that extending beyond replacement into super physiological and realize if you are, you know, sub physiological or low that just coming up to normal is already going to make you progress. And so I would want to be leveraging as much progress as I can off the lower dosages before you're deciding to move up. And, uh, that kind of is a real, real start point for, for many. And these clinics could escalate you a little bit there. I see the, if you have the air quotes of like sports TRT, I'm not, I'm not a fan of that terminology because it seems to like, like it removes risk, but there's just true physiological replacement dosages. And then there's super physiological dosages that are leaning into just actual, um, like it, like a steroid user, really, you know, honestly. So, uh, sports TRT, I don't like that term, uh, just because of the connotation of what it implies of reduced risk and a normalization of high dosing, uh, steroid cycles. But, you know, starting point with true TRT would be where we would begin. I think metabolic optimization is one as well that should be considered. Um, I think we can start to look at like thyroid replacement therapy for people who need it. Um, I think that's a place where, uh, quite often gets overlooked. Um, even for people like with fertility goals, like if you go, if you do have fertility goals and you go to a fertility clinic because of issues with that, one of the first places they're going to, uh, introduce, um, optimization is around thyroid. So, um, I think that's like a big metabolic optimization piece. I think we can use things that are going to help with that on the non-androgenic side as well. So a lot of times you can get injectable L-carnitine, um, and, and access to things along this non-androgenic side. That's going to help with metabolic optimization as well. Alongside key thing is habits that allow you to get the most out of your process. And I think the metabolic optimization piece on that front is sleep habits and recovery habits and nutrition habits. And that has to go along with the things that are helping you with the metabolic optimization. But I think that's a big step too, as well, for a lot of people in regards to like pulling more out of your process, especially if you're having issues with. Um, getting to the body composition of the physique that you're trying to get to. Yeah. And, and, you know, don't, don't also make sure you're looking at labs from the metabolic standpoint of where you might need to put some hard work in. I see a lot of people that just, you know, they're a little bit more insulin resistant, higher A1c levels and serum insulin levels, or have a little bit of like low grade inflammation that's present. Like those are things you need to address and you're going to get more or even correct hormone issues that may be present. But from like the next step from there, I think you're kind of looking at what I see a ton of is all the peptides that are around, which are a lot to navigate for just a lifestyle or just gosh, anyone really even coaches, because there's so many that are present. And a lot of these are just research chemicals that some of them don't have any human testing in. Some of them have some, they're just haven't been FDA approved for the type of, you know, application that they were getting, going through clinical testing for. However, that doesn't just rule them out as being unsafe. However, we don't have a lot of long-term data on a lot of these drugs. Like we do ones that have been approved and where you can get them prescribed that are, you know, the FDA approved drug. There's are a few out there though. Some, some of them of what we will see would be like growth hormone releasing peptides. So cause you to have a natural increase of growth hormone. You'll see a lot of these that are promoted. You might be looking at your serum IGF-1 levels to see where kind of naturally at. And then from there, seeing what a response might be if you decide to go down this route. But I would say this is a much smaller player in, in the, the big picture of results. Some people can get growth hormone prescribed from some of these clinics, but it's extremely costly. But I, I do see some aspect of leveraging growth hormone being part of this enhanced lifestyle because it is a pretty low risk item and, and effective. And just mitigating body fat gain if you're in a massing phase or even eating fat loss if you're in a cutting phase. And especially as you're getting older too, aiding with connective tissue and joint wear and tear is, is a big piece of it. Yeah. And I think that, um, that's kind of where, like, if you do have access to real growth hormone, it's probably the, I don't want to use hyperbole here, but like the elixir of life when it comes to like maximizing the most out of this process is like getting the most out of the least, like optimizing GF to IGF-1 with growth hormone usage, I think is, is one of the best ways that you can run this, uh, lifestyle based coaching approach. Where, um, you do get a lot out of it. And I think you can even start to look at, especially for those of you like with like injury profiles, like I've seen some really cool stuff happen with mixtures of like BPC and TB with this growth hormone escalation. And so it's allowing people to recover much faster than, um, even like surgeons or people in orthopedics would be expecting. So, um, it's, it's really cool stuff if you know what you're doing and you, you're using things and understanding things from like, uh, how much data do we have on these topics? But man, I, I just, I think gold star for if you have access to growth hormone, because I think that could be the core of how you run this process and getting the most out of the least in my opinion. Yeah, definitely one to, uh, to make consideration for, and then of course you're going to have a lot of other drugs that could be using off labor or on label. But I would just say, if you're able to facilitate this through diet and training, do it that way. Um, before you have a polypharmacy situation and a big bill to come about, like what's really hot right now is the use of the GL GLP one, um, you know, like similar, uh, some glutatide. Um, and they work, you know, don't get me wrong. They definitely can decrease appetite and cause you cause calorie restriction. But again, you have a lot of drugs that are just getting compounded and compounded together. And the, the effects of all these together are question mark. Like you don't have trials put together. We're using five different research chemicals. So I would just be put caution there when you are, um, you know, adding these other drugs in and you might, if, if you're just a non-versed user of these things, type in the name into Google, uh, of whatever it is. If it's like, say it's some, you know, some morellin or Ipermorellin or these GHRPs, type that name in and say FDA approved. And you'll probably get a pop up of like, this is not FDA approved or this one is. And that might give you a little guidance that, Hey, this has gone through like a full bout of all clinical testing and human approved for safer usage. And that might be the routes to go. If they haven't been, well, then you might want to explore that a little bit more. Ask the provider that are trying to prescribe these around, you know, information and then make, you know, informed decisions from there. But I see that's kind of like where you see a lot of the framework of what people are utilizing. And then I still see lifestyle people that are now dipping into like the, um, the non-prescribed universe, right? Like getting some underground gear, adding in, uh, or, or even it is prescribed. It's just like, should it be prescribed though? Like you see like Nandrolone, like Deca and Anivar getting prescribed, which does that really fit into a HRT setting? Well, no, these aren't, you know, natural hormones in the body. Well, Nandrolone sort of is, but, uh, not to the degree that you're going to be utilizing it, that, that amount. Um, however, does it fit into an enhanced, like a wellbeing setting? Uh, I, you can, that's a real gray statement and can make a, make a case for anything you wanted to justify use of, but really you're kind of getting into steroid usage at this point. And then, then you have to question back to you, well, what is your ultimate goal here of being enhanced lifestyle? And, you know, where's, you're going to be your, your line in the sand of what is supposed to be improving your life and your wellbeing might be taking away from it on the backend. If you're doing high dose, you know, steroid usage, but I see other people that are dipping into using like IPO come up to the gym. They're using like Prima Bolan and Trimbalone and, you know, all kinds of things that, um, they are sourcing outside of doctor prescriptions. And, uh, that is a tough one because it really just, you know, where do you, where do you stop from there? Um, you're then kind of becoming a bodybuilder without the stage is kind of what's happening. Yeah. And, and, you know, once I stopped competing, I see myself moving to like an enhanced lifestyle from there. But I know from what I'm doing, I'll never do it at the extent of what I was doing currently. Uh, look at it as like having to pay back a debt, a debt in a way because of just being at such a high level of usage. Like you absolutely have to go to the kind of the other extreme of beings hyper focused on, um, health and longevity at that point and not looking to stay in a super physiological territory. Um, so I think if you are older, like that would be my focus of wanting to be of longevity and anti aging and extending quality of life, but not taking away from it. So I think that's where you should be, um, having your mindset going into these clinics and realizing that you just truly need to be your own advocate and be very versed. Uh, because there's just not as much regulation in these areas for right now. Yep. I, I 100% agree. I think that covers it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's interesting of where this will head. If there'll be further regulations in place and, uh, getting stricter in these areas because of what's been occurring, I feel like that could, could happen. But I also see like, there's an increase of just a normalization of PD usage amongst just wellbeing. Like that's what you're, you'll be doing. So it'll be interesting where we head, like as someone that uses steroids and PDs, uh, you're, you're a bit more. Uh, liberal in that capacity and you're okay with, uh, that where the culture is going. Cause it helps you out. Uh, but at the same time, uh, you just, you know, worry about people's safety as well. And, um, want that to head in the right direction. But anyway, uh, thank you all for tuning in. Appreciate any conversation. If you're on YouTube, leave questions, comments down below and Luke and I will talk to you next time.