 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Fat loss diet mistakes. Luke and I have covered muscle building mistakes made during dieting with... Let me just start this over. The Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Um, but I look, I, I love seeing like the different ways that people respond to the, to the start of dieting. And I think that's kind of where this, this conversation starts is it's like, what does the beginning portion of diet look like? Because that to me is where people make the biggest mistake and, and put themselves behind the eight ball. So like when you, when you see people starting preps, John, like what's, what's the biggest things that step out that stand out to you as far as like the biggest mistakes in that portion of the dieting phase? Yeah. At least on the initial part and where I've made my own mistakes in the past was just starting off the calorie deficit to conservative was the thing that I did, uh, with the idea of like getting the most from the least. And then like, so you have some cards to play later on, uh, ends up, you save those cards and you have to play them all later on. And then you're like, damn, I just played my whole hand and I run out of time. So that was like the past situation of like, then you're like get behind and you have to like get overly aggressive towards the end. Um, it wasn't till later on where like, and even now, like we have like science coming out to kind of verify this on more aggressive deficits on the beginning of a fat loss phase when you have the greatest ability to maintain tissue would be making sure you're starting the fat loss phase off like aggressive enough. Yep. 100%. I think there's, there's multiple things that you can look at too for this. It could be like the initial diet change, um, and kind of how you go about that. Uh, one of the things I don't like seeing, and we do see this in a lot of client plans is too large of like caloric rotations trying to drive the deficit. Like they're very trening performance logbook based. So they keep their trening day food quite a bit higher. And then they drop the rest day food way down thinking I can just drive the deficit by taking a larger chunk out of the rest day, which I think is not, it's not long sided enough. Like it's pretty short sighted move in regards to keeping a contest prep rolling throughout the entirety of the contest prep, because ultimately contest prep's just fat loss in a fatigue management state. Like you're pushing as hard as you can for fat loss to occur while keeping someone in a place that they can still adapt to the deficit. And this attachment to performance and attachment to logbook, while it's important for retaining tissue, we don't need to have such a caloric intake on trening day, be that differential from rest days because those days that are off are also contributing to recovery capacity that is also going to contribute to your performance in following days. And so I'd rather see like a net change across the entirety of the diet. A lot of my clients too, like they'll, they'll have caloric rotations in all seasons for digestion purposes, but man, I'll, I'll borderline almost eliminate the rotation and caloric intake, uh, with the start of prep. Like it just, it doesn't need to be super high in my opinion. So when you're, when you have that situation with a client, are you pulling most of the calories off of the trening day to where then they get pretty close to the same or, or is it just like a little bit less pulled off of the non-trening days? Like how, how, how do you look at that for that particular client? Yeah, typically it'll be pulled off of both. It's just a little less pulled off the non-trening day. Sometimes I'll even pivot people into aromasingle meal plan where the only differential is the intra-workout carbohydrate exposure. Like if they have intra-workout carbohydrate powder makes for execution to be really easy. They don't have any excuse to not be prepared. Like it's, it's a quick and easy way to make sure the consistency is at a high level because their food's not changing day to day. Really the only thing is supplementation around trening. Uh, so that's kind of how it goes. Like I'll, I'll start people with 20% deficit straight off the cuff, like no problem, like super easy. And it just gets them flying because when I look at that, that fat loss chart that IMake for people in either in their timelines, if I want them to see it, or IMake it in a document for myself if I don't want them to see it. What I'm doing is, is I'm watching that 1% rate of loss and I'm wanting to get close to that 1% rate of loss for that first portion of prep, because that puts me in a position where I can run 0.5 or less almost that back end of prep where it's like, I'm not really even barely running fat loss the lasT4 to five weeks for most people. Yeah. I think you bring up a good point around that for one, how much are you pulling off the start? And I usually advise people, Hey, don't go over 30% of a calorie deficit off the front of a prep. And if you're having to, to make that timeline, you probably want to expand your timeline out a bit longer just because more aggressive fat loss phases as very well could be suited for over a short term. Over the longterm is when you probably accumulate too much fatigue and it wouldn't be sustainable across 16 plus weeks of a contest prep. But to bring to your point, like, Hey, 20 to 25% could be a very good starting point. And if you do need to make up a little bit more of that, doing it off the output side. So a lot of times I'll, I'll bump up steps or add a little bit of cardio in, but the majority of that chunk coming from the diet and you know, they're basically, we're all trying to create that weekly rate of loss. That's going to align for the timeline and, and how we do that, there's a lot of flexibility within that. So you don't have to go to a straight every single day, uh, being a diet monotonous as that might psychologically not align best with the client profile as well. But for, for the clients that I have on like larger amounts of calories where in the offseason you have to get pretty strategic with where you put food. So, you know, one client with really high amounts of food trening day hunger is a lot higher. So it makes a lot of sense that we put a lot of calories into that day. So a lot of the food is coming off that day and then the rotation is a much less aggressive moving to the fat loss phase versus maybe a female client and lower food where it just really isn't that big of a rotation and their output on a trening versus a non-trening day. It's not that vast. And what I found is the bigger you are, the more vast it becomes like a big bodies burn a lot of calories. So, uh, you know, some people are like, you don't need more than 500 calories on a trening versus non-trening day. Like to get to like two 60 plus forcing a body weight that you're not supposed to be at. Like you will burn through it and especially strong individuals that tolerate a lot of trening volume. So anyway, um, yeah, you have just some different tools to create that deficit. I hope you saw that question on the forum we had. Someone asked like, I'm going to the fat loss phase. I need to create my deficit. Like how should I structure my high day? Uh, and it's kind of thinking a little backwards about it. Yeah. Because you're like, well, you know, you want a 20% deficit for the weeks. For instance, if you want one high day, like to add in another 10% of calories that day, you need to make it up somewhere else. So you need to get like a 25% reduction on whatever, four days out of the week. And then it gets really complicated. So you would have to align with that. I think some people, they don't even do that. If they just take calories out there, uh, every day, then a high day gets kind of arbitrary of like, well, I'm going to double carbohydrate in this day. And it's like, well, what about like your calorie? What does that mean for your calorie balance for the total week? So I think, uh, that might get a little bit into our, our next topic, but, um, two larger rotations could be problematic for the recovery piece and managing fatigue. Um, but some rotation could be plausible for those that have the psychological aspect that would benefit from a diet that would be less, less monotonous. I'm going to, I'm going to make a shirt that says pre-planned high days are overrated. And we're going to have that on the back and then the J3 university on the front. Cause I think it's a product of not doing step one correctly. Like you're not matching the rate of loss with the timeline appropriately. And as a result, you're having to dig yourself out of the hole with food. When, if you're having to dig yourself out of a hole in the first place, which is normal for a prep, you'll have that sometimes, man, an activity adjustment down is a massive one for most people. But I digress before we get too far off topic. I do think that kind of brings us into refeeding too often because the longer I do this, the preps that are the smoothest and the preps that get to the final outcome, the easiest are always the ones that seem to have the least amount of refeeds and the least amount of need. And a lot of the times this has to do with how strict the individual is with their schedule and how well they execute the contest prep, how well they manage their time and how adaptive they are to the, to the contest prep response in the sense that they move fat loss along pretty steadily each week because they've done the work on the forefront to set up the prep. But they've also got their life variables in play where they're not driving stress or fatigue really high or they're not running into all these roadblocks. And I think really the topic to discuss is just refeedinGHappens too often for a variety of different reasons in my opinion. But I think it's something that would definitely be a huge mistake if you kind of went down that path. Yeah. Back when, well, high days, refeeds, they've been part of dieting culture for a long, long time. And, but the idea used to be like, right, keep your metabolism from slowing down, speed up metabolism, just keep your moving, prevent your fat loss from stalling. And then we're like kind of learn to find out like, okay, that's not really the aspect around refeeds that's beneficial, but there is potential around, you know, prevent, preventing loss of tissue we saw some of these other studies starting to come out around like a five on two off kind of rotation or diet breaks and and a lot of the studies don't quite trenslate over competitors but some were so we see like pre-planned refeeds were then a thing but it also extends the timeline for our contest prep as well now kind of fast forward now is like well what should really guide us around if we're using refeeds or or not and i think people are trying to build their diets based on the research of what we're seeing that wasn't really what we should be doing it should be based around like why are these being done what are the benefits of them then how do we leverage that for those benefits and so you know what we probably see more out of refeeds is like when you are in a state where trening is suffering that it brings you back to a state where you could have some trening performance and maintain tissue also there's definitely the the psychological benefit of dropping off fatigue maybe some improvements to sleep and that in turn allows you to continue the deficit and keep movinGHigh output so those should really be our assessment tools of when these refeeds should be going in and on the front end of prep you're not going to be really running into those and as we know it's not really going to be preventing metabolic down regulation from occurring like that's occurring either way if any you're just extending your prep timeline so with refeeds off the front clip of a prep they don't quite make sense because you're not really getting a state of glycogen depletion where trening is really being problematic and what i come across more is that fatigue accumulates more from the trening side or the cardiovascular output side and it's a lot of times from people that have you know more inconsistency within their daily prep to where we can't control as much and some days kind of creep up on someone but the solution to that isn't from adding a refeed in because i don't see as much fatigue drop as i do with removing the issue that started the problem which is the output side so we kind of coined the term like the output days where a complete removal from trening and cardio and step reduction just to full-on rest in turn the the diet stays the same but it puts someone back towards a maintenance or slight surplus and that's the bigger fatigue drop that can allow them to keep moving in a contest prep however refeeds on the tail end of a prep when you are getting very glycogen depleted and trening performance is starting to suffer that starts to bring in the logic and rationale of utilizing a refeed with the caveat that it doesn't take away from the end goal of of being stage lean and i think that's where you have to get really cautious with what does your refeed look like and slowly implementing when luke uh created a you know i actually i took this from one of your lectures and put it into our coursework kind of like how do you how you incrementally go about testing refeeds and moving someone up across the prep so you don't uh lose time because i've made that mistake earlier in coaching it's like all right clients dying 200 grams carbs i'm gonna bump it at 400 then they're like gain three pounds and it takes them like another three four days to get back to a baseline then you now only have a week a week where you had like two week two days of that other week of like productive fat loss you're like shit i pretty much just lost a week here yep so there uh there should be strategically implemented and monitoring the response of a client to where you don't lose any of your timeline and i guess that's the problem right luke like on the front end it's just way too easy to lose a lot of your time yes you can lose so much because that refeed just like the response is is sticky almost like it it's it stays with the client so long and i think the point that i want to pull out before we move into the next topic is it's not the primary goal the primary goal is to get into contest shape and so there are preps where you have to dig those last seven eight nine ten weeks just to make sure that you get there where refeeds are kind of few and far between but if you're in a place where you can utilize them which happens when you push the front portion of the prep in your head it allows for that to be plugged in as needed for performance retention so i think there's a a mindset shift that has to happen like we can't replace getting in contest shape as the primary goal with making sure refeeds are a part of the prep as the primary goal because i do know that people get pretty emotionally attached uh well this client's getting refeeds why am i not or they see it you know kind of pervade in in social media culture because good grief a day in the life of like see what i eat videos or what does john get sushi and i don't oh man it's so funny but it's like it's you have to be so specific to what each person can respond to in regards to what you're putting in so that you know you aren't removing that time like when you go get sushi it's because you're ordering the same exact thing and you know your response to it and you know that it's not sticky where you're losing that week of fat loss it's enough to pull you back up but then it's pulling you back down um at a quick rate to to keep you on track so it's it's it's a hard dynamic to communicate because as someone perhaps it starts to flip right you start to see like that desire for contest lean for some people start to move kind of equal to wanting the refeeds and we have to make sure that people are reminded that that's not refeeds not the primary goal used as needed to achieve the primary goal of contest shape thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with j3 university our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our j3u team to answer any questions you have and livEQ a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top ifbb pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at j3 university let's get back to today's podcast yeah and with getting into food variety on prep we kind of get into the topic around which could be a mistake made is macro matching now that's not to say that don't ever do it it's just that it can take you down a path of making errors and utilizing it with uh for one i think on the on the coaching side is that there's kind of a question mark or vagueness around what someone's eating and might leave you when a problem does arise where do you really start so if you have someone just off numbers and you're not able to actually see their food sources they're utilizing for one they might have shifts in what they eat and if it's prior to a check-in day oh maybe they had more a more more sodium bump for that day you see their check-ins and it looks softer their weights up you're like man do i need to be more aggressive and it's just a fluid shift it's not actually representative of the rate of fat loss that's occurring so that's one thing when it gets a little too inconsistent with shifting of foods um that could be a problem then you know the other one is like as you're getting farther down the dieting process and stress is higher in the body the gi track can get a little finicky you can start running into gi problems and if i knew exactly what someone's eating and we can identify it in a meal pretty quickly you can you can shift and make those adjustments pretty pretty fast if not you're like okay well let me see your whole diet plan like when are you having this problem they're like well these meals are changing i'm subbing in these macros here and so it creates a delay in the timeline of figuring out problems if they were to rise so on the coaching side those are at least at least two of the the problems that i could see come out like earlier on not even talking about peak week but that's how you're on in prep yeah it's it's so funny because i coach a few what i term is advanced dieters so people who are good at this like that run macros for their preps like especially the first half especially like i just give them macros so uh emily king's one of them mitchell's one of them um but when we get to the back end of prep like it goes from like me just giving the macros to like hey like this is the foods and this is the meals and we're kind of running this into a peak because man thEQuickest way to screw a peak is to start to do this inaccurately like with what you're plugging in from a meal by meal perspective as far as digestion right because um it's you're not only controlling for like the macronutrients that go in but you're also controlling for the micronutrients but tertiary the digestion piece of it when macros come up for loading is such a quick way for people who have been dieting for so long even if they're advanced dieters seeing those macros and plugging in foods that may have been fine in offseason but as you get through contest prep there's not that tolerable or they do drive some loading and that to me is just not worth it so when i see macro matching as far as a part of a contest prep it's not that it can't be done it's that the tolerance that you give yourself has to be much narrower for a contest prep in my opinion and then potentially even removed once you get to that last piece because it needs to be so predictable by the time you're running a peak that it's it's not a question of if the macro matching is getting in the way um and it's so simple to screw it up like just we talked about this before but like subbing seafoods like one trip for a different trip that you buy at a different grocery store having quadruple the sodium or even just like switching sauces like i i've seen people go to a show and it's those shows that have expos at them right they buy a sauce at the expo and it either drives gi issues or it has different like sodium content relative to their other sauces and it's just so frustrating on the coaching end because you spent 18 20 24 weeks doing everything so well to have something like that start to mess it up you know yeah in that you know the other thing is the volume side yeah it's volume side too yeah and people started shifting to foods that are more voluminous which you can make a pretty large plate of food that still fits within some macros but another thing about getting on stage is like yeah you need the devs to create fat loss but you also need to be able to control your waste so if you're spending all day long with this in way so you can't tren it to the absolute smallest ability all prep long that's leaving some ground on the table that you could be gaining uh then also the fiber part of the equation some people might be looking at carbs protein fats but if you're not accounting for fiber uh for one you know bloating could be a problem or even if you had someone that's low carb you need a certain amount of those carbs being able to fuel trening and now we're getting to the muscle retention side of the equation where they're eating a ton of fiber where we have the idea that's most that carb should be going into fueling trening and recovery then we're having limitations now for the muscle retention side so you know a few things that it could be accounted for it's like like you said luke it's probably making sure guidelines are in place or using that approach like hey i need you doing five meals per day and maybe those macros are now accounted to each of those meals rather than being a total for the day so no one's trying to like you know macro save and eat more of them in the evening or just go to a strategy that's more psychologically based over outcome based for the physique and i think that's where you start to have to start shifting things around for people and you know tail end of prep i've been there you if you have macros you start planning out the most strategic way to eat the most palatable volume as food that you can to just lessen the burden of hunger and when you're getting to that hey it's time to just to hang up the macros because it's not going to be psychologically benefit for you then you get to the back end of prep when it's all over you're like i wasted so much of my life thinking about food and macros when i could have been more productive so i'm laughing i'm laughing because i've been there man i remember that that last prep was jolly rancher cucumbers it was jolly rancher drink packets sprinkled on cucumbers oh my god it's so funny when you look back though like you just you just gotta laugh oh man and the IMean the other the other side of this mistake is being too strict with no variety to a degree um and again like a lot of this macros versus strict meal plan i think it does get into the psychology of the dieter but i still see problems when you have the meal plan that's i just rotate between chicken rice and beef and rice and that's what you do for weeks on end for one like micronutrients are missing fibers missing there's a lot of benefits around these two areas and then the long term i think is very important to consider for for gi health and we see just more gi problems cropping up for me in the same foods over and over and over with a lack of fiber and bodybuilding lack of microbiome diversity and bodybuilders easily because of lack of fiber and lack lack of fiber diversity as well so i think in the long term we need to think about our our gut health and our ability to continue the dieting process but even the short term being able to have something more sustainable and less burdensome because i've been on these diets for prep where it's just it's just chicken rice and beef and rice or some fish and man it is there is a less burdensome way to diet and enjoy the process more and i'm i'm all about putting in the work and if i need to work harder absolutely i'll take it there but i don't think we need to create a meal plan or a cardio plan that intentionally elicits the most suffering possible uh quote unquote when there could be a uh an as effective less fatiguing way to do so and so even with prep there's a physical fatigue there's a mental fatigue but it all adds up to our total allosteric load that we can handle on prep and going over that you just end up stalling someone out but a lot of people need to be coached and brought up through this process and advanced to the point where hey they could go to a very strict approach and handle it but if you're having people crack it's like is that you and they just need to suck it up or you know do you need to modify your approach and become an actual coach and kind of nurture these people through the process and find strategies to to lessen the burden and uh just uh use semaglutatide ozempic i'm just kidding on that but um kind of kind of uh along the lines like we should meet me in the middle here of like we're able to have some flexibility within dieting but also strictness where it applies but making sure that diet still guides them for a short term of getting fat loss and on stage but then also over the long term of being able to sustain this process over years of doing this yeah and i think one last thing on like the diet piece i guess that last point i think it's a good one to touch before we sure yeah to before we kind of log off because it kind of comes off the back of too strict and no variety i think there's so much value in that like you can have someone follow a meal plan and have that variety built in and um a lot of times people as we start to pivot into like especially those preps that you have to push hard this is such a good thing to to notice or to keep track of is you're starting to get into some protein veggie meals and then those protein veggie meals become multiple meals right um and protein the total protein intake a lot of times can be a little bit too high for what you need on that back end of dieting and it's a pretty simple macro swap to just pull that protein down and plug in carbohydrates on that equal gram per gram basis and be able to support trening a bit more and i've done this on the back end of preps multiple times and honestly probably saved contest preps from like putting someone on stage you know not quite there maybe a little stringy to still being able to tren and perform and retain tissue and it's it's something that's so huge to realize that as you get through this prep like it's pretty easy to have protein be so high that it's actually could be swapped for something that's more beneficial to the prep process from a performance perspective yeah and some people might be thinking like i know you just said a gram per gram basis right and uh yes they are calorie equated but say i hate thermic effective foods higher for protein like metabolically it's not quite the same right but what the thing around this is that when you're getting to a state like we're talking about here is that shift now increases someone output and an ability to tren harder move more throughout the day that from a net aspect of output versus calories in it's an improvement and you can see someone start actually dropping body fat because of it because they just start outputting more um and then they're even their trening performance improves so that's uh part of why we could even do a gram for gram swap out in that in that instance um and then you know protein yeah it can definitely help with appetite and hunger but that only just to such a far degree um in that if you're actually dropping off more fatigue with havinGHigher carbohydrate that could actually be the the greater benefit and i think the the sati point of carbohydrate of protein is a little um overstated to a degree um so i you know i digress a bit on there but i think uh you know protein only goes so far it's far more beneficial to utilize the substrate that we mainly use in our trening which is carbohydrate so but uh yeah i think we'll wrap it up there everyone those are some major fat loss diet mistakes that we've seen and kind of evolved thinking on too for ourselves and coaching if you have any questions or you know some other diet mistakes leave them down in the comments below and thanks for tuning in we'll talk to you next time