 jay- snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel snel All right, guys, welcome to the brand new J3U Coaching Podcast. I'm super excited to dive into this. Myself and John, we created J3U Coaching to be the representation of how we expand our impact in the industry of what we're actually teaching at J3U University, applying it in a coaching setting across multiple different styles of coaching with multiple different people. And so we want to bring some of that thought process to you guys here with this J3U Coaching Podcast. Definitely going to be a much more anecdotal kind of walk through different coaching, art of coaching type thought processes. So today I've got two of the J3U coaches with me in Alex Ball and Darren Farrell. For those of you guys who don't know who they are, Alex is a killer coach out of Birmingham. He's been a friend of mine for 10 years, produced a bunch of killer athletes, including winning NPC Nationals. A few years back with a bodybuilder. So high level coach and super excited to have him on today. And then Darren is an Olympian in classic physique and a killer coach himself as well. Really, really excited to dive into today's episode. Are you guys doing pretty good today? All good. I'm playing. Friday evening here. So looking forward to having a cold in Alabama yet. Man, yeah, it's like 30. I think it's like 27 right now. So look at that. Darren, Darren in Dubai is just like, what is cold weather? I thought it's cold. It's like 21 degrees Celsius. I was like, oh, it's cold. Well, speaking of suffering and cold weather, we're going to be talking about the art of fatigue management today. And I think this is a really interesting topic. And I think it's something that has been popularized in the last three to five years, I'd say, of like, you know, social media development and being able to talk about like how or almost brag about how easy your contest prep was being being a thing. And I kind of really just want to dive into some opinions on like fatigue management just to kind of kick it off of like, should we be extremely concerned with fatigue management? And like, how often is that going to be a problem? And because like getting in true contest shape is brutal. So like, just kick it to Alex, like when you see athletes like it and you're having this conversation about setting up a prep or or what that looks like, like, what does that conversation bring? Like, are you talking about fatigue management in it or what is the conversation around that that you're having typically? So when I'm trying to set up a contest prep and I'm having that discussion with them, I don't bring it up because if I if I put that on the front end in their mind, they're going to start like, go ahead and giving it back to me. Hey, man, I think I'm fatigued and we're three days into a diet. But, you know, I'm good enough and experienced enough where once we start checking in a couple of times a week and we're going through the phase of prep, they start giving me certain indicators on feedback. And I can start to see within their body, within how they're responding mentally and physically that, hey, OK, yeah, maybe we now be maybe we're now, you know, getting into those phases where, yeah, we need a little management of the fatigue. I think I think where we run into issues is, you know, obviously being J3 coaches, people think that like, oh, you know, they're going to come here and it's just going to be easy and they're not going to do cardio and they're going to get to eat all these different foods. And it's like, no, man, like, first of all, you're not going to do it. So like, we're not going to have to do cardio. But I think more importantly, it's like, hey, you know, what you're signing up for in a contest prep is like the extreme. So it's going to take you past on, OK, I'm not just trying to get healthy. I'm not just trying to get lean. I'm trying to be extreme and I'm trying to win. And so you're going to have to do cardio. You're going to have to have low calories, much far less than what your macro app may tell you you're going to have to eat. But my whole opinion on it is if we had to worry about fatigue, you know, truly worry about fatigue management. You have these people, you know, you look at construction workers or, you know, I've got roofers outside, you know, this week putting roofs on all my houses. They're here 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Probably a lot of them go and work out. They are much more likely to be fatigued doing that six days a week than we are working out for 70 minutes and doing an hour of cardio. So, you know, that that's you can probably see my stance on it. I really don't. I'm not going to sell people on. Yeah, come to me. We're going to, you know, manage your fatigue and it's going to be the best prep ever. And the coaches you see do that. They're bragging about how much little cardio they did. But it's like, yeah, they're probably just genetically just leaner and easier to work with. It's not so much manage their fatigue better. Yeah, it's almost like the unicorn client, right? Like the coaches are bragging about the one to the two to three clients they have on their roster of 140 that, you know, they're able to do that with because there are that people on that side of the spectrum. Right. And I think that's I think that's my thing. Like the comparison is the thief of joy is one of the biggest things that I use when talking about this is like, do you want to be like someone else or do you want to walk your journey and bring the best package to stage that you can possibly bring? And that's kind of where like I had that conversation of like, and the whole reason I started my original brand of no switch fitness of like no also in the pursuit of results. Like, are you going to show me that you're truly going to do anything in your capacity to be able to get there? And it's kind of funny. I know, Darren, you have a fairly strong opinion on this. I'm going to kick it to you here in a second. But I just think that we're built for so much more. And this is not us saying that like fatigue management strategies and trying to optimize a contest prep with coaching strategies is not a thing. Like we're going to talk about that in a second. I just think there's there's a line. And I think we've crossed it as an industry. We've crossed that line of what the expectations of fatigue management should be, because it's almost like and Darren, I'm going to kick it to you to kind of share some expanded thoughts on this. Like people expect to never feel bad or never feel terrible when they're getting to contest shake. I think that's the main thing. And I think I want to jump back to a few things that Alex said because I think he hit the nail on the head about not mentioning it. And for me, that's the biggest issue today is because fatigue management is such a buzzword to create, like for coaches to bring in people to get their audience from using talking about fatigue management. And you're almost kind of selling a false reality to people. And now what we're left with is a bunch of hypochondriacs running around talking about fatigue management because they're expecting it. If you never mention that word to anyone, I can guarantee you 90 percent of these people are these athletes who are like talking about fatigue management and they're so fatigued would never bring it on. They're looking. If you if you it's like you're they're looking for fatigue because they hear about it. And the reality is, like you said, we're doing bodybuilding and getting on stage is doing something with your body that isn't natural. You're taking your body fat levels below where your body wants to be. So shouldn't be comfortable. And like you said, there's there is going to be people who are very lucky and don't have to do a huge amount to get in shape, but they'll struggle in other parts of it. So it's just like you said, walk your own journey. Expect like don't have any expectations of how easy or how hard it's going to be. And I think the issue today was what you're trying to jump around as a coach is because you're almost a little bit worried about athletes. If it gets a little bit hard for them, you're like, are they going to just jump shit now because they're expecting it to be easier and you're trying to manage fatigue? And I like a lot of coaches are struggling with this because they're almost focusing more on fatigue management than getting in shape. And it shouldn't be that way. It should be. You shouldn't be sacrificing getting in shape for fatigue management. It should be the other way. Yeah, it's it's nice if you're able to do it the easiest way possible. Right. Like it's almost like a gift. Like it's a it's something that presents as like, hey, we're able to do this. This is really cool. Yeah, it's amazing. But like, listen, as we all know, we're relative to everything in physique development. There's what you learn from studies and what it is and there's the way things should go. But we like have all been doing this long enough to know that pretty much every client, things don't go the way they should do. You've got to react and you have to, you know, tailor it to them. You know, I find it funny because when you talk about the workers on your roof and stuff in training, they'll probably never talk about fatigue management that was get shit done, look amazing and be like, and I think back to when I started, I'll kind of show my age. And I was like 12 years ago, I started training and my first prep and stuff. I remember working, starting work at 5 a.m. and finishing work at like 10 p.m. at night because I was doing private personal training. I did a break in the afternoon. I was doing cardio at 3.30 a.m. and training at 12 o'clock at night. Months and then never just did it. You know, now I look at like we get like younger athletes coming in who are like 19, 20. They're living at home with their parents, don't have a job and they're moaning about fatigue. I'm like, mate, you don't know shit about fatigue. You don't know what fatigue is, right? I think it's, yeah. And I think it's important to track. Like I'm not saying you write it off. Like and then that's kind of like where I do want to take this in a bit is like there are some things on the coaching side we can do to make this process as efficient as possible. But just one more thing on the psychology piece that I think we should hit is. I almost I don't want to say reward, but pat athletes on the back when they grind through a contest prep and they get to the point where they can't handle it. Like it's the fatigue's built up and it's time to pull it back. It's like they start questioning whether they should really feel like this. Like, is this what a contest prep looks like? Like maybe they haven't been in true contest shape before. That's the clients where typically this is the biggest issue, right? Is they've done preps in the past with different coaches. They've never really truly made it into full contest shape. And then as a result of not making it into full contest shape, like they don't really know the expectations of how they should feel when they get there. And it's like, it's like, hey, like you, you want to pat them on the back because you got to let them know that there is a point where that's going to drop off before you get on stage. It's like, hey, if you didn't feel like this, we probably didn't do our job type of a thing, right? Like I had a client that turned around and pulled a seven and a half week prep off this year and like 10 days out. He was like, I feel like I had not dropped weight in a week and I look horrible. And what is going on? I'm like, dude, just give me three more days and you'll be in peak week and we'll be doing this process. And sure enough, we've gotten to the peak week process, starting to drop fatigue and he dropped off like three kilos in four days or something like that. So there is a point where that starts to kind of clear off. And I think that's important, important to manage. But I do want to talk timelines. I think this is a big one. It's like planning your preps. I think just to kind of kick it to Alex, like I think this is one of the big things that's changed with your coaching process over the last year, I would say. So just kind of some of the experiences of like how that's helping you with this management of a prep process and ultimately how that kind of kicks people into better preps when done well. So when I'm trying to outline a prep for people, you know, I'm a big believer in, hey, I'm going to have us two or three options, you know, saying it's not nationals or USAs or something. And, you know, if it's a regional or qualifier, hey, I'm going to pick us two or three that I want to select that given we have to push the timeline up or the timeline has to be pushed back. You know, we have options like we're not dead set on one show, but I get them into that realm. I like to start. I sell everyone, hey, you know, prepping, we're starting 20 weeks out. And that is not just like, oh, we're just dropping, you know, into the depths of hell from the start and we just never come up. But it's like, hey, we are going to, you know, use the entire 20 weeks to have phases of pushing hard and then pulling back and setting that, giving us room for fatigue. So my client, Candice, is a perfect example. She has been ready for nationals for about two weeks. It's just been a part of, you know, OK, well, we're not there yet, but it's allowing me for all of peak week because I've had her ready to like her. She drives down Wednesday. She competes Friday. So, oh, that's perfect. We're not going to have to do cardio much at all next week. But but those times of, you know, like you said, though, I need three more days and you really there's nothing like scientific we could point at to tell them why other than I see it. Give me three more days. And I'm going this term where I like my clients tell me I've coined this term. I say, good, keep digging. And that's like all I'll say. But then they come back. And like you said, I create that reward of like, hey, I'm so glad you were able to handle that. You're the type of athlete who I know can handle that. And so, you know, going back to the timeline, you're giving yourself room to push and to pull. You know, I'm setting up a big guy next year for the Branch Warren out in Colorado. I was a man. Yeah, we're probably going to do about 22 weeks of work. But, you know, he's 320 pounds. So I'm starting him right off the jump. We're digging like we're going. But he's got also where he's going to go to the Arnold, which is about 10 weeks out. So he's going just to trip. I say, hey, OK, that's our timeline where we're going to set to break. And so I've already got it in my head, our first break. Now, that's not to say we can't have breaks along the way or we may not have more after. But that is going to be his first true planned diet break. So just being aware of how long you have is super beneficial because, you know, so many things. I have a kid right now. He's your guy. You know, he's three weeks out from the Holiday Classic in Florida. And he got sick this last week. But he's so ready. And he was panicking, freaking out. I was like, oh, that's cool, man. Just, you know, no training, no cardio, follow your low day diet. You know, he was like, OK, cool. After that second day of doing that, he was really freaking out. I said, hey, look, bro, like we are in shape. I'm not worried. If I'm worried, I'm pulling all your carbs and you're just eating meat and veggies and just laying the bed off. Yeah. And again, that's not to say that that's like, you know, there's no rhyme or reason behind that other than like, hey, I don't have time to feed you and we don't have time to pull off cardio. But this instance we did. And, you know, sure enough, you started feeling better and you started looking better. Yeah, I think I think planning for those events are huge. I think that's where the timeline for me really helps is one mapping out the rate of loss, like from a numbers perspective, like how much I have to get off of you and spreading that across the weeks. But just because it's how my brain works. But secondarily, it would be kind of the conversation around what do you have scheduled between now and the end of prep where this could potentially be a problem or a trip or something we need to manage. It's not that people can't handle trips, especially people who are traveling for work trips, but just knowing where things could potentially go wrong, because if you know it ahead of time, it's much easier to manage. I do think that's like really, really huge to kind of understand. And I think, you know, I think one of the things to kind of discuss around this would be like when you do get there, kind of what are the first strategies with managing, like improving the physique? I think this is something, Darren, I think you do well. So I kind of want to kick it to you here for a second of like, you're getting to that point where someone's there, they're one or two percent away from being there. And you're starting to really need to kind of stay on top of this. Like, what are the first decisions you're making in regards to like pushing someone into a slightly better subjective feeling or subjective metrics to be able to finish the job or slightly better subjective metrics in order to start to find your look? Like, what do those initial decisions typically look like for you? Yeah, so I'll go back a little bit to Alex, and the timeline thing is crucial. And it's the same with like, when I'm planning a timeline for people, I'm looking right. It's 20 weeks to the show. I'm planning 17, eight weeks, 17 or 18 weeks. This is my timeline. That's where I'm calculating rate of loss from, allowing a two to three week window that one, if already brilliant, allows the peaking process to be a whole lot easier. Like, I've had a couple of clients recently that like from three weeks out, they've had no cardio, baseline food's been going up. And they've just been reverse dieting into the show. That's the ideal. That's where we want to be. But that same situation allows us to make up for, you know, getting sick, family events, things like, listen, we all know, I would say that 50% of preps, there's always an interruption somewhere along the way. So it allows for those without them being an issue and not being a panic and having to hit like the turbo button after it and try and chase your tail. But when I'm like, when I'm looking at a client, I'm like, right, we've been achieving a rate of loss that's bang on point. We're in a deficit or outputs here. If they're starting to like stall and almost look worse, we know, granted, listen, you sort of, you either know or don't know with your client that they're following the plan 100% or they're cheating their diet or whatever. They're, they'll always tell you or nearly always tell you. So they haven't cheated their diet. Things don't look right. It's physically impossible for them not to be dropping body fat here. So you're going, this is inflammation. This is water weight. And usually what I, my first protocol is to like test this is just output reduction days for a couple of days. I just pull their output right back to like nothing. I'm like, right, 8,000 steps a day. You're going to, I want you just train at sort of one rep in reserve. I don't want you to close any information from your training. You're still training hard. Just leave her one rep in the tank and just pull that output right back. Give them three, four days there. Assess their physique. You go, right, they've dropped another kilo from here. They look way better. We're probably not gaining a whole amount now from continuing to push. We know that it's, it's almost there. That's when I'll start sort of reversing into the show when I see that we're actually getting better from doing less. So if I've seen them improve, I won't bring their cardio back up. I'll just leave it go. And I'll start tailoring, tapering it back up. I thought it was me. Did I cut out? There he is. Yeah, you're there. You stopped at like getting better from doing less. Yeah, so when I see them getting better from doing less, I'm like, right, we're probably not achieving a whole amount. If we're close to the show at this point, we're almost there in terms of body composition. Like realistically, pushing harder isn't achieving the result we want. That's where I'll start to taper things back and just pulling back to allow that look to get better. I love the activity drop as the initial decision. I think it allows for accuracy in your decision making. I think when you go food first, like when you go towards like food addition as your way of dropping fatigue, like you don't really get an accurate view of like how much fatigue is there or how much weight is going to drop off or anything along those lines. Like it's a hard thing to quantify when you're plugging in more food because there's the fluid shift that's going to happen and everything along those lines. So I think it's a really good decision to make off the cuff. And I think it's a reason why when you look at the peaks that we run, we don't mean to toot our horn, but like we don't often miss, right? It's like the data collection that happens through the contest prep, like every single coach on the roster except for one has won a pro card this year. And I think our pro card count is at 15 or 16, if I remember correctly for the year. So like it's, it's like the, the proofs in the pudding, right? It's like, there's a reason, a rhyme and a reason that this works. And it's because we have all the research and the data and the things that help drive, you know, educated based coaching or evidence based coaching if you want to do that. But we have to take the art of coaching and decision-making and apply that to this because we're now working on an N equals one basis. And I think this is applied so well to fatigue management because both of y'all have experienced this because both of y'all coach females at a pretty high level. Like there are some girls that have to dig. And I mean like dig with capital letters and two exclamation points. Like I had a girl doing 120 minutes of cardio this year, like, and she won a pro card. Like it happens. Like this is what it looks like for some people. Like if it's your first time getting in true shape or maybe you're just like on that genetic capacity side that getting in shape is tough for you. Like don't shy away from the challenge. Like, I think it's, I think it's so huge. Like I just, they say like, uh, you know, rise to the occasion. Like it's, it's so big, Alex. I think your 300 story is like so applicable here. Like it's, it's like, ah, it's like, just, I just want to like shape people sometimes. Like, like this is what's needed. Just step up. Man, it's, and yeah, I'll speak on. So for those listening, the 300 story, I was, I was watching, uh, it was gladiator 300 and it, but it just started to hit me. And I'm like, okay, like back the old days, literally like a hundred yards across from each other. There's like army here, army here. And they're staring at their company. Like literally like I could only imagine like what that's like, cause they're literally going to fight for days through the day, through the night until everyone is dead. Like that's all their goal is for that day. They're not trying, they're not worried about what they're eating. They're not worried about their tired. There's like, man, I have to live today. And so, you know, when it comes into now, like we have athletes who are, they're eating five, six times a day, like high protein diet, even on their lowest of like carbohydrate or fat days, you're getting five to six meals of protein. You're getting veggies. Like you're not starved. Like you're not going to die. And then you're doing cardio. And then you're worried that, oh gosh, I'm petite. If you were to tell a single soldier back then, you know, or warrior, gladiator, whatever you want to call them. Hey, you know what? The sun's coming down. You've been going a little hard today. I think you need to rest. It just doesn't exist. And so it's like, you know, look at modern times, like if you look at a UFC fighter, like they have to train, you know, two, three sessions a day. So like my whole take, you know, I don't know about y'all, but like a whoop strap can just go out the window at some point because it's going to, you just, it's going to be in the red zone and there's nothing we can do about it. But to touch on what you guys were saying on the, oh, I'll pull the output. And then now they're, you know, the peak is perfect. Now they drop. When you go back into pushing them, it's almost like seeing this, like you're now looking at their weight and at their visuals, knowing it's skewed, like it has this buffer on it. You're like, yeah, okay. I'm not worried about it. I know that's going to happen. But you can, you can plan it out once you've done it that one time where you see if I dropped output, they drop, you know, like a kilo and they look fresher. You're like, every other time they start to stall, you're like, I have this conversation with guys. I'm like, just continue. Just, I just want to dig another three, four days. Then I'll pull it back. And as I said, you're still dropping fat here. We're almost there. Just keep pushing. Just give me this three, four days and I'll pull you back then. And sure enough, then we see the next. You have to spend a period of time in that, like feeling like shit zone a little bit. You know, when it's got to that point, just, just please. And that's where it's like, I think that's where it's really beneficial for me. I'm like, listen, I've been there. I've felt it. Just please, just, just trust me on this one. And they usually like, they're like, okay. And then you did, they give it their all and then they, you pull them back and you see the result you're looking for. It's almost like dangling the carrot in front of the horse. Right. It's like, it's like, I know you're struggling. It's like, I've been there. I've done this. It's like, give me three days and I'll give you the little treat at the end of the road. But I think the, the treat at the end of the road is like the other piece, like just from a psychological athlete development, like something to work on with people. And I think it's fits in fatigue management because I think this makes this problem worse is like the people who are always looking for the treat or always looking for the break versus the people who want the best result. And know that these treats and these breaks are going to be there after the contest, bro. And I think there's such a differential in those two athletes. And I think it's honestly easier to manage fatigue and the people who look at it of like, almost like you have to save them from themselves. Like I need to win no matter what, let's just push and I'll figure out how to manage how I'm feeling. That's easier to manage from a psychological perspective because they're not gaining psychological stress from the people who watch the food porn and send recipes to people. And like are obsessed with like, what is the food they're having after the show? Or when am I getting my next high day? It's like that almost drives the anxiety of chasing the next like dopamine hit. Right. And it's it's something as a coach that I have. So I do briefings with my athlete post post prep. Like, here's what we did well. Here's where we need to be better. Like and then this is what we need to do to improve that across this next season. And that here's what we need to do to be better is not just like this body part was weak and it's keeping you from winning. It's how do we psychologically approach this process and how can I improve this for you as an athlete? And that's a big one that I'll bring up for people is like, hey, this happened this time. But you want to be a pro like pros don't think about this. Like this is not how a pro athlete thinks. Like, Darren, you can touch on this. Like being an Olympian, like I know. I know how you are. I know how you're doing. You raise the point there about, you know, the two types of athletes and the other type of athlete actually requires a lot of management as well. The one who wants to do more. They're really harder to manage. I can say this because that's me. I'm that athlete. That's because it's the way I was brought up. I was brought up in competitive sport. Like when I think about team management, I was just thinking back to when I was 13, 14, playing like on international teams and we're doing physicals. We were running and running and running and there was puke buckets there to puke into and continue going. So I have that mentality of it. And I've done it in previous, like I'll hold my hands up. I've done it in the past where I've done way more than I've been told to by a coach. They're like, you know, 30 minutes cardio. I'm doing like an hour some days. I'm dropping my food. I'm just chasing that feeling like shit because I know that will bring a result. So that needs to be pushed as well. But from that, you are going to come into those type of athletes too. And it's trying to get across that more isn't always better. Yeah. Yeah. It's huge. I think that's a great point. Alex, you can tell me what you got. Yeah. You can. You have to be sneaky with more clients, right? Like the ones who just want to do everything. I know psychologically they got to do something. So like I'll maybe just sneak in some more food or I'll like, I'll try to paint some other pretty picture where it's not like just detrimental to them. But then the, like you're talking about the, the people who, you know, they are looking for a refeed or a cheat meal. That to me is like, it creates, I just tell people, Hey, look, like just don't plan. You get under 10, 12 weeks out. Just don't even plan on a cheat meal. Like it's, it's just not happening. Just don't look at it. Like, you know, and obviously there's cases where yes, people just need a lot more calories out of nowhere that was expected, blah, blah, blah. But it's something that what I noticed is as soon as I bet, Hey, yeah, we don't get one this week or Hey, we, you know, we don't need a high day. We don't need refeed. They, they take it as they're doing bad. And I'm like, no, it's actually because you're so good and you're going to be so good. You just don't need it right now. And so getting that thought out of their head, man, it helps tremendously because then they just are excited to see a little more rice or a little more potato. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's maybe not a personal decision. Like it's not, it's not them, the coach saying, Hey, like you're doing bad by taking this. It's like, this is just what's next in the development process. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's. That's an interesting point. The, the, the athlete, you know, the craves, the cheat meal at the weekend and they get into that sort of habit of, you know, every Saturday is refeed day. That's a dangerous one to be in because I've seen it in the past. I've seen athletes deliberately trying to skew their, their data on the Thursday, Friday to affect the coach's decision-making, you know, like eating less food on the Friday. So their weight drops down. So they get the refeed light and that's definitely not healthy, nor is it conducive to getting a good result. Yeah. I think it's, it's something that as an athlete, they need to grow a bit. I think is what happens. I've had people do that and then confess it like either post prep or like close to the end of their prep, like three, four weeks out because they know we're coming into the peak and I need to know like, you know, what's the variables are like, and I'm looking at these variables and they've really been doing why. And it's like, okay, well that kind of pivots my decision or thought-making process. Right. So. You'll, you'll laugh. I know someone, I've not, I didn't coach them, but I know someone, they told me that they had been in a prep before they had actually been taking like a half of diazide the night before their check-in. That's, that's wild. Like, I just, I don't get that, man. Like, why do you hire someone if that's what you're going to do? Like, and it's, ah, that's, yeah, that's, that's like fatigue. Like someone seeking fatigue management 101. Like, what can I do to make myself look worse on check-in day so that hopefully I get some more food put back in. Yeah, it's, it's funny, man, the links that people will go to just to like, to do this. It's like, it's ironic that I'm wearing this sweatshirt. It says, leave your ego at the door. It's like, man, you've got to do that when you work with a coach and hire someone. Like, it's never going to work if you don't put full trust in like their decision-making and what they're doing. I think that opens up the avenue that, you know, you should be able to talk to your coach and ask them as well. You know, why, why are we doing these things? What's this going to do? The clients generally, I find that like ask and communicate about those, buy into the process a lot more and get the better results. The ones who kind of maybe don't understand and they continue to do it, the first sign of, of trouble for them, they're the ones to sort of throw it in, throw the towel in and pack it up because they're like, oh no, my coach doesn't know what they're doing. But the ones who actually understand the process, they ask if they don't understand, they're like, okay, what does this mean? Why are we doing this? Why are we dropping the output now? Why are we not pushing hard? And you explain them, they're like, oh, okay. And then they see the result of it past it and then they're like, they're fully bought into them and they're like, okay, they know, like, you know, they understand what you're doing and they can see the process and they'll just continue to execute. Right. And even if we make, because I've had moments where, yeah, I just made the wrong call. I thought they needed to eat a little bit and needed to feed them a little more. And then you get done, oh God, that looks terrible. Like never do that again, you know, but, but like, I know that, like, I know how to fix my own problem. Like if I mess up, I can fix it. If you mess up, I don't know how I can, like, you know, it takes me a lot more to fix what you did than it does to fix what I did. Yeah. Yeah. You'll see. Yeah. I've done that before. You give them food and you're like, oh, fuck. It's like, it's like, ah, shit. That was the wrong decision. And that's a little bit easier now that we, you know, to like, you know, try and manage things a little better, gather your data, understand your numbers. You're, that kind of takes that out of it. I've definitely been there in the past couple of years ago, speaking someone, I'm like, yeah, let's do this. Let's do this. They wake up the next day. And I'm like, oh, shit. Yeah. That's where we get where now coaches want, like, they want to brag about like, you know, being perfect or like not missing, you know, I'm the best other, you know, whatever it may be. It's like, no, man, like, we're probably going to make a couple of bad calls throughout the prep. And, but we've done that enough to where like, we know now, like, what is a hundred percent right for that. Yeah. You know, and, and it's something that it's, like you said, we can, as long as we're making the calls, we can fix it, you know, immediately. And, you know, it's, I think it's important for coaches to be like, yeah, that, that wasn't the right move. But I think what we do here by analyzing and keeping a log of everything that we do is that when we do make a decision, it doesn't achieve what we're looking to see. We understand what needs to be plugged back in. Like you're in the middle of like a couple of days out from a show, you've put more food in, whatever. And then it's like day before the show and then you're like, they're looking flat. They shouldn't look like this. Okay. I've, I reduced their water intake from seven liters to five and a half yesterday. Let's just plug back in with a 500 mils of water because you know what variables you've changed that have led to this result, be it good or bad. You know, then how to pull it back to where you need to, because you're like, that's the only difference, right? Let's push that back in. Yeah. It makes your decision making more objective, which I think in a sport that has a tendency to be extremely subjective, like the more objective you can make it, the better the outcomes are going to be. Right. I think that's where like, just circle it back to the topic. Like your ability to decide when it is time to pull back improves so much, the more objective you make the process, which is why we have like the check-in process that we have and the data collection that we have just to ensure that that's happening. 100%. I think it's important too, that like, we've all walked that walk. Right. I'll have athletes not knowing how to describe what they're feeling. I'm like, oh yeah. It feels like you're trying to walk through the ocean. That's what your legs feel like. Like, yeah. I'm like, okay, cool. Like, thank you. You know, just knowing that we have another side of it, not just being an analyst or coach or a spreadsheet person. It's like, oh, they've done it. We know what they feel. You know, and so it gives us a more realistic like view on how we can dictate and guide them into those deep waters. I, I joke with my clients, like I tell the story of like, I don't know if you've really truly been in contest shape. If you don't look down at your shoes and see that they're untied and then don't tie them. It's like, that's, that's, that's the sign that like, yeah, no, I'm good. They can stay there. Yeah. Yeah. I've been towards the back end of rep, so I don't even bother with shoes. I'll just wear sliders. Yeah. That's like, exactly. We're all chuckling because we've all been there. Right. Like that's the, that's the funny part, but. Yeah. The bottom of your feet start to hurt. Yeah. It's crazy. Well, guys, I think we, I think we hit this topic pretty well. I think, you know, this is a great way to kind of kick off the, the J3 coaching podcast. Kind of like I mentioned at the beginning, like opinions and art of coaching, because I think you can't have winning coaching without combining this, like art of decision-making alongside some of the data metrics and things that we talk about in J3 university podcast. So I'm really excited for this series. One, for people to get to know y'all even better. And like, to, to understand, you know, how passionate we are about this. Like I fucking love my job. And like, I get to do this on the everyday and you guys get to do this on the everyday. So it's, it's fun to have these conversations of like, how are we bringing winning athletes to the stage? And I'm just kind of walking through some of that, you know, decision-making there. If you guys are interested in working with Alex or Darren, like you guys can inquire at the J2 coaching.com website, or we all have like call links in our bios for you guys to check out. You guys can just go ahead and book your free call to go over like what coaching looks like and everything along those lines. So if you guys have any questions or comments or concerns, like put them in the comments below. We'll be kind of down there answering some of your guys' questions. Make sure you guys like and subscribe to the channel so that we, you guys get those notifications of when we're putting out these episodes. We'll probably be putting these out like every other week is kind of what it looks like we're going to do. So again, super excited for these conversations. And until next time, take no off switch in the pursuit of results. Be cool.