 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, Jon Jewett. I'm your host, Jon Jewett. Jon Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. From emotion to execution. Today, we're covering how to become a performance-based bodybuilder. I know in the past, we all enjoyed chasing the pump. Just leaving the gym feeling absolutely annihilated. But at some point, you have to question, is that making you even better? And getting away from maybe what you want, and getting to make sure you're addressing what you need to keep advancing up bodybuilding. So today, we're going to cover a few areas where we can become the modernized thinking bodybuilder and improve our programming to get away from just chasing pumps and muscle obliteration. And getting towards where we're performance-based. And actually, probably able to get more progress out of our programming because of it. And I think it's so funny. People try to make this discussion and argument about bodybuilding not being a sport. And typically, the argument comes from the pageantry around bodybuilding and the stage and the subjective manner of it. But in the reality, it's like the more you can treat this process like an athletic process of trying to fight for every inch. Like if you know the famous football quote of, you know, we fight for every inch on this team because the inches are the ones that end up making the difference. It's like that's so true in our aspect of learning to perfect this process. And John and I talk about this all the time about being forever students. And that's where this comes from is this athletic mindset of doing every little thing potentially that we could do to improve our process. And that comes from the skills of learning how to train better, the skills of learning how to manage nutrition in unideal circumstances. There's skill adaptation and skill acquisition that has to happen in order for you to become the best bodybuilder you could potentially come. So I don't see why we don't look at different aspects of the process like athletes do in performance metrics within that scope of driving hypertrophy adaptation. And so I think this is a really interesting conversation because training is what drives hypertrophy. And all the other variables are in order to improve how we respond and adapt to the training stimulus. So I think this is just the core of what being a bodybuilder is, is perfecting training. And I think you would be remiss to not treat that in an athletic mindset. In a lot of other sports, there's so much more objective data to gather. And just the competition itself is objective. And then even with you look at training, like their training, resistance training is just part of improving for their sport. And so is ours to a degree, but much heavily weighed. So it looks like, you know, when I used to power lift, it's like, hey, your training is my sport. It's like, that's why it might be the disconnect there of like, well, your training is not necessarily a sport. And like, well, okay, either way, defining terms is it's kind of semantics. But with bodybuilding, we're basically a competition of physical challenge or mental challenge. And I think that very well fits into what bodybuilding criteria does fall within. But, you know, trying to get towards that we are like other athletes and how they execute. And we have some, like you're mentioning, Luke, some big disconnects there with our training can just be heavily emotionally based, which a lot of us get into it because that we get into a lot of sports because that because it makes you you makes you feel a certain way. And you feel a certain way when you have some huge pump and you feel big and you leave the gym feeling like you actually did something. And being a sign that, hey, I had a good workout because of how I feel. And we've learned a lot. Just anyone talking, not even talking about research, but you look at successful even bodybuilders. Because I think like I don't want someone to take away of like, oh, this sciencey stuff they're talking about. That's not what all the old school guys did. Like you're wrong. It's just sometimes they don't know that they were doing it. I think Dorian is a great example of this, a data driven bodybuilder. And I think he didn't even know a lot of science at the time, but it's so intuitive, right? He tracked his log and made sure he was using proper execution, full range of motion, high efforts in his training and making sure his numbers were moving across all his sets. And finding ways to make the right exercise selection to get the most out of it and realizing that you only have so many opportunities for each set because you can't just add on more. Like you have to pay a recovery toll by doing so. Look at who everyone quotes is, well, you know, did Ronnie do it? It's like, yeah, Ronnie was stupid strong. It takes you having to progress up those lifts. Now, could there be ways to improve? Yeah, we're all trying to do that. I'm sure looking back, Ronnie would try to find ways to keep improving as well. And so I think a lot of times you have some of these bodybuilders that are kind of the end of one where they're so genetically advanced. That they can still fall into the bro split of just training 20 sets for a muscle, maybe not taking sets to failure, not using the best form. And that stimulus for them drives them all the way up to the top of the ranks. But for a lot of us, that won't be the case. And we will have to refine that more to something that aligns with trying to maximize that stimulus and manage fatigue because we're having to get to strength levels that would not be able to be sustained, like entering into contest preps. And even off seasons where you're accumulating fatigue and volume over the course. So this kind of brings in the conversation of the bro split and the issues and problems around it. And how can we optimize that with using what we see in the anecdotal trenches of what works and trying to get the most stimulus across the week and manage the fatigue the best that we can. If you're able to do this, you're going to grow faster and more productively. And I think we start with like the bro split of even training frequency and maybe what we can learn and implement from looking at kind of like the different frequencies that have been challenged in the research world. Yeah. And I think there's there's multiple viewpoints of this bro split dynamic because I think there's components of the bro split that don't make sense. I'm going to cover two of them that I think are pretty integral and then kind of pivot over to like some of the research points and we'll kind of go back and forth here. But one of my main hangups is not even necessarily the once per week relative to the like research of frequency being optimal for hypertrophy, which we'll get into that in a second. But there is the process within bro splits that I think there is some feel that gets thrown in there. And so we see like novelty be introduced with exercises rotating a little bit too frequently. Plus the once a week visit of all these patterns, even if you do keep them consistent is low exposure from a learning perspective. And even for those of you that are a little bit more experienced as bodybuilders, everyone has to go through the process of what's called skill acquisition and skill acquisition is your ability to generate force within a certain movement pattern. Now, the more advanced you are, your process of introducing a new movement and learning to optimally drive force and mechanical tension in that pattern becomes a little bit shorter as far as like the time duration of when it's introduced into the program to when you're fully getting the most out of that pattern. But there's still a few weeks of a process of reacclimating to that pattern being reintroduced. And I think one of the things you'll see with bro splits is that frequency is so low that you're extending out that time duration of fully going through skill acquisition where we're not even getting productive training until we're three, four or five weeks into a program design because that frequency is so low. And then secondarily, people will use the subjective metric of I just got so sore from exercise. Therefore, it must work to an extremely high level. And for those of you that have ran program designs for experience extended periods of time, we know that novelty probably drives the soreness metric more than anything in the program design world. So is that novelty necessarily going to be the best driver of consistent progress over a long period of time? And my argument is going to be no from the skill acquisition portion of the process, which then points to, again, moving from subjective I am so sore metrics into more objective performance based metrics is a massive shift for understanding how we pull more out of hypertrophy. Now, I'm not saying soreness can't be a metric that's tracked, but the novelty of movement integration is going to drive soreness more than actual progress. I think that's a big hang up I have with bro splits is like the dual potentially subjective way that bro splits are often executed. And then the long time duration between repeating patterns and learning how to get the most out of patterns would be my first step before we even dived into the research portion of it. Yeah, that's definitely why we see like usually recommendation for a beginner intermediate is pretty high frequency. Usually you start recommending like a full body workout because you're able to repeat these patterns frequently. And then as you kind of need more volume, that session has to build out. And eventually as the session is too long, you might need a longer time course for recovery and you can't be in the gym for two hours. And so that's when you kind of evolve into upper lower, what have you from there. But a lot of people start off on the other end of the spectrum with the actual bro split where you only need so much stimulus to max out your adaptation, what you can recover from in that moment. For a beginner, it's very low threshold. You know, you only need a couple sets for a muscle to get a good stimulus and you won't need that long to recover from that stimulus. And of course, as you get bigger and bigger and more advanced, you might need a few more sets and you might need a little bit more time to recover. However, there is a point where you actually will increase recovery capacity being more advanced. You won't need this long duration. And I think we're looking at some of the research around this is that sometimes it's the novelty, like you mentioned, Luke, of exposing, you know, some trained individuals to like large amounts of volume. And you see like, oh, wow, they need like X amount of days to recover. Well, if you've been on this program for a while, you're going to have that repeated bout effect to where you'll get used to that work capacity and recovery load to where you won't need as long to recover either. So I think starting kind of from the back end of like the bro split and then having to move back into a higher frequency pattern is what some of us really need to be doing. But if you're starting off the beginning side, starting high frequency, skill acquisition, coming proficient at these lifts, improving form. And again, that's a key here is that it's all about improving quality of your volume because you don't want to just add in more quantity. If it's poor quality, you won't be giving targeted stimulus to the muscle you're trying to grow. So this quickly will allow the beginner or intermediate to get that volume up to a very high quality level. And this is the idea across even being advanced is if you're doing, say, 20 sets of a chest workout, after so many sets, like the quality, this volume is dropping down. And you're not going to be able to output the same. You're not going to be able to lift the same amount of load, the same amount of reps. And like you know this, right? So think about this. Like what if you spread this out and you're able to lift more weight and do more reps on every single set out of your 20 sets for the week? Just challenge to you, listener, like do you think you would be growing more, right? Like if you had 20 sets on a Monday, which we did a volume load calculation, right? You did your sets times your weight, your load times your reps, right? Whatever it is, 20,000 pounds is what it turned out to be. Now we took the same 20 sets and did whatever, six sets on Monday, another six sets on Wednesday, and then our remaining eight sets on Friday. And we actually were able to lift more load and more reps. And this volume load now became 25,000 pounds for the week. Do you think that's going to be an improved stimulus to grow, a better quality of that volume? And I know there's research on volume equated between frequencies and showing that it doesn't matter. However, that's within those studies that they really dig into them and what they're qualifying as volume equated. And even if they're tracking like volume load and if that's equated as well. But, you know, when you see the studies on frequency where frequency really shines is that by doing more frequency, you do improve volume quality and you see improved outcomes and growth to a degree, right? You get too frequent. You're probably not getting enough stimulus in one session. So you need the balance of what we see in the literature is usually between two to three sessions per week can kind of be the optimal position here for improving these outcomes. And you'll go back to the bro world. A lot of times you have a bro split and some guys want to bring up a body part. What do they do? They add on a pump session or something like this, right? Like a second session. Why do you do that? It's like, well, I don't need seven days to recover from my dealt day. It's also why don't you stimulate it again and grow more? It's like, yeah, that sounds like a great idea. Well, that's what high frequency is. It's the same idea across all your muscle groups. So this is how you should be evolving like in managing like getting more stimulus, recover, and then repeat that stimulus. That is the simplistic view of training and bodybuilding is train as hard you can, as much as you can, as frequent as you can. Basically, and toggling this up and down to kind of get your total workload as high as you can. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have. And live Q&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, and it's just, it's going to be able to pull more out of what you're able to adapt to. And then I think that, I think that starts to push us into like, this is like a little bit more of a macro view of like frequency. How do we set up programming that kind of a thought process? And then we got to kind of start to niche in. And I want to use an analogy before we niche in of relative to sports. Again, we're all talking about the athletic mindset, right? And so for those of you that have played sports, you know that there is a skill acquisition process of doing actions within your sport better and better and better. For a classic example, like for those of you that understand golf or like even baseball, like the mechanics of a swing are one of the quickest ways in order to improve the speed at which you swing in order to be able to hit more balls out of the park or to hit it further on a golf course. Or even from like a tennis perspective, like to have more speed on your serve. A lot of the mechanics of understanding and improving that year after year after year are what allow that athlete to pull more out of what they have. When we train, our version of learning to be able to get more out of the mechanics and the skill of executing mechanics is execution and better exercise selection relative to the way that we move. And being able to pick the exercises within that global program design for you to be the most efficient that you possibly can be at driving the mechanical tension stimulus that is the driver of hypertrophy. And this is kind of where with hypertrophy being a little bit more of a forgiving adaptation, it can get blurred as to like how important this is. And I think it's kind of undervalued of it is so important to make sure that in baseball you have the bat that's the right weight for you for what your level of strength is. In golf to be fit for your clubs to maximize your ability to hit a ball well. In tennis to be able to have the right tennis racket set up in order to maximize speed. I don't understand why we don't spend more time in screening movement quality, movement ability, matching that to what we can do to the exercises we choose so that we're the most efficient within our training. And I think this kind of brings the next point of like being an athlete. It's like you need to spend years, potentially decades, improving your ability to train in order to really fully be able to get the most out of your global program design, in my opinion. Yeah, this does get into exercise selection and maximizing your stimulus across your entire every set that you're doing. As like I mentioned, you only have so many opportunities to do this. So if we can pick an exercise that has a better profile and gets more tension, like Lucas mentioned, mechanical tension in the muscle, you potentially will raise the ceiling on that stimulus for that set. And so that should be guiding us in like trying to figure out how do we execute our list more effectively and pick exercises or we get new gym equipment where maybe it does so to a better degree. We're seeing this emerge in the research of what a lot of us intuitively kind of already do. Before I dive there, I do want to give just a takeaway on the frequency aspect and challenge you as a listener. If you are following a bro split is that take your current volume for a body part, whatever it may be, say it's 16 sets of chest in that one session and just try splitting it for the week. Do your eight sets of chest and then do your other eight sets another part of the week. If you're not ready to go that far, all good. Just take four sets. I don't care if it's the last four sets of your chest day. Put it on the front end of some other session. Make it one of your weak body parts of what you're picking. And you see if those numbers on your lifts don't jump up on that other body part. And you'll easily know if those lifts are jumping up, you're going to be driving more progress. But anyway, challenge for you out there. Now, as far as getting to exercise selection, what's really popular right now is lengthen partials. This has been like really popping up in the literature because there's a recent study looking at full range of motion versus lengthen partial range of motion. And basically, I part you was kind of equated within this study. And this was basically doing half the rep. So it's like, well, you easily can maybe get a ton more work done by using lengthen partials. But I don't think that's where this fully guides us into only doing lengthen partials and only trying to load the lengthen range because not all movements fall into that category. And we only have some studies that are showing that it's beneficial when you compare different exercises. And so I'll give you an example of this is that there was a study with comparing an incline curl, right? So the bicep's fully stretched in this position versus a preacher curl, which the bicep is more starting in a shortened position. So you'd say, well, lengthen partials, baby. You're just training the lengthen range. You're going to get more tension and build more muscle. Well, actually, it wasn't significantly different between these exercises, but a little bit in favor of the preacher curl. And the reason being is because there is active tension started right away in the preacher curl versus the dumbbell curl, even though it's at a long muscle length. The dumbbells just kind of hang there. And the tension doesn't really kick in until you start to get more of the mid-range in that exercise. So this is just an example here is that, hey, you want really active tension throughout the range of motion. And maybe if it can preferentially bias that more lengthened aspect, you could get a little bit more growth. But there's caveats around this because lengthened loaded is also much more fatiguing. It's much more damaging to connective tissue versus loading in mid-range to shortened. And so we need a balance of this within our programming. And also this should guide exercise choice for profiles. And a great example of this would be if you had a variable loading machine like a prime machine. Let's look at a barbell row, for example, or a pulldown. Most of these exercises, they get really hard when you start completing the lift and the muscle gets short, which is kind of the opposite of what you want. So it's very light when the muscle is lengthened. And with like prime equipment, well, you can load it to where it gets really hard in the beginning and easier as the muscle gets shortened. And so this matches the resistance profile to the strength profile of the muscle really, really well. So if you have this equipment, it's like, oh, hell yeah, you should be using this. It would be an ideal way to train. Or another example here would be your chest pressing equipment. And I wouldn't want to start something lengthened loaded because you'd want something to be a little bit more warmed up before you expose it to where it would be potentially the most injurious part of a lift. So maybe you start with some type of like dumbbell press. Then you move on to your variable loading machine and preferentially load it lengthened where you can get the most out of that lengthened range. Maybe you're already fatigued to finish off your press. So now we're getting into your right. We're trying to pull the most out of every set as we move through our workout. And so this is what I think about when I'm starting to program my exercises. Yeah, and I think it's just one thing. Like one movement is not necessarily going to hit every single portion of the range unless we do have that variable loading. And being able to sequence that through a session is a big aspect of it. I also think that we can start to try to consider kind of like how these exercises are ordered according to stability concerns. So external versus internal stability, being able to move towards more external stability as we get into patterns later in the sessions. We have more fatigue. Our ability to internally stabilize is a little bit lower. Even further, like body parts that you struggle to connect with, potentially leaning on more external stability-based patterns in order to drive tension there more preferentially as you develop the skill to be able to drive tension to those weaker body parts. And I think this is going to kind of overlap with being able to sequence like according to range of motion because these are going to be like start limiting your potential for selection and exercises based on your ability to drive tension to that body part. Would you agree kind of with that? Yeah. Yeah, definitely. And with all these exercise choices, I think it's just, if this gets confusing for you, because I think for a lot of listeners, especially if you're earlier on in this, and just like anything, when you start anything that's new, you want to learn like everything about it. And it just, you want to get down to the nuance like secrets of length and partials and oh man, you pull every bit out. But when you're newer to this, it's actually far simpler. Just default to full range of motion training. Because like you mentioned earlier, like you need like this much stimulus to grow. So even if you're like not really getting the best loading in the LinkedIn phase, enough loading there is going to make you grow. So this is like getting towards more advanced stuff when you only have so many sets, because they're gonna be so fatiguing to do an extra one. You have to get the most and pull out of it. So pull the most out of it. So I don't think we're starting earlier off. This should be a drastic focus. And even though we want to like get nuanced and really talk, talk highly about it. But I think it can also give some idea too around maybe if you are limited in equipment, you know, if, hey, I only have this pull down machine and I have to like, my last rep has to be the bar touching the chest. And then that's it. I've reached a failure point of like, well, you could do a few extra length and partials and you could count that into your reps. And that would be perfectly acceptable. The key here though, I would say to default still towards full range of motion, active range of motion, not, not just joint to joint movement of full range of motion, ranges that you can control. And then from there, making sure that it is targeting the intended muscle you're trying to train. And as you get more advanced, this matters more because again, the beginner guy, hey, do a dumbbell press, lock it out. You want, you want delts, you want tricep, you want chest, you want all of it to grow. So as you get more advanced, you might want to be preferentially biasing more chest. So that's where you might be cutting off that top of the lockout in your press to just make sure that you're using the range of motion that is making the intended muscle fail. So not just failure of the movement, right? Mechanical failure. And so that's where it starts to differentiate as you become more advanced. Yep. And I think it's, it's so important to understand kind of where you're at in that spectrum, because a lot of people, like you mentioned, jump to the high level stuff before they've even mastered the basics. And I've had athletes that are intermediate to the intermediate advanced side of the equation that I'm having to step back into mastering the basics before we can even have these conversations. Um, and so I think it's, it's so huge to understand like where you fall in the spectrum and dot drives across your teeth with mastering those foundational concepts before kind of getting into some of these like upper level conversations that we're talking about. Um, is there anything else kind of within optimized exercise selection that you think needs to be covered in this podcast? Oh, well, I just think to reiterate the point of getting back to what we've always seen in old school bodybuilding of exercises that we emotionally connect strong with that can still work. And while we see a lot of elite guys still, we still get results from them. Right. Um, I, I immediately go to like the bent over landmine T bar row with like the V handle. You have 45 pound plates on there and you're like swinging and the plates are like hitting your chest. It ends up being, you're actually, uh, moving like the elbow, like maybe three inches to work the lat. It's like, okay, this is where this really applies is where there's, there's going to be some exercise patterns that you have to look at. Is this taking my muscle through the full range of motion? Is it the main mover? And, uh, is that target muscle the one actually failing? Um, and is it managing global fatigue? And we have some patterns and we can just kind of cross them off the list of like, man, this really isn't cutting, doing the job it really could. And there's better ones. So like that bent over like T bar row, it's like there, there's a lot of better option from that or a rack pull, right. For building the back, uh, just a few that we should just say like, Hey, there's a better option here. I think this is where we, we have research kind of coming out saying, Hey, we're trying to maximize tension across this full range of motion. These should guide your exercise choice. And so if you have exercise that are out there that you're trying to do that, we have the emotional connection with that. We might need to move past that and try to find the better options in place. And through that you'll get better stimulus and also less fatigue. And that's going to make your other lifts move up across the board and, uh, leads eventually to, to more growth. So, uh, I think that's, that's the last point here of just kind of tying it back to, uh, looking at old school bodybuild patterns. I've seen that are like still popular that kind of like there's a movement of like free weight reoccurrence, but for a lot of people it's not for the better. Uh, so just like, you know, challenge as you're going through your workouts of like trying to make sure like you're getting that, that tension throughout the full range and how, you know, just a, uh, like an actual takeaway point is like when you're reaching your failure rep at some point of that range will become the grinder. Like we all know where that part of the range is. Like you press up a dumbbell and all of a sudden kind of like mid range, you hit this like stopping wall. You have to grind the dumbbell out to lockout. So you're not, so through that, where your range slows down is where you're going to reach, be reaching peak tension and also a failure point. So it's at the top of a dumbbell press. Well, that's probably a lot of tricep. So when you have it nailed perfectly, like for variable loading, you'll notice like from the beginning, like right when you press the dumbbell off the chest, all the way to the top will be a constant velocity grinder. And that's when you've matched the resistance profile to the strength profile really, really well. And you would know you're maxing out every inch of that rep for max stimulus. So just some guiding thoughts there. So you find an exercise where you blow through the range and you kind of like just stall out all of a sudden, it might not be the best loading profile to maximize your, your tension and stimulus. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that kind of brings us to like time efficiency as a portion of programming. It's like the last thing to kind of wrap up here. I think it's something that in the sphere of coaching, especially for the audience as well, like people want to do everything right. And then they have these time constraints of what does everything look like within those time constraints. And that's kind of where needs analysis start to come out, like prioritizing this in your program design. But I think there's also ways for some of these things like drop sets, rest pauses, combo sets, things along those lines to not only be a little bit more time efficient, but also be things that allow us to squeeze in just a smidge more volume at the end of blocks for people that are kind of pushing the volume metrics up a bit. But this is something that I don't think is going to be on the very forefront. This is going to be to me like the gap fillers at the very end where you're trying to like just touch to the volume landmarks that you're plugging into the program design. But I do think these have a place in programs, don't you think? Yeah, I I've actually been doing these. I've seen them called different things where I initially saw them, at least where I remember seeing them credit to Scott Stevenson and his four to two training because he had feel like his training, his training setup was very evidence based leading the forefront back in the day. But what we see like reoccurring, most of the stuff's been around forever, right? It was, it was a zigzag sets is what I think he called them in his book was like you do a set. I was doing sets of like a leg extension, then rest to like a hack squat, then to like something else, which was kind of brutal, right? So the idea was, you know, rotating between these sets and some exercises would pre fatigue for the next set or some weren't that fatiguing for, you know, opposing body parts, right? That was the first time I saw it approach, but we now have some more recent research looking at combo sets or paired sets, different names for them. Basically, it's a superset of antagonist muscle groups. So for instance, would be a push and a pull or a bicep curl and a tricep extension. And through this, it's shown that you can, in the same amount of time, you can basically double the volume. So if you had like three sets of tricep work, you're trying to do a standard sets, you rest two minutes, you do your set, you rest two minutes and do your set. Eventually this would, you know, take you X amount of time to do. But in this research, if you did a tricep and superset it with a bicep curl, then take your two minute rest. You get twice the work done, time efficiency, and it doesn't take away anything from the growth aspect. And it has a lot of benefit around that. Now, I think some of this that looks at like a bench press and a bit of a row or something, I think as you are getting more advanced and stronger, this is where you're going to see the limitation from the metabolic stress standpoint in trying to sustain the cardiovascular piece to it. So I think it has great application for doing combo sets for isolation work, like we mentioned, where towards the end of your workout, hey, I have on my push day, I have abs, I have calves, and I have a tricep extension to do. Well, I could do all the tricep work, then the calf work, then the ab work, but you could run a circuit and do your tricep and a set of abs, a set of calves, then rotate back through. And this is, I've been doing this for a while for time efficiency. I don't do it like a traditional superset fashion where I'm like immediately no rest, rushing into the next set. I basically take my time walking to my next station, do my set, maybe it's like a 30 second rest. It still shortens my time down, drop off some fatigue, a bit more of a cardiovascular aspect, do my set and kind of move through my circuit like that. But when I finally come back around to say like a tricep extension, man, I've done two other sets, I've had rest periods. So now I've actually had a longer rest period from the localized fatigue for triceps to where now I can perform more for my second set and my third set of tricep work rather than doing it all in a row. So another tool to raise up your volume quality, get more load and reps off every set, be performance based. And that's where this kind of tool resides. Yeah. And I think the thing I noticed too is like he's doing this across small body parts. Like you'll see for people that are clients will recognize this concept and like I write it as alternating sets, like doing one and then a short rest and then into the other. Um, it's, it's super, super efficient and it allows for, honestly, I think a very useful place for this is contest prep, man. Have you like been in the depths of contest prep or I know you have, and I know I have too, but for those of you that haven't in the depths of contest prep, when that session takes two hours, you get to like hour 15 and you're like checking the clock and how much work you have left in the session. And like, when am I getting to my next meal? And it's like, there's just so much mental fatigue associated with that alongside the like considerations of you can't really hold performance for as long in a prep. It just works so well in a contest prep setting. Like I use it a ton in those scenarios as well. I think contest prep is really where a bro split would get really exposed. Yeah. It was like, you know, if you're really trying to like your lower food, lower recovery capacity, you're going to quickly see how fast your lifts drop off. And they're like, what do you do? Well, I need to do less work. And it's like, well, also your recovery is going to be diminished. So it's like this quickly aligns to like, yeah, I should be training more frequently, less sets in one session. And also, you know, managing like the exercise choice I'm doing, getting towards more, more brace patterns. And then even, you know, managing with like combo sets and things like this. Well, like drop sets and rest pause sets and things on the exact muscle group and trying to extend the set. It's like the amount of extra stimulus you get for the disproportionate amount of fatigue that you occur. This doesn't make sense anymore. And so, well, if you couldn't do that in prep and sustain it, it's like, oh, good. I have the resource of the offseason to sustain it. Well, what if you did what you did in prep? If in prep training like that would be so much more beneficial for retain muscle, would it be that much more beneficial to build muscle as well? And it's absolutely what we see. It's why you see everyone that is doing a lot of higher frequency training and managing their log book and being performance based is seeing a lot of progress. And Dante Trudeau, he said it a long time ago, like if you're the bodybuilder, you know, squatting this much and benching this much and, you know, rowing this much, like you're going to be the biggest bodybuilder. Like it will align. And that doesn't mean that we're, you know, promoting becoming a strength athlete. That's not what we're saying here at all, but a performance based athlete. And you're going to be able to perform more in your sets is what you need to be able to do. And not just lift load either, but the actual skill of applying tension to that muscle, the execution piece, you know, using proper form, like it's all encompassed within that. So, um, we mentioned, I mentioned on the podcast for like, you don't want to be a strong bodybuilder because it's, it's much harder to bodybuild. It's like you get injured more. It's hard, much more fatigue. It's harder to prep, but we're going to have to go there. Um, others might contain the genetics for more neuromuscular adaptations and strength than others. So they might see more strength increase. Others might not, but we absolutely do have to be an increasing performance over time to really be driving the needle and growing more. So I think, uh, you know, just, just wrapping this up and unless you have something else to add, Luke, before I do. No, just using like all these comments are within the confines of the hypertrophy adaptation style of programming. Like it's like, no doubt, we're not going to be doing powerlifting strength based program designs and that kind of a thing. I think that's where these arguments start to get off the rails of the focus of the conversation. But I think that pretty much wraps it up. Yeah. You usually could go down the other path of like only chasing performance and now your programming looks kind of strength based. You're doing doubles and singles and lowering volume, volume more so you can recover to keep up with your strength goals. And that's, that's where you're getting to the other side of the equation. So if you're, you're gone from chasing the pump to, you know, chasing strength, but there's a balance between the two, not riding off the pump and soreness as these could be some indicators that you're applying tension well, but also just chasing load also doesn't mean that you're applying tension well either. So the truth usually lies in the middle, which is more complicated to have to think about. So anyway, thank you all for tuning in. And I hope this aids you in your programming design and bringing in 2025 with being a modernized bodybuilder and performance based. Talk to you all next time.