 langsam, langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam langsam fat gain that we can accrue in these larger caloric surpluses and requires to cut and drop body fat after all. Is that even an optimal approach or not? And there's been some emergence of the idea that gain taining is a very plausible and way to go about building muscles strategically. So we're going to break this down today and find out if you were bodybuilding, if gain taining should even be a thing for you or not. Yeah, it's a, it's an interesting topic. I think for me, you're going to have to cross both like, what are we seeing kind of at the emergence of literature and like some of the thought processes that are being proposed off the back of this literature, coinciding that with anecdotal evidence that we have from the years of coaching, kind of cross-referencing those and understanding the likelihood of this adaptation to occur is extremely low. I'm kind of talking about some of the reasons for that, but it's just, I think it's extremely short-sighted and we're going to get into why I think it's short-sighted, but I just want to preface that our goal as competitors and our goal of this podcast and the goal of J3 university is how do we maximally progress the physique in order for you to reach the highest levels of physique development that you possibly can with your genetic makeup. And the argument that I'm going to propose is that there's a lot of great points within some of the points that are made off the back of this research paper, but for maximal physique development, I think it's a bit short-sighted. And so I think John lets you kind of present some of the, some of the thought process behind the paper. It, this is like going to have to cross back and forth between the paper and some anecdotal stuff, but I think it's a really good topic to have. Yeah. You know, this all, I feel like it's, we've transitioned so far away from what, how things used to be because leaks, when I started bodybuilding or in building muscle, like it was just cutting bulk. That's all that was there. But also you, you bulk hard. So it was like going total like dirty bulk mode to a degree, like make sure there's just plenty of calories present. If you put body fat on, Oh, well, and you just get as big as possible. And that's what you're kind of chasing down to now. I almost wonder if like, there's a large social media influence around this and even the emergence of some of the other divisions that are put such high priorities on kind of aesthetics all the time being that like, how can we keep this look also keep some people relying on businesses to, you know, their physiques for businesses to keep this more aesthetic, leaner look, but still progress the physique forward. So I think a lot of things have happened in fitness culture, but also through just like research of what's come about to kind of drive this, this ideation around that, you know, how can we build muscle or, you know, do by doing, doing it also in some of the subjects that we see these studies and limit body fat, which that's the idea, like why would we even want body fat gain to begin with? And some of the earlier lines of research that have come across, there's like a, there's a larger meta analysis paper, which for all you, it's like a big group of studies combined and they crunch the numbers on muscle mass gain or, or maintenance or loss in caloric deficits. Now, a lot of this research is done in overweight or obese individuals. And they, the overall view of this paper was that there is a degree of muscle mass lost in these caloric deficits. However, the greater the deficit, the greater that could occur. Also interventions that didn't have resistance training present also lended itself to having more muscle mass loss. Also being at higher body fats tended to lean towards having less body fat loss. And so for the, for the most part, like in, out of this paper, see like, Hey, muscle mass loss is associated with caloric deficits and losing body weight. But there's a lot of caveats that come about that. And it doesn't really apply as much towards resistance trained individuals. So this fast forwards us to, this is Chris Barakat's paper. This was a body recomposition can train individuals, build muscle and lose fat at the same time. Uh, this was a paper that came out in 2020. So not extremely recent, but very prevalent as this has been a conversation popping up as of lately. And, uh, you know, Barakat and colleagues, they review the paper and go through instances in not obese individuals, but, but healthy or leaner individuals that are also resistance trained. So some of these studies were in athletic populations and not just in, uh, just, you know, at the average lifter going out in training. And there are absolutely instances where these individuals are in these studies and they're building muscle and they have caloric deficits that are present. A few things that do, they do bring up along this paper is that it depends, you know, if this is possible to the athlete that would be coming into the paper. So you have to look at what was the previous training experience, but also training type that this athlete was doing. So if you say you had, let's say a basketball player in the intervention, uh, he does some resistance training depending on where the season is that not might not be very much. However, that resistance training might be very applicable around bodybuilding, not necessarily specific to hypertrophy style bodybuilding training. So you brought someone like this into a study design that is purely focused on hypertrophy outcome. This could be a large stimulus to drive growth processes to happen. Now, if you took a bodybuilder that already had all these adaptations from training, would you see that same response and in that caloric deficit? And that's where it's going to be a very much more, a limited response to that. Yeah. Another. Oh, go ahead. No, go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. I'll, I'll continue on, but no, I think it's, I think it's just a proof of concept, right? It's like proof of concept that this can occur. And that's kind of where this is going to start to lead to. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. And, um, another, another aspect of consideration that, you know, they bring up in the paper was, uh, initial body composition matters still. So the, the leaner, the individual, the less likely of the occurrence for that to take place, uh, higher body fats potentially more so. And we still see that in the overweight obese population where they have this higher existing already energy pool on them to where they're able to still drop body fat because they have an energy source. So, so readily available, uh, versus someone that's leaner. It's like, what are you kind of left with? Well, there's not a lot, not a lot of body fat that's left to really, really pull off. And I think that's where you're kind of starting to see like into our, our, uh, bodybuilding, you know, applications. Uh, then of course, like you look at the nutrition interventions that need to take place, that they need to have, uh, you know, sufficient protein intakes, which I believe in that they were in the, you know, around 2.6 to three gram per kilogram, something like that. So over one gram per pound of body weight, in other words. So if you're, you know, to, to be even in consideration, be able to do this sufficient protein had to take place. And then the type of resistance intervention would also matter because I'm sure you could have some interventions that weren't, uh, maybe some were designed a little bit more for strength adaptations, but hypertrophy actually happened as well, but some more, more focused for hypertrophy type training. Yes. I think when we, we kind of look at this and like crossing it into kind of how does this affect the coaching application? I think that one, we obviously have to take into account that there's, there's not a PD portion of this process within the research paper. So that is going to greatly create a net positive outcome that this could potentially happen. Um, but I think again, this kind of brings me back to the point of proof of concept that this is possible proof of concept. This is possible across a contest prep. However, um, the stars do need to align a bit for it to be robust enough to see large visual difference. And it's not something that I would one rely on in order to maximize your physique development. And again, when we talk about maximizing an offseason, it's, it's a little bit short-sighted when we talk about managing recovery capacity and driving the maximal stimulus that we can adapt to in order to get someone to kind of move in the right direction. And I think this kind of starts with the initial concepts of how we manage the body composition of an athlete, as I think that's going to be the biggest driver of being able to maximize the progress across the longterm is the surplus has to be present, but it's how we go about that surplus is going to be a large portion of this. Wouldn't you agree? You know, absolutely. And it, it goes on. We like fast forwarded in the research world. There's a paper by Helm and colleagues. It's the effect of small and large energy surpluses on strength and muscle and skin full thickness and resistance trained individuals, a parallel groups design. And we Luke and I, we've talked in a previous podcast about this study, but they were comparing a 5% and a 15% caloric surplus and looking at muscle mass gain and fat gain along those lines. And the groups gained relatively the same amount of muscle mass. However, the 15% caloric surplus gained just an excess of body fat. And so what this really is showing here is like, Hey, yes, you should probably be in a surplus to really maximize muscle gain, but you just don't have to be in a vast surplus to do so. And, but some degree should probably very well take place as you get along the cons of what could look like if you're just gaining of just a slower rate of muscle gain. Now, I think we need context, like who that applies to, because if you're someone that's not looking to get on a bodybuilding stage, you have years down the road of just kind of just continuing your fitness journey and you're not looking to like accelerate bodybuilding because in bodybuilding, we kind of have a finite timeline to work within that. Maybe that is something that applies to that person. Um, also you think about maybe someone that has the psychology that would be based better for consistency in, um, a type of approach and the ebbs and flows of bulking cutting just don't align with how they really are motivated to execute their, their program. So maybe that applies to that person, but I feel like the person that would have a real limitation with it is going to be that individual that has a variability in schedule to where, you know, some weeks all of a sudden, Oh yeah, I wasn't sent down. I had to go out in the field and walk more or whatever it may be that their energy output jumps up a bunch. They're in a more of a caloric deficit that week and they limit themselves in recovery and performance and also muscle building. Like what do you have a few weeks of that? It's like, well, all good. I cut off some body fat potentially. And then I'll just pick back up with some gaining when I go back to being more sedentary. That's like, yeah, if you're, if you're okay with that, uh, but I feel like there's a, if your ultimate goal here is like accelerating muscle gain and I think there's still a way to limit body fat, but the variable schedule would be more problematic for sure. Absolutely. I think it almost widens the margin of the surplus you have to run right in order to ensure that that athlete is being able to account for the high activities and then accepting the weight gain on the low activity weeks and adjusting on that where your margin has to be on that closer to 10 to 15%. Um, if you're looking at that study that we talked about, like the five versus the 15, like we're going to have to see that, that surplus for that athlete be there where when you have someone that's executing like John or has a schedule that allows them that narrows that window of like rate of gain in which we can accrue a body fat. And like, honestly, it, it makes the process so much more efficient to the point that we can limit the body fat gain and almost make the same amount of physique progress. You could argue, like I would argue if you compared 24 weeks of an offseason for the variable schedule athlete versus the extremely tightly scheduled athlete that has everything organized in a way that's promoting that bodybuilding, not only are you going to see, um, less body fat or cruel in the extremely tight schedule, if you're going to match like the amount of progress, um, but the surplus that they're going to be able to run, it's going to be a lot tighter. So this is where like a lot of these variables have to be taken into account. I do think there is an underlying experience one as well. I think the level of muscularity and the level of physique that you've built allows you to manage the visuals from a body fat percentage perspective a little bit easier as well. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and live Q and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Well, the ironic thing is the more experienced you get, the greater your ability to probably execute gain taining essentially, but also it's the less likely that you're going to be able to gain progress at, at maintenance level. So, um, it's kind of like a washout in that sense that you still have to be still moving into a surplus. However, you might be able to manage body fat better because your variables, you don't have as many variables that are fluctuating throughout the week, but, uh, by just leaving someone in just a maintenance or even deficit and not, not gaining weight week to week, uh, you would just be leaving a lot on the table. So, and I do see it too, like in the athletes that we coach that some people that do gain more body fat around the offseason. And I understand if you're the one out there, you're like, man, I want to be leaner this offseason. I don't want to put on much fat. A lot of those individuals are the ones that when they get deep in the offseason, like they start losing routine and mistakes start happening or they have extra off plan meals or just ones that are even too large. Or like you mentioned to Luke, like just variability in the schedule to where it fluctuates so much their output, even though their diets consistent that we have to keep in like a larger surplus, just so they make sure we ensure progress. And you're going to have to, if you're that individual, you almost have to realize and accept that you're not optimized and that you're going to accept more body fat gain. However, at least we won't end on the backside of offseason with limited muscle gain. You can at least ensure that you're putting on some tissue versus just trying to stay lean and you end up just looking kind of the same on stage because you didn't push that variable up a little harder than as you should. I think, and this is an interesting question for you because I think this is a proposal that is an interesting conceptual thought. Like if you you're given to athletes who execute at high caliber, would you rather err on the side of slightly too much surplus or slightly less? A too much surplus. Yeah. Yeah. Cause what's the negative to each, right? Like 12 weeks down the road. One, I added muscle. We pushed up lifts. These are kind of like two very well correlated things that progress happened. And then we just drop, you know, pull some body file off in a few weeks. The other, the other one is the lifts don't really push up. You don't have the advantages of some leverage of body weight increase. And then without being at surplus, it kind of leaves a question mark on how much muscle is really being gained. The end of the phase, cool. You don't need to cut, but also you're kind of about the same. Like you haven't added a lot of tissue on or guaranteed that we maximize that, that aspect. Um, and like I mentioned, like in bodybuilding, like we have, we have timelines that are really on here because typically we're competing at least once a year. I think there's benefit to competing at least every 12 to 18 months. So that's when you map out the timelines, it goes so fast, uh, where we have like eight weeks post show. Then you're like, oh yeah, I still need 16 weeks to prep. Then you have this off scene segment. That's like, oh wow, I do only have like 16 to 20 weeks to actually build muscle now. And if you're like, have eight weeks of that, where you're just like doing gain taining and trying to stay lean and you realize, oh man, I haven't made a lot of progress. How much muscle are you really going to gain in the last 12 weeks of offseason? Just three months? Like it's not much. Like you're lucky if you're having three to four, three to five pounds put on, if you're a large male and that's been experienced. So there's no time to waste when you're bodybuilding. So I very much would rather be in the state where we have like a higher surplus and accept a little bit more fat gain. Just keep an eye on the prep timeline. I think that's massive. Like you can shelf off that little extra body fat with a couple extra weeks of prepping. Like, I think that that's like so easy as long as you just map out that rate of loss well, and you're guaranteeing that progress is going to occur. I think how you go about that surplus is important where, when we're talking about this, both of those examples are well executed individuals who aren't going and doing these like large meals off plans and rapid body fat accrual and things along those lines. But it's maximizing progress to where I would point to this gain-taining concept or conceptual way of thinking about handling someone's process as not for the individual that's looking to maximize physique development for competing. And I think that that's like the caveat. It's like, you know that this can happen potentially for that individual who doesn't have competitive aspirations. This is a way that they can look a little bit better year round. But when we truly talk about changing physiques, this doesn't kind of fit into that mold, especially when we coincide in the back. And this is maybe something to consider as well. Like your shelf life as a competitor, whether it's outside life variables or health management with PD use, or even just your general age, right? Like just as a quick teaser, I pulled this for some social media content. I've got, and you guys will have to check out the social media page for these papers, but I pulled a couple of papers that are like showing, you know, declines in neuromuscular function and rates of protein sentences as we get into these, uh, resistance trained individuals in age. And it's like, you know, the shelf life is a competitor. Like if you're going to maximize progress, like you need to do it now and not just like shelf it off and accept that slower rate of gain. You know, and a question for you, Luke is trying to apply this to some athlete situations and where I think sometimes the gain taining just is what tries to happen when you have someone post show that accrues too much body fat and they arrive into their offseason. And now it's like, damn, I can't let any bone more body fat gain, but I don't want to really cut, but I want to grow. And you end up maybe kind of at this maintaining or gain taining aspect. Um, I hope you find that more with like females over males, or if it doesn't matter, but also like what that athlete that arrives in that situation, or if they feel stuck of like my body fat's too, I can't let any happen anymore happen. Like, how do you manage that and go about it? And also maybe speak to the psychological side of struggles with, with body fat gain in the offseason for those certain populations. This is such a hard one to manage. Um, as far as populations, I see it in, you're going to see it in the earlier competitor more than you're going to see it in the experienced competitor. Most of the time, the experienced competitor has gone through this once already where they've done it. And so they, they know kind of the negative consequences and negative outcomes. As far as managing this for the athlete, um, I kind of centered around recovering from the contest prep and, and ensuring that we shift that focus into training performance as far as like managing the client psychosis portion of it. And so we give them something positive and affirming to focus on in order to kind of push them into positive impact or, or positive views and what this process is going to look like moving forward. Um, and, and being able to progress the physique in that manner. The reality of the coaching side of this equation though, is that you are not going to have the most productive offseason phase that you could have possibly had. Um, and, and you just need to accept that. And so there's, there's two ways that you can go about this. My preference would be to push someone as if I'm going through the offseason and, and make the rates of progress similar to what I would have, if they wouldn't accrue that body fat and then either cut that offseason phase shorter at the same time point of body fat accrual that I would go into that mini cut or on the back end, once we've made it through most of the offseason phase, slow that rate of gain as much as possible until we get to that transition where we're going into the diet phase. Um, I think it's a way to allow them to still focus on progressing in a time state that is, they've been yearning for progression, especially progression in the gym. Um, and you're still giving that to them. And basically you're paying that debt on the back end. So your mini cut on the back end might have to be, which I don't know if you can consider this a mini cut at this point, but it might be 10 to 12 weeks of dieting instead of six, right? It's just, just not a full on prep. Yeah. Just not a full on prep. And that's kind of how I would be paying that debt because there is never a situation where you accrue too much body fat that going back into dieting makes sense. And that is just from like prep adaptation accrual and what you're trying to do in those first six months post show and like getting someone to a productive place. It's just not the move to take. Another one that I thought of, and this is a rare one potentially for earlier on competitors would be like the classic physique guy. That's just totally maxed out in his weight cap. Um, potentially like you, you just cannot yours. You have to crush yourself so much to get down that you just can't even add more muscle mass. I think those individuals, you have to basically stay at a lighter body weight to make that process a little easier for prep and that potentially doing the gain taining aspect. Maybe it's just all that's left at this point. Um, and maybe it happens, but truly I think for a lot of those individuals, it's more so just having time out of the caloric deficit to reverse some of the prep adaptations, get back to a place to even repeat the process, um, more so than having an offseason to actually grow anymore. But if you, this is the person like, if you're in that situation, you should be a hundred percent dialed in on all routine variables for your lifestyle. So you are able to progress potentially a little bit if possible, but it's not going to be the situation where every offseason, a classic guy, you, you push body weight way, way up and try to grow maximally because why, well, you won't make weight. So why would you even, you know, waste the time doing that to eventually have to die it all off even harder? But maybe that's the rare situation where it kind of applies. But I think with gain taining, there's all the caveats of variables that have to be in place of being very on it. Like you have to be extremely on top of your timing of everything, sleep routine, meal timing, uh, training progressively nutrition dialed in without, you know, X without, uh, going beyond your into your surplus that you're trying to not go into. Uh, that's, it would cater itself to being someone that has to be very experienced, but I think any way, like whether you're a bodybuilder and you have timelines or you're more of the lifestyle person that's just trying to see out long-term muscle mass gain is that all the variables have to be maximized. I think that's what we all should strive towards maximizing these variables to then limit body fat gain and grow as much muscle as possible. But depending on your psychology and your goals and the situation you're in is going to really, I think, dictate whether it should be more of an aggressive surplus to maximize that process, or it could be more drawn out. Um, but either way you go maximize the variables. So I don't think that we should look at as a cop out of like, well, I won't gain tain because I don't have my, my variables in line, which yeah, that's true. You shouldn't be trying to gain tain when you don't have your variables in line, but it should be a hard push to getting your variables in line to where you can maximize your process. Yeah. It's, it should be the push that realizes like, if you're going to continue to progress as you get deeper into this bodybuilding, where driving the adaptation becomes harder, your, your margins for error become increasingly lower. Um, and you have to be able to make up those margins with the tidiness and the schedule and the repeatability of your schedule, um, and the repeatability, repeatability of your ability to execute on all of these. And I think that's the biggest thing. It's like, when you look at the concept of gain tainting and whether it's applicable, it's like, we can't even have this conversation until you're at a level that your schedule is so repeatable. It's pretty much groundhog day. Um, and that's kind of where the argument I think stops is it or where the argument lives and dies is with that caveat. Yeah. You, you, you are going to have to challenge the system as a whole to a degree to really move the needle. Um, your body wants to exist at homeostasis and you really need to drive a lot of that to uncomfortability to make it change. So this, the whole idea around muscle building, it's, you know, cycles of just stimulus and recovery and existing in that surplus to support that process, to push yourself outside of that homeostasis to grow, but living like a flat line at maintenance indefinitely is not going to be challenging the system enough to keep spurring on and pushing that, that process forward. So, um, you know, I would, I would say, and I guess that system mentality thing of that, whatever you're putting your time into to maximally pursue it. Um, I know that gets a little bit beyond just your caloric, uh, intake, but to anything like you want to do and be the best at, you don't just pursue it with comfortability, whether it's your job or being a student or business or bodybuilding, like you have to really push yourself and get uncomfortable. And that is part of the offseason that needs to take place is, is pushing. So maintenance maintenance is, is very likely to leave you in a place where you've just maintained and not change your physique. Yeah. I don't think we can really change it to, to gain taining. I think that is just a little bit, um, alluding to, you know, false sense of reality, what could happening for the majority of people that are out there. Yeah. Yeah. Don't, don't fall for the clickbait titles or the reel that's populating through social media. Let's stay with the basics and make sure that we execute those basics at a level that's better than everybody around us. Not that. Well, anyway, everyone, thank you for tuning in. If you've ever gained tained in your life and you're listening on YouTube, tell us about it down below, but until next time we'll talk to you then.