If your training performance stops moving, your physique progress very likely could start stalling out. As training performance is truly the gas pedal to fuel muscle gain. Today, we're diagnosing if your training is stalling out, what you should really be doing about it. Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jwer, >> and I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. >> Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard >> and to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. >> Let's jump into today's episode. training performance. Luke, I've had a lot of questions always around, hey, this lift is not moving anymore. What should I do about it? And well, should you do even something about it? And when should you do something about it? And what are some other metrics that we should look at to really troubleshoot the stalled lift? And probably the first thing we need to just start with here is just really uh just are you actually stalled? like what why even this would be a thing to worry about and are we just chasing the log book you think or is this performance really the metric to focus on for hypertrophy? Yeah, I think it's it's something that we understand like over time we have to grossly as a whole look at increases in total stimulus and and mechanical tension being a primary driver performance is a is a way that we can view that as a primary progress p from a primary progress perspective. However, if if if purely progression in a log book were the only way to drive hypertrophy in regards to not even looking at any of the other variables that are considered in program design, we would just see absolutely massive powerlifters being the best bodybuilders on stage, right? And that's just not the case. Now, they are massive humans. It's not saying that they aren't generating muscle growth, but it wouldn't be the best for like optimizing for hypertrophy because then we would just be writing strength-based program design. And so, while progressive overload over an extended period of time is a marker to track as a part of this, we have to understand that some of this is going to be kind of the dose of this and understand that we're not optimizing for strength progression. So that rate of strength progression is going to be much slower and it's going to lead to periods of times where we're going to be adapting to the stimulus that we've provided and might especially with higher experienced athletes see slightly slower progression rates over time. So what I think we should dive into and and this is kind of where I think this starts is what is the core of hypertrophy? And the core of hypertrophy to me starts with one of a couple different points. Always is going to be your ability to apply mechanical tension to the target tissues across the entirety of the set. And nothing else can be considered within your ability to progress someone long term if they do not have that skill set mapped out in my opinion. >> Yeah. So, I guess that begins kind of the first assessment point for if you're seeing some lifts actually slow down is the the context of how you've been training those lifts. So, >> maybe load and reps aren't necessarily moving, but if you're gaining >> better skill in your lifts, like you're saying, >> you're applying tension more accurately, that that alone could be the progression that's taking place even though you're doing the same load and reps. So that's well it's one thing to start looking at as well for if you're actually stalled. Uh then ideally, you know, numbers are great. Again, if you're like a powerlifter, moving a load point A to point B, that's all the really goal is. Maybe the numbers are better indicators for you, but there's also for for a bodybuilder, the quality of the rep matters here. And so, ving our lifts, it's it's more where where does point A and point B end and start. So, in other words, what does your full range of motion look like or your controllable range of motion? So, if you're getting to a point where, you know, maybe you're, you know, getting a better range of motion, maybe you figure out some better technique or exercise setup and and now that extra range of motion means more work taking place. And so, likely you might have a load drop or maybe not get the extra rep. Um, to the other point, you could falsely get a sense that maybe you're not stalled by shortening your range of motion and continuing a lift to progress, >> which actually very well could be stalled in a lift or seeing slow progress. So looking at the the quality in that execution and then that's the range of motion, but also the speed of that execution too, right? So if you're moving quickly faster in your reps, maybe from week one to week eight, then then likely you might be seeing false progress progression happening or um you might have slowed down movements too and improved the quality as well. So, things to start looking at as far as um how you could still increase stimulus but not necessarily only be improving load and reps. But, you know, other things that actually can absolutely cause like a a stall to occur when you have like the same training program, but a lot of people don't think about you need to be able to recover from that training stimulus too, right? Mhm. >> So the the recovery piece might be the big impactor too, >> which is kind of like the devil in the dose of the volume, right? Like there's certainly you have to dose it enough to drive a maximal stimulus that is recoverable, but we can certainly deliver more stimulus but might end up negating the progression piece if you drive it purely through volume or you aim to drive it purely through volume. Yeah, it's a usually it's not like stimulus thing part the quality as you can see quality but then needing to bring back the volume but a lot of times it's I see some people that are just not recovering and setting that part up >> and then they do and then they start moving because they're not realizing how much just keeping a a lower stress environment throughout the day makes a big difference or just getting that extra 30 minutes of sleep or hour or even better quality of sleep can really raise the bar for your same type of same training improving your adaptations and then everything starts moving a lot easier. >> Yeah, 100%. Um um >> go ahead. >> Yeah, you know, the other thing I wanted to bring up too was uh looking at the time duration of when you're looking at when you're stalled. you know, if it's is this just across one week you're looking at? And then if it is one week, did something change in your week that maybe impacted one or the other, like, hey, I had a poor night's sleep and then I went and trained and my numbers are down, you're probably not actually stalled. Um, or is this, you know, what I would look at is more over a block of of training. So like a week one to a week eight, do you have all lifts? I would definitely have the red flag go up if it was it was longer than like 3 weeks, but also is it is are you seeing like one day that's fully stalled or also is it just one lift that's getting stalled and then what type of lift that might be? So things to dive into next here is like um when we do the easier one, Luke, like you're seeing a stall across the board. Yeah, that's that can be it's more than likely going to be if you're across the board, you just need to take a step back and de lo before you head into the next. Um, some of the other ones like the as we start to kind of build this out a little bit more, some of the other ones are going to be very heavily localized to a specific movement pattern or localized to a body part or localized to like a habit structure. Like I wanted to bring this up here because I think this is going to pivot well. It's like across the board stalling is more representative of need for dload drop fatigue maybe even retoled the program design if the duration of one de lo to the next was way too short and way too short being kind of like that four to five week dynamic in my opinion. But if it's anything else that we're about to get into there's a ton of different variables that can like present itself. And like one as an example is like the structure of your day. Like John, I've I've I know I've had clients do this where their meal schedule gets off and their pre-workout meal ends up being two and a half hours before they train instead of like one and they start getting those like blood glucose drops, especially if it's like a a contest prep. And you just see like that session just goes into the tank. And so like that's one that we can see like show up as like a massive acute, but it's really not going to be one of those broad ones. And so, um, the broad is is to me the simplest one to solve. >> So, it is a bit easier. I think you can you can test this stuff, too, especially if you're not if you're getting the four to five week mark. You know, take three to four consecutive rest days off from the gym. And don't double up on your work or something else outside of the gym because you have free time. Like truly take that extra time out of the gym to have some like rest, relaxation time. return to the gym and if all lifts are now moving, there you go. There was your your diagnostic test there. You dropped off some fatigue and now you're able to move up. But you probably should adjust your training plan because right now your volume or how you know the level of stimulus you're giving is going beyond your recovery capabilities within that four-week span. And then also review your recovery capabilities like like Luke is saying like is there something in your routine or schedule or your sleep or um that that stressful spouse that you should just you know kick to the curb uh that you should change. And so that that would be the the next like troubleshooting things to make sure this isn't like a repetitive thing that you start running into. The next one from there across the the systemic one would be the one session and then we could break it down into like the single lift, right? >> Yeah. >> And and I I've run into this one myself with uh not this last offseason, but the previous one I was running a push pull legs push pull legs off day. And man, the the midweek push session right after my leg day, which it wasn't a a massive leg day, but nonetheless, I usually was an off day before push that session, it it barely moved the whole time. And you're like, well, I'm just taking slower rates of progress like, and you just keep going. And then I get to the end of this and I'm like, all right, I'm going to do a hold phase. I'm going to pull out that leg session and just have an extra rest day during the week. And then even with lower gear in place, that push session starts taking off in progress. I'm like, "Oh, okay." Um that fatigue from the day prior was carrying over into that push day. And I just couldn't couldn't um create a good stimulus during that session because of it. And so that's the example at least that I had. So I know I now always need an off day before my push sessions. But uh that yeah, that would be the case of like the the one day that's not not progressing. There's AI think there's a few other single day ones too like and we've brought some of them up like acute changes in schedule that happen that can like make one day not progress and that that will crop up from time to time which is why like for my clients that work with me you guys will know this like I I will follow up with probing questions of of like where we at with like how that schedule leading into that day was because it can sometimes occur from accumulation of the days before kind of leading leading to a day that just like doesn't stall or that stalls. I've even seen it where you're training on the wrong day. So like to give this hypothetical scenario like someone works Monday through Friday and they work maybe a little bit more of a labor intensive job and that Friday session is just smashed. Like there's just no way for it to progress because they've been working that job all week. where like if you took some of those sessions maybe across the weekend or in the earlier parts of the week, you're actually a smidge fresher because you haven't been working for four days in a row onto your fifth day. And so like that's another one that I've seen like kind of based on job dependency like where in the week does that person feel the best for training. >> Yeah. No, that's that's a good point. Um also say just I talked about the rest day prior to weak body point, but just the overall split design. >> Yeah. Um, typically at least with guys, like push sessions drop first and >> so it's it's always made sense to run like push pull legs. However, you have someone that had like maybe they had extremely great chest, shoulder, tricep, and their back sucks. You could do you could do pull push legs and for that individual could very well make sense to where they have that fresh day for for pull. Um, but yeah, I think that's where you need to look at your just overall split design of which days or before which days and what you're trying to bring up as those might be some some issues. And then like you had said just stringing days together. So, you know, usually if you run into a session stalling, you're like, what's wrong with this session? And a lot of times it it very well could be everything you did for the last previous days. So you might need to be bringing down volume in the that leg day and that pull day that then leads back into your push day so you're not carrying over just so much uh fatigue into that next session. And that could be that could be one issue very well with it. >> Um and I still like to look at the last push session as well if I'm bring up push a lot because it's what I suck at. fight. >> Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forum rooms with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and live Q&A sessions to further your coaching and athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. But yeah, if if like the next session I'm not fully recovered, able to repeat a performance at least. I looked the last sessions, you know, push pull legs, all those, but then the push session before like all right, if I wasn't recovering fully, like do I need to pull back volume in that previous session to then carry it into the next? M it's also like why I would make a point that you should be holding your program your set volume static for several weeks to be able to even gauge this stuff for when it goes wrong because if you're like I'm feeling great I'm going to add a set in and do like a drop set here and then then two weeks later you're like you know you're you're you're buried you're like well was that the volume increase I made or if I would have kept it the same would I have been okay and it's just kind of a snowball effect that can quickly occur. as you keep adding things in to you don't you won't know which of those weeks was actually the tolerable volume level. So I would rather keep things more static and be able to uh assess and troubleshoot a little bit better that way. >> Yeah. And really kind of the troubleshoot is like if your de lo dynamic then becomes like really long you know that you can tolerate more, right? Like if you're have you're able to progress things for a really long period of time like potentially that volume set could increase. Um, would that bring us to single lift stall? Because there's a lot of thoughts I have on single lift stall. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think I think so. >> I um >> What are your thoughts? >> So, we've kind of started down this path of accumulative fatigue and how when we sequence things together in program design, the way that you sequence days can contribute to one session not progressing. This can be fatigue carryover from a previous training day. This can be volume set in a previous session. What I don't think we understand is uh where I see a lot of people potentially make mistakes with I should better term is crossover. And what I define crossover is is like the amount of times that you repetitively have a pattern that places load or strain on a certain body part or how many times we repetitively have a pattern that mimics a very similar movement within program design. And so like the classic example of this of of like the first one is shoulders. So like we have a push focus program design with a frequency of two to three times per week for like chest and delts. So the frequency is already high for direct stimulus. And then we choose patterns that load a shoulder into extreme ranges of external rotation like a Smith squatting bar or like a squat pattern or anything along those lines. It would actually add load to the shoulder in our leg days as well. And so now we have so many days that's placing strain loading on that shorter complex that it actually affects the ability to perform within these other days. And then you could also look at repeated pattern. So like um having a very similar pattern multiple times throughout a program design and then that kind of accumulating to it's more so that plane of movement that's the problem um rather than just like gross you need to drop fatigue and that's kind of the situation there. You see this in a little bit more advanced athletes or classes that are extremely specialized. So like my head kind of goes to like wellness bikini like really like specialized towards lower body program designs. But man that's a big one for single lift. I think it's I think it can be huge. >> Even beginner programs like you have a lot of guys that like running upper lower upper lower. If you're like back squatting the day before, you were doing like some overhead press might have some carryover and limit limits you. Of course, if you're earlier on, maybe you can recover. You're young and you're just a connective tissue monster that does doesn't break. But a lot of this of like the limitation is connective tissue. It's where >> I think lifts can start stalling because things hurt and you can't longer have like the load tolerance. And so that like quick jump in volume that you make with these specialized programs that has a lot of crossover like you're talking about um easily the the bottleneck is connective tissue. And so you need to make sure when you do program while you have like the rest days between or making sure like you have very distinct days that don't train everything every single day which I know many people talk about training frequency and spread there's a popularity of just spreading volume across your entire week for each body part. It's great in theory until you try to do it, especially get strong at it. And that's when you can run into things like getting really beat up quickly and when there's probably a good balance of a lot of things getting trained twice a week, maybe a few things can go three times, but even when you're doing that, like like Luke is saying, like a side delt, you know, raise, great. You could do that three days a week, but also there's like some front, some rear delt, and crossover there that easily could carry over if you're hitting the other body parts on the opposite days. So, just things to consider to troubleshoot when you're running into those problems of like elbows, shoulders, knees, as if you're your training frequency and what those exercises are falling and how they could cross cross over. Another thing unless you have something around exercise choice but around I would say compound versus isolation >> in this is that like the single lift stalling some people are looking if their isolations are not progressing and you do have to realize that if it's a an exercise that doesn't have a lot of load and a smaller muscle group it it's going to move really slow because the to increase to the next load say you're at you're I don't when you were doing a 100 pound dumbbell and to move up to the the 110 for the same amount of reps is a 10% increase in load like that that's that's a massive increase. Uh same thing would be doing if you were doing 10 reps you're now able to get you know to 11 reps. And so for isolations like the rep progressions um you know might might be the easier thing to come by when the load is really small like things that are doing like 20 lb 30 lb because to jump up from a 20 to a 25 lb dumbbell well now you're talking about a 25% increase in load that's a massive jump versus adding on a 13th rep from coming up from 12. So just realize like that that's not stalling. It's just needing the stimulus to create adaptations and then you're able to lift as you can. Now compound lifts are the ones that should be able to move faster and give you better metrics of those lifts progressing upward. Um and you know your let's say your machine based or more stable brace movements are probably better indicators of your actual progress. I think it's easy to make false progress with some of these compound lifts because you can get a little bit more shifty with form and make adjustments, but >> yep, >> you're you're machine based that are more locked in or if you're more experienced and able to lock in more and keep very standardized form, you'll be able to gauge your progress a lot better. >> And it's okay if one lift is moving along slowly if everything else is moving. Um, I don't I I used to think you need to rotate your lifts and I I've changed more of my thoughts around that. uh lately I I think some of the lifts that do get slow to move just ones you need to stick out because if you're putting tension in the muscle and the volume's right like it will keep moving. Um, I think we used to look at the log book of like always progressing your lifts up and that if one stalls, you rotate it to progress the next one up. But just moving to the next lift, it just creates some novelty. And if you're advanced, like you learn the movement very quickly. But nonetheless, I think there's a psychological component for many when you move to a new lift that that first day you're feeling it out. You're maybe a little bit more timid just even, you know, subconsciously and then it like takes off, right? You're moving, moving, moving. But eventually you'll get back to that really slow sticking point even with this newer movement. Well, you kind of wonder like we go into the new movement like are those first weeks as productive as if you just stayed with the same lift that you've been in the groove with and locked in and just need to spend more time with. What do you think, Luke? Do you have uh thoughts on like rotating the lift that's stuck or just sticking it out? >> I mean, I I've talked about this on the podcast. The Emily King's biggest change when we put those side by sides up and maybe Dylan could pop it up was 11 months straight of Smith squatting tire of the offseason, right? And like the movements around it didn't really change much either. Like so kind of had the 45 degree leg press at the volume set pretty much throughout the entirety. We had RDL volume set pretty much there. The only thing that really changed was we would kind of pivot the split squat a little bit kind of based on how her knee was tolerating split squatting at the time. But I just you get really good at something and you can repeat it and just keep your head down and and take the progressions as they come. Like man, it it just leads to some of the best physique progress you could potentially see. And the higher experience the athlete, the more patience that h that has to be there. >> Yeah. I I think with I would say the times when it would be time to switch the lift is if for some reason that movement's giving you like connective tissue irritation at some point or >> um you've lost like any muscle connection with it. >> A lot of times moving to another lift I think what it what does happen a lot of times is that you get more intentional with the muscle y >> that you're trying to train and in turn you're like wow I can now feel my chest. This is great. uh which you just probably need to clean up your old exercise. >> Um >> yeah, >> so yeah, I mean that that very well could be reasons to to swap. And to the to the point too, >> there's probably a little negative to to doing the swap like you or it's a variation. Um, if psychologically you just need some different enjoyment out of the factor, like, hey, having an AB rotation of some lifts, perfectly fine, too. Or even a rep range rotation. You know, one week you have some lower rep work and then you shift up a little higher to where you kind of have some new targets you you look at to where it's not always the same. Like, I did the 200 lbs for six reps and then I did it again for six reps. So, maybe you can rotate 200 for six reps, then I go to 150 for 12. And having a little bit more delay and rotating back to the same rep target might um allow you to see a little bit more progression happening if you need that, you know, psychological enjoyment for seeing some type of log book movement. But uh again, like it's it's more about all this stuff can work. Just make sure you're not making so many changes just to chase the numbers because we're going back to the case of you might be inaccurately troubleshooting when problems are arising. Yeah, 100%. I think the last single lift one you'll see sometimes is like when movements aren't first in a session. So like I've seen this like progressions in movement one and two affect movement three. It's like that acute accumulation is higher because you've increased performance on movement one and movement two and so by the time you get to movement three like you're coming in with more overall stimulus and it can make that third or fourth movement harder to progress as a result. Yeah, I think if if you like even maintain but you made progress on another lift, like that's great. You know, take it. You don't need to move up on every single lift, every single session. Like that's it's honestly not that realistic. >> Um so yeah, I agree. And that's also with the programming piece of why a lot of times we've been programming with a compound that requires a lot of stabilization. Say you're a squat, a back squat, then you move to a machine that's more brace. then you move to a leg press to get some more like direct quad stimulus in. And so doing it that way, you likely could see some progression happening because you're you're moving to a more brace pattern where it's easier to output. But nonetheless, that doesn't mean it always will happen. So >> just just something to to consider. But with within all this, like for truly being able to troubleshoot if your lifts are stalled, you first first thing you look at, are you truly stalled? >> Because many people aren't. They could be just be slower progress. Make sure you're recing all your recovery variables. And if you're still running into a roadblock quickly within four weeks of your training block, you likely are training with too much volume. run a D lo, reset your training program, keep progressing up, and then if you're running into just single lifts getting stalled, you review, you know, why that lift could be happening from the previous training sessions. Um, if it maybe is just a thing of needing to stick out the lift or rotating the lift because you just want to enjoy your training a bit more. Then same thing with a whole entire session. Looking over your training split, what was going on the day prior, making sure there wasn't any just immediate uh anomalies that happened in your schedule cuz we do well fine. Many times you're installed, just need to stick it out. But there are true times when that can be happening and usually up your recovery or decrease your stimulus and that will keep you moving along. Anyway, that wraps us up today guys. Thank you all for tuning in and we will talk to you next week.