 direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct we are going to discuss this because this is on Luke and myself, like our brains, because we are so excited because we're both getting garage gyms. And so we're going to show you our insights of the why, the what we look for, and what's to come for our garage slash home gym. You know you've been diving into this too deep when your entire Instagram algorithm is now pushing every home gym account that's out there. It's like all these paint jobs and fancy lights and equipment reviews and all this kind of stuff. And boy, oh boy, it's a lot. Yeah, I was actually really impressed with the YouTubes of like these garage gym review guys and breakdowns. And then it was even more impressive of like what's coming out on the market for home gyms because it always used to be, you'd be pretty limited, right? Like it's a compromise in every way of everything you're going to get, unless you're just, hey, I lift on a power rack or something and that's it. But it's, yeah, it's come a long way. So Luke, for you, why the garage gym? And I think this is a question that many people probably know, you probably out there know your own why. But Luke, why the garage gym? Man, it's time. Especially like a second kid on the way. We're scheduled for our induction on Sunday. So I'll be a girl dad times two starting on Sunday. And just like the leaving the house ability with two kids becomes probably a little bit less. And there's other things I would like to use for my time when I do leave the house. And so just like the ease of fitting it into the day, being able to like wake up and maybe walk out into my garage gym and start the day with a session, have it only be the length of the session, and then get straight into work sounds like massive time savings. Because like, you know this, and everybody who knows me knows this, like block schedule to the max. Like everything has its time block. And the less I can limit drive times or transitionary times, the better it is. Like that's my why. Because like if it's a weird day and I have to work 12 hours, like I want to be able to walk into my garage gym and just get a session done at whatever time I want to do it. Yeah, I think for a lot of people, the convenience factor and time saving is a big one. That's definitely mine. Like for my, I have closer gyms, but for optimal for what I want, like to go, I drive roughly 20 to 25 minutes if there's no traffic one way to the gym. So it's 50 minutes round trip. But if you're doing that five days a week, like you're talking hours that you could be doing something else with your life, which I thoroughly, thoroughly hate driving in traffic. So if I can remove things I don't like, that's amazing. Another pain point for me, which a lot of people might not really relate to, but is content production. So to like be able to just to hop out into the garage and like film something I needed for content or shoot a reel at any time that I wanted versus needing to do it like before my training. Cause I just have such limited bandwidth before I train, before it just ruins my session. Or I have to go on an off day to go film a YouTube or something. So then I'll have, that's my other commute, you know, eating, eating up time. But so, and then within that is controlling the environment is like, if you're filming in the gym, it's loud. Like people walk by your camera, like obviously like them training is, that's what the gym's for, not for a recording studio. But that's why I make my own recording studio and my own home gym, right? So those are the things for me. And I, I don't leave the house for any other reason, but I also don't want to leave the house for any other reason. Like to go to the gym, I know people like to be around the environment of other people lifting. Why I really, I love, I love my gym, by the way. The Mouse Factory is an amazing place with great people. But truly, truly for me, like it's such a, in my head type of moment. And I don't need other people for motivation when I train. I really like just training in silence by myself, except my hood fund's blaring. So just to have no distraction is how I train my best. That's why a lot of times I like going to Anytime Fitness, because there's like no one in there. And I can just live in my head. So those, those were kind of my wise. However, that's, the problem comes about is with, with no compromises to your training. That's a tough one, right? Yeah, that's the tough one. Especially like the space in which you have to work in tells you how much you have to compromise. And I think like what you want out of that space is, is pretty huge. Like I have a friend of mine, or I guess an acquaintance, I should say, like met over social media. He's in the courses through Jth University. He's got an awesome gym set up. He's got like launch monitor on one side, gym on the other. Him and his family go in there, and they just like spend like all afternoon. So shout out to him. We've talked back and forth a little bit. But it's just like, you see that and you want that for yourself. And it's like, you got to then start kind of rationalizing the space piece. Because the space piece is like, ah, how am I going to go about this and still like make this work? And I think you took a good approach with yours. So I'm going to try to kick this back to you. You said you're going to go the path of everything upper first and then figure out lower second, right? That is the route that I'm going. Because I have a long-term vision that I want. So I think this is a mistake that a lot of people make too when they start their home gym is they just think in the now and you don't plan for ahead. Now, this is with the caveat that you know you will train in your home gym and not let it turn into just a storage rack. Storage. How many racks do you find on like Facebook Marketplace? And I've seen some like barely used it. I think someone else could do better with it. It's like, all right, well, this is not my barrier to entry here. Like I know I will use it. So for one, like getting a rack that could grow with you or equipment that can grow with you or planning ahead. So just my own personal situation, like I have an 800 square foot slab in my backyard that I'm going to expand and I can go up to 1,800 square feet. It just can't be so much bigger. Like it has to be a certain percentage of your house, in other words. But anyway, so that could fit everything I'd want with zero compromises there. But for now, my actual garage is roughly like a three and a half car, if you want to call it that. So I can fit enough equipment in to train selectively what I'd want to. I still need to fit the Viper in there. So, and dude, I'm crazy. I'm crazy. I almost was like, you know what, Renee? I'll get a storage unit and I'll put the Viper in it just so I can train. And then when we get the other gym, it says like I'm complicating my life so quickly. So anyway, I think you're right, Luke. The first step is like measure your space and you actually need to be able to, like I measured the equipment. I went to our gym and also the space between the equipment because you roughly need about like probably three feet between each piece. and then also a walkway between if you're having pieces like, you know, against walls or something between. So that was the first step. Like I actually measured it out. And when you measure it out, man, and I put tape, I went and I taped out the equipment corners. And once you do that, you quickly realize you can't fit what you hoped you could fit. So, yeah, I'm roughly left with like the garage length is about 25 feet. And then I have roughly about almost 20 feet wide, which is a big chunk. And then I have my other little like one lot, one bay garage. I have like a maybe like a 20 by 10 where two pieces could go. So I actually fit quite a bit. So it has to get selected. But yeah, like it was either like, because, you know, the leg stuff to really train legs, you need something some way you could, you could squat. You're going to need some type of extension and curl and then a leg press ideally to really do it right. And then I'm like, well, Renee's going to train here too. So she needs like a glute thing. And so to fit all that, I would only be able to fit that. And I would have to just do some makeshifting for upper body. So I rather build it out fully to train upper, which takes four days off my week for travel and just go once a week to go train at the gym. Yeah, that's smart. And like, depending on your space, like you end up finding that you kind of have to build it around one to three pieces, like as your centerpieces. And you need to be very smart about what you pick for that centerpiece, because it needs to take the role of like three to four different pieces in order to do it well, because that's the position I'm in. Yeah. Like, you know, what is the centerpiece, Luke? Like, what do you look for in one? Because that is, I think anyone that's like in the garage space at all, gym space, like they know what the centerpiece is. So yeah, yeah. It's some variation of a combo rack and the combo rack needs to have like the capacity to have some level of cables on it. If you are a Smith machine fanatic, like me, the Smith machine attachment is a major bonus, but I'm also like a little bit crazy about a Smith and like love the versatility of it. Probably more of an optional piece, but I think it's like full rack capacity with a barbell alongside cable capacity is like the main staples for that centerpiece. Now, this is where I got really impressed because the things that you can get combined nowadays are really freaking cool. Because you've got some that have like articulating arms. You got some that you can combine cables to make them like an overhead pull down, and then you can detach it and make it like a articulated arms for cable flies. And some of it that's got a Smith machine rack built into the rack. And so like you can go crazy with this if you're willing to spend the money. And so that's like what I'm focusing my efforts on right now is finding that centerpiece. Because I'm operating in a two-car garage. And so like that centerpiece is going to be massive for me. And even then, like don't waste your space. Because I, when initially looking at making my, because my other gym will have as much space as I could probably want. I'm like, well, okay, you find the Smith machine. Then I'm going to find this like this functional trainer cable system. Then you'll need like a lat pull down. It's like, man, it's just going to be mainly me in there. Maybe my neighbor, Matt and Renee. It's like, I could have like a one piece and then piece together like the machines that I really want as well. The specialty stuff. So I agree. Like some type of combo rack. And, you know, what you want out of it, you can really build it to that degree. The things that I was really looking for that concern me were for one, I have to have a good Smith because that is mainly what I prefer too. And even Renee, like Renee will do Smith machine hip thrust, split squats, regular squats, RDLs. She does four main lifts that she really likes out of the Smith. So I'm like, I need a Smith that can go low enough. Like our one in the gym, it's like the bottom of the plate is like seven inches from the ground. That works enough. So if I can get one that just goes that low, but some of them don't. And then my second concern was also that compared to a normal Smith, a rack Smith is not as wide for it to not be like wobbly. Right. So it needs to be like, I still wanted like the three by three, 11 gauge steel, one inch holes. Also the one inch holes be at three in three by three because all the attachments out there, it seemed like to add on, whether it's like a lat seat or anything, go to those racks primarily. And the last thing is the cable system, which are tricky ones because of how they talk about one to one or two to one and how much weight comes on them. Because if you're doing like just tricep work, bicep work, laterals, like most of those out there, if it's like a 200 pound stack with a two to one, which is like a hundred pounds, we'll, we'll do the job. But to do a lat pull down a rose, like, man, you really need something that for some people like a bodybuilder, like you need a 300 pound stack, which if that's a two to one ratio, you need something that could go to 600 pounds is what that means. So there are some out there that are like 250 or 300 pound stacks where you can combine them and then you'd have that together. So it's just things to consider that I was looking at to, you know, is this also going to serve as my like lat pull down row station and to have enough loading on it? And so there, yeah, there are some out there. And then you need, like I was, dude, I went to the gym and I'm like, well, I don't know which ones are two to one and one to one. So like I took a dumbbell and I like took a cable and hooked it on and like see if it would drop. I'm like, okay, that's the two to one. This is what I'm actually even capable of doing on this. And I'm like, all right, I'll, I'll be pretty close. But anyway, you can always get a gym pin and throw that in there too. If you need a little bit more loading, you know what I envision, John, you know, your little fanny pack. I don't know if you still walk around with it or not, but the fanny pack that you have, you coming in here with like, like measuring things in your fanny pack with like the little hook gauge that measures how much force is on the cable. And you're just like walking around the gym, just like measuring things for your own gym. Like, oh man. I had my like tape measure in the gym, like measuring all the equipment and like, what are you doing? Anyway, it's all good. Yeah. Yeah. I think that, that main centerpiece seat. No, go ahead. What? Keep going. Main centerpiece. But problem number two is going to be dumbbells. We got to get there at some point. Okay. Yeah. I think with, with, with a rack that's well-equipped, you know, pulley set up, heavy enough stack, that'll get you a lot of the way there, but we're, we're going to be, have to be limited. We'll be other leg equipment. And I guess before we have like, what do you need from, from that point? Because if you have that rack set up, man, you could do a ton. You really could. And depending on, if you're a bodybuilder, you need a lot of the isolation stuff. Obviously, if you're powerlifting or something, or just general, dude, that, that's probably enough. Like when COVID happened, like Renee and I, we had a power rack and dumb, and like a dumbbell that, that could load. And we were doing like Nordic curls for our hams. And like, we had like, you know, goblet, like squat, like squats. And we were, we were doing whatever, with everything that we could reverse Nordics, like a legs, like a sissy squat. Right. But anyway, yeah. Dumbbells. Let's talk about them now. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have. And live Q&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah. So getting adjustable dumbbells, I think is extremely wise. Which, which ones are you getting? Cause the first ones I came out were, weren't they like bow flex ones? You like adjust the bow flex, you adjust the dial, then you like pull it off and only certain weights come with it or something. Is, is the rep one like that? Cause they, I think they make two different ones, right? They do make two different ones. The ones that I got are the, I don't remember the name of them, but they're the smaller one. They're all black. And it's 10 pound increments. Yeah. And it's got like a, if you want to go, it like goes up to one Oh five. And then I think it's like add on weights. If you do the one 25, it's like got a little attachment to it on the end. So I'm excited to try it. I have a client who actually uses those exact dumbbells in his home gym and he loves them. And I've watched them kind of move with them as well. And he doesn't seem to have any issues with them being too clunky. So super excited about trying those. Cause like they're still expensive, but like relative to what you would spend on a full rack to go all the way up to one 25. It was chump change. And for a bodybuilder, like dumbbells, you like your curls, you're going to be doing, you could have a lateral raise variant with that. Your chest pressing is going to be massive. Now, if you're super strong, like one 25 is probably not going to be enough. Cause like when I was at peak bodybuilding, I was in like the one forties, one fifties, but man, pressing those slight pause, especially if you do it later in your session, like get a lot out of that. Yeah. Yeah. I was just, I had just had them pull up. It was rep and rep pepin fast series. And they look, they look very compact for, for that side. They look comparable to actually a, a steel made dumbbell. Um, I think if you're up to the one 25, like at that point, if you need to buy like a one 35 and then what, how much do you really need more than that? Beyond that, you know, dumbbells are clunky as hell. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm excited about those because that'll be a massive space saver for me as well. So like the centerpiece, the dumbbells and a bench, and then to keep wife happy, I'm a final leg press. That's like a small footprint. And that's going to probably be the extent of my start point. Now, let me ask, is that to keep Emily happy so she can use it or so you don't take up more space? She'll use it. I think she'll, she'll use it. Um, she only trains legs now really anyways. So like for her, like she needs the capacity to train legs. She loves a good split squat. She loves a good hack slash pinch them. So I don't know how I'm going to do that. I might just teach her how to swim a squat. And then the leg press is like the last piece for her where it's like, if she has that, she's going to be super happy. Yeah. That's smart on the dumbbells. Like I, I wasn't going to go there with dumbbells yet because I could, I could do a lot of what I needed off cables, but I'll have to consider those and look into them more. That's, that's a good idea. Um, for like for Renee, I'd like to have some other leg stuff. Cause I, once I have like that part of, of like the, the main like centerpiece and it's like, you're looking through your program as well. And like seeing like, what movements do I need to adjust here? And I looked through Renee's program too, of like what she normally does on her days and what is she really limited? And like when that one day per week we go to the gym together, she could do whatever, but it's like, man, she needs like a leg curl or a leg extension. Um, she doesn't have to do a leg press every day, but if we had that, that'd be cool. So it's, uh, trying to see what, what, what one leg thing I could get in there. Um, a lot of the, they do have some pretty cool, um, like slide in leg extension, leg curl combos. But I just know that those, if you're not using a lot of loading, it could be okay. Yeah. Um, the plate loaded ones I think are garbage cause they're like super light off the bottom, but if it has like a constant, uh, tension in this, I guess this isn't to plug like rep the whole time, but I think they make one that is a constant, uh, pulley tension. And throughout the, yeah, the, the one thing I saw that was an issue with it is like, it has to attach to a bench. And so like, it's not very like set up well for both directions and it just doesn't. And then like, I don't know if you've seen some of the demos, but it's also band loaded in some setups. So it's like, it's still got a lot of like pop, like a lot of drop off on it. And so like, wasn't sold. So I'm going other direction for that. I will find what that piece is, but. I've been looking, man. Like I, uh, you know, I, I like prime stuff. Like they have their combo leg extension, leg curl. Um, I haven't used it. I think the leg curl is probably not the problem. The leg extension though, that that's loaded like the leg curl. So you can't put a 45 on top and mid peg, which I, I can do a lot of plates on that thing. So like, it's like, that won't, that won't work. Yeah. So it's, yeah, for me, it's like, uh, it's making some compromise, but for Renee, like one of those things could, could easily work. Um, but, but for now I haven't found one that does a good job going between the two. Well, without some compromise there. So it's like, yeah. Do you go all in and just get like a good leg extension or a good leg curl? But you kind of need both, don't you? Which as a bodybuilder too, it's also kind of like you could get into building it around your weakest body part, right? A little bit, if you really wanted to get into it. Cause like the, the problem that I see is like back having enough setups variety where you could like achieve all of the things for back that you would need. And if you're not a good chest presser, the barbell is not going to be a situation for you. And the Smith could potentially be a problem as well, which is then where you got to debate like what that centerpiece is. But yeah, I think like, at least when I look through like the cable system and rack and all that, like you could do a single arm vertical pole, you could do a bilateral pole. You obviously could do like some type of horizontal row. You could do like this kind of upper shrug, like barbell row, but it gets, it's like a lot of lower backloading, which that can be a problem. So having some type of like other rowing piece could like a, dude, a small T bar row is very, very saving in space. Small footprint. I, I, you know, not, you know, I'll, I'll plug people where I think they do a good job. It's like Jim Laco. At least some of their equipment is very, very small. Um, yeah. Their pendulum squat, their hack squat, their, uh, leg press do their, their tiny, tiny footprints. So if I was going to go that route, like that's who I would look to, to have quality, but also fit something that could work. Yeah. But yeah, T bar row could work for like upper body, uh, for, for a press though. Like I, like, I'll tell you like my, for my space of what I can fit here is I, I do have like, it's, they're going to be big, which is okay. I didn't want to compromise though. So I have, I'll have the prime flat press, the incline press, the seated row and the lat pull down. And then my, my other room. So that fits all in my main room, but the, the other, I could get two more pieces in the other side of the garage, which is like, I really want a lateral raise because cables and stuff like I kills me. And then I could get like one leg thing for Renee. So that's the, the, the baiting piece of what to get. I love it. Now we've covered a lot of equipment. I will keep going down the equipment path, but I do want to get to aesthetics. So I don't know about you, dude, but I get into the, like looking at the aesthetics of some of these gems and like the epoxy flooring and the lighting and all that. And it's like, it's pretty cool. I'm a little, now that I've got this office, I like appreciate it a lot more. Cause like, I love walking in here every day. Yeah. The thing's sick. I'm, I would like, wish that'd be my theater room. So like, is that something you're looking into for the garage as well as like trying to do all that stuff? Yeah. It's still like building is, is my temporary gym space until I move to the road gym. So I don't, I don't want to go too far with it, but luckily like my, I already have epoxy floors in the garage. However, I don't want to mess those up either. So I think for the main rack, I'm just going to have it on like horse stall mats and I will paint the whole garage, uh, Sherman Williams iron ore. So it's like a, it's like a dark charcoal. Yeah. And, um, I probably will switch out the lighting too. Um, right now we have kind of like those like high school bulb, like fluorescent bulbs, which is pretty bright. So do something more like a track lighting, but I think that'll be the extent of it. Cause I needed to have, go back to being just a garage as well. Uh, once I, once I can move it. So, um, but yeah, I think, man, before, before equipment, like get your floors done right and paint, don't get your equipment and then like, oh yeah, then I'll put the flooring in or then I'll paint. That is the worst way to do things. So when you have everything out, that's a, that's a time to do it. Have you decided on those things yet? So I, I'm not going to do the epoxy floor for the exact reason you just said, because like, you're just going to tear it up. So I'm just going to do like black flooring throughout the whole thing. Like the, like the rubber black flooring mats, which you got to be careful. Cause like the ridges can become a problem if you get like too small of ones, but, um, Wait, are you getting the ones that like puzzle together or the ones that, that roll out or I'm, I'm leaning towards the large squares that puzzle together? Okay. And the only reason I'm leaning that gray is because you can like piece it together in sections that you want it. Cause I don't know that I'm going to black floor the whole thing. I might, I'm still debating that piece. That piece is up in the air. I do know I'm 100% putting white led lights in the, in the ceiling. Cause I already have the recess bulbs in the garage. So all I got to do is change out the bulbs and then I am either going to paint it that iron ore that you said, the dark gray, or I'm going to go like a forest green with black accent and just blow that thing with led lights. And it's just going to be amazing. That'd be cool. I would, I was looking at like even the, um, the garage hardware, like blacking that out. Um, that even looked at changing my garage door, which don't do that. I have a, I have a big garage door and it was going to be very expensive. It's not worth it. No, no. I just like, I want to walk in there and like, love it. And so I don't mind doing some of that stuff, right? Like myself where it's cheap, like just buy the paint and paint it yourself. Like that's not bad. And like, I know you're not going to do that, but dude, I, cause I looked at it, I looked at doing it myself and it was terrible. Like it was, it was, I would have done such the amount of time to prep and do it. Like that's true. Uh, cause I was looked at, I looked at paint sprayers. I was like, okay, I ruled out the paint sprayer because the prep to make sure it doesn't spray everywhere is not worth it. The rollers and all that. I was like, okay, I'm, I'm, I was in, I was in Lowe's. We're in Lowe's this past weekend, looking at all this stuff to get it. And it's like, by the time I do all this myself and tape it up and I was like, I could just have some guy come that would just knock it out professional one go. I'm like, I think it's worth it. Unless you truly like, Hey, I love to paint and do this and I want to be proud of it. And that's different. That's completely different. Um, for me, I want transparent. Yeah. So being transparent, we have someone coming to paint Ellie's room tomorrow. I'm gonna have him mosey around the garage and tell me how much it'll be to paint it because if it's low enough, then I'm just going to say F it and just have him do it. But yeah, I'm, uh, I'm, I'm kind of on the teeter totter. Yeah. Yeah. My, uh, I remember my dad when he was like, all right, John, you work on your own, own cars, right? He's like, well, just so you know, you're going to have to buy more tools and tools that you only use one time. And that's going to cost you like three times the amount of just like the parts you're buying stuff. Like, all right, good to know dad, but I love what I do. And it's like, then I got down that rabbit hole. It's like the time spent of me doing it over three times and then the tools I need to buy. And it's like, man, I should have just paid someone to do this. Um, but anyway, like there's certain things that I have done that when you finally finish the end product, you're like, man, I'm super proud of this. I'm glad that I, I did all this. Right. But there's a, I think there's other things that Luke in our life that we do that for, like coaching or, you know, education. And it's like, we, we did that. But, um, anyway. Yeah. Is there anything garage gym wise we're leaving off as far as like primary considerations that you got to have here? Um, I, I think those hits some of the, the, the main ones. Uh, I think this is a mistake that people make, especially if you want to be serious about this is, is trying to go too cheap on things because man, if you get something that's rickety and shaky, like you're going to be so unhappy with it. So, uh, you know, what, what, what is the saying? Uh, buy once, cry once or something. Uh, I think, I think that holds a lot of truth. Like you're, you're, you're, you're, you're gonna pay for quality here. Um, and to get something that you appreciate to train on. Um, there's a lot of also just crappy gimmicks out there for training that don't, don't waste your time on. Um, see what you actually train on the gym with. and that's what I would structure around what I'd be trying to get. I also looked at some of the gyms that I could maybe travel to to look at the equipment and see if I could train on it and see how it is before actually getting it. And then I also keep your eye out on Facebook Marketplace. Like, holy crap, there's some good stuff that pops up. I just saw in Austin, like an hour and a half from me, one of the old Cybex Lake Press popped up for like $900. I was like, that would have been solid. But, you know, so stuff pops up that people are in those positions. They're not going to get their money out of this old gym equipment. Yeah, 100%. Yeah, I was trying to think of anything else that would be just like mistakes potentially. We're new in the garage space, so we are yet to make a lot of mistakes, but they're sure to come, and we can tell you all about them in other episodes. I was about to say, if any of you guys have made mistakes, and you want to tell us before we make that mistake, put it in the comments because we'll greatly appreciate it. Oh, man. Yeah, no, we'll wrap it up there. And, yeah, tell us the mistakes and give us your advice. But once we get through or have our gym set up, I guess we'll do some garage gym tours, and then we'll be giving the advice. Yeah, love it. Well, anyway, everyone, thank you for tuning in, and we will talk to you next time. direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct