 Welcome to the J3, how do you become a top Olympian? How do you become a top Olympian? In two weeks ago, I went to Olympia with LaShawn Clarita and we brought an amazing package to stage and I thought it would be important to interrupt our normal podcast schedule to definitely cover this as it's something I think we can do. I think we can take a lot away from. The Olympia was going to document our next document previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously not really seeing anybody that could be a contender. He came in and made Keon sweat a bit, and it was really impressive. And I think the shot behind the door or the peek behind the door that I think people are going to want is where did this start with you guys? Because you guys have been back and forth together for a while, and I know there's been a lot done on the trening side, and then kind of you coming in and taking over, there was a lot that got changed, so I do want to make sure that we covered that initial big change that set up the peak, because I think a lot of people are going to want to know kind of where that led. But the type of athlete that Sean is allowed for him to create the change that he did, and I think you're going to have the best perspective on sharing some of those intangibles that are hard to replicate. And if you guys learn anything from Sean in this process, not only the peaking process that happened, but the things that Sean does that make Sean who he is, right? Right. And I think part of who Sean is exactly what brought us to work together to begin with, and that we started working together right after the Arnold. So he did the Arnold. He wanted me to pick up the trening piece from there. You know, Sean was previously coached at the time by Matt Jansen. He also had John Meadows previously that had kind of laid out trening for him. However, he had just been following Meadows' trening program that he laid out a long time ago for his passing. So Sean didn't really have a lot of oversight in the trening piece. And just looking for gaps to fill for himself with this kind of change in coaching. And Stefan was starting to do the nutrition and the actual prep side for Sean as well. So me coming on board for trening. But why would Sean reach out? I think that's something unique of Sean himself is that knowinGHim, his main focus is always on what do I need to do to get better. That's all that matters. And he's not emotionally tied to any system, anything that's dogmatic that I have to tren to failure in every set, or I have to take X type of compound, or I have to peak in this certain way. The process he's on board with is the one that leads to the goal. And I think that's a huge thing to take away is if you're an athlete or a coach, is that it's so easy to be dogmatic and take up emotional ties to certain approaches, certain exercises, certain nutrition or drug pieces. But ultimately what matters is are you doing whatever it takes to get to your goal? And what that path looks like should be the one that you're on. And I think that is where Sean's mindset is. Within that type of mindset, it is someone that has to be very open to learn and a humility about themselves. And I think that's a great embodiment of a great champion is that Sean is so willing to learn and change his ways for the goal that it makes him highly coachable. And I think some people take that as weakness and vulnerability to be able to have your ways challenged. But that's a strength. And that's an extremely strong point for Sean, that he's okay just laying down things that he's done that have worked in the past if there's a better way. But absolutely, Sean has to have the respect of that person to take that opinion. And I think that goes to another strong point, I think, of Sean that we should take away that he only relies on opinions of people that are in the circle that matter. Because there's a lot of noise out there. Sean can do a great job of blocking it out. And you see him in 4X t-shirt. He's just blue collar in the trenches just doing the work. So he can block out the noise and listen to those who matter. So I think just, I know we haven't even gotten, that's already like a lot of information, not getting much into like the actual nuts and bolts of like peaking. But I think without those components, it makes it really hard to have the success that we did have. Yeah, and I think like even just like I went and trened with Sean, I think it was four or five weeks ago. And maybe it was longer than that, maybe six weeks. And, you know, he had said, you had messaged him like, hey, you should link up with Luke, whatever. And like I come in and like looked over his sessions you had sent me and everything. And he's like, all right, help me make this as best as I could. And he just like immediately just like handed it like, hey, like what do you think we need to do in order to make this the best? And it was really cool. Like we made some small changes with like activation, picked a better fly variation that like fit him. And it was awesome to see his face light up as his pecs were just like firing with every rep. And he was getting a lot of stimulus out of it. And I think it's like bringing you on board fully, like fast forwarding, right? Fast forwarding to where you completely took everything over. Like that trust had been bought in so in depth that I know the changes you had to go in and make were executed on immediately. And I know I want to let you kind of run through some of them. But I know a big one was probably kind of around the activity metrics. I know there was probably a pretty big change in activity and like that burden of activity of how that got executed. What do you think the key pillars were like the massive changes in the plans that started to initiate that process of bringing the best Sean to stage? Because honestly, I think that far out is where a lot of the changes that set up what you did on Olympia week. Yeah. And through Sean's, like I followed this all along, right? He's still sending me his visuals along the way. And Sean would ask me a lot of questions that were starting to get outside of the scope of kind of trening. Just in. I will say this ahead, like the right coach for the right athlete, right? Like right now we kind of had like me and Stefan doing bits and pieces. And it is kind of nice to have someone that just oversees everything. But for what Sean needed, he needed more oversight. And I was the one to be able to provide that. And we just connected well. Just the relationship was there. And I think that's so important to really be able to pull the most out of an athlete and pull the most out of a coach. And I've been like, you know, towards Sean's like 2024 Olympia. Like if you don't have attention to your athlete, like so much can fall through the gap. And Sean is someone that, man, he puts everything in. He puts his heart and soul into this. Like it's everything. For me, I knew it was going to be saving Sean from himself of like not working so hard and things. But I see Sean as like one of the greatest bodybuilders in the world. And to not have, sorry, I get like emotional about it. No, you're good. To not have a coach feel the same when you're, that person's giving you the trust and responsibility over something that means the world to them, to their family. It's so disrespectful to me. Yeah. And I know what that feels like because I've been in that position. So for me, for Sean and knowinGHow he embodies bodybuilding and what it means to him, I'm all in. Like it's someone so easy to stand behind and want to take up that goal and dream of your, as your own. And I think that's important from a coach aspect is like, do you feel that way about the athletes that you coach? Because I would pour everything in. And I did like for his prep and for the peak that I could. And I think that's another reason why it was so successful is because I would go the extreme to whatever it would take, just like Sean would. Like I could match him on that level. And I think they pulled a lot out of me of where I need to head with my coaching and who I need to coach and what that relationship should really be. And that I can't be half in on coaching or the athletes that are half in on their process. They're just not ones for me. Sorry. That was a bit of a more of a tangent, Luke. I didn't even answer what you would ask me. It's okay. It's okay. I let the passion take over, man. That's why we're here, right? Well, sharing is it just like that emotional piece for us was so strong when I first had the call with him and his wife. This was right around, I think it was four, four and a half weeks out from the show. And like, I'm passionate like I am now. And like they were in tears as well because they've been in such a bad spot and feeling that stress relief finally was what's there. And the piece that Sean was going to have of like trusting someone that could fully take over the process. And so that was one thing that already started improving the process for Sean was that there was a huge stress relief as there was so much unknown in his variables of he was having to make decisions. So he was given like X amount of cardio to do. And there was, when he was trying to explain to me, there wasn't a lot of direction. Like, what does that cardio look like? Do you do that on the step mill? Is it on the treadmill? Like, when is it done? How do you track the effort level? And also questions around, Sean, what do you do during the day? Like, do you go and do you work the railroad and are you pounding spikes in? Are you working a desk job nine to five? Do you coach people? Like, what do you do during the day? And Sean's a full-time bodybuilder, right? He's like, so I do cardio. I tren. And then most of the day he does content, right? And rests and recovers. Just like I would when I used to bodybuild. I would not use to bodybuild. When I had preps that I wasn't tracking activity. Right. You know, and I ended up doing like 3,000 steps a day. So activity was very, very low. We could say Sean was sedentary outside of his like direct cardio and trening that he would do. Yeah. Which when you look at his diet that he was on, he was on pretty low food. And to pull down, which doesn't give you a lot of fuel for trening. So the main thing that I wanted to change for Sean, and there wasn't huge gaps around like what you were doing with nutrition and macro setup. But the main thing was I want to get Sean moving more throughout the day and decrease direct hard cardio work so where I can raise the recovery ceiling to provide better trening. Because if I can get better trening for Sean, that's better muscle retention. It's going to be more of weight loss derived from fat over just getting a smaller version of him, which we've seen in the previous year. He's just a small version of Sean. Very conditioned, but gosh, like eight, nine pounds down. So step one was like, all right, Sean, like can we track steps? And he was not on board with the step thing. And I will say like, don't get me wrong. Sean will execute. But there still needs to be some buy-in and understanding of like why are we doing these things and will it actually work? It's just so far from what's been done. And it's kind of funny because he was – I got him doing like walking after meals and he was like, John, like I'm taking five showers a day. Like this isn't going to work. And I was like, why are you taking five showers a day, Sean? So like Sean was a previous wrestler. He's an athlete. And I think that's also why he knows how to work hard to his own demise. Like he wants to work hard in everything that he does. So he would go in his garage. We're in Texas. So we're still in the high 90-degree weather with like a hoodie on, like an Eskimo, doing treadmill. Just sweatinGHis balls off. Yeah, so it's like I don't want a heat stress on top of our like trening and cardio that we were doing. I want this to be like low effort. And it's a hard thing to feel like this should feel easy. It's like it should feel easy. So I actually got him to move his treadmill into the house and just walk after meals. And like digestion was improving. That was another thing. And also his legs starting freshening up like he didn't feel like his legs were beat up and heavy all the time because he was on the step mill. And so just gettinGHim walking was a big thing throughout the day. And that was some of the major things that was able to drive kind of the last bit of fat loss off. And he just kept improving in his trening, his lifts. And then with us like connecting with him and like showinGHim how the session should be, started pulling more out of every set and doing less volume. Actually, like we did a leg session together and do we smokEQuads in like five sets. It's like we don't need this other exercise anymore. Like so you're doing getting more out of less and recovery ceiling is increased that all will create like a really good physique on stage. A few other like nuts and bolts things change wise like looking over like the PD layout. There's a lot of things that were driving poor recovery with like there's a lot of estrogen management. Like estrogen was probably rock bottom. So starting to pull back on some of that and raise estrogen back up, which again, old school mentality, right? Like lower estrogen that's going to make you hard and dry. It's like, no, like it's just going to make your joints hurt and connected tissue achy. And you're starting to get some knee issues. So that, that improved in that piece also like the, uh, it was like lowering like some of the, like Trinbalone, right? Like didn't need to be that high because trening performance was now increasing just off improving the big basics. So we don't need these like strong compounds in place. Um, also was about to come in was like stacking oral, oral steroids together. I was like, dude, trening's in a great spot. You're gettinGHard. Like we don't, we don't need all that. So it was very much a simpler design in PDs and removing a ton of supplements because Sean, like through Matt, through like other, other things we pick up along the way, being like supplement junkies ourselves, uh, through Stefan, through, you know, all these things, it created kind of a big supplement regimen. So I was like, show me everything you take. And there's a lot of things where I'm like, I can probably simplify this more. I'm like, Sean, why is this in place? It's like, man, I've been taking that for years. Like it's just part of the regimen and it's, it's pretty easy how those things can kind of accumulate. So, uh, just stripping back some of the supplements as well and trying to simplify down to the basics of what's, what's really workinGHere. But through those changes, uh, is what, you know, brought Sean down. We were, uh, 11 days out when I'm like, all right, I'm pretty sure fat loss is, is over here. And, uh, we, we can stop here and bring up anything you want to bring up, Luke. But what, what I did for Sean and why I think a lot of people might miss the mark when taking on a client kind of last minute is, uh, only coaching in the moments at times. And what I, what IMean by that is just looking at that check-in alone and trying to decide if someone's where they should be, because you have variants in lighting and where they're looking at. And you really want to see how to, how does that compare to what they look like on stage? So I had Sean some, uh, his check-ins from 10 days out. And then also seven days out when he was out in Vegas with a similar light set up. And then also looking at his stage picks and how that trenslated from his seven day out last year. Yeah. From the previous year. And so comparing across all these, you know, I could see like, you know, Sean was now, he was like 182, 183 in the morning versus the previous year at that same time point being like, 174 just as lean, but man, the fullness was, I don't want to say fullness. I don't want to be alluded here. The muscle, because I think he got over dieted the previous years was just so much more prominent. And. Another thing. Well, I'm going to stop there because I'm going to get into like actual starting the peak of why I did what I did. But thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I was going to say, like, I think there, I know that, I know you did some like food variety changes to, I think, to the diet plan. You brought some like food. Yeah, fruits and things in. Diversity things. Yeah. Which I think is underrated for like, just kind of the nutritional, taking care of the micros as long into a prep as you possibly can. There's a lot of like secondary benefits. We won't make this podcast about that. But one of the things that I think people should, because I've done this quite a few times with a few other athletes. I did this earlier in the year with Jess, right? I took on a prep abouT4 and a half weeks out. She went from like 15th at Chicago with the old coach to fourth at the Texas Pro is like the consistent communication. And I know you did this. And this is the last piece I want to touch on before we get into the prep. I know your check-in frequency with them was pretty high and you were making sure that like every couple days like progress was happening. It was moving in the direction you needed to. It wasn't pulling them too fast or too slow. I think that's a last little piece that I think you all nailed because I remember when I was there when we were recording the Hourglass program, shameless plug. We were looking at like some of those side-by-sides from last year to this year. But like just the amount of updates that you were getting while I was there alone is like a part of that process too. Yeah, I wanted to get on board as fast as possible. And so we initially started with every other day because like four weeks out, it still didn't make sense to be like everyday check-ins. I need the plan to play out a little bit. Yeah. But I also don't want anything to move too quickly on me to where IMiss it. So every other day made sense. But very quickly we went to everyday and it's not a big deal for Sean. He's getting up and doing posing anyway. Yeah. And that's also when we were starting to like make tweaks on posing. Well, there's a lot to bring out through that. And it wasn't – I went out to see Sean. When he was a little over two weeks out where I actually get my hands on and actually start tweaking some poses. And he just – he had gaps that got missed. And maybe it's through like just not thinking to do it, right? Like I wanted to explore everything, every variable possible. And just through like self-coaching of myself, right? Like I – it's on me, you know? So I have to ask like why am I doing things? How things work? Does that – is that meaningful? Is it not? And so with Sean I wanted to do the same thing. And part of it was like looking at posing. Like he always hits his side chest with his left arm. I was like how does the right arm look? And he did that. It looks so much more natural. And he rotated easier. I'm like let's do that. So it was just like, yeah, just kind of tearing through his entire bodybuilding life, all the variables and seeing where we can really optimize it and make improvements. Let's get into the peak so that we can discuss it. Yeah. Where do you want to start? About a week out or a little bit further in? No, no. One week out is decent. IMean I'll just say that 11 to the 10-day-out mark was like making the decision of, hey, fat loss time is now over. And it was from there just kind of bringing Sean up to a baseline of a close to a maintenance amount of food before I could get him to Vegas, which he was going to be in Vegas at eight days out. And so that's kind of why I was like waiting for him to kind of get out there before I was really going to push anything any farther out because of flight and stabilization in that piece. But another part I want to bring up around the check-in process is before leading into that mark, I also started looking at Sean at a few other times of the day because I was trying to pre-plan some of the peak, not pre-plan of laid out, but pre-plan in my mind what might need to happen off of what he's done and what he's reported to me because he was bringing up that like on show day, like they've usually cut water pretty hard on Sean. He stays full. And that's a unique thing with Sean. Like he wakes up and he looks like he's fully full-blown, blast and full. So I knew like, and Sean was on 150 grams of carbs for a bit. So I was like, he probably doesn't need a lot of food to get full. And, uh, but seeinGHim with a few meals and fluids, I saw pretty quick, like Sean also doesn't lose a lot of condition, even though he keeps getting fuller. What more is the, the line cross is like the amount of food and fluid that might get him full. When does it take a hit on his waistline? And that's like the big cross or a point when you lose that X frame piece. So I kind of had already pre-planned that Sean was not going to be one that we're going to need to use like a diuretic on. Absolutely not. And that a change for him was going to be having food fluid on show day. And so getting into the peak here and when I got out there was starting to try to map out day by day, what would show day need to look like for him. Right. And what was going to be a good operating body weight range to put him on stage at. You can replicate, you know, the time that you're puttinGHim on stage for both days or for both times, I should say. And so there's certainly a buy-in process when you start to see those visuals throughout peak week. And I'm sure that happened is like each day you're mapping it out and you're looking at the visuals, X food and X fluid happening. It's like, man, look, this is clearly way better than this. And it's still like extremely sharp, much fuller. I remember some of the fasted to like one meals in photos you sent me. It was like massive difference. Yeah. Yeah. Just to give the big overarch here, just because to dive into every day is extensive. Yeah. But, you know, Sean basically started his week at 250 grams of carbs, around 50 grams of fat and 260 grams of protein a day, 4.3 liters of fluid every day, like little over a gallon and sodium was like just baseline of a quarter teaspoon of salt with all his meals, five meals a day. That's, that was kind of our start point within peak week. I quickly moved him to six meals and five meals was great for prep to like manage hunger and have them fast longer in the morning. But I wanted to have two smaller meals before going on stage, which was going to be probably be around 11 AM and is normally gettinGHis first meal in by like nine 30. So I want a meal closer to when he woke up and then be able to have the opportunity for another assessment point in another meal in on show day and have these meals be smaller so I can manage his waist better. And then that titrated up across the week till being about 600 grams of carbs one day out. Also scaling back his cardio, which all cardio is walking, but it was still like the morning. We had him at an incline at 2.6 miles per hour in the treadmill that eventually scaled back down to flat walking down to two miles per hour. A total of 70 minutes down to 40 minutes of walking. And then on, on course, one day out, he's so busy that we don't even track it. Right. So it's more of like just walking to keep digestion moving throughout the day. So that's kind of how we scale like macros in tapered, um, steps and fluid held throughout the entire week. And why was food scaling up? Because, you know, Sean was probably just indirectly increasing neat, you know, through lower fatigue. Uh, trening was improving. We did have some high output days that kind of threw some wrenches in there for us. Um, especially one day out is, it just really sucks for, for two 12. It's like, there's the, he had the press conference, which is like two and a half hours long and tanning. And then the athlete meet and greet is like two hours at nighttime. So there's like points even one day out. I can't even assess them. It's just like, here's a pre-planned meal. Let's roll with that. And I think issues with the peak. Like I didn't anticipate Sean to ramp up that quickly and need that much food. Cause ideally my thought was like, I'm going to load him up earlier. He'll start waking up heavier than I could scale back food. And I was pretty cautious with moving them up cause he's coming from 250 grams of carbs. And so I was thinking like, Hey, we're going to get to like 350. He'll be, he'd be good and hold there. But he sped up a little bit. So like just retrospectively, I, I would have been more aggressive with them earlier in the week and then pulled back. Like, uh, and so anyway, that was kind of like the, the zoom out of the entire power peak week. Um, I just want to say, well, let's go ahead and fast forward on like show day. Yeah. And where we see shot, like Sean would like, you know, if you want to body weight wise, like with removing veggies and also scaling back protein, like I do no protein on show day. You know, he, he ended up waking around 180.8 around that. That is what it was. It's the exact weight actually. I want to say, cause a lot of times around waking out around 181 was kind of the goal here. And if I, I, the working range for Sean was like, I, if he went up to 183, that was acceptable, but the comfortable was probably 180, 182 or a little over 181. Um, so anyway, he wakes up on show day at 180.8 and I check in on with them and we have like, he's no longer, it's dark out. So he can't pose in front of this natural light, which makes him looks really good. We had to use like kind of the shitty kitchen light that's yellow. And he, he saw his visuals. I could see it on his face that he wasn't impressed and it made him look kind of washed out. And so he told me, he's like, Hey, I really do well with not a lot of food or water. Like he pretty much didn't want food or water. It's what he was telling me. And so it took a moment of like, Sean, like every day of this week, we've seen food and fluid bring you up in body weight and you only look better. We know this works. This is what we need to do. It's like, all right. He's like, yeah, to just like digest the bet. Cause every, every that's been Sean's peak for years, right? Like that's worked in one him Olympias. Like, so it takes just a moment to flip that switch on. We need to do this differently. This go round. And that was a big change for him. Sean's never had the amount of food or fluid that I've given him. On show day, uh, which wasn't, wasn't a lot. We were probably, uh, I put a bigger meal in first. It was around a hundred grams of carbs and 15 grams of fat, which off my previous day's data is what I know like pulls him up because I wanted to pull him up closer to that one 82 mark. And then I kept his same start of fluid rate, which we put in 800 mils. That was right before he was about to, to then be on stage. And then, uh, all I saw him backstage and all we really needed was just a little top off to keep him holding throughout the show, which, uh, that we use our top secret J3U, uh, you know, pre show day pump up combo, right? Rice, crispy, treat, and honey. And salt, but that's what we ended up doing. And then between rounds, he would hit like a honey packet for his likEQuick glucose just to sustain them. And then he had like some sips of water. So it probably ended up being maybe a liter of fluid in, and then, uh, maybe 145 grams of carbs within that prejudging window. So, and, uh, yeah, he, he nailed it. He looked amazing. And coming off stage, he was still like 180.6. So I, I, I would assume cause I couldn't, I got, I got backstage for a moment. Someone was like, let me back there. And then the, the real person was like, you can't be back here. So I was like, Sean, Sean, quick, like, come over here, like strip down. Let me see you. And so I couldn't weigh him. You know, I just looked at visuals or crack. I couldn't even take pictures. It was just so quick. Uh, but I would assume he was probably a little over one 81 where we wanted him at, but he looked, he looked nailed on prejudges. It was so good, dude. When he walked out, it was like the perfect combination of like peak and the glaze and like everything was just so, so on. Yeah. Sean uses that, uh, likEQuick bronzer that protein has. It's like, it's like a goop and it is a tanner and a glaze within one. It works great for like darker skin guys. I've used it. Cause I saw Terrence use it at Legion. I was like, I want what Terrence had. Cause it looked awesome. It made me look like I jumped in like a puddle of mud. So anyway, anyway, Sean always used that and makes them look awesome. Uh, cause a lot of guys look kind of flat out there cause they didn't have enough oil on, but that stuff, man sticks. So anyway, his, his all around look just, uh, was nailed. Like it was the goals that he wanted was to not just be a blowout by key on to actually really give him a run. And the confidence that Sean had was tremendous. He, he, we both truly believe that he could win and that was, was definitely challenged, you know, like challenge key on that Sean could, could win. I thought it was funny. Like some of the posts that came out after of like, is this actual muscle or is this cause the change was so drastic. Yeah. I was laughing my butt off. And it was, is Sean using sight enhancements? Like it's like, no, Sean's a freak. So let's get over it. So good. And the, the, the, that final goal of Sean's was just to, to be his best, you know, to, to reinstate that he's not just the master's competitor that's fading out and someone to not be talked about that. He's, he's a real threat and is only going to be improving. So anyway, it did, uh, the, the rest of the show, you know, I don't need to dive too much in the details here. We put, put back another meal that was about the same as meal. I brought back some fluids and then tapered it back down into finals, which I probably would have used a little less fluid in the, in the finals. Um, just, I think he was a little fuller in finals, but I, I didn't like as much. I don't know if it was just shots that I saw or what, but anyway, I think his waist could have been like pulled down a bit more. It could just be the shot I saw, but anyway, um, I, I would have, uh, been a little, a little bit more reserved in that piece, but they, it's tough, man. They go on. It's like 11 PM. It's not really ideal at all. So they're the last ones to close out Friday night. So yeah, to keep someone on that long, but I, to, to our credit though, I think he was very much, um, close to his prejudge look. IMean, I'm hard on myself, but you could argue that it was damn near the same. I think Keon improved and closed more, much more of that gap for finals than we had the ability to prove him upon. Cause Sean was like, man, he was really bang on for prejudge. So it's not like we need to bring them back better. Just like, we just need to keep them as good as we have them. But Keon had a lot of room where he could improve with, uh, you know, just bring that harder for a look. And, you know, he did that. So that along with our Keon's other, you know, great features that he brings seal the deal. Yeah. But for us, it was still, still a win. Still a win. Well, I think, I think you absolutely nailed it, man. I think you should be proud of the work you guys put on. Um, it's going to be very interesting to see what another year's worth of work does. Absolutely. And probably by the time this podcast comes out, he would have already done his open show, which is, uh, he's doing, uh, Mexico. Yeah. So, you know, you probably already know the result as a listener, but, um, yeah. Anyway, goals is for Sean, like just continue to build a legacy and us to do that together and take back the Olympia title next year in the two 12. Love it. Love it. What we got, we got, we know what we got next week now that we've interrupted our schedule. What we're yet we're doing. It's going to be back to the females on how to grow as a female. So that late ladies, sorry if you had to listen to us, blah, blah, blah, blah. The Olympia and bodybuilding, but we will have that one for you when that comes back. And, um, anyway, be a Sean Clarita. Love it. Be focused on the goal. High effort in every area. Year round, nonstop. You don't, there's no, there's no off switch, right? Look, there we go. Now we're talking. There's a tagline. There we go. So anyway, everybody, thank you for tuning in and we will see you next week.