 How quickly would you titrate up every two weeks, month, starting at two IUs to mitigate side effects? And they didn't say titrating up what, but easily assumed they're talking about growth hormone hormone hormone. And I had someone message me, a friend that he's like, hey, my hands, man, I, they're super numb. I can't even tolerate this growth hormone hormone hormone. Is this just what it's going to be like for me? I was like, well, what are you doing? He said, I'm taking six IUs. I was like, what'd you start at? He said, six IUs. I was like, oh, okay. So, you know, I was like, oh, okay. So, you know, a lot of this is just compression of nerves from the fluid increase around growth hormone hormone hormone, causinGHand numbness. And when you stay in one position for a long time and you're gaining body weight and getting bigger, it's just morecompression on these nerves while you're sleeping. So some people wake up with numbness and tingling this in their hands. So that's the common side effect I hear the biggest complaints on with growth hormone hormone hormone. So to mitigate that, a lot of times fluid will regulate as you're on growth hormone hormone hormone, a lot of things kind of regulate as you get on growth hormone hormone hormone, like even blood glucose levels, thyroid levels. So it's just a matter of like maintaining a dose at a steady state and then incrementally increasing. So, you know, at a minimum, I would say hold a dose for a week, but more so ideally two weeks would be what I would say to hold one, a dosage at that two to three IU mark is a pretty reasonable starting point. As we mentioned earlier, that's kind of like a baseline minimum dosing if you're a male. And then from there, I would say do half IU increments every two weeks up to the dosage that you're trying to reach for your peak. And that would be a more of a strategic way to go about to try and manage side effects that could be incurring from what you've experienced. And then if you got to a dose where you saw a problem from, then you just move back to the previous dosage from there. It's really tough when you jump, make too big of jumps because then you're, you have to like scale way back. And then you're kind of left shuffling between dosages and trying to then sort out where is your ideal spot versus just start low, slowly increment. And right when you feel a mild side effect coming on, it's a lot easier to scale back and you can have a little bit of time trying to tolerate that side effect until it diminishes versus having like a full blown issue with your, your hands tingling on, you know, an intolerable amount to where you just want to stop growth hormone hormone from home. But anyway, that's how I would go about it. Smaller titrations up make the assessment process a bit easier on the coaching side as well, as far as making accurate decision making about the changes that are occurring. For those of you who have ran out of growth hormone hormone hormone and didn't have it in play for a week or you went on vacation, you didn't have it in play for a week or two weeks. And then you come back and you plug it back in. Some of you guys, what's the first thing that happens? Weight jumps up five, six, seven, eight pounds. You just plug it in at the dose that you were at previously, right? So along a similar vein from a coaching process of like being able to accurately assess the direction that you're moving, whether it's up or down, those titrations will help you making sure that if you see shifts, that they're a little bit more from a percentage basis plan related and not large jumps in GH related, if that makes sense. See you guys.