 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. High Rock sucks for bodybuilding. And this is all, this is all Luke's fault that I'm saying this, as he had a, he had a, he had a fiery post around. High Rocks, which has gained popularity, but really everyone that geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez And at the end of this, provide you with some clarity of takeaways of how you should be implementing some cardio strategies for your goals in bodybuilding. Yeah, I think a lot of it comes from like some old school rhetoric around cardio kills gains or cardio takes away from your ability to grow tissue. And a lot of the time, the devil's in the dose and then sometimes also the devil's in the modality, which we'll get into in a bit. But understanding kind of where it could potentially cross in our ability to drive hypertrophy stimulus and the cross point being where does it take away and where does it benefit? Because there's certainly going to be a place where it does benefit our ability to tren and our ability to drive the hypertrophy stimulus. But we can take it outside the confines of being beneficial. So I think it's a great one. I think you can kick us off with our first point and make sure that we address kind of all these myths that come about. When I got into bodybuilding around like 2011, 2012 time, I was getting out of powerlifting. And powerlifting, you don't do cardio because anything over five reps is considered cardio. So, you know, moving into bodybuilding, cardio was going to be a thing. And so I was already a nerd reading into this stuff. And this was around the timeline when some research in HIIT cardio started to come out. So actually my first bodybuilding prep, I primarily just did HIIT cardio the entire time. Which, which with, and coming from a powerlifting background is like you're kind of all out. So it was pretty intense prep wise. There was very high fatigue. Legs were very heavy that prep. I remember walking my 25 minute walk from the parking lot to my class in college and stoppinGHalfway with my legs just being dead. I'm like, I think IMight just sit down on the ground here. It was like, go back to the car, continue to class. But anyway, that was the time when like we were hit. Cardio was coming out, looking at muscle gain and HIIT cardio showing like you could actually increase hypertrophy. However, a lot of this was misinterpreted because it was just looking at could be a sedentary individual or someone very low in trening that wasn't doing resistance trening. And yes, they grew some muscle. But for someone, primary modality of trening is hypertrophy trening. There might be some interference there. And that's kind of like what wasn't presented. And also the management of fatigue that needed to take place when you're not only doinGHIIT trening, but also resistance trening and a calorie deficit and also posing. And so there's a lot of demands that might not be applicable around HIIT trening. But HIIT was kind of the thing where like this was like a cardio savior of like, oh, here's a way to do cardio and preserve tissue. But that wasn't quite the case. And I think if we go even older school, right, where you kind of have like trening and preserve everything for hypertrophy trening. So you just sit around all day and do nothing except like weight tren. I think that's kind of the other end of the spectrum. But even I think if we look in the anecdotal, like you have bodybuilders that did cardio all season long and didn't lose muscle. They're extremely muscular. I know these are this is very anecdotal. I I've heard like the Kai Green thing brought up a lot, like he would just walk in the step mill for a very long duration. I don't remember the actual duration before he trened, of course, heavily muscled individual or plenty, plenty of other antidotes of guys stay stay doing cardio. And so I guess to prompt, it's like, do you think that rhetoric of the interference effect with concurrent trening doing resistance trening and cardio together is overstated? Or does it just needs to be contextualized? I think there needs to be context around it. I do think there's plenty of evidence in the concurrent trening literature, kind of like the initiation of the current trening literature, I believe, was 1980. It was kind of like the initial proposal of it. And then you kind of get into some molecular stuff when you get all the way up into like a five study in 2018 paper that I'm vaguely remembering. Anyways, I think there's context in the percentage of the amount of trening that it actually takes away from it. I think that's kind of the important piece that we can have a small amount of cardiovascular activity in play in order to achieve the goals that it's going to allow us to achieve. So whether that's progressively increasing over time in a contest prep to increase caloric output in a state of contest prep where tissue retention is the primary, in an offseason where growing tissue is the primary, we're going to have a larger percentage of the total Trening stimuli being progressively into trening with a lower portion of that being cardiovascular activity, where its main goal is maintenance of health metrics and maintenance of our cardiovascular system in order to be able to not have that fail in us when we're doing some of our higher rep sets. Really see this potentially be detrimental. And I think you can even do this via modality. When modality becomes strening to the point that it adds to the fatigue portion of stimulus to fatigue, I think that's kind of where we start to get into the place of we're using or filling our cup of recovery capacity and taking away from the hypertrophy portion of that aspect. Yeah. Yeah. I think with a lot of the concurrent evidence that has been more recent has shown at least for hypertrophy trening that it might not be nearly as impactful, but context depend on like the type of cardio you've been doing. Also durations. Also durations. Also even gender differences. There was a paper comparing concurrent trening in males versus females in lower body and it wasn't impactful for females versus a little more impactful for males. So you can't trenslate the same because you have a female say doing wellness bikini and you know these individuals that are doing like a lot of lower body type cardio and it seems like they can still uphold the trening volume recover and sustain strength. And it's like females have better physiology and to be doing that type of trening and sustain it over males even more longer steady state cardio than HIIT cardio might be more beneficial around male aspect. And to bring to your point around a more recent paper Luke I had one pulled up was this was a 2000 and 24 paper by chin comparative efficacy of concurrent trening on lower limb strength and muscular hypertrophy. It's a meta analysis. It's a meta analysis. 40 studies were involved in this and you know with this being said that the lower body max strength analysis show that all modalities current trening were inferior to resistance trening alone. So resistance trening alone was still ideal but concurrent high intensity interval trening and resistance trening showed an advantage in that aspect. So you know there is some aspect around HIIT trening that could be taken away at least at least from this meta analysis. But again you have to look through this paper and see like well what does that mean for like continuous endurance trening and what does that look like. And I think in the context of bodybuilding a lot of times it's like just enough that you need in an offseason setting to keep health in mind to also like you're mentioning be able to sustain trening and not get gassed out during your sets. And I think that's gets really to the point of when you're getting to a larger bodybuilding aspect in general right. So if you're finding your stamina is getting taxed in your sessions you need to be able to sustain trening even from a digestion point of view and hunger signaling keep a little bit of cardio and can make a big difference for a lot of guys having some separate session in the day. And then health metrics like stayinGHealthy and being able to flex between different fuel types and keeping your lab markers in check allows you to sustain these growth hormone phases for longer. And I think for those three reasons is why cardio can be a tool that's in place and even the data showing that hey a little bit of cardio it's not going to impact your gains because the signaling we're signaling is so strong for resistance trening. But we should probably get into you know choosing the right type of cardio right. IMean we talk about lists we talk about hit there's even low volume hit etc. Where where do we see these kind of falling for different individuals. Yeah I think we always need to start with the basis of steps and steps can be an interesting one because it is very influenced by someone's lifestylEQuite a bit like you have the manual workers who are going to be having steps you know no matter the season 15 18 20 000 steps a day. Where they're getting that high output and in the steps category and so it's kind of lowering the attention to some of the others. That's the category of individual that going down the hip path can be pretty dangerous because they've already got quite a bit of volume in the steps step side. And then we kind of go into like the other side of the equation where the person who sits at an office all day and they're struggling to hit 8000 9000 2000 steps. Then we're kind of like opening the door to kind of what these cardio modalities would need to be. And I do think it's a little bit season specific. I do see hit from a health metric perspective being pretty impactful especially low volume hit like being able to do that potentially twice a week in an offseason setting. Duration of cardio is pretty short. We're getting pretty high heart rate elevations especially for some of my larger athletes. It's really great from like managing the blood pressure perspective. And I see it fitting in that niche very well. But I do not see that type of cardiovascular activity fitting within a contest prep just from the perspective of contest prep is basically long term fatigue management. And we're trying to take the least impactful steps in order to drive fat loss throughout the entirety of that. And I think there becomes a point where recovering from those hit sessions becomes a problem or even just getting up for them, like being able to get the same output out of them from like an energy perspective. Becomes a problem as well. Yeah, I think like you mentioned steps is your base to go off of. I see once you cross like the probably that 12 to 15,000 step mark is where you might be starting to nix cardio from at least within an offseason. Just because that side you're probably pulling out a lot of the health benefits from just a high activity level and on top of resistance trening that you really need. But again, we have to keep bodybuilding goals in the forefront because what I find with individuals that get into really high step counts and doing cardio is that you just kind of hit a wall with putting size on that you really need. And so you're not able to forget someone. So you're kind of having to move into a really maybe a suboptimal position of like, hey, you have to work. Your step count is going to be this high, but we might not be able to like fully optimize health with keeping some cardio in place like we would if you're able to list work at home and have lower step count. So there's that piece. Hits not for everyone psychologically. I understand like in an offseason some people it takes a lot to do that for another session or even after a trening session. So, you know, I think psychological preference can weigh a lot into that. I prefer it like that's my preference and to manage it too. It also depends on what your trening focus is. So if you have someone that is a large male that is trying to bring up legs and trening two to three times per week, it's also hard to do hit on top of that too and recover. So that might be a decision in how you're trensitioning. And then there's even upper body hit. So that's what I will do. If you had, say, like a spin bike, a rower and battle ropes, like hell, you could do nearly four sets on the upper body and one or two on lower body. And that's very recoverable. So there's ways to kind of work around this. But I completely agree with your point. Like moving into a contest prep, it's probably tapering those sessions down to out and then to keep output up, moving to like more steady state cardio. If time is not permitting for more steps. And, you know, within that, we're talking about cardio. We got a little bit into choosing the right modality, which is another thing around the research world is like think is aspects of cardio that have high eccentric components can cause more muscular damage and make it also harder locally to recover from. So I know everyone loves that step mill. And it's great because it burns a lot of calories. However, it can really beat up your legs. And so if you have someone that is focused very much on leg trening, that could be problematic and you might be better moving to things that just have like only a concentric portion to it. So this is looking at elliptical or a spin bike. Also past research showing like movements that have a close mimic to resistance trening. So a lot of hip flexion. So think about a spin bike being in a lot of hip flexion. May be less impactful than movements that are less like your resistance trening. I think this is a more nuanced like lesser effect component versus like absolutely the duration of cardio. But like that little nuance piece might be something to account for. So those are the types that I would at least stick to. I know we bring up like high incline treadmill walking. We see that a lot across the board. And that still does have a pretty higher eccentric component as you're going at higher speeds. So it's something just when you're getting into that type of cardio, I think to manage the duration. Like we do steps that's different, like walking at slow speed. But when you get to like started to really pound on the treadmill, it can start eating up your legs as well. And one thing that I noticed on my past preps that these past two years, I got a walking pad. And I was prior to that doing all my walks outdoors, which walking outdoors like on pavement or worse as concrete can really beat your legs up. Surprisingly, when you're getting up to like 15,000 plus steps. And man, my legs have been drastically less fatigued doing it on a walking pad because it's made to have some built-in cushion. Yep. Yeah. I think it's all considerations within that. There is – I'll say that because that's our next point. But when we look at like cardiovascular activity as far as like the choices I'm typically going at, I really like elliptical as an option because we can get like heart rate elevation without too much eccentric component. I really like – High rocks? Just kidding. No. No high rocks, no crossfit, none of the above. It doesn't fit in any phase of a – What about jiu-jitsu or boxing? No, none of the above. Oh, man. Don't send us down that rabbit hole. There is no place that even you can anecdotal evidence this like top 10 in the Olympia, how many of them are doing any of these type of activities, right? Like to steal your comment the other day. But anyways, from a modality perspective, I really try to push people towards elliptical. I don't mind bike, but the frequency of it, it can be pretty problematic. Like if you're doing it every day, like, man, you've done a 25-minute cardio session on my bike and your quads are just like blown. It's things like that you got to watch out for. So elliptical is always kind of first go for me. And then secondary is kind of based on access of what people have. But then it kind of pushes you into the time component. And the time component, which is like kind of like that next point of like what does someone have available in their schedule for the day if they're not just like an online coach? And what can consistently be executed and takes the least away from someone's process? Like this is where the art of coaching really starts to come into play and can be a challenge depending on kind of the type of job someone works or kind of the phase that you're in. Contest prep is really where this gets problematic as like that cardiovascular output is going up. And I kind of term cardiovascular output as all of those things that fit within that. So that would be posing sessions. That would be your step counts. That would be your actuALCARdio sessions. And just being able to be efficient with that where, you know, if time is a problem for someone, while it's ideal to kind of have step counts escalating up over time before you really have to put in cardio, that might be the client that cardio sessions go up a bit quicker than step counts do just because from a time component, that's what you got. And I think it's a really important aspect to understand from a coaching perspective. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, what I would advise to you is like within bodybuilding, you are looking for the least burdensome, fatiguing way to create an energy deficit. And that's what cardio is really serving its purpose on contest prep. So do you need it or do you not need it? It's truly like can you create the deficit with it or without it? That's the piece of it. And there's not a magical heart rate range that we've got to be in. No, it's just create the deficit with the least fatigue to support your resistance trening. And, you know, with that being said around the timing component is that, you know, I've done some preps with like pretty long, high duration cardios where you're like, hey, you need an hour of cardio done. And is it better to do an hour straight, get it done? Or what if you were to divide this up like, hey, I'm going to do 30 minutes in the morning, then I'm going to do five minutes before I tren, then I'm going to do another 25 minutes post trening or something like this. Is that less fatiguing? And I think you can you can easily find exploring those where you're able to tolerate the best or when you're kind of hitting your your high fatigue component in your duration. But in general, I would say keeping your sessions less than 30 minutes at a go would be some reasonable grounds for implementation. But, you know, your totALCARdio volume for the day is really what matters. Kind of like just like your total calories for the day is what matters. So if you have a 30 minute session, you absolutely could just knock out another 10 minutes post trening and make that session just 20 minutes long, which mentally and physically would be far less draining. So be strategic with your cardio time duration as well. Yeah, 100 percent. I was if you want to touch on like the timing, the ideal timing of day, like some people might ask, like, is it better to do it post or how far away from trening or et cetera? Yeah, I think there's there's some considerations here. I think the initial argument is like dosing growth hormone hormone at night. We've got that in play is the fasted going to be potentially the more efficient way. I do tend to bias people towards fasted, but I'm honestly so focused as a coach on adherence and sustainability and getting someone through that. IMy kind of my recommendation generally to people is just have some sort of activity to start your day, whether that's your cardio session or step counts. And just have it be where your cardio session that you do have aren't impactful to trening. And so my typical suggestion there is, you know, try not to do it within a four hour window of trening from concurrent trening evidence. It seems to be like a four to six hour window. But that's kind of like my general recommendations with that. And I care a little bit less of whether it's all fasted or any of it's fasted, because the effort piece is the second piece that you have to consider with that. And if someone's not great at having a lot of time in the morning or getting a lot of effort put into the cardio session, that can be pretty detrimental to how quick that volume then has to go up. So I do like activity fasted, but man, I think it's you're you're really nitpicking and pulling at straws because there's other considerations of doing cardio later in the day that could potentially be beneficial to the net cardio output across the entire day. I think that's one of the myths to bust right there is like that fasted cardio is superior to fed state cardio from a fat loss perspective. And that just hasn't panned out in across the research body of evidence as a whole. I think we just end up kind of leaning towards that because for our lifestyles, like you have to go to work. And so you can't just do some like midday cardio or mid afternoon cardio. It's like it usually has to be like before everythinGHappens for the day and then you tren after everything else has happened for the day. So you wake up in the morning, you do cardio, right? Is fasted superior to fed state? No, you could eat before you did your cardio and still like the caloric output is what matters. Far more nuances. Like if you are getting into, like Luke said, you know, agents that are aiding and mobilizing fat and uptaking it like some type of growth hormone hormone, L-carnitine concoction. Maybe you're able to leverage a bit more fatty acids during and spare some muscle glycogen and that could have some supportive roles for the process. But again, it's far, far more nuanced. I think our big ticket items are still like managing total fatigue for the day over just whether you're doing it in a fasted state. And that doesn't mean a dehydrated state either. Like you still want to be hydrated for your cardio. And I find that is one of the most impactful around it because you're just not great at thermoregulation if you're not fully hydrated, which can make cardio the perception of just feel a lot harder. So I would definitely just try to really focus on getting some good hydration in if you are needing to do your cardio earlier in the morning. Yeah, and that's kind of where that quality comment comes from, right? Because most people aren't doing a great job of gettinGHydrated prior. Like their schedules are pretty rampant trying to get to whatever their work is, situation is. But I think that kind of brings us to some of these last points. Like we've kind of touched on some of the health benefits already. It's obvious some of the cardiovascular benefits. But I think digestion is probably the most underrated one that you could potentially see from that, especially with step counts. Like I think it's, yeah, easily one of the most underrated. Yeah, I think that's where you need to look at, like spreading out your walking throughout the day. Or if you're at a desk job, like I feel like we're in a culture now where people realizing the importance of like postural health and getting people up from sitting all day. So like getting a standing desk or a walking pad, like I feel like a lot of places are pretty open to that to where, hey, eat a meal and then stand and walk for the next like 10, 15 minutes can make a big impact on posture, digestion, glucose and insulin sensitivity, management around that. So, and those are just easy ways to burn calories too if you are in prep. As far as like the other health metrics we mentioned, like, you know, great ways for managing blood pressure. And also if you have issues around your risk of like clotting and hematocrit, like it can aid in that piece. And also, of course, people are asking about like lipid profile and those alterations and triglycerides. Like you can prove all those panels. So it's something that should be in place if you are definitely struggling around those points. Another thing that I would just touch on as well, kind of how we move in cardio in and out throughout the bodybuilding season is that a more ideal scenario in a prep is that eventually cardio can come out towards the tail end as we move into peak week. And you started, what I'm trying to do is trensition someone that from that deficit to a maintenance level where I can have cardio as low as I can and primarily relying on steps and energy intake. And that way we can drop off a lot of fatigue. So a lot of people towards the end of the preps we're doing are doing cardio and we're just having them doing steps. And that's how we're starting to do the peaking process. Now, that's not for everyone. Everyone, some people are going to have to have cardio in because they're just so far below that like body fat set point that they still need a lot of output to maintain it. But a lot of times those are the females that actually already do really well with managing fatigue and higher direct cardio work. But that's kind of how we trensition in and out throughout the season is that you might have towards the end of your prep in a peak week, no cardio in place. But then as we move into the post-show period, that's like trensition back up. Then we might have some HIIT cardio that's in place. And then we're kind of moving back in a prep where HIIT's pulled out. We're back in a steady state. And then rinse and repeat. That's kind of how the cycle goes. But there's a spectrum across where we're going to see people with it and without it. So general overload over guidelines you want to hit just to wrap that up, Luke? Yeah, I think the statement, I just want to pull out a statement you said earlier of the least impactful modality in order to achieve the goal of cardiovascular metrics for that phase is just the epitome of cardio within the bodybuilding sphere and the bodybuilding space. Because on the continuum of driving adaptation, we're shifting goal sets kind of throughout these different phases in the year of the adaptation we're trying to drive. And it's going to be the least impactful to tissue growth hormone and or retaining tissue in a contest prep if we don't have a very large portion of that bucket filled up because the cardio output side is either so high or taking away so much from our ability to tren. And just remember that it is bodybuilding, right? So there's absolutely a place for cardiovascular activity year-round. It's just how do we achieve that goal of the least impactful for each individual that we work with. And I think that's like just the general guidelines I would try to give people. Yeah, that's well said. Cardio is our tool. It's not the enemy. It's how and why you use it that really matters. If you want to dive into this even farther in our level one course throughout our off-season module, our contest prep module, and our post-show module, we exactly show how we pull this in and out and the decisions around why we do it. So to learn more, definitely check out level one. That's where we can give you deeper guidelines of exactly what we would do. And so you have the understanding to make those calls for yourself. But anyway, thank you everyone for tuning in. And we'll talk to you next time.