culturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalculturalcultural And a lot of people are still fans of it. And people bring it up of being the mainstay builder in the offseason. And as of lately, you see a lot of people just are not using quite as much. So we thought we'd dive into is Neangelone just becoming a thing of the past and no longer mainstay in modern bodybuilding. Yeah, I think it's hard to argue with something that has been around in the culture and in the industry for so long that we know has generated results in the past for people. And so to me, my tendency is to kind of go towards like the psychological side of the drug of like where, why is Neangelone a go-to steroid? And is it because of the results or is there a psychological component? And that'd be kind of where I would pose the question. It's like to you, John, is why do you think Neangelone has been such a go-to steroid for so long? Well, you brought up something there for so long. And so we take a trip back in the history books of Neangelone and its origins to the ancient Russian culture. It was originated in like 1960s, right? That's when it came to market. Organon was like one of the first brand pharmacy manufacturers for Decadurbolin. So we had Neangelone Decanate. Deca, this is what was popular. U.S. like mainstay, like 1970s really became popular as well. And that's where we see a lot of like the classic era bodybuilding using Neangelone. And Neangelone only cycles in the offseason. Testosterone wasn't as popular as it is now. There just wasn't as many drugs present back then. So it was just kind of like use what you can. And that was kind of the options. But being that this was like what was getting kind of passed down from your previous bodybuilders of like using Neangelone. Neangelone caused some water retention. So it's not something to use like in prep. So you use a lot in offseason. And you get growth out of it. So I think partly that like anecdotal from past bodybuilders just kept passing on and on and on. And eventually, you know, through just experimentation through all these drugs that have come about since then, you kind of fall into categories of like where drugs should be used in offseason versus in a contest prep scenario. Deca, though, has been a mainstay for a long time. Even when I was in high school, I think that was like one of the first steroids that I even heard a name of. I didn't know what it even meant really. I just do like, oh, yeah, I'm going to run Deca or something like someone would jokingly say, oh, yeah, that guy's running Deca. And I was like, oh, no, it's not even like Neangelone is what you're running. Deca is like the Esther part. But it's what everyone was calling it then. But availability was present. Also high milligram per mil. And I think that like it's cheap. So I think that's drove like a lot of decisions around people still utilizing it. Yeah. And even then, a lot of information wasn't really out. Like you'd have to go at least when I was starting to investigate steroids myself. It was like you go to forums and read or they had like what was that? Steroids.com. You like click on each compound. It'd like tell you just like some real generalized thing. Just like if you looked at like William Llewellyn's anabolic book, it was very like this kind of generalized like here's the history. Here's what you might use for a milligram amount of each thing. So there's just, yeah, wasn't a lot of information out. So you go to forums, which some guys would just, you know, if they're bullshitting on there or not. But, but again, what they're telling you is probably what their coach would tell them from, from past coaches or past athletes just getting passed down and down until kind of need to ask some questions for yourself and say like, well, why am I using these different drugs? Each one. And what's, what's the purpose around each one? And that's where you kind of get into, I think we jump into like more modern day bodybuilding. We've asked these questions and there's also now a lot of people that are educating on PDs from their experiences, but also from the scientific literature about what we might know. And have like pushed just the challenge back of older ideologies around cycle design and kind of seeing more modern approaches taken and they've been fruitful. So I think that's kind of where we're at in this situation now. But one of the, one of the first things I ever heard was I was working at GNC. I had someone I was working with and he was like, I ran out of DECA and I'm now using NPP. He's like, have you ever heard of that, John? Like, I have no idea what you're talking about. Like, he's like the, he's like my guy by referring to the guy, we mean the steroid dealer was, was saying that this was like the same thing as, as DECA. Right. And I had, at the time I knew I had no clue. Right. So, but it was a, like a, a shorter ester, an angelone derivative, right? So an angelone, a phenyl propionate. And I think we've seen that used now. That came, became pretty popular because the issue with DECA being this long ester, take a long time to, to accrue. And if there was a problem that occurred with DECA, well, gosh, she's got to wait several weeks for this thing to adjust to get out of your system. So, you saw NPP get, get fairly popular, but that's kind of where we're at as far as we're, we're in angelone has been at, but it's still been a go-to of choice. So I think we, we can look at just subjectively why people still like it. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I mean, Nangelone's got some interesting characteristics. You call them. Yeah. Interesting, unique, whatever word you want to use. Um, where I think there's a large psychological component to Nangelone as to like a yay or nay for some people. Um, and if you need to revisit our previous podcast where we talk about the pump and its utility and hypertrophy, I think that feeling is one of the big psychological reasons people cling to NPP. Because like John, you know, when you're in that like sweet spot of all season and you've had that Nangelone in like just long enough where you're like so much fuller and the pumps are outrageous, but you're not fat yet. And you just feel massive in your t-shirts. Like there's such a psychological, like desire for that, for a lot of these people on top of the fact that like some people are going to get some like joint relief from it as well. So like you had that subjective feeling of feeling better in the gym and feeling better under lifts that I kind of start to see these unique properties on the, on the psychosocial dynamic of coaching athletes is like why I even still see it around today is it's when you have someone that has that positive experience with a drug like that in play. It's, it's, it's going to become something they consistently use and, or a little bit more difficult to have them not use it in my opinion. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's getting into like what effects should be coming from Nangelone. It's well known for like just some of the water retention that it can bring, bring about for good and bad. Uh, like more water retention in general can make you feel fuller. Uh, it gives you that the mental side of feeling bigger and then can drive some of that pump process, which where's that all coming from? Well, it has a pretty strong interaction with aldosterone. So retain more water, right? Which my challenge back to that is that extra water productive. And from a psychological aspect, uh, you can argue it maybe, but I think it could create a lot more negatives. Um, because what we really want from hypertrophy is contractile tissue, not just water retention, but you're like, well, it improves leverages and I can lift more. It's like, but there's just, you know, lifting more weight necessarily mean more tension on the muscle, et cetera, et cetera. Hypertrophy mechanisms, look those up. Um, the, the caveat, like the issue here is like with more water, more body weight, this is the most problematic aspect around bodybuilding the offseason. And when you have cycle designs that are affecting your ability to train, eat or sleep or manage health, these will quickly, uh, end your offseason shorter than what you intended. So with extra, like 10 pounds of water, not saying you're going to gain 10 pounds of water from Nangelone, but there are absolutely cycle designs that the guys run Nangelone and Anadrol and a bunch of growth hormone insulin in the offseason. And yeah, you're easily up 10 to 20 pounds of water is that now your blood pressure is elevated and also your challenging cardiovascular system more and you're getting gassed out between sets. So now your work capacity is lower for training. Also more body weight means poor sleep for a lot of individuals. You might have to crank up the pressure on the CPAP. And so that's becoming problematic as well. So these might be reasons why that extra water retention could be a poor aspect around Nangelone. The other issues I've seen a lot of times when Nangelone is why it's not my first go-to is it is a mess for managing gyno or managing libido. These are the common ones I hear up, not the waters. That's like just more of a coaching assessment thing and also the health aspect I want to manage. But the first things that come up of like, oh man, I'm getting some like gyno or man, my libido, like I can't get hard or it's just not there. And man, lo and behold, usually I pull out Nangelone and someone, all that comes right back. And it's a complicated hormone because it has interactions with estrogen. It can raise up prolactin levels and all those can influence libido and erectile function. So that's kind of one of the issues around just it's management that get a little messy. So for the guys that are like, hey, I've had a problem with Nangelone in the past, usually I don't even go to it. But also for that reason, I don't go to it a lot because it's a lot harder to manage. But like you said, Luke, you have guys that have had good experiences with it. It's okay to have it in place. It's not something that's off the shelf at all. People say like, I grow the most on Nangelone. It's like potentially like maybe you could eke out a bit more growth than Nangelone. You know, just off the anecdotals and what we see. But is it like, hey, I went from my 400 mg of Primo and switched that to 400 mg of Nangelone. And all of a sudden I doubled my muscle gain. It's like, no, we don't see that. That doesn't happen. It's going to be a minuscule amount. And that's the tradeoff here. Is that minuscule amount worth the potential other effects that Nangelone brings with the water retention, gyno, libido problems or whatever it may be to manage that. The reason that we might not want to be using, might want to be sticking with Primo Bolin. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and live Q&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I think that's kind of where it's like becoming air quote outdated too is like the management of these off-site actions can be quite difficult. And we have drugs that we're going to be able to not have these off-site actions and in Primo Bolin or Masteron and use these as our primary bulk of stack design up to the needs of the athlete in their specific case. And that's going to be like the primary, I think, reason people start to kind of see this as outdated is when you look at the management of athletes over the long term and keeping them productive without these side effects, not having something in play that has all these off-site actions is massive for the management of that. And I think it just makes things clear on the assessment side. It makes things easier to make sure that you're staying productive and also to assess like the needs of the athlete as when you coach athletes years after years after years and that need for stack design to progress, it makes it a little bit easier in my opinion to know that as well. You know, I have coached some people where just access is limited. Yeah. And even some people that are like, hey, I'm not comfortable sourcing like underground gear or, you know, and there's some like HRT clinics that they can prescribe test, can prescribe DECA, they can also prescribe Anabar. And they're like, these are the things I get from my clinic and that's what I can utilize. It's like, well, this is just the way it is and what we have. So that's a situation where we might utilize DECA. And I have, I have used it for clients like in that situation. Yeah. It's like, that's just, and it's an access thing. It's just what is available. Yep. 100%. I think the other thing to consider too is like the fact that it's not off the table and there is like the component of a slight synergy with testosterone as well makes it a very viable compound to use if access is limited. So it's not like we're saying from a progress perspective, it's going to be worse for progress. It's just the management of it long term is going to be really tough if you're trying to get to like the upper echelons of physique development. And that, that's where for me, the conversation starts to push it towards outdated. I think if you are getting the highest stack design, needing more milligrams, it's going to be hard to fill it all in with just test in DECA as usually there's, there's limiters there around reaching side effects first and needing some other more benign compound side effect wise in place like Prima Bolan or Masteron alongside of it. I've seen cycles where it's like test DECA and Masteron work extremely well because it kind of manages some of the prolactin aspects with Masteron in play. But, but, but again, it's like you're now kind of programming in your stacks ass backwards of like, well, how do I, how do I lower these negative effects I'm getting from DECA? Yeah. Oh, well I add these, I add in this AI, I add in this Masteron. It's like, well, why don't you just not use the DECA to begin with? It's like, oh, but man, I gained so much more. It's like, well, just try it. Why don't you just try a different stack to set up? And you're like, well, I didn't gain as much. It's like, well, yeah, because your last cycle, you did the same milligram amounts as you're doing for this current cycle. And that's something you need to consider because I've, I've heard this case of like, man, my last cycle, I grew more when I had an Angela in place. It's like, yes, your last cycle last, like underline this, like you have to push the needle forward. You can't run the same milligram amount and think it's going to be like as, as much gaining as you did last time. Potentially, potentially there's no, there's a threshold there for sure. Yeah. But to, to make another consideration is like you have to also be able to pull out the water aspect from your last cycle. It's like, oh man, I just felt, I felt bigger when I ran Angela. It's like, what does that even mean? Like I felt bigger, like you had more water retention, but when that start drop off, like what does that actually look like for muscle gain? So like if you're going to be exploring without using your Nangelone, some other type of cycle design, make sure you consider those points. It's because I have guys are like, well, you know, these J3, you guys are talking about Primo and Masteron. Let me try this out. And like, oh, that was shit. I didn't grow as much. It's like, well, yeah, man, you've been using steroids for 10 years and now you're running the same amount of milligrams and you swapped out one compound for another. Like it's not going to be some vast game changer difference here. But I would say what is maybe a changer is like if you had problems with Nangelone, could you better manage your side effect profile that way? One thing around these effects I do want to mention that we hadn't mentioned, Luke, was people bring up the joint connective tissue aspect with Nangelone. It's a consideration point. What I would say as a whole, all these steroids do really close to the same things. So when you see like improved joint connective tissue and feel like your recovery is better, they're all doing this to a degree. I know people are like, well, winstrol, like my joints and connective tissue fall apart. It's like there's differences amongst them all. But as a whole, I can tell you, at least for myself and all my clients, like when you go on cycle, everything feels better joint connective tissue wise because recovery is improved. So I don't think DECA is unique in that sense. There is two studies on DECA or Nangelone, I'll say, but they use DECA on joint and connective tissue. One's in rabbits and the other one is in humans, but there's no control group. So they just give some guys some Nangelone on top of their TRT. They're like, how do your joints feel? They're like, we feel amazing. It's like, yeah, of course. We all feel amazing now. So it's not the best like controlled study in the one of the rabbits. It's not as much carryover to humans either. But anecdotally, you kind of can't deny it because everyone says, oh, I feel really good with my joints when I'm running Nangelone. So if that is the case, it doesn't take a lot to do that because even in that study, it wasn't much more that they added in. Like 100 to 200 milligrams of Nangelone could check the box for aiding joint connected tissue. So if that has an aspect of the feature that you have felt to wear on Nangelone, you don't need to add a lot in. And that small dosing range could also prevent some of the going down to the negative effects that you might be running into with Nangelone. Yeah, I think context is huge with it. There's also like an anxiety piece with it as well that could potentially be brought up. I've had quite a few that get into like the elevated anxiety with it as well that is pretty robust. But again, I think it's like just summary of how beneficial is it for that athlete and the context as to why it's being ran. And can you replicate this with other drugs and manage it the same? It's more than likely yes. Yeah, so it really like with all of these injectables, it comes down to a pro and con list. And in the J3U lectures in our PED module on injectables, I have the five common injectables that you're going to use for steroids. And again, it's just five. There's not a robust list here. You know, we have Primo-Mast, Nangelone, Trimbalone, and Boldenone. Like these are five common ones that you're going to see used. And I give you a pro and con list to weigh these out because that's what it really comes down to. Not like you should never use this one. You should always use this one. And it's so individual based around someone's response that it's about finding the right drug through you. And the only way you can do that is through some self-experimentation, kind of rotating through these and finding what gets along best for you and what you respond best with, not only result-wise, but also with managing your health too. So I think the modern bodybuilding approach is now taking a more thoughtful stack design and personalization to the choices that you're making with your compounds over the past of just cookie cutter cycle designs and using what past bodybuilders have used. And just without some type of assessment or asking questions of why should I be doing this and how do I monitor this? I think that's where we're pushing more into modern bodybuilding. And it's not that that Deca or Nangelone is a thing of the past. It's more part of modern bodybuilding, but it's more of a tool. And you use that tool based on your assessment that you've done with yourself and your clients to understand when to deploy that tool. So this is how I think we're making that shift from the past usage to now more modern usage. Amen. I don't think I got much to add to that, brother. I don't either. I think we will wrap it up there. If anyone out there listening to this on YouTube, if you have a steroid question you'd like us to answer on a podcast and do a deeper dive on it, let us know down below. Luke and I, we kind of default to training topics because honestly, I spend more of my time thinking about training than I do about PDs. I think it's more important. But nonetheless, we're happy to dive into more PED topics. So if there is one, please let us know. And then we will just talk to you next time otherwise.