 flavoriziz, flavoriz, flavoriz, flavoriz, flavoriz, flavoriz, flavoriz, flavoriz, flavoriz, Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Killing yourself for a plastic trophy. Bodybuilding is way overrated. Why are we even doing this? There's no great outcomes that really come out of this. I've heard this mentioned before by several people trying to diminish what we're doing in the bodybuilding world. And who can I want to break down? What really is the meaning of the plastic trophy? Is it as simplistic as that? Or does it go much deeper? Which I think it does. Yeah, it absolutely does. I think it's to not get too crunchy granola here. I think it's like something that you could potentially ground yourself in, right? I think there's so much within the sport of bodybuilding. And if me saying the sport of bodybuilding bothers you, I apologize. But that is just how I view it. That I think carries into your everyday life. And in my honest opinion, carries over into how you handle relationships. How you handle business. How you handle your job. How you handle everything. That I think can be valuable if you come into it with the right mindset. And I think as we start to break this down, you'll kind of start to see where that perspective comes from. And how it can mean different things to different people as well. I think that's pretty important to understand. So bodybuilding is something that is forever entrenched in my heart. So I'm very passionate about it. But I think you have to share multiple sides of the viewpoints to be able to see where the value is and start to detach yourself from the trophy. Right. And I think just who I hear this from, it just definitely varies on where they've been introduced from bodybuilding and where they are in their journey as well. Like from a very outsider perspective in bodybuilding, you know, I've had people ask me like, oh, what do you get if you win? Right. And then you're like, is there prize money? Of course, if you're like an amateur, right? Well, you're like, no, we don't win anything. There's no prize money. If you're like, oh, there's no money in bodybuilding. And that's what I've heard as well. So then at that point, you're looking at like, well, man, for being a sport, quote unquote, and an athlete sure doesn't really pay very well. And I think that's just a very visceral kind of or unvisceral view of it, very superficial view of what someone that's an outsider might see as like because we see other sports where you have an event you go to and there's still money in it. Because it's better spectator wise for bringing, you know, ticket sales than outside of like your Olympia or whatnot in your upper bodybuilding shows. So the actual prize winnings relatively to other sports isn't that great. So I think on a surface level, you might have someone along that lines giving that type of comment about it. And then if you know what goes into bodybuilding, which maybe I think at that level, maybe they really don't. But you would wonder because some people just see like what you're doing should be displayed in whether it's bringing more like financial gain or some type of status symbol to your life. And I think that is just kind of low tier and even why anyone that competes in sport is ultimately doing it. But again, I think for someone else, if they're still at that level of, man, I'm trying to get this status in life or this income in life that they might see putting efforts into something that's not really that productive in their eyes would be deemed like, is it worth it? Yeah. And I think it's kind of missing the forest for the trees type of a conversation, right? Like it's especially if you start to talk about it from the outsider's point of view of like experiencing it. And sometimes even when you experience it for the first time, like if you have a loved one that goes through it or if you go through it yourself, like it still can be missed, like some of the lessons that you learn along the way. But for me, man, it's like the success of the journey and applying discipline and the resilience of that discipline over a long time, especially during time periods when you don't feel like doing something is kind of where we start to have the conversation of what the real value of bodybuilding is, is. And one of my favorite books is The Obstacles Way. And it talks about like how challenges in life are your way of developing through things and like gaining skills and how challenges are really just positive things for you and your development process. And that's how I view bodybuilding. It's like one of the biggest challenges that you could have the most amount of structure in controlling different variables that challenges you every single day to be perfect. And I think when you have to do it to that level, it's only going to carry over in how you operate in other places. And I think discipline, especially in like this world, is one of the best things we can teach people, as I think a lot of other things come off of the back of discipline to to lead to success. And I think that really it just starts to look at like, is it worth it? Is is it making your life better or worse? And that's kind of where we kind of get into the conversation of what does it take and do those things add to your life or take from it? Yeah, you brought up a good point around, you know, it does teach discipline and I think self-restraint and gives you focus that can be very positive. When I was young, I wanted for the life of me to be a Ninja Turtle, which unfortunately didn't pan out. But I did take up Taekwondo when I was in third grade. And my dad was all about it because he knew that was all about teaching discipline and giving me direction and being surrounded by, you know, a positive influence and giving life lessons. So it was a really an early age process of self-development. And that's ultimately what it what it was. It wasn't, you know, the status of being an actual real life Ninja Turtle, but more so what it was going to be developed me into, you know, later on. And fast forward into bodybuilding, you know, my dad being an outsider perspective, wasn't fond of the idea of me being a bodybuilder. And I remember like my mom told me, she's like, I don't know, dad doesn't want to go just see my son, you know, oiled up in some some posing trunks on stage. It's kind of, you know, demeaning and dismissing what I was doing by kind of being an outsider and being very foreign from it and not seeing it like back when I was doing martial arts. It was this thing that was giving me discipline, life purpose and a bigger why to develop kind of outside my my own own life. And he later did see that, you know, and then he was all about it because he realized how much it truly did for me in my life. And it was it was far beyond me just flexing some muscle on stage. So I think as you see that in your loved ones, like you're saying, Luke, that it does make a bigger impact and kind of broadens the understanding of it. I wanted to bring up like where else I've heard this from. And I think it's from those that have been jaded by the sport in some way. I heard a past competitor that he was a pro stop competing and was like, yeah, it's, you know, by building, it's so stupid. We're all doing this just for a little bit of prize money and and quoting like in a plastic trophy. And it was someone that was getting developed along the way and bodybuilding and finding purpose in it. But it just stopped going their way and stopped leading them into being the better version of themselves that they wanted to be and kind of got them resentful of it. Maybe for staying in it too long and getting burned in some way. Maybe it's by a judge. Maybe it's by other competitors. Maybe social media, whatever it may be. I think you find people in that position that get resentful toward it and then want to demean it to kind of make themselves feel justified in why they left it rather than try maybe to even continue pursuing it when they very well could have. And I think even the person that I'm thinking back and referencing on, like they absolutely could have kept going and had so much more potential. But I think to dismiss bodybuilding gave them some false peace of mind of being okay with leading it. Yeah, I think you'll also see that too in people who leave after bad coaching situations. Like you'll see it like kind of common, like in that realm, like they feel like they were left in a bad spot or they maybe they didn't handle the discipline of prepping and coming out of a prep very well. And so then they have that negative jaded viewpoint for it as well for that. I actually got into a discussion with someone who on social media commented on one of my posts about this, about like what that post show face has to look like in order to come out of it in a positive light. And it just sounded like that person had come from some previous bad experiences, which it happens in the sport. And unfortunately it does. But it's kind of why we're here is to educate on it. Right. And so I think that's that's why we're here is to educate how to do this in a way that can add to your life because it absolutely can. Like even though I'm not pursuing competitive bodybuilding everyone anymore, I have so much love in my heart for the sport. Like I still coach it and I'm in it every day and obviously I still train. But I mean, it's given me everything like as far as like how I carry myself and the career that I have and everything along those lines. And from someone who has that passion for it, like it's hard to see people be so jaded towards it. And hopefully at some point they're able to understand it, like maybe why they may feel that way a bit better. But I think looking at it of like how it adds to your life is a great way to view it because there does come a point for some people where it does start to take away too much in order to continue to pursue it, in my opinion. Yeah, later now in my years of bodybuilding, I have a lot of those questions of when does bodybuilding stop? You know, not worth pursuing as much anymore. And also when it's done so much in your life, how do you transition from being in such a spotlight of it to kind of being in the backseat, maybe guiding others? Or is it even hard to even be in the position anymore of bodybuilding if you can't be in that kind of driver's seat spotlight, walking on stage? I think for many that need to step away is when you do have to ask a question is, is it is making your life better or worse? Because there's certain areas absolutely that are big sacrifices of me still being in bodybuilding and being completely transparent. Like relationships are still a real challenge because it is so consuming. Like Renee said it great, like she said, I take up a lot of space because bodybuilding is so encompassing in my life that it can take a front seat at times and it can make relationships suffer. And if anyone's out there that's been a prep, you absolutely know your relationships suffer because your ability to communicate and think of others just diminishes to a degree. So if you're in some type of life situation with, with friends and family and all these relationships are starting to dwindle down and all that is left right now is bodybuilding, that very well could be the point of when bodybuilding is no longer worth it. Now, does that have to happen? No, but it should be part of your self-development process of how you're able to take what you're learning in bodybuilding and be able to also transition and better your relationships and better your life. Like that's what the purpose of I think everything that we should be doing in life is heading to this better life you're trying to achieve. And I'll tell you right now, if you're like just so gung-ho in bodybuilding and relationships are left on the wayside, you're losing friends because you're not going out socially with them. Some point bodybuilding will be over and just have to really think and ponder like what does your life look like then? Just alone with no bodybuilding. Like that's not the life that I want. I would rather stop bodybuilding it if it came to that to lose people that were really close to me. Yeah. And I think it's, I think that relationship side is, is the tough point because everybody's got needs that need to be met. Um, and everybody has different needs and different relationships that, that can be hard to meet when you're in the throes of a contest prep, right? Like it's, it's really tough. Um, a lot of communication goes a long ways, but I think there's a second one that I think people maybe not fully even understand or realize when they get into it before they get into it too far is like the financial side. Yeah. Is steep. Like, cause a lot of it, I mean, think about it. Like when you get into it, you start, you're on like bodybuilding budget diet. You're in the early phases. So it doesn't take much PDs to progress because your PDs are lower and you're not taking as much. Like the health management's a bit easier. Like everything is less right. And then the further and further and further you get into it, the more money it takes to support that journey, right? Of, of progressing. And, um, it's, it's a massive financial responsibility. And I think it can put a lot of strain on family dynamics. If it's not supported with income that can well handle it, or is it managed well with how someone manages their finances? Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have. And live Q&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I think we could kind of divide this even to life segments of, you know, in your bodybuilding when you're in your teens and early 20s, like you said, Luke, the cost of entry is low. However, the time component is still high. And those early 20 years is where you can be investing a lot of time into your education, your career, your mentorships. And, you know, I'll easily admit like when I was in school and everything was trying to work around bodybuilding or powerlifting at the time. And so if there was like an opportunity that might take me away from being ideal of getting my meals in or training, it was probably not going to be done. And I think it could limit me, especially, you know, fortunately for me, like this path led me to something that turned out to be worth it financially. But that's not the case for many. So this absolutely can steal the time investing into something career wise that's going to be greater for you than bodybuilding ever would be. And it's just rare that you're going to be able to make a complete financial means to support a family solely off bodybuilding. Like for myself, like me getting on stage is not productive for financial gain at all. Yes, open prize money is increased, but that's if you win a show. Just the cost to go to these things like you're likely going to be paying out more. The means to gain finances here is through sponsorships. And those are super rare to actually have like a complete a company that is going to completely support you to where you don't even need to work. Like you'll have to work for the company basically. Outside of that, you're looking at like coaching, starting up businesses and other opportunities. So if you don't have even some value to add outside of this is my physique, you're going to really, really struggle later on in life to make all this work. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's so huge. And when you start to get out of like just like the progression of responsibility, right? Like a lot of people as they get into their upper 20s and their 30s are figuring out what their career path is going to be. There's going to be a lot more time investment. Potentially there's like family dynamics to manage. I know like some of you like have kids and stuff like all of these things are going to start to pull your ability to devote energy into it. And that's where a lot of people offload that information. Like hire coaches, tell me what to do and I'll do it. That kind of stuff where they're extremely efficient and they're just fitting it into their schedule. But I do think it's something to consider because like you do start to get people who pursue competing upper 30s into their 40s, some people into their 50s and talking like master's competitors. And having an environment that understands that is rare in my opinion or kind of what I see of like the family dynamic that understands that over that long of a haul. Well, it's all thinking just now like what I've told my younger self, right? Because I wanted to compete so much earlier on in powerlifting things. Like I would say like until I was 25, like don't even compete. Just go, just train, get as big as possible or whatever. But invest everything into your education to where you can get out and fund whatever you wanted to do from there. Like that would have been the most productive thing. Then from like 25 on, then, you know, you'll have the financial means to actually do these things efficiently. And also I think even waiting until then probably would have had better insight into who I was as a person. What do my family and relationship dynamics look like? What do I even want surrounding that? And just still questioning what I even want surrounding that. So I think it at least gives you a little time out the gate before you've wasted like from 18 to 25 of like doing some half-ass bodybuilding and some half-ass school career to where you're not like 30 years old. Be like, oh, what should I do for my career now? So, but yeah, anyway, like starting later is the problem too. Because I have many people that come to me that got into, they're in their 30s. They have a family. They have a career and now I want to start bodybuilding. It's like, man, now your family doesn't recognize you as a bodybuilder. They know you as the husband, the father. So they're not going to be all willing to give that sacrifice like you are for bodybuilding. So it creates another very different dynamic for that type of life situation and gets back to our first point of like, is it worth it? And if it's improving your life, by all means, not taking away from it. And maybe that transitions a bit to like another topic to bring up is the, is as you're getting into that older age bracket, even young, doesn't really matter is the health considerations around it. And we're like, I think a lot of the statement comes from of like, you know, killing yourself for a plastic trophy. Because we are not like other sports to agree. Like there's heavy PED use for enhanced bodybuilding that absolutely you pay a toll for. And I, it made me pause a bit because I, just the other night I was looking at like Ed and Betty Paricio. They've run all these Europa bodybuilding shows. Ed had a mixed soy sarcoma, a cancer like eight years ago, radiation therapy. He's fine, right? Well, now all the, all the effects of the radiation therapy are coming about to really harm his health. And it just made me think back in all these years, bodybuilding and people were like saying, oh man, my lab works solid. Like I'm good to go. I'm so glad my health is intact. It's like at the moment, but 20 years of bodybuilding, like it might look fine now, but you absolutely are going to see those repercussions later on that you might not see reflective in lab work or whatever it may be right now. So you have to be really mindful of that too, of even, you know, what's that going to look for you longterm? And is that taking away something quality of life or quantity of life that you won't get back? And it's hard to justify if you're not being able to see some other type of life gain out of it for yourself. Yeah, I think that's, and I think that's where the conversations in the master's bodybuilding world start to head is like nine and a half times out of 10. If you're in the master's bodybuilding world, you're either pursuing the pro status to get a pro card and maybe compete in some master's pro shows, or maybe the pro card is the end of the line for you. So it's like, it is truly the hobby type type deal where it's like pursuing it as what you want to do. And that's where I start to raise the health questions, like you mentioned of like, what does this look like in 15, 20 years? If you're pushing this hard to achieve that pro status and potentially maybe not even be able to compete at the pro level, you just can't make enough progress. Ooh, that's a whole other spicy topic on. Oh yeah. That's not open that. But I agree. Like the older you are, the less resilient you're going to be in the moment to PD exposure than like your younger counterpart. And you'll, you'll see, I think the health detriments occur a lot faster, especially just depending on where your background coming is coming from. But I've heard guys like, Hey, this is my first year even using PDs. Like I've, I haven't done any of this before. It's like, that's great. That doesn't still mean you have like 15 years of doing this. Like someone when you're starting, when you're 25, like it's not the same time accrual as your, as the younger version. So it's a definitely have a plan and exit strategy. If you're, if you're older and doing this as the time duration is shorter and I, it's a real gray area of like, where do you draw lines in the sand of things that you should not compromise on and where you're willing to go versus someone that's younger. I just see the opportunity in masters for creating an actual career out of this. Cause that's where I see where we should be headed with your bodybuilding. If to justify the PD usage and the potential like detriment to your life is in that, in that, in that area. Yeah. Yeah. For, for masters. I mean, and I know some people are going to bring up master situations, right? Where exactly what it is. Right. It's like, what, what is the, I don't want to say the payoff because for different people, it could be personal payoff that helps with psychological management. Right. But, ah, it's just hard to see. Yeah. I, I, I, I do, I do struggle with that. Like the balance of when to draw the line there, but you know, either way, I think if it goes back, if you love doing this and spring greater purpose in your life, by all means pursue it. But I think there is a way to manage this and what we try to teach, you know, in level one to re reduce that risk as much as possible. And Luke and I both come from different situations. Like Luke's also walked away from, from bodybuilding. Yeah. And you know, that, that was kind of weighing out when bodybuilding is no longer adding as much to your life as you need it, but there's other ways that it can. Right. It might not just be like stepping on stage. Yeah. And I think that's the point that I got to, like, like I said, my love for bodybuilding will never leave. It's giving me everything that I had. But, um, like I, my original brand, like no switch fitness, right. No, all such in the pursuit of results is like pursuing something at all costs or doing everything that you can in order to progress. Right. And I got to a point where business exploded so fast for me. Like I went from like 2020 to 2022, like a completely different coach and like being involved in so many shows, like every week, like pretty much every week from early April to end of December at nationals. Like I was, there was something coming up, right. As far as like needing to be somewhere. Um, and then we had the seminars and just the scaling of the businesses. And it was starting to get to a point where I couldn't devote enough time to bodybuilding and it, and it not be extremely health detrimental. And that was the caveat for me that managing my health was just getting a little, little tough with all the things I was juggling and some personal like family goals that I had as far as like building a family that it was getting close to the time to start on anyways. And that was going to require me to take a step back from progressing. And I'd built my physique up to a place that was potentially nationally competitive, but it was like what it was taking to do that. It was clear that maybe the end of the road was maybe pro status. And if I'm lucky type of a deal. Right. So, um, it was, it was very clear that my purpose was no longer in the competing realm, that my personal competing served a purpose to be able to learn and relate it to other people. Um, but truly where my impact would be, would be coaching and educating. And when I pivoted, not only did my health metrics drastically improve in the first year, but, um, it was so much focus could be put into coaching and educating. Like the impact just drastically expanded and it was probably one of the better decisions I made. Like I miss it with every fiber of my being, but man, the amount of effort I could put into coaching and educating now was like just 10 X. Cause that wasn't pulling me away from it. It's, it's tough. Like to think of, you know, in bodybuilding, there's such this clear ranking system in order. To move up. And when you lose that, you don't really quite have as clear of a journey anymore. Like nationals pro shows, Olympia level, uh, your physiques going from, you know, 200 to 220 to, you know, it's, it's very, uh, uh, you know, easy to, and almost nearly, we can almost say like objective to track this to then moving to something like, well, I'm just going to be a coach. Or I'm going to be doing this other pursuit. And what does that look like? And am I even in my prime to be able to like maximize this? I think from, from our viewpoints, we really want to be able to chase it at the highest level, whatever it is. And to lose a piece where you think you're really excelling at is a real challenge. It's a, a mental challenge that I face. Cause I had my own kind of like health scare and realizing very quickly, like, man, bodybuilding might just be over. Like, what does that look like? Like if I can't put, I put everything into it, like my job, my life, like what would I do then? And it's like, I need to pursue, I have to like pursue something, which would it be like, all right, putting, I want this Olympia, these Olympia athletes, like is a coaching at that level. Right. Pursue something like you do bodybuilding. Um, or I was already looking at PhD programs, like maximize, take the education to the highest level possible. Like I need something focused like that. So I think in bodybuilding, you need to be thinking of these things to where, you know, you can think about stopping and what that might look like and trying to build something outside of bodybuilding. You know, setting, setting goals for yourself and, and business, uh, you know, personal growth, just so that transition can be possible. And you don't cut yourself off to something that might be the next best thing. Cause I've had lots of things where I've gone through and phases where I thought this was, I was all in and just realized that that just wasn't for me. And there was something better beyond that. I just couldn't realize at the moment. Um, so I think, you know, with, with, with all of this, I think, you know, I'm going to be a lot of things. With all this. Yeah. Yeah. I think, uh, if, you know, just some like closing thoughts here, like if you're going to be pushing your body, just make sure that it's worth it for you and weighing out all these areas and do some reflective thinking around this process. And just make sure you're not just chasing it for a placing, because if you are, then it's likely just a very, uh, superficial place for you to be. And it should be in a much deeper place. Um, I'd also just, you know, reflecting back on my, well, gosh, both of our situations that, uh, there's a finite time to you being in bodybuilding and every day that you're able to bodybuild. Take advantage of it. Like completely cherish it. Keep your perspective that what if tomorrow that was taken from you? How would you feel about today to be able to walk in the gym, train the way you want, eat the way you want? Like every day is like this fortunate experience and opportunities that pop up in bodybuilding that if you're able to go and travel and, you know, talk at a seminar or whatever it may be, man, take advantage of it because all those could be gone if bodybuilding was taken away the next day. So if you're looking to maximize it fully and you're capable now completely take advantage of it, enjoy the moments, but then look out for those times when other things in your life are starting to diminish and you very well might have to accept that it is time to, to move on to the next thing. Life's not over. It continues and you continue to develop in other phases of your life. So the plastic trophic, it's a more than just a plastic trophy. And what that means to you, it will be based around where you're at and what you need for your life. If anyone else has questions, comments, leave them down low. Love to hear what you think. If you think it's just a plastic trophy and we're stupid for doing this, let us know. Or if you have some deep, meaningful insights, please leave them for us too. We'll talk to you all next time.