 All right, all righty, welcome everyone to the first episode of J3U after hours where our goal is to bridge the gap between education and entertainment. I'm one of your hosts Chris Perry brought to you with Alex Ball as well and our esteemed guest Luke Miller. Gentlemen, how are we doing today? Freaking good man. It's wild that our bosses are guests. It's like, yeah, if there's a, if there's a, if there's any like awkward delay or pause, it's just going to be a moment. Cause like our bosses on the internet. Cause like our bosses on the internet, but it's fine. Yeah, I'm good. I think I'm like, so I had COVID prior to leaving. I got diagnosed Friday prior to leaving for US days on Tuesday. And I had a double ear infection and aromasinus infection. And so I literally slept for like three days. And then it was like, I have to go to Vegas. I posted a flu game meme or like picture on my story. And someone was like, Oh my gosh, I know prep feels. I was like, no, like, but, but yeah, so, and then now I'm just lingering the residue of that. So if I have to pause my mic for a second and cough, I'm sorry. But, but yeah, things are going great. Luke, what's up with you, dude? Man, it's just like peak show season over here. I was tellinGHim, like, just got off barely missing a pro card last weekend in Vancouver, won the class, lost the overall. So a guy that goT4th in the pro show a couple hours later. And then I've got a Tampa pro with Emily doing wellness at temp pro. And then I've got a girl doing a pro qualifier in Canada. So just like one peak after the next right now. Yeah. It's so much fun, man. Like, so this is, and so we haven't recorded in like three weeks. And so we got to, we got to recap everything that's going on, but I am on show 10 out of 12 weeks coming up or show 11 out of 13 weeks. And I finally get a break after this weekend, man. And I love coaching, but I've missed my bed. So, uh, yeah, let's recap it. What Chris, what shows do we have to start with? Is it universe? Yeah, we got universe first. So that's all you big dog. Universe was great. I had three people. Um, Darren, my master 60, I turned pro finally. Um, and I say, finally, we've been setting for that for the lasT3 years. Um, and he's the, IMean, he, he, he doesn't look 60. He looks like 50 at best, but he would always win the open middles. He would always win masters 40 masters 50. Like every regional show would go to. And then finally last year he won the whole show. Um, and I was like, all right, man, like we're ready. Um, the first trip to North Americans, we were, um, we were the tiniest person there. We got last place. We were like 58, 59. And so we came back and sucked down to make weight. We were like eight pounds bigger on stage this time. Um, he nailed it. Like it was, it was perfect. Um, then my master's 40 guy, Adam, we were one spot away from a card. And so it was weird. At university, I guess there wasn't a super heavies in the masters 40. Cause the dude we lost to is two 65 and we were two 10. Um, so yeah, so it was like, I wanted to be like, Hey, that's not his weight class. You know, regardless, um, the guy was a freak. Um, but Adam was in the same boat, man. So I've been working with Adam since he was 37 and he's won like three overalls. And it was just, we were just waiting to turn 40 and that's kind of how he played it. So we're, we're very, very close. Um, you know, bodybuilding math would say we're next in line. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Um, but, but I will say this, I'm a huge fan of universe. Um, obviously they don't do open bodybuilding if you're not natural, but, um, I'm a big fan of universe. I definitely want to take more athletes there. Um, especially after USA, we'll talk about USAs. I love USAs, but I don't like USAs at the same time. Um, then we get into Tennessee Valley show, which was Chris Berry's, um, unveiling, right? Yeah. We came back, dude. Talk about it, dude. Um, yeah, went and won an overall, which is pretty sick. Um, I think we came back like 11 pounds heavier than night of champions and much more conditioned. So take your long offseasons guys. It's worth it. Um, and then obviously getting to compete with Austin was like the highlight of my bodybuilding career. Just like havinGHim backstage and getting to hang out. He also took an overall. Um, and then I had miss Anna. She did her second show with me this season. Uh, and she ended up winninGHer junior class and we ended up like top three and open, which is to be expected just because she's, she's young. Right. And that's one thing that we just talked about managing expectations. It's like, Hey, we don't have the same muscle maturity yet as a 35 year old. But I think given where she's at in her track record and how young she is, like she has endless potential. So it was very exciting to get to, to experience that with her too. I am done competing into the same shows as athletes that I'm coaching three, too many times, five athletes, three, too many times. And I'll never do it again. So I did it once and I never decided to do it. It was just like, it was, I'm not competing anymore. So it doesn't really matter. But when I was like, I did that first time I was like, nah, screw this. Never again. See, I did it once in 2021. And then in 2023, I had three first timers compete with me and that wasn't enough to convince me not to do it again. So I've learned my lesson now. Yeah. And that was partially my fault because I was like, Hey, yeah, like y'all could just do the show be easy. And like, yeah, I won't ever put that on Chris again. I had obviously Chris doing it. And then Austin Goldman with his second overall was awesome. The kids a stud. It was funny because like, he kind of like blew his load, like emotionally at the battle show. So like, you know, cause I, it was his first time out. Right. And he like, just, you know, after prejudging, he's like, yeah, man, I'm ready to just like wrap this thing up. Like, let's do it. And you rightfully so, right. There's only so much better you can get in four weeks and stuff like that. But then I had a bikini girl, Alyssa Hamlin. She won her open class. And then I had a true novice and novice bodybuilder who's a big old boy. He won both his novice, true novice classes and the open supers. So all in all, man, it was a very clen sweep of the show. So I was, I was very happy with that. It was a good show to have, especially in Alabama, man. Like I'm like, I told Chris, like, Hey, like I'm pretty done, like playing in this arena after this season. So pass the coach along, but I got to go out like throat kicking people. So I plan to do that one more. I got one more show to do it. And then we get into USAs. And so I had a couple of people asking, Oh, Hey, where's Chris? Where's Chris? Like literally like come up to me at the show. Like we're asking where Chris was and long story short, like there was just stuff on my end and Chris's end. We needed to do to be perfect for like displaying at USAs. A national show is not for me and my standard or for Chris and Chris's standard, like where we go get our feet wet. It's like, we're, if we're like, if we're not perfect, not do that's a trip. We can pull up my credit card statement. It's just a trip, right? It's just not a, that's an expensive lesson to learn. So like, I just felt like there was stuff that we both could do to be better and just push that timeline out. So I didn't want to just like not talk about it. Right. So yeah. Thank God. Good. Good. Before we got too far into USAs, I've got a pretty funny universe story. If y'all want to hear it. Dude. Behind the scenes, haven't shared it. Like type of video, like some of the stuff you don't see. So I had two at universe. Love the show as well. I like, I send people every year. WPG girl won a card at universe. And I had a men's physique guy. Men's physique guy got second. Barely missed it. Right. They do the whole New York vacation thing. We weren't thinking about doing another show until North Americans. I was like, sure, go, whatever. So he was on stage like 181. Six days before Masters Nationals, he messages me. He's like, hey. He's like, I'm like 190. Can we do Masters Nationals in six days? I was like, yeah, I guess. It's like, let's give it a go. And so like, I basically just like, I took, got him back, put him on base diet, like slightly lower. And basically ran that as a peak. Just like frontloaded New York. Like let him like eat that food in New York. And then just ran that. And he won his card at Masters Nationals. Like. No shit. Really no shit. His food on show day was like his base plan. Minus veggies. Wow. All of this while in Birmingham with us while also peeking Emily to then fly to see her. Yeah. That was a week. That was a week. Dude. Yeah. Before I went to Austin for Republic. Came home for a day. Flew to y'all. And then on the last day there, changed my flight to go to Chicago. And on that last day, won the card with him. So it was a fucking week. Yeah. We think we work hard. And then we hang out with Luke. And we're like, no shit. I'm dumb and lazy at this point. That's how I feel. Doesn't sleep. Yeah. Dude, that's impressive though. Because a lot of people think when it comes to like a peak, like you got to do crazy stuff. Right. And you just were like, nope, let's just keep it. Keep it the same. I think it's good for people to see that. It literally didn't change his name. No fluid adjustment. No sodium adjustment. He did cardio up until like two days out. He flew there the day before. Made sure he got some activity after he landed. Rocked up on stage on his card. Nuts. Nuts. That's impressive. Yeah. And then so to finish out the USA's, I had Callie and Abby. This was Callie's first time back at a national show. Since we first attempted nationals. Ten times better package. All around. Like just, I was very pleased with the look. Got very generic feedback at first. You know, was like, we just need more glute. Got a little more descriptive feedback today. Just like we're still too balanced top to bottom. And then we need a little more balance between the legs and the glutes. You know, and again, so everybody like reams, like, you know, the comments and all that. Like, Callie's too big. She needs to go to another division. Like, we literally sat there. Like, honestly, and I'll keep it real. Like, I'll go to Bat for Gallatin and fine. Like, I could understand not winning. I could buy not being second. Once we got into that third, fourth place, it was getting more and more hard for me to, like, realize it. Like, just to accept it. Once we got into fifth place, I was like, I don't. I guess I just don't know what I'm looking at. Um, and, and, you know, it's, and again, like, that's me unbiasedly. Like, and again, looking at the feedback today, I was like, yeah, okay. Like, I'm not saying we should have won by any means, but like, I do. The longer we get down that list, the more I was like, okay, this is really like hard for me to accept here. Um, but regardless, like when you're sitting there, you have Sandy, you have Tyler, you have everyone, but Steve Weinberger on the table. Like, you got to know what they're wanting. You got to know what they're saying. So it's our job to come back and fix that. Um, because I can sit here and like be pissed off about the placing and disagree with it. But regardless, we, we have to improve it and bring what they want. It's not like, you know, oh, well, let's go see Sandy somewhere else. Cause she wasn't there. Like, no, they were all there. And, but, but I do want to make it clear that like, none of them said, go to women's physique. None of them said, go to women's bodybuilding. It's just, we're going to bring up more glutes and we've got more time to do that. So, um, but I was super proud of the look that she brought. Um, Callie is one of the hardest workers on the gym floor and then just day-to-day life. And honestly, there's a part of me that wish they would have said, go to women's physique just to make more sense of it. Right. Like, like I was like, man, I wish they would have said like, just hit a front double. Um, but, but again, like we can pick that apart all day long. Um, but that, that's kind of the outcome. And then Abby, uh, so Abby was one spot away last year from a car at North Americans. It was very obvious that we took Sandy's critique from North Americans and did exactly what she said. Cause when she came out numerically, she was, she was the third person in the call out of like 20 something people. Um, so like she, you're holding that front pose for a long time. And when they called her number, she was like, you know, obviously one of the first. So like, she's kind of on the end immediately first moved boom center. And like, as soon as she walked out, like to her individual, Sandy leans over to Tyler. They start pointing. She wasn't touched since like just boom. They swapped two and three around the girl next to her two or three times. Abby didn't move. And I emphasize that one, it was cool shit feeling, right? Cause we're around like all these other big bikini teams and blah, blah, blah. I'm like, here I am just one person, one girl, and we got it. Right. But that being said, we took exactly what Sandy told us to do. We fixed our back pose. We brought bigger glutes. We brought the same condition. I felt about a little better conditioning. Um, but when you listen to them, they remember you, you come back. It was very obvious. They knew who Abby was. Um, and then we checked that box for sure. So, um, me and Luke are actually putting together a nice little timeline of Abby's, you know, progression. Cause a lot of people like they, they talk about Abby. Like, Oh yeah, well, you know, it's Abby, right. They kind of scoff it off. Like, well, she's amazing. And she is, but she started with me. She was 20 years old. So like what we've done in five years, like, yeah, she's amazing, but we worked at it. And don't get me wrong. I remember everybody telling me Abby was a wellness girl that I trened my bikini girls, like a guy that, you know, Alex is aggressive. Alex is reckless. Like I remember all those little chirps and you can scroll down through onto the like list and you can find a lot of those same chirps. So like, I remember you guys and I love it. And I appreciate your support, but there was one time where y'all didn't think that I was a bikini coach and here I am doing it. So it was, it was a really cool feeling. I think one thing. Paychecks now though. Do I now? Then look at the resume and the paychecks now though. Yeah. Yeah. It's a, it comes full circle, man. I think one thing to touch on just like continue to drive home is Abby's been with you for five years. Right. So like the people out there who think like hiring the coach for 20 weeks is going to be the solution to all problems or six months or even a year. I think it's a testament to like, you have to give somebody years of your time with a reliable coach, obviously to actually see what you're capable of doing. Like this isn't a game of like months and weeks, you know, it's like years and decades in those cases. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, like I could pick Abby with my eyes closed. Like, and what to kind of talk about, like what Luke was saying, like, you don't need many crazy changes. All Abby did was her three regular, like refeed days, two days before the 48 hours out. That's all I needed. That was the data I collected throughout the prep. Boom. Like pulled some cardio, pulled some veggies and she was good to go. But that girl suffered like Callie suffered. Absolutely. And Abby was right there with like 80 minutes of cardio and two rice cakes were a lot of her trening days for like input and output. Like it was very, very low food, high output. A lot of her refeeds was just simply pullinGHer cardio out. Like, like that girl suffered. And so a lot of people too, like they, they look up to Abby and like, oh my gosh, she's just great. But like, she does that and doesn't complain. Same with Cal. Neither one of them you hear a peep from. Like they may be like, oh yeah, that'd be nice to eat this. But like, they're going to do the work regardless. And that's what sets those two type athletes who I'm like, yeah, we're going to USAs. Yeah, we're going to nationals. Then someone who's not there yet is they're, they'recomplaining along the way. They're not built up for that. Or they just don't have that. Like, you know, they don't have that extra gear that they could turn it into. And I think you'd find most people at that level have that same gear too. Luke, I've goT3Questions for you, man. Yeah. What kind of animal do you feel like right now? Ooh, kind of like a freaking polar bear. Okay. Why is that? Because I'm constantly sitting at this desk and no longer a bodybuilder. So I've got this like layer of fluff. But I'm still like kind of big. Like I'm bigger than the average human, but I'm not as big as I used to be and not as lean. So it's like, you put it on us on that leg day. Okay. So polar bear. I like that. If you're going to a gas station and you have to geT3 snacks and one drink, what are you getting? Three snacks, one drink. Is this like trying to fit macro snacks or like don't give an F about snacks? You and I, when you're on vacation, just road tripping. Okay. Okay. All right. So we're getting a Coke Zero or a Diet Sun Kiss. That's the drink. Great. Probably going Coke Zero just because it's like favorite. But Diet Sun Kiss is a nice little runner up if they don't have Coke Zero. So we're going true fatty Luke growing up with the fudge round for snack number one. Yes. We're going with orange Doritos for snack number two. Yes, sir. And then what is snack number three? That's the hardest one because you got sweet and salty. What do you do as snack number three? I feel like what car am I in? Because if I'm in Emily's new car, I'm not getting powdered donuts. But if I'm in a truck, like I don't give a damn. Like I don't get powdered donuts. I think that'd be my three. You guys got to remember, I grew up a fat kid. So like number three is either a tie between powdered donuts or Swiss rolls, depending on what they've got. Dude, I love you so much. Me and Deb, strong relationship. Me and Ms. Debbie had really good relationship. Yeah, me and Debra go way back, way back. If you only knew how much closer you and Chris just got there. Fast station snacks are not used at this point. Okay, so you pass with flying colors. I also appreciate you get bonus points for not describing the flavor of the Doritos, just the color of the bag. That is the correct verbiage. It's not nacho cheese. It's orange. I'm a purple bag Dorito man myself. Third question. What is your go-to like song? If you have to pick one song to listen to in the gym, what is it? Don't do this to me, Chris. It's Eminem without a doubt. Okay. And it's probably lose yourself. Classic. I think I would, I think my solid runner up is a Millie, Little Wayne. Ooh, nice. I can get going with some of that. Like anything Carter III, like just put it on. Yeah. Anything Carter III, almost anything Eminem except for his little pop era. Like let's not, let's not go there, but. We'll look past that. Have you heard the demo version of Lose Yourself? No, I haven't. Is it good? Yeah. The demo version of Lose Yourself is good. Yeah. Yeah. I also, I'll, I'll with some No Ceilings. I can get going with some No Ceilings. Like anything on the No Ceilings mixtape is, man. Prime, Lil Wayne, and Eminem. You can't, you can't be. I was pretty bummed with Wayne's most recent album. Be honest. I've given up on them. I've given up on both of them now with what they release. Like. Yeah. After the Carter V, I just feel like it just started to go. I just, I don't need anymore. I've got my discography of Eminem and Lil Wayne that I need and I'm good. Yeah. They're timeless. We still listen to them. Like we still listen to those songs. On show day for USAs, I sent, I sent Alex the song Put On. Or like Put On For My City. And I said, Put On For J3U on New Year's Day. Like I've got my little discography of like song references. Like my song taste is lyrical. So like Logic, NF, that kind of a rapper. So I've got, I've got some insights. So people don't know, I brinGHeadphones to shows. Like I bring little ear pods. Cause I, I don't like the, with a lot of like my big, like anxiety driven shows. Um, just so I don't like to, I like to just block out the noise. Um, but like each peak week, like I'll have certain songs and stuff like what I'm listening to just get my zone. Um, so one, it's, it's awesome. Like Luke, you send me that. And then Chris sends me, you know, the, whatever, you know, like he sends me some hype up messages and that's a lot of, it's a lot of pressure guys. I'm not gonna lie. It's, it's a lot of pressure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, but, um, so soon, you know, cat, uh, Callie went on first, you know, I was like, I was, I was just trying to make sense of what just happened, but then I had to refocus on, you know, Abby coming out. And so Abby had sent me this posing video of, um, buttons by pussycat dolls. And it was just, it was just in the background of her posing, but like, it was the look that I found was money and dude, from the time fit model came on to bikini class F pussycat dolls, buttons was the headphones, dude. I didn't look up when it's soon as bikini class a came out, I didn't look at the stage because I just didn't, I was just like sitting down in the little, you know, first couple rows. I didn't look cause I was like, it's just going to fuck with my head and I don't need to start picking apart who looks, what look they're wanting or whatever. And so, yeah, for a good hour, like pussycat dolls was playing. But that was the song for the week and it's unfortunate. I don't choose it. It's just whatever with, you know, whatever type of, you know, ADHD I have just gets you in sync with it. So yeah, I'm going to listen to that in the gym today and see how it goes. So we've got a lot of topics to discuss. Thank you to everybody who's always participates in our Q and A's. Obviously a lot of you guys are trensitioning from the coaches union over to this production now, which is super exciting. First one, Alex, if you want to do this one, it was about the Instagram story. If you want to take lead on that. Luke's Instagram story. Yes. Yeah. Luke, you made a post yesterday and like, since you were on here, I was like, Hey, let's talk about it. Cause it was like pretty in depth. So I kind of summarize it and like, kind of go into what you were talking about. Yeah. So I just want to pull up the wording real quick. Like it's, it's kind of one of those like mental health type of thoughts. Like bodybuilding is very, very driven in nature and it attracts people who are very type A. As a result, like it's very easy to kind of get into this hole of feeling like you're by yourself. And I think one of the big things is like understanding that everyone who goes through bodybuilding goes through moments like this. And like, sometimes just reaching out and talking to people is the biggest thing. Um, and so it's kind of like the, just to kind of read a synopsis of it, bodybuilding attracts a certain kind of person, the kind that's willing to do what others won't. But that same drive can make you feel like your life only matters or revolves around the next prep session or meal that you have. And with that discipline, it builds champions, but it doesn't mean you have to sacrifice your entire self for it. And so it kind of moves on to saying bodybuilding should be something that you're more than your physique. You're someone with values, depth, and the ability to connect, even if you've forgotten what that feels like in the context of prep, because it can be consuming. And like, one of the things I love about this industry is that I've made some great friends along the way. Um, some that have looked out for me kind of when I've been in those holes, I kind of just put that up because we've had some people in the collective of just the university as a whole, like the university is massive. Like, uh, there's a lot of people who are in the university in the forums and, and, um, you know, they're not even on the coaching team. They're just people in the industry. Right. And I kind of put it up there and at the side, I said, if you're ever struggling, feel free To reach out to me or any of the J3U coaching team, because like, we're all here to support the industry. Like as much as we'recompetitive individuals, like I'll be the first person to tell you, like when it's stage time and when it's stage time, and then we can be friends after. But like, um, I, I also care more about the status of this industry and the direction that it's headed and thEQuality of the people that are in it. And some of that just sometimes comes out for, comes with looking out for each other. So I just kind of put it up. It was just something that I had to answer a question on the forums, kind of centered around it. And so it was like kind of heavy on the mind and felt like it needed to be shared. Yeah. Yeah. Cause at the end of the day, man, like while when you're in bodybuilding, it's such a huge, you, you think it's, it's massive, right? But like, go talk to your accountant and tell them you just want an IPB pro card. Then we're like, what's that? Yeah. Well, you talk to a lot of people not in this industry. We're very, very small. And so, you know, like Luke say, like I compete with Luke, like I compete with the coaches on our team much more like coaches, like who are against us. Right. So like, I'm the first one to be like, yes, competition is great. But at the end of the day, we're all in this together. And, you know, this past weekend, you know, I was meeting a couple of different coaches who were there and they're just cool. And like, yeah, we'recompeting against each other, but it was nice to just be sitting in a show and you can shoot the shit with athletes. Like, Hey, look at this guy. Oh yeah. I see you're on Instagram. What's he doing? Like you have to enjoy that and, and not be so like just standoffish and just like, like it's competition to an extent. Right. But you're not here to, there's, there's room at the table for everybody. And the closer you accept that, like the faster you accept that, the better. Um, and then too, at the same, it's kind of why we started this podcast originally, because we wanted a collective of coaches to, to come together and our personalities to shine. Um, but then too, like, like you said, also we're, you're much more than your body or than your physique. And, and you get a lot of times where people, they, they value themselves so much on their look or their placing. And it's like, man, like that, that's your literal body. Like you walk around in that every single day. And like, while as much as, you know, we need to rely on the critiques of five judges at the end of the day, my one thing, and then I just had this with a girl, Haley. Um, she just did great at her first show in Tennessee. Um, but we were talking and I was like, Hey, like, I'm going to ask you, would you rather like, cause we got second across the board. I was like, would you rather have your body or the winners? She's like, I'm gonna be honest. I'd rather have mine. I was like, yeah, I'd rather you have yours too. Okay. So like, while we didn't win, that's usually like how I look at it. Now on the flip side, there's going to be some freaks out there walking like, yeah, I wish I had their body. But for the most part, like you have to understand that like, this is just a small piece of your life and you need to enjoy other stuff outside of it because you won't compete forever. Yeah. I think, I think with that too, it's like, to the point it's temporary, right? Like we're not, you know, we've had these discussions before, like you can't one, you can't hate yourself into loving the physique that you produced. I think we've all probably tried it at some point in our career or used like self-deprecation as a driving force. And you don't want to be 30 years down the road, looking back at pictures and going, damn, I was in my prime and you didn't even accept that or embrace that or allow that to be a thing. And within that too, like this, this is a very individual journey, right? But ultimately it becomes a lot easier and it's a lot more enjoyable when you allow a community around you to support you. And you need it, right? This, like this literally takes a fucking village at the end of the day to make sure that you get where you need to be. And I hate seeing it too, man. Like you don't, I feel like it's the industry is getting better in some regard. Like some of my best friends I've made backstage that I competed against, right? You're going to see like, there's actually a mutual level of camaraderie and respect in the, the hierarchy of this are the people who've done this for time because they understand that one, as much as it is me versus you on stage, it's really us versus the panel and what they want that day. Right. And like, we're not, we're not fist fighting up there. You know what IMean? We're hitting poses and they're deciding what they like that day. And so there's a mutual respect of saying like, you gave your all in your prep. I gave my all in my prep. I can respect you in this lineup because I know that we've both been through the thick of it simultaneously, whether it's together or not. It's generally like the new guys that come in where they're just like, they think it's, we're going to war. And it's like, dude, it's, it is not that deep at the same time. And I think that's where it's a little bit of a paradox where like, I love bodybuilding. I'll live and die for bodybuilding in this current chapter of life, but it's also not all that I am. I think once you separate that and understand it's just a part, in some cases, a majority of your identity, it makes it a lot more fun because you don't feel like your entire value system of your existence is reliant on how you placed on a stage. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like there's a, there's a competitor, like who we are as a competitor, then there's who we are as a person. And you need to separate those because yeah, sometimes as a competitor, you're only as good as your last show. But like you as a human being, you're, I hope you're much more than that. That's why I like, I get on, I don't like seeing people like, you know, oh, they changed their name in their bio to NPC something. It's like, dude, like that, like at least be a pro before you like tag them. Right. It's not for the sense that they're not cool, but it's like, you just paid money. Like that's like putting, you know, your five-year-old up for little league and she updates her bio to little league, you know, Orioles or whatever. Like it's, you need to be much more than just this sport at times, but then at the same time, you do need to let it kind of consume you and drive you and all that. So finding that balance, I don't think any of us ever truly do, but I'll say this, once you step out of competing as an athlete, you'll see how like, God might not have been that big of a deal. Like, you know, like it's, yeah. So obviously I'm a, I was a very mediocre bodybuilder, but I'm a very good coach. Nobody like pulls up my stats as a, as an athlete to like, that's what me. Right. Like, so then they, like, it's not that big of a deal if you win everything or you lose everything, just what are you doing next? Yeah. Yeah. That last part of that statement was kind of off the back of a conversation I'd had. Like someone said it, like leaving bodybuilding for me is always, it's been tough. It's like some of my fondest memories. Right. Um, but like last year, 2024 building J3 coaching and everything was probably the hardest year of my life. If I'm, if I'm completely honest, I, I did not sleep for about nine months of the year. And, um, it was like, I could have never done that if I was still competing, um, in, in what we do now. But where it came from was like, I realized that that competing was such a small part of, of, of me and who I am and what I have to give to people. And it's actually expanded my coaching. I haven't talked about this much, but like, I'm kind of in the place where now my coaching is not just X's and O's. It's actually athlete development, um, across the board. I have a couple of athletes that go to coffee with me once or twice a month. Um, and we talk about like, I've helped them build their block schedules. We talk about their work and their jobs and like how they're excelling and how they plan to take the next steps in their career, what they can do to differentiate themselves with where they're working. Like, what are they doing to give back to the people around them? And so like, that's like athlete development. Like, that's the things that we talk about that if we can improve someone across the board as an individual, it's going to make them a better athlete. Cause like, like even just the block schedule thing, like you're never going to miss a meal or a cardio session or a trening session. If you run a tight block schedule, right? Like, sure. I'm making them a better human by doing this, but I'm also making them a better athlete. Right. And so there's this like person development thing. I think coaching should start to embody rather than just like X's and O's. Like I think that's why I'm pretty passionate about the responses being not change meal too, to a hundred grams rice, right? Like it's, it needs to be something that's more than that, which is why we do the way we do it J3 coaching with the responses. Yeah. I think it's about serving people, man. I think that's where a lot of people kind of don't realize like bodybuilding is obviously a very selfish endeavor. There's, there's nothing wrong in that. Right. But I think finding fulfillment elsewhere in this life of, of, of feeling that you've contributed at something, a cause or someone positively, I think provides a lot more value in life because again, to Alex's point, it's not like when it's all said and done, it's not how you placed on stage. It's how you treated everybody around you in this life. Like that is ultimately all that matters. Yeah. And I've never had a successful person, like a big time attorney, a cardiovascular surgeon. I've never had someone like that ever say anything negative about me having muscle. Like they're usually very, they'll talk to me with the same respect as I do to them. I don't have any near degree or whatever that they have, but they see something in you that it's a dedication and a commitment to something. And it takes something different to build a physique. And that's why, like when you do trensition out of bodybuilding into other avenues, you have that same work ethic and discipline that you used to build your body. And that's why a lot of like upper level income, wealthy, successful people will respect that. And that's why they also have their set gym routine and they don't look sloppy and all that. It's, it's cause like, we're all in that same game. So like, you may notice that like people who, you know, downplay may call you a meathead or whatever. They're probably not that successful on their own. So, um, to touch on that tidbit there. If you guys could prep one celebrity, who would it be in for what division? I'm winning this. You go ahead. All right, guys. Well, cause I'm not playing around on this one and we're going to go pro and then we're going to go to the Olympia. Sydney Sweeney fit model. Game over. Game over. One season, one card, one Olympic qualification. No. All right. Wrap it up. I'm wrong, guys. Tell me I'm wrong. What's Olympian? They don't even have a pro standard for fit model yet. And you're telling me you're going to be Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. You don't even know what the standard is. Do what? Yeah. You don't even know what the pro standard is. Dude, I'll set it. That's in the bag, dude. Alex is like, screw all of them. I'll just be the, the, the shape shifter for this industry. Um, man, I'm still struggling with who I want to prep. Uh, okay. I've got, can I, can I, can I go from a different era? Yeah. Yeah. Can I prep prime tiger woods? Like. Okay. Yeah. What are we doing with that? Have we not seen like 1999 tiger to like 2006 tiger? Yeah. I'm looking at them though. Oh man. Boys. Homeboy. Homeboy packed on some, some tissue from like 1999 to 2006 to eight ish. geez. geez. create an Olympian. Yeah. Cause he's got that work ethic too. We were just talking about like, he's got that tenacity. Okay. He's got the Buddhist work ethic that his mom instilled into him. The dude could like see through walls. Like I would just, he would run through walls for you. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going Jason Momoa open bodybuilding. Oh, I prep Jason Momoa's lookalike. You did. Yeah. Yeah. He's still on the team. It's Bailey. Shout out to Bailey. He's one of the people that goes to coffee with me a couple of times a month. He does look like, how tall is Jason Momoa? Legend of a human. Same. Jason Momoa. Six, seven. Okay. Bailey's like five, eight. So we're like not in the same ballpark. But like, yeah. See, I was going to cheat. I thought the rock for a second. Yeah. You know, he's using PDs. Yeah. He's used to it. Yeah. He's not better. You got to take someone who already has a physique and hasn't touched drugs. Yeah. Back up. John Cena open. He was a bodybuilder prior to WWE. He was actually pretty jacked. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not an unfit model. So. What's the, what's the guy that played Wolverine? Hugh Jackman? Yeah. Yeah. That'd be the option. That was my first, like, idolized, like, what I wanted to look like when he comes out of the bathtub with all the veins. And thank God I get vascularity because that's really all I get. Like, that was like, I was like, oh, I want to look like that. Yeah. Yeah. I'm vascularity. I still have a picture from the last time I prepped. It's like, I look like a nurse's wet dream. After. Tom Hardy is another one. Tom Hardy. Yeah. Tom Hardy. He can do it. He can be a monster. We've got to find that photo. I'm an animal. Sure. I did an animal giveaway with the photo too. I explicitly remember it. Good old days. Yeah. Be finding it. Chris, what you got next on the docket while Luke finds that? The Redda takeover. More lordy. Here we go. Gosh, dang it. Where'd you start, Chris? Talk about this already once, but go ahead, Alex. Yeah. We had a team call on it earlier, actually. And like, so the thing about it, guys, the listening and girls, like it's just really hyped right now. Like, you know, but those of you probably don't remember when Adapax was also really hyped and like it, it curbed people's appetites there. And it was just a pill. So like, there's always something, right? And before this stuff, it was the Samorlin and Impamorlin, which is just water attentive bullshit. And so like now we're into like this new age and then there's going to be something else coming up. But like where where I'm having issues with it is clients who are well on schedule, well lean, like they genuinely don't need it or wanting to take it because they're feeling like there's something we're leaving something on the table. And it's like, no, you just don't fit that category of like that very niche category of who may benefit from. And so that's my issue with it. It's like I'm not not giving you drugs. It's just you don't need it. I think your take on what your clinical advisor said is a good start point. I think that's where you start the conversation because then you trenslate that into if this is where we're operating from, like what use case and bodybuilding fits. Yeah. So like so in school down at UAB, my advisor is in charge of the diabetic research lab down there. And so there's a lot of stuff that they do use, utilize GLP ones with and what these drugs are for. It's trening wheels for like genuine, like clinically obese people to like learn how to adhere to a nutrition plan. And so us as bodybuilders, like, yeah, we're hungry because we're like, you know, low calories and dieting. But these people like will genuinely like be diabetic, bedridden in the hospital and order pizza. Yeah. And like not think twice about it. So like it's genuinely helping people with eating disorders, whereas we're in this realm of like, well, how can I not be hungry during a low calorie prep? And so there's a lot of side effects with it, too. Like, and again, I'm I am not, you know, against it. I don't want this take to be that I'm against it. I'm very for it when it's the criteria. And a lot of times you just need to suck it up as an athlete and just be hungry for a little bit. And you like there's a difference in like, oh, I'm low carb for three or four days and like I'm tired and whatever. Or, oh, I'm craving five guys to I'm a bikini girl. I'm on 40 carbs and my cardio is an hour and a half. And I'm I'm so hungry. It's waking me up every 90 minutes and I can't sleep. And it's driving my anxiety through the roof. Those are two different like realms and avenues of athletes that would fit the criteria for or a guy who needs to make weight. And it's like, dude, we already look good. We're going to really need to dig an extra bit and it's going to suck. So let me help this hold your hand. But there's just a lot of it. Like, and it's kind of meatheadish of me to say, but like Phil Heath didn't use it. Like, you know, Jay Cutler didn't use it. Like all the greats before us didn't use it. So like it's not an absolute must. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's going back to it. It's like the game of escalation. Right. Our goal is to use the least of whatever, even as far as the severity or efficacy of the whatever we are using. And so if we can get away with using less or something that's more safe and reliable in clinical trials and has less side effects, I'd rather always lean on the side of that. Like this is a push comes to shove, comes to punch you in the mouth scenario. I think in a show prep situation where it's like we've got this is it. Right. But there's so much that can be done, including suffering before that, where we have to pull the trigger on this and hope this is what will will, I guess, save it in a certain sense. Yeah. Yeah. And you have to look at to like, where are you getting it from? Like, are you getting it from Amino Asylum that just shut down and then they just open back up under another umbrella? And like, do we really trust that? Like not saying it's not good and like no knock on them, but like where are you getting it from? Is it legit? You know, there's some and then you run into, well, how do I carve you up on it? Is there what's your hydration status on it? Like what's it doing long term to you? Are you taking the dose that we're actually telling you to take or are you doubling it? Like there's so much because like doubling that is a lot more like stuff that comes with it than you just thinking, oh, I just need a little more because I want to be better. But I think this falls. It's not a drug to abuse. Right. It's not a drug to because, IMean, we all see it, man, like an athlete where you say, hey, let's take 60 clen and they decide 120 is what they really need to do. Right. Or whatever. And you figure that out after the fact. Like there's always going to be those people that see this as like an extremism, especially from a drug application. Like this is not a drug that you are like, oh, we're doinGHalf a milligram twice a week. Let me start on two twice a week. Right. Like there's a lot of and everybody's we're seeing and as we're just having these conversations and some of them anecdotal, like everybody reacts much differently than the next. And just based on the conversations we've had with clients. So it's like we there's there's a lack of predictability within that. I don't want at six weeks out, we're throwing in an unpredictable variable and hoping and praying that's what's going to make us through. Right. At that point, we're picking a different show or we're doing anything else. But also say with no empathy, I just did six weeks of 40 grams votes and 75 minutes of stairs and no fats and just fucking did it. So just fucking do it. Like this is what we signed up for. Yeah, I think there's. To play devil's advocate a bit here, like there's certainly use cases where it fits. Right. And I think the better conversation to have around it is. You could have the conversation about how it works. Don and I have done conversations around that on the university podcast. You guys can go check that out. We can talk mechanistically, all that kind of stuff. But let's like talk use case scenarios. So my brain and those of you guys who listen and I'm in level one, you guys have seen my flow charts like this, where you start with the decision making and you kind of move down and find where you go. Right. It's not very high on the flow chart of the decision making, in my opinion. I think I would almost drop like SLUPP and MOTC in this conversation as well as like where it fits in the flow chart is like. We're using this in cases where we're going to have problems managing the client and we're getting the client in full content shape. And like there is potential where I think this fits very well in female categories. We have a lot of categories in females where there is weight loss resistance. A lot of the weight loss resistance comes from issues with just like managing the hormone profile kind of throughout. We talked about this on the team call. Like most females go through a period of time and they'recompeting where they have menstrual cycles, but they're not ovulatory. Progesterone drops. They have low tests. Estrogen a lot of times will kind of stay where it was or slightly lower. And so they're kind of like biased into slight estrogen dominance. Can that can be an issue, which needs to be fixed on the hormone profile. This then predisposes them to having issues within contest prep. And so those preps that are brutal is where this really fits. And like I think it makes a lot of sense. We have predisposition to have issues getting body fat off of a specific body part that's key for the class. And we have a prep that's going to be 900 cals and 90 minutes cardio. It's like, yeah, like let's absolutely use a tool like this to make this as manageable as possible. But that's where it fits. Right. Like I think that's kind of where it's like. Arguably, and this comes back to how we run coaching is like if you do your homework, you build the timeline and you sequence the timeline and phases into the contest prep appropriately. You've got all the tools you probably need to get someone in contest shape without this. Right. That doesn't mean you can't use it. I just. Some people are going to have GI distress. There's going to be nausea bloating. The same with this GI distress comes with changes and looks change with electrolyte shifts. We're going to have kind of adjustments there. So we're going to need to be starting this far enough out where that's not affecting the visual. So, IMean, there's there's a lot to consider on the short term acute side effects long and then also long term. Like nobody talks about the long term potential of like, where's that data? So, yeah, I think there's a lot to consider. But let's let's throw the long term risk out of the equation because it's bodybuilding and there's a select group that will do whatever it takes. Right. Even then, it's pretty low down the decision tree of like where it fits, in my opinion. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, it's just that niche category. And you make a good point. I got a girl. She decided three weeks out she didn't want to be natural anymore. But like, that's not my time to add anivore in because I don't know because I don't know what it does. Right. But like, OK, sure. We want to try some clen. Sure. We'll try that. You know, but that's again, it's just because IMean, realistically, we are kind of the clinical trial, like without the clinic overseeing it. So, you know, we're doing it right. Like we're the first human trials. Right. So we're open to I think that it's not even a problem I have with the the handicap I get stuck with is clients who are coming to me already purchased it and they already are like mixing it and ready to take it. And that's where it's like, oh, OK, because like I'm very good at driving my car. I can drive my car very fast. If I go hop in your car, I have to get used to that. You know, like it's different. Like it's the same thing. I don't know. I've never driven with this thing in before. So let me feel it out first. That's kind of my take on. Yeah, it's going to be useful in some cases. I think there's a lot of challenging perhaps that will actually make it now with these tools and it'll be something to use. I just I really hesitate with. There's two cases that I strongly disagree with. It's it's use case across the majority of bodybuilders. I think that's a fallacy and not necessary. And then some of the conversations around potential year round use, it's like like, yeah, that's why I can't comprehend it is year round usage. Yeah, I get it. I get like some people claim it for like insulin sensitivity and body composition management. I had to break it to you, buddy. You know what does that to you? Cardiovascular activity, appearance to your diet and actually running an offseason phase that looks like a contest prep instead of eating like an asshole. Yeah. But that's not as sexy. Luke, that's not as fun. Yeah, because it's not a like, don't think you can take this and get away with like cheat meals. Like it's not like an Involcana or a Metformin type. It's not that like you don't just shit it all out. In fact, you actually you actually do the opposite. You hold on to like much longer. So, yeah, I do think it's it's cool to see the bodybuilding industry coming out with new stuff. Yeah, absolutely. Right. And much advanced. Just like how 10 years ago, like, you know, we were all doing 700 trens, 700 mass, like 700 pro. And now we've changed and we've gotten smarter. So I do. I'm with you, Luke. I think there is a place. It's just we're still figuring out where that place is. Yeah, yeah. I just everything's over sensationalized. Right. Like I put up a post about peptides like a couple months back and y'all thought I killed the Pope. Like. It was like, guys, just like think critically about this for one second. Like, here's the data. Here's my thoughts on it. If I change my thoughts on it, I'll come back and visit it. Like, it is OK to change your mind on something. Like, I don't know where we got this idea of like once an opinion shared, like that's it. But like. I have I look at my past stuff and some of the stuff that I've said in the past and I'm like, Jesus Christ, where were you? And like, like, you know, IMean, it's just it's just part of it. Like you evolve. Yeah. What are you guys' thoughts on a coach not going backstage with clients? Well, with a $350 coach is passing USA is like. Yeah. You paying like you buying, bro? Like, that's my question. There's a regional show that's charging that much for. Sure. So there's a difference. And so I'll say this. I feel like I can speak on this. I'm a pretty damn good coach. I see a lot of coaches backstage pumping their athletes up for an hour. Like, you know, trying to get visuals every five minutes, trying to look like they're busy. Oh, man. Once they're backstage, it's it's it is what it is. Like, as long as they kind of know how to pump up, like you're you're reaching for the stars at that point. You're trying to just look cool at that point. You're trying to you got your photographer there. You got your coach on the back of your T-shirt and you're doing whatever. Like the job's finished, man. And there's no greater feeling than being like first, second row of the feet cross, just chilling out in the audience. Just know when your athletes are about to rock this shit. I don't have to go back there 17 times. Now, where it is beneficial is if an athlete like emotionally they stress, they panic, whatever, you know, absolutely. And if we can be back there by all means. But I wouldn't say it's like it should be expected. Your coaches backstage as long as they're checking in on you. Like Chris at y'all show, I had what, five of y'all? And I'm like, you know, hey, all right. Once this division goes, hey, come up, come meet me over the side. I'm going to take a look at you. All right, you're good to go. Yeah, here's let's stick to the plan once, maybe twice during the prejudging as long as the show doesn't go on for seven hours. But for the most part, man, like it's it's pretty much done at that point. But if you ask your coach, here's the thing, because I've had coaches. I've had clients come to me. I offered to pay for my coach to come to the show. I bought him a backstage pass and he just ticked off. That's where I'm and I'm bothered about. So like if you set that up, like, hey, you said you'd be here. I got you the ticket and then they don't come. That's that's not cool. Did I already feel bad, like asking my clients to pay for any of my shit? You know, like, why would you not like why would you be there? You know, and I work with a lot of first timers. So like I like to be backstage. Which again, it goes back to like my my history. And this is an athlete like my first coach. And it is what it is. Like, I don't have any hard feelings towards it. But like ghosted me on peak week, dropped off a bag of Lasix at my doorstep and told me to Google how to use them and then misprejudging. Right. And so, like, I didn't know shit for fuck about what I was supposed to do on my peak week or show day or whatever. And so for me, I don't want my first timers to have an experience where they feel like they're on an island or they don't have me in their corner. So generally, I always get a backstage pass. But to the same logic, dude, I'm looking at them like twice. Just right where we need to be. Like, I could do this at home. I could do this anywhere else. Right. But it's just more to make sure that if they have that moment of panic or when the expediters are telling them to go get their glaze and get ready right now. And we still have 45 minutes like I can be there just like, hey, dude, we're good. Like, let's just breathe, relax and keep it pushing. That's the value of stage pass to me is the timing of the show. So they don't start pumping up too soon. You can make sure the glaze is good because not everybody's good, which God bless the protein girls, by the way, the protein girls in Texas. They know me from a mile away. There's one guy on the team, like he'll see me walk in the venue and he'll be like, everyone get the glaze. Like as soon as I walk in, because like most of my guys and girls come in like really good content shape. And so it really pays to have a solid pace to make a tan kind of contrast and the lights. So I'm really picky about that stuff. That's where I think the backstage pass pays for itself if the client's willing to pay for it is the small details of like how fast is the show going, the glaze, that kind of stuff. But man, it's not necessary. Like unless you have a high anxiety athlete where your presence really calms them, like it's just not like it's it's really not. Yeah. And I like what. And so a lot of times, like most athletes, they'll keep their phone on them. And like if I'm there, I'm watchinGHow fast the show is going. And I've already I've already let them know, hey, when this class goes, that's when you pump. That's. Yeah. Yeah. And how hard is it to walk to the edge of the curtain to get a quick look if you need to get a quick look? Like, IMean, it's like steps from backstage to the door that lets you in backstage most of the time. Like, come on. Yeah. It's yeah, it's definitely nice. But for me as a coach, I like that separation of church and state. Like I like when I come to look at you, it's like, oh, we're we'rEQuiet. The principles in the room like I need hands on deck. And then I leave and then you can kind of get back to like, OK, now I'm going to chill with the team and all that. Like, whatever. Like, I don't I don't need us to hang out and be giggling. Dude, my two best friends competed and I wasn't giggling with them at all on stage. Like, it's it's business. Right. And sometimes I think like like we're not there to hang out. Like we're there to get a job done. Then we get done. We hug. We come by. We take pictures and all that. But like I'm very business mode during during prejudging. I'm going to send your next athlete with one of those bongo drums. Yeah. Yeah. That's good vibes for Alex. Yeah. What were the dumbest things that you guys did early in your bodybuilding careers? Deadlift drop sets. Build character. That was fun. Build character. Oh, probably just like the amount of drugs. Like just for just because you're just told that's what it takes. Like, you know, you're just you're told that and not not like managing my blood pressure, not looking at my blood pressure. That, you know. Yeah. Because you got to think when we like look at me and you started 2013. That was 12 years ago. It was very not. IMean, like taking blood pressure medicine was like, I'm not fat. I'm not over. Like, what are you talking about? It wasn't a thing. But like now, like, you know, so much more. So, yeah, that's probably where I went wrong was just I didn't have any insurance in play. Like other than this is the cycle. Drinking egg whites, drinking whole eggs. I'd put this up there. Yeah. I think drinking caffeine at like pre-workout at like eight o'clock at night. You know. German idiocracy. Yes. German volume trening. trening seven days a week. I'd say those are probably some of the dumber things that I was doing consistently. Yeah. There's a lot. I think a lot of how we got here and like, I know it's why I'm good at making calls as coaches. I've done like what not to do. I'm about to say that. I'm about to say that. I'm about to say that. I'm about to say that. I'm about to say that. People know me from like the trening stuff I put out quite a bit or like me nerding out. I'm like, y'all, you do not know one, the amount of times I've lost sleep over like trening patterns. But two, the dumb shit that I did in a gym setting that made me learn this quick. Yeah. It's crazy. Yeah, dude. I think that's, you have to go through that though. And almost like, let me ask you this thing too. Would, would it benefit you or not benefit you? Would you've rather, if you could go back to day one and just miraculously hired like a you, right? As a coach or would you rather gone through the shit of trying to trial and error and learn through however many years it was before you hired a coach? Hmm. Hmm. I just got a really dumb question. Um, what was thEQuestion? I think so I hired early. Mm hmm. So I think I would stay with that. Cause I think honestly, like the reason I was so passionate about learning every single little detail about how I can get better was because I knew pretty quickly that I wasn't Tyler. Tyler, for example, Tyler needs a client of Alex is like 26 and 275 right now, not 280, whatever he is. Like I wasn't that right. Like I was 140 pounds soaking wet when I started bodybuilding. So like it was, it was not my calling necessarily from like a competitive standpoint, but it's served me well. And like what I do as a career. Yeah. ThEQuestion Alex was if you went back to day one, started bodybuilding, would you rather have just miraculously found like a you as a coach, like current you, or would you rather gone through the thick of trial and error for however many years before you actually chose to hire a coach? No, so I did. I worked with a great coach when I left him for like two shows is when I got the most aggressive. And then I went back to him for my best look, but as he learned, I learned too. He taught me a lot of even what I do somehow to this day. So yeah, I'm glad I found him. And yeah, it's just, it's, it was just at that time, man, like, you know, 2011, 2012, 2013, like we were like Mike Horn. You remember him from Alabama. IMean, he was doing the whole eggs and every meal thing. And we thought that that was the trick. Cause like, he's the big, he's the big pro in the state. So like where the sport has came in the last 13 years, like we all got better. It wasn't like, there was no Jew at 13 years ago. Jew was doing what we were doing 13, you know, like there wasn't. And so, yeah, I, I obviously, yeah. I tell you guys like my clients now, but man, I wish I had a meme, but in all honesty, like I did at that time. I like that. How, this was a question that we got. How do you balancEQuestioning your coach versus wanting knowledge? As far as like, I guess the verbiage or approach to asking questions. Those are. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's a fine. It's not, it's a fine line, but it's not right. I feel like. I should have explained to you enough as to what we're doing or like why we're doing it, that there's not a lot of questioning. Like you at least understand the direction going at the same time. I don't have time to give you a J3 level one course. Right. Like that's, that's not, that's not my job. You're, you're paying me to do not to teach. However, I'm going to educate you as much as I need to, to where you understand. So I'm not leading you blind. I think a lot of this questions getting where, or where I see stuff is people come to us and like, well, my friend says this, my coach told me this recently. And you're like, you know, before you, I did this and we're having to like, correct a lot of errors that aren't even errors from us. It's like kind of PTSD from previous things or insecurities are getting from other people. And that's where it's like, Hey, you have to trust, like you're paying us for a reason. And the reason you left that coach is because they weren't doing good. So like, yeah, we are going to do things different. And so it's, I think a lot of it is in the, how you word it and how you bring it up in conversation. Not just, well, I was, you know, four pounds lighter last year with so-and-so, like, are we behind? Like, no, it's just like, that's my time as coach to explain and inform. You can't keep looking back at like what you did because here we are right now. Yeah. I, the person in the circle group thing, that's my pet peeve. Like, I lovEQuestions. Like I even have a second on my check-in form. It's like, drop threEQuestions here if you need them. I coach a lot of coaches. So like, they want to know things, right? Like, and I'm fine with it. So it's, it's something that I, I actually enjoy it answering people's questions. But that's where I, that's where I kind of like, think that's extremely disrespectful. It's like, I did this in the past or my friend says I look ready or my whatever, like, you know, whatever it is, or it's just like, they're there in their role and not coaching you. Because they aren't me. So let me do my job and just ignore everyone else. Like, if you got a question and you think something would work, talk to me. Don't talk to anyone else. Like, that's just, it's, it's just. They, people don't realize that coaches are always thinking like four steps ahead. So like, IMight be doing something because I want to pull a lever here, like the following week or another lever in two weeks. So it's like, you start like, ah, just that's my, that's an unbelievable pet peeve. Like, just save, save the opinions. Like, I don't need to hear them. Yeah. If you did, you would just go to that friend. You know what IMean? Let's again, it's like someone said, I'd go to Tyler or Sandy. Yeah. My opinion, Tyler, Sandy's or Steve's are the only opinion I care about. Yeah. Yeah. And again, it's the same logic is like, at some point you saw value and what one of us is offering as a coach, whether it's through our show wins or trensformations, whatever. And you said, I'm going to pay them my dollars for them to tell me what to do. And I'm going to listen to them. And then you sign up with them. And then, well, my buddy said, I'm like, why didn't you hire your buddy? Yeah. I noticed it a lot too. Like when you get into the drug realm and stuff like that, it's like, because you get so many people who are locked in on, oh, I love the DECA-500 and the super test 450. Like, and I don't mean this disrespectful, but oftentimes they don't have the biology or the anatomy and physiology background of education where I can even begin to explain why that like, it's not ideal. And so like, I have to really like invest in, like, I have to pay, I have to go back like seven steps just to get back to like, why the Esther I don't like, or the peaks and valleys of a testosterone, like all this stuff. And it's like, dude, if you just trust, like, if you just trust me, I got it. Right. And so that's, that's where a lot of like the, and again, it's understandable because like, hey, I've done it this one way this whole time. But like, sometimes it's just a difference in education that I don't have time to teach you. But like it says at the same time, like, I want to teach you. I want to tell you, hey, yeah, like, Masteron isn't the reason your hair is falling and we'll go into why. Right. Like there's, um, so there's parts of all that, but I think if you just deliver it respectfully and from a, a voice of wanting to understand and not questioning, that's the route to go for sure. Yeah. How do you deal with clients who are lying about following the plan? You don't. Cut them. Um, IMade this comment the other week. I was like, God, I love peak weeks. Cause it's finally when I find out what the fuck y'all are doing, like all the little thing. Oh, well, you know, actually coach for me when I've been doing this instead of this. Oh yeah. That's the best. They're like coming forward to you with the, you know what? I know you had this, but I've actually been doing X, Y, Z. It's like, yeah. And it's like, okay, so we're four days out. Thank you. And again, it's probably not that big of a deal, but it's like, that that's just not what we were doing. Right. And so the truth always comes out. Like, we're going to see it in your physique. The other day, like you lying to us is it's disservice and cheating yourself. It's not like, like I tell people on my consultation calls when I first meet them, Hey, I don't care if you go park at a buffet for 24 hours. Tell me like I can fix, I can't fix that, but I can mitigate, I can mitigate what to do next rather than like me just guessing what's wrong. And that's the thing is like, if, if you're not telling me what's wrong, I'm assuming I need to fix my plan. But in reality, me fixing my plan doesn't do anything because it's like, well, didn't even follow it. So why would I need to change it? And a lot of those times as clients just weed themselves out, like they, they don't last. Right. Um, you'll, you'll have some, like, there'll be all giggly after show like, Hey, well, I was actually doing this instead. And it's like, okay, cool. Like, do you feel good now? Like, cause you, you might've won and you gotten away with it, but what if you lost? What if you lost? And that always sat in my head is like, man, I knew I shouldn't have eaten that extra a hundred grams of rye or, you know, like it's, it's not if you win and you get to giggle and get away with it. It's, it's what if you lost? Yeah. And that would drive me up a lot. Yeah. I usually, um, I had one this year, which I won't get into like too many specifics with it, but again, like thermodynamics don't lie. And we've done this long enough. Like if I have you in a calorie deficit and you're gaining weight, clearly you're doing something wrong and you're not in a deficit at that point. Right. And, um, usually like I'll sit back, I'll ask questions and kind of see if they'll, they'll open up because I tell everybody the same thing. Like I'm the last person to judge. I'm also all of this, the relationship of coaching a client has to involve trust, right? There has to be vulnerability and a safe space there. And that does take time to develop and requires communication. But ultimately I say this verbatim to everybody, you can get away with murder and I will help you bury the body as long as you talk to me. Cause then we can solve something, right? Like much like a dog, I can't know something's wrong unless you tell me. So you just got to tell me and just bite the bullet. And it's not fun, but it's also, you shouldn't cheat on the plan. Right. Because I am, this is symbiotic. My success is relying on your success and I'm putting a stamp on you and you're putting a stamp on me. We're representing each other. So I need that. I need to be able to rely on you and vice versa. And I'll sit back and watch, especially if they don't give me the full truth. Cause I'm not going to sit there and be accusatory. I'm just going to sit back and watch. And then when I noticed something, they post something. I'll take a screenshot and say that just wait, you know, and we'll just collect a little bit more odds and ends or whatever. And I won't make it a conversation or an uncomfortable one until the conversation becomes, Hey, the plan's not working anymore. And then I go, now I have something to talk to you about. And here's all the proof. So do you want to talk? I've been through it a couple of times, right? Like I had one years ago. I'll tell this story because I don't, I don't work with the kid anymore. He was losing, you know, three, four pounds a week, pretty consistently for like eight or nine weeks. And then he started stalling and then inevitably started to gain weight. And he did the same thing. He comes to me, Hey, your plan's not working anymore. I'm sorry. Let's hop on a call and we can kind of talk through it and see what's going on. And so I'm just going through the list of everything that I think it could be. And finally I get to condiments. And I was like, have you swapped your condiments out recently? And he's like, yeah. And I was like, well, what were you doing before? And he's like, I was using like mustard, sugar-free ketchup. And I was like, okay, what are you using now? Ranch. I said, I said, okay. I was like, do you care to like send me a picture of your next meal? Like how much ranch you're using? And it was just straight up hidden Valley ranch dressing. Dude, it was like four or five tablespoons a meal, like four times a day. And I was like, one, that's rancid. Like that's so much ranch. It was like a bottle a week is when I did the math. That's like 4,300 calories. And so I explained that to him. I was like, dude, you're eating 4,300 calories of mayonnaise a week. That's why you're not losing weight anymore. So let's pull that out. And we pulled it out and they start dropping weight again. Right. So it's like, that was, that one was an easy fix. Right. But then you have certain people who are like, even when you, and this is the other thing I'll tell people too, is I've also learned when you ask and they do tell, it's like 40% of the truth. It's like, oh, I've had a couple of rice cakes. Okay. But how'd you gain three pounds off of two rice cakes? It's like, well, I had a pizza. Well, I had this. Well, I got that. I'm like, okay. So now we're actually getting the full scope of the, the fuckery. And then we just got to figure it out. And that's uncomfortable. But it's like, if you would have just been straight up with me up front, if you come to me in a place of vulnerability, like I'm always going to lead with respect. Hey man, I fucked up. Okay, cool. Let's talk about it. What's going on versus if I have to catch you in it, it's not going to be fun because we've wasted time between when it happened and in that moment, like there could have been a solution provided and we could be back on track by that point. You also have a responsibility to coach to focus on the solution. I think like in, in prep, it's not the time to have the sit down. I'm a, I'm a big advocate of like, okay, I hate this happen. Forget about it. I need you to do this. Like I'm a big ride the midline guy. Like, like your emotional state should not change too much in the process until like the process pays off. Like, it's like, okay, you made a mistake. Forget about it. We're going to do this to keep moving forward. And I need you to just focus and execute. And that's how you get someone kind of back on track. In my opinion, like the more you blow it up as a coach, the more they're going to be like. Yeah. And it makes them check out even more. And I will say that's the beauty of Instagram is like, I'll catch people posting their meals, their coffee orders. You start seeing a lot of like the extras that go in. So like every meal has a sugar-free This or a energy drink. Like you notice every meal that posts is energy drink and a diet Coke in the background. It's like, okay. Like you start to get an idea of what they're really doing. And eventually you can kind of mitigate it. Eventually you've learned your clients enough. You already know what they're going to cheat with. So like, like you, like I think Chris would ever go off plan. I already know what he, what I would do to like fix it and mitigate it. Like I, you learn Austin, same thing, Neely, same thing. You know, like they're little, like not, they do it in a prep setting, but like, you know what they would like do, but you just know them. And so, or sometimes it's the opposite. Sometimes they do more and you're like, I know they're doing more. I'm not going to talk about it. I'm just going to, I'm just going to make my plan accordingly. You know? Yeah. I think, I think all you have to do is give Chris banana nut bread, MRE light and some oatmeal and he'll just be happy. Yes. Mouth for sure. Yeah. I never seen, I never seen someone look so lovingly at food as that day that we were in the hotel room. He was making that. And dude, that's a good point. Cause you can see also how they're like their demeanor. You can know when someone's happy and fed and you can know when someone's. Yep. Completely different verbiage. Yeah. So you're, you're good, man. But, um, I think that about wraps up today, right? It's about. Yeah. That was the last one. Or no, we got when, if you guys want to touch on it, when can people start calling themselves a bodybuilder? Oh, I'm indifferent on this. I am a bit indifferent on this too. I think if you're pursuing it competitively, good. It's all a process and a journey. Like I think, I think really when we think about it and I think this is where like the identity conversation comes in is like, what do you gain from bodybuilding? Is it really being a bodybuilder or is it the things that it teaches you? Right. For me, it's the things that teaches, it teaches you. Um, so if you want to call yourself that, that's great. Just like hold yourself to that standard and execute. Like, that's fine. And just know that you're a long ways. Like I have a kid, Xavier just turned 21, never stepped on stage. He's more of a bodybuilder than 90% of the people in the J3 coaching team. Yeah. Yeah. And well, Luke, I'm almost a brown belt, so calm down. Um, but, um, but with that being said though, like, yeah, there's not a, I think about it as like, when am I in a scenario where I need to tell somebody on the body? Yeah. I think I want to get to a point where they look at me, which I never really got to it. Um, uh, it would be like, what do you do? And then they'd ask what division and I'd want to go kill myself. Um, but mostly it was like, do I play football or do, am I a wrestler? Right. Um, but I feel like you should get to the point where like, do you compete? You're a bodybuilder. Like I shouldn't have to introduce myself. Oh yeah. I'm a bodybuilder. Like you should, it should just kind of be understood. But yeah, like if you want to, like, if you're at show and tell for somebody and you got to tell them what you do, like, yeah, if you're eating, if you're eating your meals and you're trening, like, yeah, I'm a bodybuilder. Um, love it. I think it's a good way to put it. It shouldn't necessarily have to be like, so outwardly self-proclaimed because again, to the point, like we were talking about the account and stuff earlier, most people don't care like outside of this. Like when I worked in jewelry, nobody could have given a shit less that I was a bodybuilder. You know, I just generally am like, yeah, I compete. I've won some shows and that's as usually as far as the conversation needs to go. Um, but I think just whenever, like, I think if you, if you fundamentally check the boxes and this is something you're aspiring to do, you can call yourself one, but you just got to be about it. Like, I don't know if you can follow a diet for six months and tren consistently for a couple of years. And you look the part, like the thing is, if you can look at yourself objectively in normal clothes and look at yourself and go, could somebody tell I work out? Let's start there. Yeah. And then go beyond that for sure. Um, I think it's got anything else, gentlemen. That's a wrap. That's a good first episode. Sorry for the delay to our current listeners. Um, we are back now and for our new list on the J3 platform, welcome. Um, to kind of summarize, if you've made it this far, um, we are the after hours, we are kind of the, you know, kind of free range to talk about whatever, like the more day-to-day stuff as coaches and athletes, rather than just like the X's and O's. So y'all ever have any questions, just send them over, DM us, comment below. Yeah. Yeah. Well, until next time, thank you for listening to J3U After Hours.