 All righty, all righty, everyone, welcome back to episode two of J3U after hours. I'm one of your hosts, Chris Perry, alongside Alex, Alex, Alex, and our special guest, Ireland's first Olympian. One would describe him as having the widest teeth in the IFBB. Darren, how are you doing today, man? I'm good, man. Thank you for the instruction. Good. I'm just out of bed. So IMight be a little slower. Yeah, what, uh, let me, I'm just curious. The, geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez So I started in Ireland and IMoved to London when IMet my nephew. And we were together, our relationship was getting pretty serious. And then we were kind of looking at things. We just didn't see a future for ourselves there. So we thought, why not try going somewhere? The plan was to come here for like two years, just earn a lot of money and then go back. But we're here, what, nearly 10 years later. Oh man, you've been there 10 years. Yeah. I'm here long before the hype of us. Okay. Okay. Dude, that's awesome. So when did you turn pro? I turned pro in 2019. Wow. Man, doing it. Yeah, it's funny, man. Because like, we'll be talking and stuff. And then I'm like, why doesn't the Olympian answer? You know, like, why are we? Yeah. Where are we? Who the fuck am I? Yeah, 2019. In New Zealand, I will actually. Man, that's wild. Yeah, it's cool, man. Because like, you're so humble about like this, like all together. You're a killer coach. Like, you're a badass coach. But then also like, as an athlete, you're a killer athlete too. It's like, but like, just talking to you, you never, you never treat us any different. You're never talking to you. You're just like, yeah, man, I'm, I'm just here like you guys. Like, it's cool, man. I think for me, my, my attitude towards it's very different to a lot of people. Because I came up, like, I started bodybuilding off the back of playing professional sport. And it was just something I needed to do. It wasn't something. And in Ireland at the time, we had, there wasn't no such thing as a pro card. You know, there wasn't a show you could turn pro. And so it wasn't a thought. So I just bodybuilded to do it. That's the way I've always done it, you know. Even as I got better at it, I've always been, I got better at being a coach before I got as a bodybuilder. You know, so I was coaching more seriously than I was competing. And so I would always consider myself kind of a coach first. So I bodybuild because I enjoy it. Not because I strive to go to the Olympia or anything. IMean, you just, you've been to the Olympia. Don't get me wrong. It's nice. It's cool to have done. But it's, it was never my goal. Yeah. Yeah. That it, I think that explains a lot. That explains a lot. Like, cause you're, I think that explains a lot. Cause you're such a good coach, but like you're, now we get coaches. They come about and they want to be like, they strive for it. Or the athletes will like taper off cause they're not a good athlete and become a coach. But you're like, no, I was a coach first. And then, you know, I just happened to also be a good athlete. Yeah. I was like, underneath it all, I'm a bit of a nerd. So my love for this kind of came, you know, I started getting into it often, like I said, off the back of sport. When I got injured, I was rehabbing, got into the gym, kind of fell in love with it. At the time I was doing, finishing my master's in business. And I was like, it's good. And I don't want to go to work. So I'm going to do another master's. So I did a master's in nutrition and just fell in love with that side of things and just opposed with my passion. Have you found struggle as being as high of an athlete and coach as you are? Have you found struggle in trying to find the balance between the two, especially when you're deep in prep? No. At the Olympia, I actually coached one of my competitors. That's so cool. I definitely think I'm probably the first to have done that. I think so. Yeah. That's great. So tell us about it. Who was it? Like, who was the athlete? Josh Easton. He came to me about a year to 18 months prior. As an amateur, he had been sort of placing okay in classes but not winning or getting to overalls or anything. But I'm a wicked athlete and a really good guy. Like a workhorse. One of these guys just killed it in the gym, like crazy strong. Yes, I started working with him and we got into prep and he was, his issue always was a bit of lack of belief. So that was the main thing was like tellinGHim he could do it and making sure he was head was screwed on. Did our first show, did a regional show, which you need to do in Europe to do a pro qualifier. He did that. Won the overall. And then the judge, the head judge from the show told him he needs to improve a hell of a lot if he wants to win a pro card. And then two weeks later we went to Finland. He was one of both. I think it was Finland. And we won his pro card and later won the pro show. Literally in an hour we went from amateur to Olympian. And then, yeah, we both threw out to Vegas. It was tiring, but Joe and I was actually the best thing because my mind was on him. I was just taking the boxes I needed to do. That's why we always say every coach, you have a coach. If you're an athlete and you're a coach, don't coach yourself. Because then, yeah, I imagine it would be pretty damn hard. But I didn't have to think about it myself. So, yeah. Man, that's awful. What a story, too. Because, like, that's so – that just doesn't happen. And one thing that, like, blows my mind, because here in the States, like, it's – I hear about, like, you people – like, I've got a couple clients overseas, like, in Europe. And they're like, oh, I'm in Switzerland, but I'll just hop over to Poland or I'll just hop over. They're, like, hopping countries. And, like, in my head I'm like, where – like, that's right. You can go do that? Yeah, it's just, like, two or three hours. Like, but to us, that'd be, like, us going to, like, a whole different state, you know. So it's just funny. It's funny hearing that. Yeah, but they can hop countries and be therEQuicker than, like, someone having to travel in-state America. Yeah, yeah. That's the difference. We're having to hit, like, two or three flights just to get, you know, across the U.S. It's wild. Yeah. Hell, yeah. Well, dude, and then you're – so coming to J3U, you were hired, like, right before – because, like, I know they have their little squad of coaches. And then I know you came and then I came, like, I think me and you, like, signed up together, basically, right? Yeah, I'm pretty sure I did my – we were on board at, like, the exact same time you and me. Yeah, yeah, yeah, which was super cool, but that, like, what – how did that, like, what linked you up with that? Like, I knew you met Luke, but then, too, like, what do you feel like it's done for you since, like, you've joined on? Because, like, we'll answer this, too. Listen, I've always been a huge advocate of J3 University. Like I said, I'm sort of one of these people. Like, I get interested in something and I just keep going and doing things to get better at it. And, like, one thing I do is every year I invest a certain amount of money into educating myself further through courses, be it on nutrition, biomechanics, anything like that. But J3, I've always said, has been the best one. Like, anyone who has worked with me and then will do the J3 courses themselves, you can see how my sort of philosophy is shaped mathematically. Not just from J3 University, but, like, from following John for years as well. So, yeah, I've known them both quite a long time. IMet John first in person in 2021. It was my first Olympia as a coach. I had two girls competing at the Olympia in 2021 in Florida. And we met there back at the gas house, I think, afterwards. And we were talking. And then I was doing the courses. Then met Luke and John together. And they came to Dubai to do a seminar. So, went to the seminar there and we got talking. And a little while later, John asked me to sort of, you know, be an advocate for J3 University, you know, talk about my experiences and, like, why I'm like and stuff like that. And then when the coaching launched, I just had a conversation with Luke. And I jumped at the opportunity to work alongside them and, you know, the other coaches here. You know, you're always going to get better. So, that was – and it definitely happened. I think it's leveled up a lot as a coach since joining J3U. Yeah. Dude, yeah, that's what I noticed too, man, is, like, it – you know, it's obviously like we get, you know, inquiries and stuff for coaching. But I think a lot of it was already kind of athlete to, like, kind of knew of me as a coach. It kind of just gave me the stamp of approval on, like, oh, like, okay, Alex is pretty good. Like, now I will go work with him type deal. And just kind of – then just, of course, learning along the way has been huge. Yeah, absolutely. I think definitely the stamp of approval, I think the biggest part is just, like, keeping it on your feet as well. Like, keeping you thinking and, you know, with, like, our – we're always having weekly calls and sort of being challenged in terms of, like, on scenarios and stuff like that. So, it just keeps you constantly taking over and in the loop rather than just, you know, stepping in your own lane. Yeah. Yeah. You want to get into thesEQuestions, boys? Yeah, dude. For sure. All right, Darren, I've got a couple for you that are not listed. You're not right or wrong answers, but there are. So, if you're going to a gas station and you've goT3 snacks to choose and one beverage, what are you getting and why? Macros don't count. Three snacks and one beverage. I'm doing an audible here because I'm definitely someone – I'm going to need two beverages. So, I'd go with, like – I'd go with something like a Dr. Pepper Zero and Monster. I'm probably going to go with Whistler's. Okay. Yeah. I'm a jellies person. Then some form of sweets, like, jelly sweets. I don't know. So, I'm trying to think of brands that are in America and not in the UK. Maybe, like, Swedish Fish or something. I'm getting there. Yes, sir. Yeah, I don't know. I'm not much of a chocolate person or anything, so there's not going to be one. Yeah, I don't realize we have, like, the shit of the shit junk food here. Like, we do it. Yeah. Dude, I saw the Cinnamon Toast Crunch Bacon collaboration. I was like, yeah, no wonder there's an obesity crisis in this country. I'm concerned. Way too much. What is both you guys – well, I'll answer it, obviously. But what – the best backstage what-the-fuck moment that you've witnessed as a coach or as an athlete? The Olympia. No, no, not one of the athletes. It's Shaq. Oh, yeah. What, just how biGHe was? Yeah. Dude, I saw Brian Shaw. He was probably, like, five feet from me before walking to the stage with Arnold to do his – like, one of his lifts. And it was, like, is the largest human I've ever witnessed that close. It was – so, yeah, I could imagine Shaq. But just, yeah. Does that work? Actually, I think the biggest one was – it's not backstage, but it's registering on the show. We were registering for the Arnold. And I was – like, they'd got us to come up, and we were, like – I lifted my head, and it was just – Arnold was, like, stood one foot in front of me. I was, like, hi. And only that – only that Wentley was behind me. And Wentley was, like, oh, let me take a picture for you. I was, like, okay. Oh, dude, I would have been so scared. What – so, me and Chris, we play this game when we're at shows together. We look for, like, the dumbest – like, what dumb shit people are doing backstage. Like, like, carving up or alcohol or whatever. Like, what's some crazy stuff you've seen, like, overseas? Oh, there's – listen, I've got – I say this is the Donald thing, but I'm pretty sure this guy went on to win. I've seen a guy sitting there with a full-on McDonald's meal chomping it down before he went on stage. He had, like, a burger, fries to drink, the whole lot. Oh. I'm almost 30 actually won as well, so. So, I have one – this actually happened at Universe, like, a couple months ago. This guy who won one of the classic classes was – he offered my client, like, he had three different kinds of, like, jumbo bags of M&Ms. He had regular peanut and, like, one other flavor. And the dude was, like, nasty peeled, like, veins everywhere. But he was, like, housing them, like, for – like, the whole time backstage. And he just looked insane. And I was like, I don't – I was, like, trying to, like, come up with an excuse on why he could do it. And I was like, I don't know, man. That's crazy. That's, like, back – the – the – Arnold in 2024, the year that, like, Dino was, like, disappointing. He came out prejudging that, like, not very good. The one Wednesday won. Backstage for finals that night, he came back and he, like, laid down on the floor. He was a couple of feet away from me. And he – someone walked in with just bags and bags of, like, salt and vinegar crisps. And he was just sitting there just – just eating, eating, eating. And then they walked in with a – with a 12 box of Krispy Kremes. And he's just sitting there just eating and eating and eating. Mate, he stood up and pumped up. And it was just, like, a different human. Yeah. It's – it's stuff like that, man, that, like, we have no way around telling our clients how that's not going to work for them. The only way is to go, trust me, it's not going to work for you. Let's not gamble on this one because – Because, dude, I was, like, we've all seen it. We've seen the freaks, like, do some – like, Chris, we've seen what? Marshmallow Fluff. Oh, dude. Marshmallow Fluff. I've seen a whole cheesecake backstage. I've seen a cheese pizza backstage. I've seen every candy under the sun. I saw a dude house a six-pack of Costco muffins. It's, like, 4,500 calories. I've seen Milo's Sweet Tea. I saw a dude, like – IMean, he was for sure blackout. He had – he drank a bottle of wine, like, between pre-judging and finals. I've known of somebody to roll, like, to take an ecstasy tablet before. Well, I was going to say, I know – I know a former teammate was advised to take a Xanax the night before the show, and she slept through the entire show day. Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of – it's bad, man. But, like, that's one thing we run into, like, as coaches is there's – you'll have those one-off freaks who can get away with something. Yeah, just do anything. Yeah, and, man, I'm – They could have eaten absolutely nothing and still look like a freak on it. Yeah, yeah. And, dude, I've even dealt with it. Like, I've had two, like, bikini girls doing the same show. One of them's eating, like, French fries and some bison. Another one's eating, like, you know, rice cakes and some chicken. And I'm, like – I can't – like, there's a few reasons why I can't explain to you why you're not getting that. But, like, it's just people are totally different, right? Yeah. IMean, you could look at me and Austin's Peak, and they were not remotely the same. And we weighed almost like – Yeah, that was fun. I genuinely – so, I had let – it was the guy carving up, and I told you I'd let him, like, try the Redda stuff for, like, four – I think it was, like, four or five weeks. I just couldn't – Oh, yeah. IMean, I just couldn't get him full. And so, this kid, like, and he's a freak, you know, kid, and, like, his free meals, like – IMean, dude, I watched him. We were, like, six weeks out, and, like, I let him, like, go to town on some food. And it was, like, burgers and cheesecake. And literally, man, it's, like, Friday night, and I'm sitting there, like – I was, like, man, like, I'm genuinely wondering what flavor cheesecake you want right now. And he was, like – he was, like, man, you're freaking me out. I was, like, no, dude, like – I was, like, that's where we're at at this. Like, this is, like, how much this is driving me nuts that you're still not full, you know. But, yeah, it's crazy, man. But that goes – there's a question with some of the, like, off-the-wall stuff. That was Darren's question. I was, like, no, if we're going down on a question, you're coming with us. A hundred percent. Or I've seen two. I watched a guy one time. This was the other one. It was at, oh, Kentucky Derby in, like, 2019. This dude brought an entire weight set backstage. And I shit you not, he worked out for three hours. Like, he – it wasn't even pumping up. Like, dude worked out for three hours. And he – you would be surprised. There's always at least one backstage that's, like, just fucking pumping up for a minute. You're sitting there looking at them going, like, what are you doing? Well, dude, I hate that shit as a coach because then your people start getting antsy. Because, like, well, they're pumping up. I'm, like, they don't – they're two hours ahead of schedule. They don't need to. I'm just always, like, the path that's on before you, when they're lined up and going on stage, you can start pumping up. Until then, ignore whatever the hell the people backstage tell you. Yeah. Dude, it's bad. Yeah, I was going to ask, what's it like, like, trying to pump up for the Arnold or the Olympia? Like, because there's so many people. Like, do you – is it easy to time? The Arnold was easy because there wasn't too many of us. And they were, like, buying on schedule with everything they said. Like, they brought us to a back – the Arnold, they bring you to, like, a holding area. And then they bring you to a backstage area when it's time for you to go backstage. You're backstage with just, like, one class who's on the front of you. So you're – and they're, like, you're going to be on stage in 12 minutes. And it's, like, exact. The Olympia is, like, fucking shit show free for all. It's, like, there's, like, 60 of us backstage. And it's, like, the worst part of it is, is, you know, you have to go on and you do, like, your individual. Then you do group comparisons. And then you do call-ins. But if you imagine with 60 people all doing an individual, that's, like, 60 minutes. Yeah. So you pump up. You go on stage. You come back. You basically lie down for 30 minutes. And then you've got to go pump up again. Go on stage. It's, like, rejudging at the Olympia is, like, two hours. I never even thought of that. Like, I think about it at nationals. But, like, it's never 60 deep, you know. Oh, that's good. Do you think they need to limit how many competitors there are? It's hard when you go back and forth on that all the time. I think for the viewership of the show and thEQuality of the show, I think so. And then you're, like, I feel like maybe you're taking away from the athletes. You're taking away from the overall viewership of bodybuilding. Because you're basically saying, like, you either have to limit qualifications, which is going to limit the amount of people competing throughout the year. So I don't know. They do have to do something. Because it's a bit wild, like, if you ask them straight up, I'm going to say all day. If I can choose to do either one of them again, I'm doing the Arnold all day. Yeah. It's a way better experience as an athlete. Because, you know, there's not a presence of you there overall. So you're actually treated like an athlete. You're treated like an athlete. And you get your time and everything like that. Yeah. I've heard of them, like, contemplate. I've just heard people talking online. Like, you know, having, like, an elimination round before it gets to, like, you know, what's aired on TV or, you know, on the stream. It's like, hey, we're going to cap it at 20 people. You know, there may be 60 here. But, like, to get to the next phase, then we'll cap it at 20. And then the top 20 goes. Would that be something you'd be like, yeah, that makes more sense? It does. But it's not essentially all they're doing, except they're just going to add in a third round then, basically. Because they're going to go, oh, the day before pre-judging, we're going to have a pre-pre-judging and eliminate someone. Then we're going to do. But in the morning, they have pre-judging. And then by finals, that's only 10. Yeah, that's true. That is true. So that is essentially what they do. Yeah. Yeah, that's tough, man. If they're going to do the elimination, right, they're still going to sell tickets to that. So people are still going to do that. Yeah. Man, yeah, what a problem to have, right? We have so many athletes. I guess it's a good problem. What would you guys say, in your experiences, but also as a coach and witnessing it, are the biggest hurdles for athletes? Work, family, discipline? What do you think is the most prevalent obstacle that you guys see? All right. Before, I would have said work, but I think so many athletes we deal with now work within the industry mostly. I think people who, like now, I think people know they want to be a professional bodybuilder when they're like 20. So they set themselves up to be able to do it. So it's not like 10 years ago where people were working real estate and all sorts of different jobs and they were just bodybuilding on the side. Like, if you were to look through your client roster or clients who are, you know, actively wanting to be bodybuilders, I'd say like 70% of them work in the industry as well. So it's probably not a huge factor anymore. Yeah. I think a lot of what we're in that trensition period, and this is actually a good point. It was a good thing I was hesitant to ask, but I want to ask it. But I think we're out of the, like, I don't think we're out of the phase of like, everyone wants to be a coach. But now I see like posing coaches are like really like making their leap into this. And I'm indifferent on it. Like I used to, I used to really not like it. I used to have a bad taste in my mouth with it because there was just some local posing coaches who would like come grab my athletes who just won the overall post a picture and be like, shout out to my client. And it's like, well, like, like, what'd you do, man? Like, you just, you know, move, move their foot placing around. Like we were going to win anyway. But then I've also had some really good posing coaches come along and completely change my athletes' physiques. So, like, like I said, I'm indifferent on it. Like I can make an argument for why I like it. I can make an argument for why I don't like it. But what's your thoughts on it? Both of y'all. I like it. Listen, there's some really good posing coaches out there now. And I'm really looking for them. They definitely make a huge difference. Because, listen, I will help clients with posing and inviting, but I don't want to sit in a Zoom call for an hour. I just have zero passion for doing it on it. I'm good in person. If I'm with someone in person, I'm good. I will go over it. I'll enjoy it. But if I don't have, like, a passion for it, I'm not really going to be all there. So all to the guy who wants to do it. And there is guys there who love it. And there's a couple of coaches I work with who are amazing. And they're so passionate about it. But I think it's like anything. You have the ones who love doing it. And you also have the ones who are seeing it as an opportunity. Like you said, it's growinGHugely. And there's ones in there who are just seeing it as an opportunity to make money. And I see some of the stuff they do. And I'm like, dude, you don't even know what the poses are yourself. Yeah. Yeah. That's where I struggle with it. Because, like, I have some clients who are, like, posing coaches. And the first thing I say is I'm like, you better be able to pose. Like, I don't need to pick apart your posing and your check-in if you're going to now be a posing coach. Don't get me wrong as well. Like, maybe I'm just one of these people. I'm like, you can't be a posing coach if you haven't been on stage yourself. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think, like, anything, man, it goes back to, like, we – I think we are more cognizant of the bullshit. Right? Like, we can see because we've been in this long enough. And it's like we know who are actually up to snuff. Like, we obviously work with a select few posing coaches that we all trust for a reason. It's – I think it's when we see, like, the disingenuousness, like Alex said. Or you'll see, like – I've seen some posing coaches post, like, trensformations. But it's, like, the physique trensformation. You know what IMean? Where it's, like, them at the beginning of offseason or end of offseason to show day. And they're like, look what we did for posing. I'm like, well, no, you can't compare those because you also didn't get them not fat. You know what IMean? So then from – but the outside optics, it appears that they have taken them to the finish line. Right? Whereas if you look at the guys that we use or the ladies that we use as well, it's very – they make it very abundantly clear who their coach is and what they did. And there's, like, a dividing line of, like, what was actually contributed to the process. Yeah. I'm big on if I see any posing coach, a lot of the ones I'm going to use for players are the ones who are going to be, like, straight mandatory trensitions. If they're in there talking about all, like, fancy posing routines, I'm like, fuck out of here. Yeah. I said, unlike any of my clients, if it makes no difference to your end result, don't worry about it. Yeah, I remember asking – I remember sending you a DM, and I was like, hey, man, what is your thoughts on the favorite classic pose? Like, how important is it? Because, like, I'll have so many, like, up-and-coming classic guys come to me, and they're like, what do you think of this with a classic pose? What do you think of this? And I'm like, dude, your front relax sucks. Like, I don't care. Like, I don't care about your favorite classic. We're going to lose on the front relax, you know? Like, reality is, I think, in classic. I think the favorite classic pose only comes down as it matters if you're 50-50. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Reality, by the time you get there, it's, you know, you've won or lost, and it's not going to be the game changer. Unless, like, you're 50-50 with another guy between first and second, and your favorite classic, you know, whoever's better between the two. Like, think about it itself. How do you compare two totally different poses? Yeah. Yeah, and so I think all this goes back to, like, thEQuestion, like, what's an athlete's struggle with the most? I think, you know, outside of the job, I could say, like, they can afford to do the, you know, the prep and the eating and all that. Like, I think more of what we deal with is the mentality behind it. And not just the, like, IMean, the, not, because we deal with two different athletes, right? We have the ones who are, like, hypercritical, and then we have the ones that are delusional, and then we have the ones that are just there for, like, a good time. But, like, I think what stands true out of all of it, and we say this in jujitsu a lot, it's not about who's good. It's about who's left. And you see that, like, we've all coached some freaks. And, like, man, remember that guy? They did it for two years. Or, you know, you get a girl, and they did it a couple years, and they dominated, and they wander off. And then you have the ones who just, like, constantly are just, like, chipping away, chipping away, and chipping away. And they may be, like, pretty mediocre the whole time. But if they just kept chipping away at it, they may get a master's card in their 40s or 50s or whatever because they just didn't stop. And I think that, like, so the mindset behind it all, the people that we can take the furthest in the sport are the ones who love bodybuilding. But it's not about, like, and I think that's where we do a great job. Like, any, the athletes we get coming through the J3U portal is, like, they may have never competed before, but they are at least serious. And they're all, like, whenever coach says I'm ready, you know, they don't come in, like, oh, I'm going to go pro. Like, they're, like, no, like, whatever we need to do that works. But I think a lot of times we have to filter out as athletes, like, hey, what's your mentality with all this? Like, you take Instagram and TikTok away, would you still be bodybuilding? Like, if you had no supplement companies. And so I think just that mindset is what makes or breaks people. You know, again, outside, like, we're all going to be critical of ourselves. We're all going to be this, that, and the other. But I think just, like, do you truly love this sport is, like, the hurdle that we have to jump through the most. Something I talk to a lot of my companies about is, you know, the ones I talk to about that just love the process. And I'm like, listen, don't worry about anything. If you just love the process, you're going to do well. It's the same notion of, like, the man who loves to travel will go further than the man who loves the destination. Right? Like, we have to look at this process as, like, not outcome-oriented, right, but just, like, process-oriented. Because it's, we can't, we can't get to the end game. And again, too, the other thing with the sport, I think a lot of people don't realize that, like, one, none of us know what we're capable of until we've seen it to the end. And the end is not tomorrow. Right? Like, 12 years ago, I would have never thought I looked the way that I do today. And for most of those 12 years, I did not like how I looked. I just did the shit that I love doing. And this is the byproduct of it. So I always tell people that come to me, like, dude, unless you're willing to sacrifice for 10 years to start to see what you're about, don't go into this with the expectations of going pro or winning or whatever it may be. Like, it's the cart before the horse. So I think a lot of people struggle. Absolutely. I resonate a lot with that. It's not like, I've told my clients this all the time, the ones who are a bit like this, and they worry about the future of it. I'm like, listen, when I first started bodybuilding, I was 170 pounds. In 2018, I weighed 182 pounds and placed dead last in a qualifier. I couldn't even win my class at a qualifier show in 2018. And fast forward to 2022, and I'm 227 pounds on stage at the Olympia. So, yeah. And not once in there was I thinking about winning a pro card or going anywhere. It was just doing it. Yeah. Man, and that's where it's like my competition days are long behind me. But, like, even coming up, man, I just – I always told myself, like, my pinnacle was – I never thought of the Olympia. I was like, man, it'd be cool to get a first call out of North Americans. Like, that's kind of where my head was at. Like, and, you know, I think now – because we'll get asked a lot of people who go, hey, you know, what do you think my potential is? I'm like, well, if Nick Walker had asked us what his potential was to this first show, we would have been like, I don't know, bro. Like, go do something else. That's amazing. And Nick's my favorite bodybuilder out there outside of John. I love you, John. But, like, it's something that, like, you know, to see that, it's like you don't know. So, you can't – and that goes into the mindset and the mentality of it is, like, you can't put that pressure on your coach or on yourself to be like, well – because on the flip side, so many people are like, oh, hey, my buddy at the gym says I can go pro. And it's like, dude, you don't even – you can't even eat six meals a day. Like, so, you know, so it's like – it's like your damage you do, your damage you don't, right? But I think the biggest thing is, like, if you just keep at it long enough – you know, I was shit-talking a guy with one of my buddies. He's like, well, yeah, IMean, hell, the dude's going to keep doing it, you know, 10 more years. Eventually, he's probably going to go pro. And so it's like, well, yeah, like, if you just keep at it, like, even if you're not that good, eventually it's going to – it will come. Like, you know, it's the ones who stay in it for the long run. I think it's too – understanding the value system within this because we – I think social media, though, it's like obviously the duality of it's rather extreme. But I remember – so, like, my first show that I did, I just didn't want to lose. That was my only hope was that I, like, won True Novice. That was ideally the goal. I ended up winning it, and then that became, like, what everybody was talking about was, hey, you can go pro. So that became, like, the next – they made it seem like the pathway to entry was, like, right there. I was 21 years old. I was 189 pounds. But then social media really started to kick up when, like, Dallas McCarver went pro. I'm trying to think of any other names that come to mind, but, like, it was always the youngest IFBB pro. So then that was, like, implanted. And now I think we see a lot of that in the younger generation of it's, like, this attempt to speedrun a pro card and by 18, 19, 20 years old. And that's just not feasible, right? I just think it's a very illogical ideal to have that you have to get it by this certain age or therefore it's not cool. I'm like, dude, I don't give a shit if I get it at 28 or 38 at this point. I just want to get it. Yeah. Yeah. I think social media told, like, the great success stories and then everyone thinks that the reality is those guys turning pro 21 or the 1%. You know, you're like, these guys have elite genetics, like, elite genetics. The majority of you guys out there who are going to be successful in bodybuildinGHave good genetics and you need to put work along. It's like – and that takes years. Yeah. Dude, do you remember Cody Montgomery? Yeah. I looked up to him, like, he was, like – because we were, like, the same age just about. And I think he was, like, a couple years – maybe two years younger than me. But I just always saw him as, like, oh, like, that's it. That's the guy. And then now, like, you know, I don't know anything that happened in his life or where he is now. But, like, he was supposed to be the next, like, you know, Jay Cutler. And then it just goes to show, like, you burn that candle out too quick. It's like, well, okay, yeah, he was amazing. He had crazy genetics. But, like, the longevity just wasn't there for him for whatever reason. I also think there's a certain beauty to having to struggle or persevere to get something. It teaches you a grit. Like, in any sport, because I've been involved with so many sports, I've seen it from a young age. Like, the guys who it comes easy to early on are never there at the end. Yeah. Yeah. And there's no – I don't think there's any value in that because it comes easy. So it has to leave just as easy, in my opinion. Right? Like, what's there to gain from that, from, like, a tangiblEQuality of life? Like, you can't – and I know we talk about it often, but, like, there's – whether we take anything from the sport or not, if you learn the ability to provide, like, discipline and delay gratitude over the span of decades, whatever the next passion will be is going to benefit from that, too. But if it's just kind of – I don't want to say handed to you, per se, because there's still effort applied, but it's – we've seen these guys where it's like they sniff an Anabar tablet and they're 280 and peeled. That's – they don't comprehend. They don't provide the same level of empathy and understanding as guys like us who've been doing this for 10-plus years. Right? It's like – it's like – those guys do it comes a little bit easier. Let's say a little bit easier to get to that point. The point where it's against the elite again. You know, you're not just up against ordinary people. So you can walk through your national show or your regional shows, your national shows, win your pro card. But when you step on that pro stage, guess what? These guys are just as good as you now. So now you've got a operator's work ethic. It's like – look at Andrew Jack, for example. That dude just started bodybuilding, started taking gear, and a year later he was wiped on the floor with everyone. You know, and you'd be like, well, that guy's guaranteed to be Mr. Olympia. It's like, yeah, he's up there, but, you know, he's up against guys who are just as good, and it's not as easy anymore. Yeah, and I said this the other week. We were talking about kind of the same thing, but it's like now you have this, like, pro, but they have these amateur tendencies still because they didn't have to correct it, and they didn't have to figure it out. It just worked, and they got away with their genetics or, you know, whatever to get to the pro card. And even, you know, dude pretty well because, like, if we were to look at Andrew Jack, and he's a perfect example because he's amazing, right? Like, but had we watched him climb up, you know, five, six, seven years, you know, win the Arnold Amateur, and then, you know, okay, now he's battling it out at the Chicago Pro, and, okay, now he's at top ten at the Olympia. But it's like dude just arrived and was, like, sixth, and it's like – so it's almost like it's kind of a letdown that he's still sixth at the Olympia. But, like, take someone who, you know, worked their butt off to get into the top ten for 15 years, and they finally get it. It's like, man, look at what I did. I finally got the top ten. And so it's weird how we look at it, right? But, like, you know, it's like, well, dang, like, come on, Andrew, get it together. But, you know, it's because it was – you got there so fast. So it's wild how we put that kind of, you know, label on it, I guess. Yes, I think we all love a good come-up story, right? We love an underdog. We love struggle for other people, right? It's a lot harder when we're the ones, you know, absolving that. I think another example is Keon, right? I think Keon – you know, I've known one of his old treners, and I've heard stories about, like, how he used to be when he was a lot younger, and it sounded like a case of, like, a pro with some amateur tendencies. And I think what we've seen in the lasT3 years is everything come together so perfectly. Yeah. That's all. He just needed that team around him to level him and get him on point. I think seven years now, and, like, he's always – he's always been a great bodybuilder and always had it there. Just needed to put all the pieces together, and he has that. It's just like nobody's ever beatinGHim. Never. Man, I saw him in person at the Dragon's Lair just trening. Of course, I just, like, I just mind my business and admire him. It was huge. It's like you wouldn't think he's a 212. Like, he was right there with him and Rafa were trening together. And you – they looked the same size. I was like, this is scary. Yeah. But do people do the same with – like, right? So, Jewett, like, it's like he's so good now in the open. We forget he was just in the 212, what, two years ago? Like, maybe. Yeah. It's like, you know, and everyone's like, oh, you know, if he could just get this. It's like, dude, he just – look at what he just came from. Like, and he's up 30 downs. Yeah, dude, he's had a governor on himself for years, and he just let off of it for, like, two off-seasons. Yeah. Like, let's give him, like, two more. Yeah. I don't think people give credit where it's due there. It's like what he's done off-season to off-season is stupid. It's stupid. Even from just last year, his actual off-season between last show into now was nothing, really. Yeah. He's like five pounds up of muscle because he's even more conditioned. And, like, I said that to a couple of people. I was like, imagine him, like, if he wants to – like, I don't know what John wants to do, longevity in the sport. Like, how much longer he wants to do it or whatever, but two, three years' time, he's 250 both on stage. That is, like, a freak. Yeah. Yeah. He was just 240 at his last show. And his shape keeps getting better. I think he's 37. It's like he's not some 27-year-old doing this. It's like he's – and I think the coolest part of it all is, like – and, like, not to just, like, you know, suck off John's. He's our boss. Love you, John. Thank you for this. Beautiful. It's tough. But, like, it's – he does it and puts it out for everyone to see. And, like, there's no hiding. Like, there's no backdoor meetings of, like, hey, guys, this is what I'm really doing. And so, like, if you're just a fan of bodybuilding, you – I say this. If you're a fan of bodybuilding, you have to love Jewett and you have to love James Hollingshead. Just, like, the love of bodybuilding. I think the crazy part is, too, man, like, John doesn't do anything out of pocket. Like, we see his stuff. And it's not – like, bro, are we going to let it rip? Or – Yeah. Like – I wonder why – like, I want to – which we're going to get him on here. I want to ask. Like, I want to go, hey, like, what – if you didn't know the science behind it, like, what would you really try? Like, what would you – what would you think you would, like, throw around? But I think it's cool because I'll have guys, like, killer athletes or killer coaches, like, man, he's so dice. I'm like, dude, I'm like, I couldn't pay him to do a diuretic to get that way either. That's what's scary to me. I'm like, brother, like, make it make sense because it's – he's nasty. And it's just, you know, yeah, I don't – we're trying to adopt his ways. But John's got something special, man. Yeah. That's nuts. What is something that separates the level of detail you take with your coaching over others? Luke asked this, by the way. Ooh. I guess what I asked people in thEQuestion is, are coachings detail-orientated? I very much like to think that I'm – I'm one of the people who is very detail-orientated. But then my mentality is just fucking work. So I'm a combination of the two. Because that's the way I've been. And, like, Luke's joked about with this as me as an athlete because he's like – and he puts the reins on you. And he's like, your lasT4 weeks of prep, he's like, I'm making you come live with me. But that's – I'm just supposed to run myself into the ground. I'm like, just work. And – but obviously, we know that's not always productive. But that's easier to look at someone and tell them that. But when you're in it yourself, it's a little harder. But, yeah, just, like, looking at all the details and making things predictable. Like, that's the way I think it is. Coaching – if you're doing your job well, coaching is pretty predictable. It's always going to be the case of some guy, and you're like, what the fuck is his body doing? But there is – for 90% of the time, you do your job right, and you can predict. Like, I'll do it when – I've got a couple of people on peak weeks. And I'm like, okay, so your nighttime – you're going to wake up at this weight. They wake up, and you're like, how did you know I was going to wake up at that? I'm like, because I've been monitoring your nighttime weight and your morning weight every day for the last few days. I know what it's going to be because your fluid intake is this, your food is this. You know? It's why we started using the magic wand emoji. Because, like, it was like a joke. It was like, oh, it's like magic, right? Like, you know, it's not. But, like, people think, like, oh, like, how did you know this? And it's like, yeah. Because, like – and it's not even a system. It's just, like, when you know what you're looking at, you know the variables. It's very – it does become very predictable. But, yeah, I think when people hear – repeat thEQuestion one more time. What's something that separates the level of detail you take with coaching over others? So people hear that, and they probably imagine, like, some coaches who, like, they write down the exact sodium and potassium and, like, all their ratios and all that. Like, it's not my style. Like, I have an idea, but I don't sit there and, like, plug it all into the, you know, the algorithm and let the spreadsheet cook. Like, for me, I think the detail that I think we all bring out, whether we think about it or not, is the athlete themselves. Like, we learn their – how they process, how they think, how they move, how they feel. Like, we know their feedback. And so I think a lot of it is, like, we can pick apart and analyze, like, how they text us something. Or, like, hey, they didn't send us a voice note this week, and they always send it. Or we know they don't like a lot on their stomach, so we're going to feed them this way. It's those little details that have nothing to do with, like, literal data details that I think makes us good as coaches. And it's something that Luke's, like, helped me bring out. He's like, you know, coaching isn't just programming. Like, coaching is – when I – dude, when I first came to JTU, I was concerned. Because, dude, I was a – I was a notes app and text message guy. Like, I wasn't – and Luke has his beautiful spreadsheets. He was like, dude, like, you're going to hate me. Like, and he was like, no, no, like, this is fine. But it turns out, he's like, man, I just – I need you to feel like how can I pull more out of the athlete in particular, not just, like, the system we have. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's – I think it's the biggest thing, dude, is, like, what we – because we obviously get – and part of why I'm so happy to be a part of this group is, like, we get presented an unbelievable amount of information, which is awesome, right? Like, what we're given every week, whether it's through you guys, through Luke, through John, it's great. So it's like we have this massive backlog of stuff that we're always learning. But then each athlete, I think where I kind of excel is, like, meeting the athlete where they're at, right, and just giving them what they need to know then until we get there right. Because it's also – it's the same thing, dude. Like, you know, there have been – I won't say the coach, but there's a coach out there who offered to, like, work with me for free, and I wouldn't fucking do it because I saw the spreadsheets. I was like, I'm not tracking all these metrics every day. I know. I know myself good enough to know. I don't need that, right? And so it's like we see that sometimes where it's like if you provide too much, it's analysis paralysis, and then you're overwhelming the client. And then they're not really understanding what's happening, right? And so there's like a – I don't want to say system, but it's like I have, like, a means to how I like to educate athletes over time, especially with my first-timers, to get them to that point, right? And it goes back to what we talk about all the time. It's like we're not coaching screens. We're not coaching spreadsheets. We're coaching people. We just have a really good app that allows us to do it in a very user-friendly manner, but then we get all of the – there's so much more nerdy shit on the back and that a lot of our people never see. It's just a means of how we communicate it to them when we need to. And, again, that is what coaching actually is. Exactly. You've touched on a couple of things there that I think is really important. I always say about anyone, I'm like the smartest person in the room is the one using the biggest words. The smartest person in the room is the one making it sound as stupid and simple as possible. I also think with clients, I'm like – like you said, there's so much information. Yeah, from a client as well. We're receiving so much data and information. It's taking that all in, processing it, thinking about the several different routes you could be going, but then coming back to your client and just delivering with conviction that it's just – this is what we're doing. This, this, this. Cool. Real easy. Don't worry about it. You know, and they're going away going, oh, cool. This is easy. Whereas you could have had a million different thoughts in your head. It's processing it. It's processing and analyzing lots of information coming through from your client. It's in pretty quick time. You know, you're not going to have two days to go over. You've got maybe a few hours maximum going over and thinking about the different routes, different solutions, and then being able to just tell them the basics in a simplistic manner that they can just go away from it and not, like, foolproof. You know, you don't, like, there's coaches out there who are sending stuff to their clients, like, and it's like they need a degree to understand some of the stuff you're sending. You know? That is a sure way to know that client is going to fuck up something and get it wrong. You make it sound as dumb and as easy as possible, like – I've got people on Beat Week, and I'm like, I go through all this stuff, and I'm like, all right, okay, salt, six grams. Water, nine liters. Steps, 8,000. Just bullet points. They're like, cool. Yep. No, we're not going for the details behind it or anything like that. I'm just a disorder. And it's – we're all good. Because it comes with experience, too, because you as an athlete on Peak Week, you don't want a fucking dissertation. You just want – cool. Nod my head and do it. Like, you don't want to think. No. Just want to know what you need to do in a simple way that you know. Also, that you as an athlete know, I can't fuck this up. Yeah. Yeah. Dude, because – and, like, so we get a lot of people. They're part of the curriculum courses and stuff, and a lot of times they'll want to go back and forth on, like, the, hey, well, John did a video on this. I'm like, yeah, but, like, that doesn't really fit, like, what's going – like, it's a – he can't get very specific on to what exactly you need to do. That's why I'm here to do it. And, you know, so on the same, like, token, there is times where we can fully dive in into, you know, your lipid profile for you and fully explain all that. But at the end of the day, it's like, hey, like, I'm here to do, not to teach. If you want to – if you want to be taught, like, use our discount code for level one, level two. But, like, you know, that's why we're here as coaches. And, you know, obviously guide them and make sure they understand, like, why we're doing some things we're doing. But it's like, I'm not about to dive into the coursework on you. Like, I just got to do it, and you got to trust me. And like Darren was saying, it's that confidence and that, like, hey, I know the decision we're making. This is how I'm telling you we're going to do it, and let's do it. Yeah, I think that – that's a hard one there because I think we all – like, I coach so many guys who are coaches themselves. And there's a couple of them that literally are check-ins or, like, you know, education conversations. I don't mind. My rule is if you have a question regarding your process, I will go into as much detail as you want. If you're asking me a generic question about one of your clients or a process like that, I'm sorry. I can give you a quick bullet point answer. I will because I won't leave you hanging. But if you want to know the ins and outs of it, you need to go. It's all covered there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and, like, you know, because the more I coach – like, you guys, I'll coach coaches too. And there are some times where I enjoy – like, I'm like, yeah, like, let's see what you got. Hey, you know, but, like, for the most part, like you said, it's very, you know, hey, I need to make sure you understand what we're doing. But, like, we don't have time. Like, there's not enough time in the day to, like, give you the full breakdown. Unless I'm being a smartass. Like, because there are some times where people, like, I'll admit, like, if I got a point to prove, I'm about to J3U lecture you. I'm about to use a 10-minute spiel. But that's very, very few moments that that happens. But it has happened before. Yeah, if you get a nine-minute voice memo from me, it's an ego swing for sure. We haven't gotten to it at that point. But, no, it's fun. And that's the other thing, too, is, like, it's hard to, like, draw a fine line in that sand because I love – again, I work with a lot of first-timers. I want to educate them because, for me, I find that at least how I operate is adherence comes from education and enjoyment to a certain degree, right? Like, there's still, obviously, caveats within that. But if you like the plan, you understand why we're doing the plan. You're more liable to just do the plan. Therefore, you get the results that we're both after. So I love talking to my people. But there is a certain point when it's like, hey, I've answered the SLUPP question 47 times today. I really don't want to do it again. You know what IMean? It's like we're not even using it in your protocol. So I don't care to talk about it at this point. That's when I just send a – we get sent a post at that point, you know? That's all it gets. I have a number of clients who will send me on DMs on Instagram. I can post about one of these new peptides. It's like – Yeah. That's me. I'm not getting into this. Yeah. It's like, hell yeah. Awesome. I hope it works for them. Nice. Yeah. That is actually one of our questions, though, Darren, if you want to get into it, is Clin versus SLU. Shit. We can make it quick and keep pushing. I don't think they're in the versus. They're two totally different mechanisms. I think we're – I'm not going to discount SLU. I actually do think there's some benefits to it, and its application can be used. We all – I'm sure you guys have clients out there who can't use CLU. Simple as. So SLU is a good alternative, right? But we're going to go one versus the other. Let's look at, like, cost versus outcome. But you can run 10 all year long versus – for the price of SLU for two months. Yeah. You know, that's the reality. But then you look – like, there's a lot of study out there showing SLU benefits on, like, restinGHeart rate, insulin sensitivity, things like that. But I'm still not fully sold on it because I see all the anecdotal data. Like, we've seen the rat studies on it, and then, like, it's like 50 milligram per kg is the application of rats. I'm like, okay, make it make sense that a man is using 400 MCG, then. It doesn't make sense, right? And then all the anecdotal data on reports of people talking about, you know, their HRV coming down, their restinGHeart rate being better, their cholesterol being better. I'm like, okay, is that the SLU, or is it a byproduct of you're in a fat loss phase? Yeah. You're on a better diet than doing cardio. Yeah. Like, because I'm sure I could be taking 10 and make the same arguments because – well, arguments in our way, but – Because my body composition has improved, you know, my overall fitness has improved because I'm doing cardio, I can make that same argument. So until I see some data of some person who has stayed the exact same weight, doing the exact same thing for a number of months using SLU, and they see their health metrics improved, then IMay be convinced. So, yeah. Yeah, my thought behind it is like, hey, let's just put those two together, right? Like, but more like realistically, like, I don't like how we get positioned, like you have to pick one or the other. Obviously, like Darren stated, there's reasons to use one versus the other if you can't use one. But I think with us, like what – because we're now in the research phase, right? And, you know, the research era and the science era of bodybuilding. But, like, a lot of what we don't – like, I guess people don't realize or point at is like, Darren, how many people have you coached, like, over the years? Like hundreds? Yeah, thousands. And so, like, we have anecdotal evidence of wherEQuinn has probably worked on, like, hundreds if not thousands of people prepping. So, like, while, you know, and that along with, you know, research and, like, data that shows it works as well. So, like, we have human trials both literally and anecdotally of what we've seen work. So, it's like, why would we go off into this gray area and drive down a road we've never really driven in when we know that this lane and this car works really well, just fine? It's like there's not a, quote, need for it. And that's always my argument is, like, we're our own clinical trials for a lot of things in the bodybuilding realm. Because, yeah, there's probably not people running 80 mics of Clin at a clinical trial. But, like, bodybuilding it does. Like, we'll do that all day. So, it's like, you know, again, it's like, why would I go away from that if it works so well unless someone can't handle it, can't tolerate it, you know, whatever. I think it's just the in thing at the moment. It's new and shiny. And as humans, we love new and shiny. I think of it like as, do you remember when you first started trening and you first heard of creatine and you were going to take it and you thought you were going to be huge? Yeah. Yeah. But I think that's the way people are thinking about SLU. I think they're going to, they think, I'm going to take this and I'm going to be shredded in six weeks. Yeah. I hate to tell you, it's not going to make that much of a difference. Man. You're so, I so thought I was going to get huge on creatine back in high school. Sure. Dude, I remember when my buddy started taking it and we were all worried about what was going to happen. Kidneys are going to fail. Yeah. And he probably put on like eight pounds. Oh my God. Man, what's happened to people? We were talking about like, what, 15, 16, starting trening and like thinking about taking creatine and going, what's going to happen? That 15, 16 year olds arEQuoting science studies and, you know, doing little weird lap movements. Take a trip. Shut up. Worrying whether plane is going to make you natural or not natural. Yeah. Right there. They're taking tren and six peptides doing aromasingle arm lap pull down. Yeah. And we just want to create. Yeah. We just want to create. Creatine and barbell rose, dude. I don't know what happened. It's crazy. Yeah. Now it's, you know, we're fatigue maxing too much is the new thing. Next one. So what was the last part of thEQuestion? Can we use without negatively affecting body composition? Yeah. Yeah. Well, that part definitely. Absolutely. Of course you can. If it's used correctly. I think people misuse insulin all the time. I think the thing is, I think a lot of people look at it like, right, I'm going to start utilizing insulin. I'm going to use 15 A of insulin. I need to bring my carbs up to here. It's like, no, match the insulin to your carbs. You should be pushing your food up. And then when it's actually required and it's going to add some benefit, then you can put it in and it's going to be very effective. But, you know, this whole thing of like this guy being on 2,000 calories and 200 grams of carbs. And all of a sudden they're running and start using insulin and they're at 4,000 calories and 600 grams of carbs. Yeah. Well, no shit. You're going to get fat. It's not the insulin. It's you just ranch your food up. Yeah. Or they're like eating cheat meals and like slamming insulin. It's like, it's not really how it hurts. I'm like, you know. And I love, yeah. I don't want to say I love insulin because it's going to make it sound like it's in everyone's plan. But, yeah, I do. I do use it. Like, I think for guys, you know, you get to a spot where food's so high, it's like you just need it. Like your body, you know, in order to kind of stay healthy and keep a good body composition, actually, it's going to benefit you. Anyone going over like 500 grams of carbidate, you're probably looking at a potential use for it. Yeah. At that point, like your one, your appetite may be potentially slightly less. So it's going to help with it. And then also the actual processing of it. And I'm a big fan, even like with females, too, because a lot of times people hear GH and insulin for like males, like they think guys. Like I look at it for a female like perspective. Well, it's non like androgenic stuff that we have in our toolbox. Like what what's, you know, a good offseason is like, hey, you use a basal insulin or low dose insulin around some trening and GH. And like you don't have to touch, you know, androgens for six, eight, 12 months. And it's like, yeah, but we grew with food and just that. Yeah. I think with females, that should be your first exposure to anything should be GH and insulin. Like I said, non-aromatizing, non-androgenic. Yeah. So it's. But people hear it and they think like they think of like the big, you know, jack guys or that they feel like, oh, my gosh, they're so dangerous. But it's like, no, man, like it's it's it's a very useful tool when done correctly. You know, I'll I get before I even implement it with people like I'm watching their blood sugar throughout the day before they eat their pre-trening meal, after they get done trening, you know, seeing just like what their body kind of does on its own. Just because like there's some people with high food that don't need it. There's some people with like what you would feel is like not high food. Oh, gosh. OK, you actually could benefit. Yeah. I had a guy in the team at the moment who just finished the push base and he was eating 30 hundred grams of carbs a day. I'm still starving. I had to hire you to think. Yeah, you're giving me a hunger score every week. And I'm starving. I'm like, what is wrong with you? Dude, shut up. Hold on. How? All right. What food sources did you start working with? Like you can't do 30 hundred grams of carbs from freaking rice. He was. Most guys, I'm getting over 500 grams of carbs and I'm using dried fruit, honey, stuff like that. Trying to work on this dude. He needed the volume for society. How big is he? Yeah. What does he do? He only gives 25 pounds. OK. Dude, that's crazy. He was 222 pounds like 12 months ago. I hope to see this trensformation. Very. I hope you haven't posted a picture soon because that's freaking awesome. Oh, yeah. No, yeah. He's going to be a freak. Yeah. Is he like highly active? I'm still trying to wrap my head around this one. I'm sorry. Does he? Just show him. He trens like an animal. He's one of the strongest people I've seen in the gym. I would hope so. I would hope so. But he's one of these guys, right? He's one of these guys. He's in his mid-20s that's like never competed before. But his thing coming to me is, I want to be a super heavyweight bodybuilder. Hell yeah. He's like none of the most in of like men's physique classic. I know. I want to be a fucking monster. So. For those listening, this is what coaches like nerd out about. We don't talk about the problems. We're like, hey, look at this guy. They're like, guess how much I'm feedinGHim. Like this is what we talk about behind close to borders. Yeah. Like it's a dream come true of a client to come to you like that. Right? That's what we all want. Well, no. You kind of get to the point with like, what's wrong with this guy? How would he ever want to be satiated? And then it's like, how am I ever going to diet this guy? Yeah. Yeah. Like, bro. Like what? Like you're hungry now. Yeah. I need to send him Trey. Dude. Send him Trey Davis right now. So I have this. He's one of my good friends. I also coach him. But he was like just fat as shit growing up as a kid. And dude, his hunger score is a 10 no matter what. Like one week out, 180 weeks out, it's always a 10. And I'm like, dude, quit answering. Just leave it for you. So yeah, I'm curious to see how you diet this guy. Because that'll be, that's wild. Yeah. IMean, with that big of a metabolic cushion, IMean, in theory, it shouldn't take a whole lot. Yeah. IMean, so we're just starting the phase of like a little pullback phase before we go into another push with him. But his calories, his pullback phase, there are 6,000 on the trening day. My God. And he's dropping like four to five pounds per week on that. Dude, tell this guy we are rooting for him. Yeah, I am such a fan of his. It's absurd. So let me ask this. You have a guy like that. Let's say they're not hungry, right? But like what's one of the like out there things you've put in a diet? You're like, man, I don't like, not that you hope no one ever hears about it. But like what's something you're like, oh, that's definitely not normal. I was thinking not normal. I think it's all, usually I just try with guys when they start with such a appetite dip. Like, right? It's dried fruit, honey, rice krispies squares, bars, orange juice. Yeah. Yeah. Or any juice. I always put orange juice and say or any juice of equivalent. I've had a couple of guys that I've macroed in. Like, I actually put the macros in for a five-packer and stuff. Okay. Okay. Yeah. That's probably as out there as I've gotten to is like, hey, just like, you know, McDonald's every night or five guys every night. Just something. And then I've had some athletes, some football players I've worked with where like they would have two PB&Js at the end of the day. I'm like, hey, just play two big old peanut butter jellies and go to bed. Yeah. I used to do a lot more sports-specific coaching a couple of years ago, like working with rugby players and stuff. But I was saying that then their food sources were a little bit more like, but then it was like, you can have this, this, or this. It's like a rough calories. It's, yeah. Because they. Do what? You want to hear this diet when you're done? Yeah. Yeah. You got it pulled up. It's disgusting. Yeah. So my, because I'll have some, I had one kid this year, his name's Lucas, and I put peanut butter jellies in his plan. And I was like, listen, man, like, I don't care how full you are. You can get this down. Like, let's go. And then, but then he's like, well, how much do I weigh? It's like, man, I don't give a shit. Just like bread, peanut butter, jelly, eat. Like, don't. Don't do that. Like, we're fine. I have one, but it's not even that I gave them this food. I work with this guy and he works on macros. I've worked in a couple of years now. And the first year we were working together, we kind of, we started prep. And he was saying, he said, I remember what he said to me. I was like, what are you eating? And he was like, white fish, mochi, and peanut butter. That was his, that was his only food sources, really. He was using mochi as his carb source and white fish for protein and peanut butter for his fat sources. IMean, okay. Dude's hardcore. He just, like, he'll often post on it. I'm like, I am not showing your food because now that I've done eating, like, rice and stuff. Yeah. I'm like, I'm not showing your food, mate. You look like it's a prison diet. This guy follows macros and meals are just literally, he cooks white fish and then cooks rice and just eats them both out of the pan and cook them in and then, like, some peanut butter. I'm like. You're like, John's going to rip this meal apart if he posts it. I just give it. This guy is choosing to eat like this. Not a micronutrient in sight. No. I have recently had to, like, go through a minute because I was like, well, I know it's all season and it's like, it's not crazy. He said, well, my appetite's not great. I'm like, yeah, well, stop just eating rice as your carb source. Let's put in some fruit. Let's put in some honey. It's like, take those down. I've had to get in there with it. And he's like, okay, I can eat again now. I'm like, good. He probably blew his mind eating a strawberry after following that diet. Like, buddy's got exploded. All right. This diet is gross. Let me preface. This is one of my buddies. He was 270. He's like 6'4". He was 280 at the time with abs. Former swimmer. Was trying to get to 300. Iron gut. He gave me his base meal plan. And that's what I use as the framework because he can only eaT4 times a day because he's working a factory job. All right. His macros were 365 protein, 1335 carbs, 210 fat over the span of four meals. And it was two shakes and two meals. His first shake was two cups of chocolate milk, two scoops of serious mass, one scoop away, 300 grams of yogurt, 40 grams of jelly, 40 grams of honey, 100 grams of banana, two double stuffed Oreos, three ounces of heavy whipping cream. His meal two was a chipotle bowl. His meal two was a chipotle bowl. And I had to add pineapple and a kombucha to help with digestion. Meal three was seven ounces of 80, 20 ground beef, 150 grams of gnocchi, dry weight, 150 grams of pasta sauce, two tablespoons of olive oil, 100 grams of carbs, intra-workout from pomegranate juice and Gatorade powder. And then his final meal of the day was two cups of chocolate milk, two scoops of serious mass, one scoop of whey, 100 grams of banana, 40 grams of honey, 40 grams of jelly, three Homestyle Rice Krispie treats. I got him to 300 with abs. I think that's my wildest diet, I think. Dude, I was reading that during a prep and the whole time I was irate. Like as I was riding, I was like, you fucking piece of shit. Inspired by Michael Phelps. I love the kombucha for digestion. I love the kombucha for digestion. I'm like, yeah, just throw a plaster on your broken leg. Did it work so well? That and then the pomegranate juice, you know, for the heart health benefit. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I just want to get some fruit juice in there too, you know, for uptake. You know, I was thinking. I was thinking. It was years ago. I want to put that in a plan for John. And be like, hey, will you look over this diet for me? Yeah, just whenever you get a chance, just give me your thoughts. That's what we were. So Darren Luke was in town and I was fucking around. I was like, dude, I'm going to build out a trening program with FST7 on every exercise. And I need you to get John to audit it for me. And like, it's a review. And I was like, just see what he said. It's just FST7 plus. Oh, man. What else do we have? I feel like we have one more. Do we? Oh, the how to bring up arms, right? Yeah. PPL. I'm not the one. My arms suck. So. Yeah. Darren, you have good. Do you have good arms? Yeah. I've always. They've always. Well, I know that I've always been. They've been good for the last couple of years. Honestly, I need some ice cream on arm day. So I probably won't brought them up. But it's also what's left me with horrible elbows. Yeah. So I would. I would go like push, pull legs and then just an arm day. And kind of in between that. I was. I was explaining that to a guy the other day. I was like, look, like I'm tagging you an arm day in because like we need bigger arms. But two, it's just more of a day where like your fatigue's not that high. Like it's it's not necessarily a rest day. You're not like killing yourselves doing arms either. So it's like it's more so like positioned here as well to give you a break because you're coming off of like, you know, your heavy squat day. Then you have another RDL day in like two days. So like it's just kind of that like in between or. Yeah. I think you have to look at the individual when it comes to the arm day. Like how strong is this person and how much do they tren? Like how hard do they tren? Like really? I think having the arm day can bEQuite detrimental long term in terms of sort of elbow help. And you know, this guy is, you know, pressing four plates and pulling like four or five plates. And then you got them, you know, bicep curling the stack and tricep extension in stack. Yeah. It was going to be pretty fried after six, seven weeks. And so I get the whole thing to look at like, where is their physique overall? Is this person, you know, are they perfect every once they just need arms or is everything else the lead to come up? And I'm like, okay, well, you know, there's only so much you can prioritize them. So IMay be putting those exercises at the start of the sessions rather than the end. And I'll often put like some arm exercises before leg days. Yeah. And because like it's going to have no impact on your leg session. So doing like a bicep and a tricep before legs and then going into legs. And then you're having like biceps and triceps with all your sort of push and pull sessions as well. Yeah. I like that. I saw John doing it and I was like, I was indifferent on it. It was like, ah, well, just like a mind fuck. Like you go in there and you like start with some arms. Oh, it's going to be a good pump. And you're like, ah, now I've got to go squat. You know, it's a total like flip. You hit the point exactly. It comes down to the individual's intent. Yeah. Like it doesn't matter how the new fucking program arms. If this person is just going in and getting a pump, if you're going in and actively trying to like brain your arms, like you're treating them like your legs and you're doing progressive overload, you're drifting as heavy as you can and then you don't progress. But it comes down to the intent factor. We all, we know it ourselves. Like, you know, you do your push session, you got some triceps at the end and you're like, okay, yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah, they're probably not going to grow so much. But then you have like a tren by JP and he's hitting like, you have one, you know, single arm push down and it's like to death. So it's like, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think it just comes down to like, IMean, the little bit that I've gotten my arms to grow has been from having an exclusive arm day, but then still making sure the front end, because I just do modified push pull legs. So my secondary push days, just shoulder arm biased, but just making sure I actually keep frequency in the beginning of the week as well. Cause I'm always the one, like I'll tren back and then I get done with back and I'm like, all right, I'm going to do some preacher curls. And it's like not enough effort. And I'm fully aware of that. So the full arm day is the day I get fired up for it. I'm going to go beat the brakes off my arms. Yeah. That's yeah. I think my nephew came on the most when I was doing a full arm day. Now right and wrong. It was also a time where I trened like an absolute dickhead. It was like all I took in your trening for like two hours a day. And like me and my friend who trened together at the time, we go in and tren arms and we do like sticks exercises for biceps, six for triceps, like four sets all out failure on everything. And we were like stacking everything. Like it's swinging the shit out of them. That is why my elbows are so destroyed. Like everything drops. Like, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Dude. I, yeah. Like, and I don't know if that's what, cause I tell people like, as a coach, like I know what to do because I did what not to do. Also. Like I learned the hard way, but, but at the same time, it's like, you know, some people will do that. And that's what got me huge. Yeah. Like I'm, I'm, I'm married to it, but a couple of years ago, actually, I forgot I had done this a couple of years back, but five, six years ago, I did an experiment for a month where I, I didn't do cardio in the mornings. I did fasted arms every morning, every day for 30 days straight. I did just not like the failure. Like this was just like three sets of 10 to 15 pump. It was like three, three or four exercises on each every morning for a whole month. And my arms grew like over a centimeter. Well, you just goT3 of my clients who are going to do that. So, you know, one of them. Yeah. Neely. Yeah. Go ahead. Neely. As soon as your, as soon as your show's over, you can do that. Yeah. I appreciate it. I'll do an arms over. I'll do an arms over. They're doing cardio. Oh, man. No, that's awesome. Cause yeah. Like, do we, you know, I remember Steve Kuklo's like crazy eights arm workout, you know, and then Rich Brianna, you know, of course took it to the extreme and did the eight hour arm workout, which, you know, we all kind of would joke about, but yeah, it's there. There's something about a set of all. Let me ask this. Would you rather have like good arms or good delts? Arms. Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Cause for me in comparison, I have better delts, but like I have like long monkey arms. So I'd probably pick better arms. I'm still picking delts. I'm just thinking if either, in the market, you're not really going to be a good bodybuilder. So you're now thinking what's looking better than t-shirts. So it's fair. I always wear baggy t-shirts. I feel like it's a lot more prominent because I can hide my bitch ass arms. I think when I get smaller, I'll start wearing tighter clothing again. Like when you get, when you're actually big, you're like, I just want to, I don't want people to see. It's just, it's a whole bit of awkwardness of them looking at me and, you know, especially, especially obviously. Yeah. You don't have it over there. Over here. We have the, the Indian culture that every, every Indian who sees you as a bodybuilder is a nice body. So, Oh, okay. It's a whole level of strength. When another man, when the Indians like, nice body, sir. And it's like, especially if it's in a toilet or a changing room, you're like, yeah, no, dude, that's so funny. God, we got to go, we got to go over there, man. We got to go. Yeah. It's a quick trip. It's right down the street. That's the goals. We got to get a, we got to get a need for Luke didn't want to take us. But Hey man, like, come on, take us over there. I keep saying, he's like, team meeting in Texas. I'm like, why isn't it here? Yeah. Fly us out, man. I know we're doing good. I know those books are looking good. Yeah. It's only 20 hours and 13 minutes, give or take to get over there. What do you do? Okay. So there, what do you do on that flight? Like, because I've never, I don't think I'll ever take that flight. That sounds terrible, but what do you do? Okay. So most of the time I've been flying to America, I've been in prep. So I'm literally just raw dog, like staring at a seat, starving my head off. Dude, you're different. Yeah. You were. Not a choice. It's like, oh man, this is horrible. When you're in prep, it's horrible. When I'm, when I like normal, like the last time I traveled out, I'll just sleep a few times, take, take something, take his annex or something and sleep and pass out. But on the, most of my times I'm traveling for shows. And I'm just literally like, I've got two little bags of like 150 grams of chicken and, and a little bit of veg for an 18 hour flight. So I'm just sitting there going, staring at the thing in front of me going, how much time has passed? I'm like, okay, we're 20 minutes into a flight. We haven't hit it off the table. You know, you're only like, like literally it's a week before a show. You've got no concentration. So you can't even watch the movie. There's no point. How much weight do you, do you lose from a flight that long? Or like, how much does yours fluctuate? And I'll always, if it's in prep, I'll always drop. Damn. Like when I, the Olympia, I remember that, that travel was horrible. And it was like, can't buy direct from Vegas. So it was like from here to Los Angeles, Los Angeles, and just Vegas. They fucking lost our luggage. So that was delivered later. And then our, our rentALCAR just wasn't there. You know, we use a tour. It just wasn't where it was supposed to be. So we had no car. So we'd get like a taxi to our, to our accommodation, to our villa. We'd rent it and like try and book a new tour. And I ended up being, I had been like 25, five hours. And all I'd eaten was two meals of 150 grams of chicken, nothing else. And I got there. I traveled, I left. And I think I was one pound above my cap at the time. That was before. Yes. My cap now is 227. For that Olympia, it was 222. And I think I left when I was 223. And I arrived. And I was like 216. Oh, shit. Now you didn't. That, that, that whole week was like, and I was working with Callum, pro coach at the time. And he, he came over and he saw me. He was just like, that face. I went into Dryden's Lair that first day. And I, I've known Flex for years. Cause we were both at BSN back in the day. And he just saw me and he goes, that's the face of someone who's peeled. Sucked in. And I, we're like, I had to eat so much that week. And I think that we did like into the two days prior to the show was 16 and a half thousand calories. Oh man. To the point that that's not even fun at that point. Right. You're like, all right. All right. All right. All right. Dude. You're a savage, Aaron. Like, you're different. Yeah. Hell yeah. Boys, that was good. Is that it? Yeah. That's all we got. Hell yeah. You want to close this out, dude? Yeah. Well, Darren, thank you, man, for beinGHere. It is, for those who don't know, it's four 30 in the morning, Darren's time. So we appreciate your sacrifice. For those of you who listened to this point, if you can like, comment, share, and subscribe, share with a friend, share on Instagram, you can find all of us on Instagram as well. Me and Alex have our tags below. Darren, what is yours on Instagram? Just my name, Darren Farrell, underscore IFBB Pro. IFBB Pro. You heard him. So until next time, thank you guys for listening. to J3U after hours. Cool. Yeah. Awesome, dude.