 All right, all righty, everyone, welcome back to J3U after hours with our esteemed guest, John Jewett, also known as Father John. John, John, how are you doing today, man? John, how are you doing today, man? John, how are you doing today, man? I'm doing great. Am I a pasture? Yeah, it's really old. Yeah, it's what we've been told. You're leading the truth in this industry. Yeah, yeah, well, thanks guys for having me on. I look forward to doing like a podcast where I don't have to actually, you might challenge me more with these type of questions. But I always enjoy our own bro chat, right? Absolutely. Alex, how are you? Good, man. We just got back from a big weekend. But yeah, the goal with John was like, we don't want to talk about Masteron and Prima Bowling the whole time. We don't want to talk about HGH use. Like, we want to get to like, I think, you know, the point of this podcast in general is just to open up everybody. to us. And I think that's like, I think this will be fun. Because when I when people ask about you, IMight look at them today. John's very smart. He's very educated. But he loves bodybuilding. And like, he's a bro at heart. He just, you know, is educated. We're going to start out with a good one, John. So the firsT3 are obviously my ignorant questions. I have to ask everybody, what kind of animal do you feel like right now? God, at the moment in my workflow, I feel like a sloth. So it's like trying to, sometimes I feel like I'm trying to be productive for the day. I'm just like, moving at such a slow pace. But I had to be an actual like if what represents me as an animal? Man, maybe I really did just see this question just now. Maybe an eagle. Okay. Ooh, flying for one. I don't know if I think flying would be really cool. But I think like eagles are like, very Mac, like macro vision, seeing the big picture, but then they have like excellent eyesight to like, hone in on like a detail and be able to like, strike when the moment's right. So it seems like they're probably a little bit more meticulous and planned out than some of the other animals. So I feel like that might represent me a bit, probably not the normal animal pick. Some of them might pick like, I'm a bear or like, or I'm a box or I don't know. So going with an eagle. I think that was the most well explained answer that I've ever received in the 10 years I've asked that question. So I love the same surprise, but I'm not. I really thought I'd stump you on that. Next one. You're going to a gas station. There are no macronutrient limitations. Let me preface there. You have to pick three things. What are you getting? Yeah, pick like, oh, you're some, am I trying to match my meals here? No, sir. You're just having, you and Renee are just on vacation. You're just having fun. You're just going somewhere. Okay. Well, I definitely want to try that Reese's Oreo, like mashup thing that I've seen. Um, probably get that. Then I'd probably want to hit something like salty, savory. So I'm going with like, uh, some kettle cooked jalapeno chips. Nice. Weird combo. I need some, I'm going like a Coke Zero cherry. So I'm going to need to wash all this stuff down with something. So that's my, I like that on the road, on the road. That's a good pick. I had the Oreo Reese's way overhyped. It's good. It's good. But like, don't, I don't, I think I went and looked at like five different places. It's, it's good when you find it, but it's not like, don't go searching for it. You know, the OG stuff is still the best. Yeah. It's like the novelty is cool. Yeah. What is your current favorite gym song? Yeah. IMean, Parkway Drive, Crushed. Okay. So I don't know if you, they're not, no one's familiar with that. They're like a metalcore Australian band and they hit pretty damn hard. So that's, I've been like just running their playlist the whole time while I tren. But I listen to all kinds of music when I tren. I need some mellow stuff every now and then. So. Yeah. So you were listening to, was it country music on your peak week? I have. Absolutely. Like I like country. Usually we'll drive around to that sometimes or even like, man, pop stuff, rap. IMean, I'm all over the place. Mm-hmm. I'm going to have to try them out today. Next one. And then Alex will take over for a couple. There's no budgetary restrictions. What is your dream three car garage? Man, for one, it would be a GT, Ford GT40. That is a badass car that Ford's made and their values have like skyrocketed. They're insane. Like to get one under 500 grand would be tough, but it's, it's one of the cars I think that can do all. Then I have one of my, the cars that I would already have in my dream garage, which would be a, a Gen five Dodge Viper ACR. And honestly, I already had my other like dream car was always like a 68 or 67 Mustang fastback. Mm-hmm. Doesn't need to be like an, an Eleanor clone or a Shelby or anything like that. I think I want something that's like a resto mod that has like some nice modern features to drive around. But I still think that is like one of the prettiest original American muscle cars. Absolutely. Have you, cause obviously we just, we acquired the Viper this year. As you get larger, have you noticed any limitations in getting in and out of that thing yet? The, the limitations were there to begin with. Yeah. Yes. So it's, it'll only get worse. Yeah. As you get bigger in the offseason, like just twisting and stuff just is more difficult. So man, funny enough on the Viper, the door doesn't open very wide. And so you're already kind of like slip in at a side and you just kind of like have to fall into the thing and squeeze in. But it's okay. It's okay. Like you're kind of driving with an arm up. Yeah. But at some point I won't be this big and I'll have it. So it's all good. Yeah, for sure. Totally worth it by the way. That car is gorgeous. Yeah. It's one of the most enjoyable cars I've had to like drive. It's a, has all the nice features. It's beautiful. And then it's very analog and manual, right? It's a visceral. Like I think like when it came out, the power level on it was legit. But nowadays, like man, 600 horsepower is like, everythinGHas 600 horsepower. Like my BMW X6 is like pretty damn fast. It would, off the line, it would probably smoke the Viper, right? So, but we get in the Viper with Renee there, like her seat dynometer is like, holy crap, this is the fastest thing I've ever been in. Cause it's like shaking and loud and it's very visceral. While the BMW is just like this very smooth acceleration. It's almost, would be worse, would be a Tesla. It's probably even faster or probably doesn't even feel as fast cause it's like so smooth and quiet, right? The Viper is just, it's raw, man. You're raw dogging in that thing. Yeah. Feel everything. I love it. I love that. Dude, that's so funny. Okay. So the next question we have, and I actually came up with this. Okay. So let's, because I asked it cause I don't think it's me, which is why I'm asking it. Say you have dementia, but you got to prep. Like you wake up and it's like, oh, I got to go time. I got to prep. You have to pick a J3U coach to coach you. Who are you picking? Um, now is, are we counting Luke as a J3U coach? No, no. Not the boss man. Cause Luke's like my second eye. So he would be like the next that I would trust with that. Yeah. Um, man, uh, Alex, I'd have to pick you, buddy. No shit. Yeah. Cause you have the, you have the experience with larger individual guys. To be able to manage that kind of prep. Okay. And, uh, probably the most experience along that line. See. And so like, I don't want people listening to think, oh, I'll just lobby that question. Right. But like, I genuinely, I thought it, I thought it would have been like, uh, Colton or Darren. Cause Colt, like you've prepped Colton yourself and like, y'all like he's probably similar to your style. Um, and then Darren obviously is, is his way as well. We're all freaking great at J3U. Yeah. You know. There's other things I would consider around that, right? Like, uh, the location piece. Yeah. Like Darren being so distant and also different time zones. That can be problematic, like for probably the attention that I would want and be real needy. Um, now Colton's closer. However, I, I, you know, Colton has great experience as well, but then it goes back to, okay, well, who has the experience with like a similar, uh, portion of what I need? So, yeah, I'll probably throw it your way. Well, cool, man. Well, dude, just let me know when you want to start. We can get you on call. Get it, get it going. All right. You can contact your sales guy, Zach, and he'll get you on board with Alex really quickly. Thank you. Is there a discount code or? We'll see. Yeah. Double charge for double the time. Yeah. Okay. Um, you're, we want to know your favorite show and like the, and like also your least favorite show. Like, and so like what, like it could be because of placing. It could be because of look or could be like, man, you know, that an emotional attachment to it, like favorite and least favorite. Uh, favorite show was the 2019 Olympia. Uh, for one, it's the first Olympia that I ever went to. So it was such a unique experience to begin with. And that one, like your first Olympia, just, I was in such a good mindset, like just so thankful to be in that position that like, it didn't matter if I was last or first, like it was all going to be like extremely grateful. And I took in every moment of that experience. And it was also still in Vegas then before like COVID happened and went to Florida. Uh, so it was still like a really well done production and man, walk down on the final stage. Like, I don't know when I, when I grew up, like, uh, all these like blood sport and kickboxer and these Van Damme movies, there's always like the final fight scene. And like, you see like the mats, like bright white and the lights and everything's like dim around. It looks like, like crazy. Like you're walking out, uh, amongst the world. That's how like the final stage scene was to me when I was walking out for like individual. Right. So it was like this big white flat stage. It probably wasn't even white. And it just looked tremendous. Like it looked like the whole world was there to watch you do your thing. And, uh, it gives me chills. Just like remembering back that experience. So, and then cherry on top, I goT4th. So I was like, like that wasn't expected at all. So that was definitely like a top show. Um, now the worst show, um, man, it was probably the 2018 New York pro. Yeah. We talked about that one off behind the closed doors. You got my back? No, me and you talked about it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, yeah, that would, that would probably be it. Um, a lot of things just like for one, just a poor stage look for me. Um, just really off, terrible tan. I looked pale and was, was flat, not as conditioned as I needed to be. So just kind of missed it on that, on that show. Then also it was, uh, like a very small, like backstage area. And the expires, man, they were like, they were, they were kind of Jersey and East coast and really like pushing you. And it felt like, man, like for us to be pro athletes to be like, Hey, get in line. There's no time to glaze up. Come on. Come on. Like, dude, like I'm an adult man and I am a professional. Like you're not going to boss me around like that. And it's always like, hurry up and wait, hurry up and wait in a lot of these shows. But that was the first pro show where I felt like I wasn't being treated like as anyone should, whether you're an amateur or not. So, um, but I think more of the, the poor presentation on my end was more of the problem. And then like, yeah, with the coaching situation too, just kind of, kind of meeting at a point with like, um, Matt Jansen that we both weren't aligning well in, in what coaching together. And so there was like some frustrations that were there too. So that was kind of dampering like that show experience. Um, the outward to the New York pro stage itself though, that was still the like OG New York pro stage before they had had to move around during COVID. And I don't know if it's back in the same location or not, but that, that was a pretty tremendous looking setup that they did have. Like it was a big convention center and like huge grand stage. It was well done. But yeah, for me, that was, um, it just turned out to be like, not, not the best show. Yeah. I think it's interesting because that then you catapulted yourself the very next year and goT4th at the Olympia. So like it, it goes to show you can havEQuick turnarounds, but then to like that drove you more than anything to be who you are now. Um, I've always done better off like some poor outcomes. Like you go either way with those things. Like I've seen guys that just destroys them and they either leave the sport or they don't improve or they fall off for months. For me, it was always like, I would rage after these shows, right? Like be lit on fire to come back and prove something to myself. Um, and the, like when I did the 2015 USA is felt the same way. I got sixth, which I was just like, man, I was, I was pissed. I didn't win. Um, but yeah, there's always been in shows like that where, Hey, not winning or like not bringing my best was just more fire to like keep going. Yeah. Yeah. And it shows like, you know, you even like starting J through you and like making sure, Hey, like this doesn't happen for any coaches now, you know, and then into J through you coaching, it's like you leveled up so much, probably just based off of that one core, like experience. Yeah. Yeah. It just takes you like, cause those are all the moments where like I had coaching, but I also was trying to figure out, you know, like all of us, how do we keep getting better on our own? So it's to do that. And like one responsibility over my own preps had to keep asking like how things work and how do I get better? And I, I would say like, man, it's a close second. It's close. Might be worse. Actually, the 2020 Olympia, I could have put that one there. Cause that was a pretty shitty one too. But anyway, would you rather, cause you, you touched on a little bit about not bringing your best or not winning. Which of those two would you say matters more? Like if you were to say like one, either you always bring your best package, but you don't win or vice versa. You bring a package, you know, isn't your best, but you do win. Which would you feel more value in? Bringing my best and not winning winning. Yeah. Cause like, that's something you feel like you have in, in your control. And on is on you while the winning piece, it's out of your control. Who shows up where the judges think of you on that day. They, they could just, you could have improved and just had a better lineup. Uh, so does that mean you're worse? Like not necessarily like this last, last Texas, the Tampa show I did, like absolutely have improved. Like, um, the biggest ever been still very conditioned. And that was a better look than last year and the year before that. But, but I had worse placing than I've ever had at an open show. Um, I've always, I've always been third or above. Right. So now it's like, what's two fourth places. It's like, was that less satisfying than also knowing that I brought my best? Um, versus like when I won Vancouver, uh, man, knowing I brought my best, I can walk away and feel okay about. But man, when you, when you know you're off, even if you win, it's, it's still pretty shitty. So, yeah. Yeah. I was, I was going to say like that this season was probably a prime example of that. Cause I felt like that was truly the best view it like we've seen. Um, yeah, we had one, I can't remember what show it was last year. That was pretty gnarly. Um, it was like when you came in a little tighter, like the second show last season. Vancouver was the one that I won. I did Toronto and Vancouver than the Olympia. Yeah. That Vancouver look was pretty nuts. Yeah. It's, uh, I don't know, man. People judge these off photos, right? Like that Toronto stage is terrible. It just makes everyone look, look bad. Yeah. Yeah. So I leading up, I actually liked my Toronto look more than Vancouver. Really? But Olympia by far was like, like a way, way better compared to both nailed it on that one. But no, you're right. Um, as far as like the look goes and winning. Um, now if you're like, Hey, you have the option. Like you, you, you win a pro show and you're a little off and you go to Olympia. Like, would you pick that or you pick like in third place and being like at your best and you don't go to Olympia? Like, oh man, I don't know. I kind of take it. Yeah. For sure. How do you not pick that? Um, or like you never win the Olympia. You're always third place, but you're always like a little off. It's like, yeah, I'd probably take just winning Olympia. Screw it. Right. Dude, let's Chris, let's jump to the Olympia and then we'll come back to other ones. Since we're on it. Um, yeah. What do you think? Like, so this Olympia, you know, bruises it, like his visa is approved as of like Instagram, like five hours ago. Um, what are your thoughts on the lineup? Like, do you have a top 10, top 12 prediction? Like where, where are you at with it? Oh man. So that is a confirmed thing. I keep seeing like Bruce is not, or he is. So yeah. Uh, a few Milos and a few people have posted. He's, he's in. Okay. Um, yeah, I haven't, my list kind of jumps around, but I have just, I think my list is also off of like who I just hope takes it to. Yeah. There's a little bit of that as well. Um, do you have, y'all have your, your list like confirmed down? Yeah. Yeah. What's your, what's your hopeful list? We'll, we'll compare it all. Yeah. I want, uh, and I'll put them, I don't think it's that ridiculous either is Nick Walker for a win. Yes. Dude. I love Nick. I freaking love Nick. Yeah. I, I think out of this like current segment, like his representation of bodybuilding aligns really well with what I like to see. Yeah. How he executes it, how he trens, how he's all in and how he carries himself. I think he's just been consistent for years and being a true bodybuilder. Yeah. And then, uh, then of course the muscularity piece is just nutty. So, and I really think like we, I think Nick is the one that's going to bring the most change from what we've seen in a physique over the other guys in the top five spot. I agree as well. Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah, I think I'm with you. I've got Nick winning. I've got Nick Sampson, Hottie, Derek, um, as my top four, just like, I think everybody kind of does, you know, moving around. What about y'all? Yeah. From there, um, man, that, that one gets a little tough. I think I would go Derek, then Sampson, then Hottie. Yeah. You think it's, you think in Sampson playing this conditioning game is not the right move? I just wonder how much more really comes off them, you know, cause you see some of his shots, even in his like front shots, like they still don't have as much detail. It's a lot of, a lot of size and shape, right? That's really nice. But I don't know if he's still going to get as dug out as what you could see like Derek bring and seeing Derek bring it at the Arnold and that look next to Sampson being that Sampson, you know, it wasn't, it wasn't at his best, but I even feel like that Derek would beat that Olympia version of Sampson that came. Yeah. And so it also doesn't seem like what we've seen from Sampson is like a dramatically bigger Sampson either. So it's like, are we seeing like maybe a relatively similar muscularity Sampson with a, with a touch more condition? Could that, could that be to Derek? I don't, I don't know. Um, it's a tough one. I think they're, they're, they're the close ones that can like kind of go back and forth, I guess. Yeah. And then Hottie's still there. Just ruining everybody. Chris, who's your top four? I had, and now I feel stupid. Thanks, John. Um, I had Sampson, Nick, Hottie, Derek is my one through four. My only concern is Derek. I just feel like his legs back slipped last year quite a bit compared to the year prior. And I just fear we're kind of in that, in that realm again, whereas his lower half isn't going to match. They, they saw, they seem to improve at the Arnold, but then it seemed like the they slipped back for like, was it Pittsburgh? Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. I think it's like really tough to like strike that balance for them. I guess I was kind of banking on like, you have this, this gap in your season to like, you know, keep improving them. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And see how that pans out. So, however, with Hottie, I don't know, with Hottie, I feel like we're going to see a similar Hottie. Mm-hmm. Yeah. He's like Dexter Jackson was that last little run. He's just always there. Yeah. So, so I'm banking like Derek still has room to, I feel like he's still improved his physique. Hottie we'll see consistent. I think if an, I think an improved dot, a Derek could, could beat a Hottie and I would think he could beat a Samson. And maybe I'm, man, maybe I'm just like biased for the short guys to win. Yeah. Because I'm like, it gives me hope. And I'm not going to pick the tall guy. Dude, that's funny. My hottest take is I don't, I think Martin and Andrew, I think something's happening with them. I think they're getting moved out. Like, I think, I think Bruce is hopping in at five. Yeah. No. I think a Bruce could beat Andrew. Yeah. With Martin though. Man. What does he look like in person? I've not, I've only seen photos of him. He, he doesn't impress me. Like, he looks like there's always, he needs to be a little more dug out. He needs a little of this, like, I don't get the wow factor, but I've also never seen him in person. In person. He's, he's much bigger than what you like would see from like what it, what it appears. Short and just super wide, big, big, wide structure. And like a lot of, a lot of sweep to his muscle bellies and stuff. So the 3D aspect, you don't see with Martin until you like see him in person. But I, I know it seems like off his front shots, he kind of lacks some detail and like still like just a little smoother, but just gets dug out on the backside. So he's, he's similar in Derek in that, in that regard. Um, but he's balanced, man, like relatively, cause his back is what needs to kind of come up. But I think a lot of that is a opposing piece with Martin. It seems like. Yeah. But when I see Bruce, man, structurally he's big. He gets super peeled out. It's just his legs from the front. Just there are really a discrepancy. I feel like more than Martin, but maybe that condition piece of Bruce pushes him up. Not. So, yeah, that's interesting. So you've got, if you had to pick a dark horse, my dark horse is Hutchinson. And it's awkward cause you sit next to him, but like, I think he's a freak, man. And I'm a huge, like Chris Tuttle, like nut rider too. Like I love Chris. I think he's awesome. Like, I just think, I think Hutch, I think Hutch could like hurt some people too. He's really good. He, he's a super balanced, he's conditioned, good muscular wise. Like he, he's a very complete bodybuilder. Yeah. Um, I, I, I still see him in that like ninth to 12th segment. Cause then I go, I go down the list of who he has to beat. And I don't think he can overcome like a William Bonnick or a Brandon Curry. And Bonnick just keeps getting better. Like it's pretty wild. And on Brandon is still very hard to beat. Yeah. Um, I think we'll see him in that like. Tony O. Uh, Regan. Comparison piece. Yeah. Yeah. Right. That's where it gets awkward. Like, cause yeah. Like after them, it's like, okay, you got the Andrew Martin and then it's like game on. Like some people were sayinGHers. Some people are saying, you know, I think everyone forgets about Brandon Curry, but like they love Brandon for whatever reason. Like I'm not a big, I love Brandon as a person. His gym's awesome. It's where Chris lives. Like, I, I don't know, I guess. Cause like we're, it's one of those, I think we're just so used to seeing them. We, we forget how like amazing it looks. Yeah. His like, his shape is wild, man. He's very, very big. So it's just, if he comes in like peeled and that's the part of his life, I don't know. So that's the one where Brandon, like now with hers, I don't feel like hers could overcome like Andrew or, or Martin, but I think all the other guys he could give a run for. Shit. So we're thinking like, he could be like eight, nine, 10. Like, I think, I think he could sit in that like seventh to ninth spot. Yes. Dude, that's, that's big. I, I think so too. Like, I love hearing you say that. Cause I was, I was iffy. I'm puttinGHim in, but he looked freaking, IMean, he looked big, man. We think like he, he beats Quentin. Right. And like Jordan beat Quentin, like by what margin, right. Could you think earth beat Quinn by the larger margin than Jordan? Potentially. Potentially. Yeah. Yeah. I think so. Yeah. I think it's all. You're similar heights too. We're like, they're, they're very close to height, but I feel like Burr's carries it in a more aesthetic way. Yeah. Yeah. I'm right there with you. Man, it's going to be exciting. When do you, so people don't know you're coaching, um, the reigning. Well, it was at one from former Mr. Olympia, uh, two 12. Yeah. Two time, two time champ, two 12 champ, Sean Clarita. How do you go, how do you prepare him to go against what could be like literally the best bodybuilder on the planet? And Keon. Yeah. It's, it's a tough one, man. It's always just like prep someone to be their best. Mm-hmm. And that's all you can really do. Yeah. IMean, obviously like, yeah, you have that in mind to stand next to Keon, but like, uh, we still have to try to be the best bodybuilder that Sean can be and not chase like strengths of Keons and try to make Sean like into that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's like Sean has, Sean's vastly improved from last year. Like his last Olympia look was last year, the year before was arguably like two of the worst looks he's brought. Um, the year prior, he was like way too full and waist was like hard to control. And then the next year he's just waist sucked down, man. Uh, it was like down to like 179 and peak week legs were way faded. He was real flat up top. So like work with me for, for trening. That was been our focus, like bring up legs back to what they were. And always chest is like kind of the lagging spot for Sean. Yeah. He just kind of has like some narrow clavicles. So how you present it matters. But yeah, just focusing on that trening piece and that in this, like really changed his posing and his like waist control. Around it. So I think those pieces will be huge, but his legs are like way up from last year. Cause he should be like three, four pounds heavier than last year, but, uh, just like condition nailed. So, so with that, it was like, yeah, let me fix these poses that really expose Sean. Then also make sure I don't like suck him way down and use diuretics and stuff that has been done in the past or wait too long and try to load Sean heavy. Like when there were some past shows, Sean doesn't need a lot of food at all. Like he wakes up fast in the morning. Like it looks like exploding full on like 150 grams of carbs. And like, there's been like guys trying to load him like a thousand grams of carbs. And he's like, he's going to blow his waist out. He doesn't need that much. So peakinGHim, I've seen like, man, a little bit of food goes a long way. And then show day will probably be like very low food, very low water. Cause he just doesn't need it. Yeah. We see like his waist gets hit right away. We do it. So yeah, police been like some of the, some of the strategy. With the trening side of things, what, when you came in and stepped in and take that over, where did you see a room for improvement? So it's towards like leg trening. It was kind of following a traditional split, like kind of a bro, more bro-ish split. But it had been well-structured because like John Meadows was doinGHis trening before. So he had been running a lot of that same trening that he was. So it was well thought out. It just, I think he just hadn't evolved in a bit since, you know, RIP John Meadows. He just hadn't had a chance to overlook Sean, you know? So that kind of needed to evolve like with Sean. And then Sean had been like adjusting it on his own, whether he was in prep or in offseason. And I think that somewhat needs to be remodeled a bit. So like it was like a all quad work day. Then he had like a ham glute day. So like with Sean, we need, we need morEQuad. And his ham's are actually pretty solid. So like dividing that work amongst two days so he can hit quads twice and not just smoke one day, like water the plant and overflow it on one day and not sprinkle a little bit throughout the week water. That and then he still had like a kind of a chest day. Then he had like some shoulder work or arm day. Sometimes that would rotate in on prep. He'd bring in an arm day. And then back was, I think that was once or twice a week. So not like for what his development is relatively like pretty right on. But for Sean, I was like, dude, your shoulders and arms are crazy. Like you don't get a, you don't get a shoulder day. You don't get an arm day. Like we're going to have the like two push days chest. His chest was his focus. One pull day. Then those two leg days that were like split. So that was that part of it. And then making sure we just got him into movements that he could actually target the muscle he need to. Like it wasn't just until recently, like Luke went up and trened with Sean and like got him in the right position to actually press with his chest. He's like, I don't think I've felt my chest contractor get a pump in like years. And then going up this past weekend to tren with him too. And like just slowinGHim down and being able to like put tension into the muscle and not just move weight. Wasn't changing. Like we ended up pulling a whole exercise office program because the stimulus was so much higher just of how we set up his lifts and the cues we gave him. And I really need to get hands on with him because with Sean, he was doing this for like over 20 years. So to get into like a new pattern and pick something up, you kind of need someone to position you into it. And yeah, little cues or all that's needed to now like get a lot out of him. But Sean's what he's at, 44. So, but he's, man, he's so confident. I think more confident than ever now. And truly feels like he has a shot to like take, take a stab at a win here, which you need that mindset going into Olympia. And he wasn't there at all. He talked to me about taking over a prep for him. Yeah. You just, the, all there was gaps and there's a lot of assumptions that, and he was having to make calls on his own. So just take the full reins and make sure he doesn't have to think so much on the coaching side of the equation. Yeah. Man, that's huge. Cause I get, it's good to hear, cause we deal with a lot of, you know, we work a lot of genetically blessed athletes. Right. And they're in a spot where it's like, yeah, you have great quads and a great chest, but like you have to listen to us, give you this little fine tuning detail to keep you going. And so I think it's good for everyone to hear that even, you know, former Tutankhamist Olympia can like take note and learn at 44 years old after he's put on, you know, 70 pounds of tissue. Um, it's something that, and that's where, that's the one thing that I'll say that like both Luke and John have helped make me better as a coach is those small details. And, and like, you know, um, Luke will, like Luke shows me all the time. Like he taught me, I say, he taught me how to press. He taught me how to squat. Like I wish, I wish IMet Luke, you know, in his come up area, you know, like if I had Luke now, when I first started bodybuilding, I think I'd be older bodybuilding. John is absurd. If we can just rewind time, right? If you, if y'all look in your, our Slack group, I sent you Sean's like, correct. LikEQuarter turns. Oh, shit. But dude, this is absurd. This is absurd. So that that's fasted in the morning. He just wakes up like that. Just throw him on stage. That's insane. And so that that's one 82. And, um, what we, foul loss is done. I'm like, I saw this. I was like, it's over, dude. Like, we're just going to bring food up now. And this is, this is night and day. And, uh, so. It's so nice to hear you say that, like, because I've, I've made this mistake. I had a classic guy do the New York pro and we had to make weight. And I was just under the assumption he needs, okay, yeah, now it's time to get full. Right. And, but I didn't take into account and I've worked with them numerous times, but I just was in that mode of like, okay, it's show day get fuller. It got him so full. His muscle bellies expanded so big. He lost a lot of his detail. And it was that moment where I remember Chad Nichols talking about Rami. He saw him pumping up his legs backstage and they just all went away. And I fully, I fully, fully grasped what he was saying because it was, and it wasn't even a crazy amount of food, but the fact that you're, you're able to say like, Hey, I like this fasted look. I don't feel pressure to have to feed him because while this is quote is flat, it's still plenty full to the looking and judging eye. Yeah. I think that's where like people like you must have the load. It's like, no, not for everybody. Like when I ask someone that can walk out like that in the morning, like I don't need to do a lot of changes. And, and also Sean's, he's doing this long time. He's intuitive. Like he knows things that have worked well for him. So it's great where I can, I can take that feedback and pick up speed really fast and build, build front there. Um, but he's also a great athlete and his wrestled before bodybuilding. So he's always been in sports, but he's one that can pick up a cue and like implement it so fast. Um, I got, I sent y'all another pick of that. This was a side chest that he always hits with his left arm and it's his harder side to rotate on. But he like tendency to like, want to pull that sternum up really high. And I'm like, have you ever tried your other side? He's like, Oh, no, not really. Just always hit on that side. I was like, well, let's see it. And then like, man, two cues. I was like rib cage down and rotate even like, don't pick that back shoulder up. And that's what it did. And it's like flat stomach showing more chest and it's nutty. And that the lighting's different, right? Like that's like some natural side light. So he looks better on the, on the right. But, um, either way you see like from a bodybuilding perspective is a much, much better pose. And that was like the same morning, just doing a couple little work with them. So it looks more confident too. He just looks, exudes more confidence. Like comfortable, right? Um, so yeah, it's, it's been, it's so cool. To work with him because he's just such a great athlete and he's so open to make changes. Like he, man, he was just doing cardio right on like the step mill or, or spin bike. And then he would sit all day. And I'm like, cause I'm like, Sean, what do you do? Like during the day? He's like, I just bodybuild, man. Like he's like, I do my cardio. I tren the rest day. Like I just chill at home. I'm like, okay, do you walk? Do you do anything? He's like, no. So I was like, all right. Um, can I get you to do some steps? So that was a little bit of like a challenge. Cause he's like, John, I'm taking five showers a day. I'm just like sweating my ass off. I'm like, what do you mean? Cause his treadmill's in the garage. And so it's like Texas heat. So he's like going between like meals and stuff and sweatinGHis ass off. So like, can we move that into the house? But anyway, he's like, all right, let me see what I can do. So he moved his treadmill in the house. So now I have him just like kind of walking before each meal and just keepinGHis output up. But, um, man, he'd been stagnant for a bit on prep and like making some changes like that for him. Just of like, how do you optimize your lifestyle as a bodybuilder? Now we like pull down in like 10 days out. Now we're ready to go. So it's just, uh, stuff like that, that hadn't been like looked at, you know, like Sean, like, what does your life look like? What about posing? Has anyone ever looked at your other side of your, your, you know, pose on the other side? Or, um, have we seen someone do video review of your trening? It's like none of these things were happening. It's like, that's so much ground for improvement. Like this is a two 12 champion that wasn't doing any of those things. Like what, what happened now? Yeah. Like I look, I'm excited for 2026. Yeah. Dude, that's, that's wild to think about because you're right. It's a very, um, there's so much room left on the table for him to grow. And it's like, and it's almost like you said, it's like, he's just getting started. And, and I've caught myself up and coming coaching, just assuming like, okay, they're a pro. They know, they know how to tren. They know how to, and then you, you really try to dive in like you're doing, you're like, oh, they don't, they don't do all thEQueuing. They don't do the steps. Like, like, it's just very, and it's, it's wild. You see that and you can still get someone out, something out of someone that high caliber. Yeah. Yeah. It's been, it's been fun, man. I'm having a blast. So look forward to out there with Olympia and bringing it all in. Yeah. Let's see, Alex, you want to hop into a couple more before we wrap up? Yeah, dude. Knock them out. All right. So if it wasn't bodybuilding or powerlifting, what sport would it be for you? I think. So if I had all the skills, right, you get picking skillset and just drop me in. I think I would be a sprinter, like a hundred meter sprints. I watched a documentary on Netflix. Forget, forget what they call it. It's following some of the Olympian sprinters, but man, they're like stars in some of these countries big time. And it's just like a drag race of the human body, which I guess all my mentality of things I've done has always been like explosive, like short duration. So just like lining up and just hitting it, like everything you've got seems really exciting. And I guess like a lot of things I've done, the actual competition is like seconds or minutes, but it's like a huge lead up of trening and discipline that it takes to get to those moments. I think the sprinting might be my thing. Now, is there any hope for me after bodybuilding? Hell no. Like five, seven and not made for that at all. So. What do you think will be? Because obviously there's going to be other pursuits to pour into after this. But once you hang up bodybuilding, what do you think you're going to gravitate towards? Probably competitive breakdancing. Okay. Yeah. We respect you too much as a boss. Yeah. No kidding. I was in sixth grade, dude. Like I was all in on breakdancing. No way. Absolutely. I was so into it. Like I would practice for hours after school. I had a cardboard layout that I would have. And man, I was super into it. I'm not bullshitting you. Like this is serious this time. But anyway, no, what would I be into after bodybuilding? I don't know. Honestly, I'm not sure. I've talked to Renee about this. Like I know the martial arts and stuff. I did that when I was like a kid too. That's always interesting. But it's really hard. Everything I've always done has been all in. So I'm kind of fearful of like ventures too far from bodybuilding and like get obsessed on something. And then I end up not able to do all the things in the career that I need to like with business. Because that's what's also been my thing in the past is like I get pick up something. And like I have to remove myself from all other areas. So I don't know. I love bodybuilding trening. So I think I'll just keep trening like a bodybuilder. I'm not going to jump ship. And yeah, all of a sudden, I don't know, take up. Just be a cyclist or try to tren differently. Like I'm going to be a functional trener now or have like some strength trening mixed like just for powerlifting goals or strongman. Like I think I'll just keep bodybuilding and just not get on stage. That makes me so happy to hear. Yeah, I thought about it. And then I see a lot of guys that have stopped and like tried different things. They end up going back to still trening like bodybuilding. So yeah, man, I'll just like probably just keep doing this. I love the lifestyle. I love that type of trening. So for now, that'll be it until something really just catches my interest. Yeah. Chris, what was the one about the compound? Like there's no risk or anything. So if there's no risk or side effects, what drugs are you choosing? What's your top dog? No risk or side effects. Or we could just say back in the day, John. What did back in the day, John? Non-risk aversive, John. Well, yeah, for sure. I'd run some like testosterone as a base. Injective-wise, I've done all kinds of different mixes and nothing's been like crazy standout. IMean, I've used Trent in the off-season and things and it wasn't ever anything wild. I'd probably have like Primo and then maybe some like Nandrolone as well. NPP present. That was always like a really solid combo. But then if there was no side effects, the drug that I would use 100% would be Superdrawal. Yes. Let's go. That would be my number one pick. Add that in, run it year-round, just feel like you make it like. Like, dude, trening strength-wise, you feel crazy. The pumps are insane. And just like, yeah, put on a little bit of water with it, but not much. But made some pretty good like gains with it too. But fuck, it's so toxic. That would be one. If there's no side effects, like make Superdrawal with no side effects and that would be what I would do. Dude, that's about to get clipped and blasted and everyone's going to start taking Superdrawal. That's all. It's just a slip in. Superdrawal with no. Y'all, it's just a sign, y'all. Level three comes out soon. You all have one compound you'd pick? Like, that would be mine. No side effects. I can use it anytime. Halo testing, for sure. Halo testing. Yeah. I'll pop one of those before a jiu-jitsu tournament here and there just to get a little, get a little edge. Yeah, that's my go-to. That, Mint. I love, I love, so one of my buddies, he's actually a client and a good friend, Austin Brown, said Mint was, it's like the new hot girlfriend that you love and then one day you wake up and she just sets your house on fire. And that was the best description of Mint, is it's great for about five weeks and then you get into week six and it's just like, you just, everything goes. But yeah, I was, funny enough, I was a, I was always a Masteron guy. Masteron and EQ was always my jam because I was more genetically fat. And so I just felt the leaners, you know, the cutters and bulkers, right? Like, you know, I need the lean mass stack. And so, but yeah, I really did like Masteron. I'm going tren for sure. Same thing. If week six, it all goes to shit, but the first five are really cool. I was in the same camp too. It was Mast and EQ just because I was too broke to afford Primo. That's what I could get, get ahold of back then. I've always been a fan, but yeah, me and tren, we're, we're friends sometimes, just not all the time. But I, one thing I couldn't play out was I got in the offseason, my buddy had like, he called like Superman pills. It was just like a home capsulated, like it was a blue and red capsule, right? It was 50 milligrams of Anadrol and 50 milligrams of D-ball. And IMade it 10 days and that was it. So I don't know if it would have been amazing or not, but I just like felt so sick. Yeah. And you couldn't eat. And I think like, I, this has to feel like organ failure. So yeah, I just continued that one. Yeah. I had, it was my second coach. I hired him for three weeks and fired him because of this. And it was like my second exposure to gear. And it was like 750 tests and 500 DECA. And I forget what, and he started me at 75 Anadrol. And IMade it about a week and a half. And I texted him. I was like, Hey, I can't even fathom the idea of eating at this point. What do I do? And he goes, let's just double the Anadrol. You don't need food. It's so good. That's what I saw my way out from that one. Yeah. Yeah. Red a true side. Have you tried double dose Anadrol? That stuff might make you lose muscle. This one. Yeah. Right. You'll be cool, buddy. It'll be fine. Yeah. It's crazy how the industries like came so far, like back in the day, it was like the Hulk lens and they're doing four or five compounds in an injectable. And then now it's just like, everyone just wants peptides. It's like, they don't even want the steroids anymore. They just want peptides. Yeah. The deep dives you see, because it's like, you got to have novelty, right? So what's new? It's always been like that. Like when I, the first like exposure to like growth hormone hormone was like modified GRF 129 and CJC without DAC. Like, you're like, what are you talking about? Like, these were like the research Kim's that came out in 2015 that people were going up. And now they're still talking about them now. So a lot of this shit's still not new, but you know why I stopped using them? Because growth hormone hormone was still better. And, but if you use those right and time, try and time around meals, end up nearly spending the same. And then also it's just still not working as well as what growth hormone hormone can do. So, but yeah, you need to talk about the latest and greatest stuff and have novelty. And there's some interesting stuff out there that very well can become things to add in. But as of right now, it's still your big basics are what drives most of the progress around. That's why I haven't put much time into them. Just, it's not needed. But why you see a lot of them out too is because you can have like, hey, check out this, whatever peptide. Use code JOHN20. It's like, there you go. Oh yeah, we can make money off these. Yeah. So how much money can you use off code JOHN20 over on your like UG gear site? Like that, you don't do that. So people are making a ton of money off these and that's why you see them pushed as well. So you just have to be mindful of that, not to discredit like where they have their application and uses, but also just realize that they could be just a little over exaggerated because of those things. Yeah. I never thought of it that way. But yeah, it's totally, totally on point. Chris, was there any more on that list? Yeah. One, I'll tell you, talking about gear, another wild experience was using Trin. And I don't feel like I was like, I haven't had that. Like Trin's the best thing ever experience, I guess, with it. But like when I was prepping for the 2015 USAs, I was using like 600 mgs of Trin per week with Matt. And like I felt like my nipple felt funny and I could like pinch my nipple and like a little, this fluid would come out, like this kind of milky looking fluid. Like it made me like lactate, man. Like my prolactin had to be like just sky high. I was like, Matt, I think I'm getting gyno or something. Like this is what's happening. He's like, all right, let's just cut your dosage in half. And he's like, and of course I had like capers as well. But man, even then, like cutting, like it was intuitive, right? Like you cut the dosage half. It's like, it was, did all of a sudden now I was losing muscle? It's like, no. So like, it's like, I just really didn't need to run that much. That was like kind of the, the worrisome event that I had the first time using that much Trin ever. Yeah. I would be schizophrenic. I think on that dosage. Truthfully. Yeah. I remember this one prep I did and I looked great. It was the first time pushing. I did like a hundred. I'd gotten up to like 110 mg a day. And then, but man, I would come home from the gym and I would have to take a Klonopin. And then I would like have to hit like a little weed pin before bed. But dude, I would take a Klonopin just to be able to sit on the couch. And like, I'm like watching like Mike Tyson, like videos all day. And like, I'm just like a pure psychopath. Oh dude. Yeah. Like I could run through a wall, but, and that was literally like, I would do all that and hit the weed pin. And I would still wake up five times a night. And I would just like, well, but the problem was, is like, I did, I looked good. And so then in my mind, the high tren was the answer. And then it was just disaster after that. It's the hot girlfriend, dude. It's fun. And then it's not. No, my first time was, it was my first prep. I was way too young to be doing it, but my coach had me on like, we started at 300, went up to 450. And I just remember I would only get, three hours of sleep a night. And every hour I'd have to wake up. I would start on one side of my bed. I would sweat completely through it. I would get up, wipe off with a towel, lay in the other side of the bed, wake up an hour later and sweat. And then I would end up sleeping on the floor for the last hour. And so I was doing, washing my sheets every day. And I was like, well, I look sick. So I don't care. Yeah. All logic was out the window. It was like, I'm peeled. So it's fine. What a mess, man. Right. We live and we learn. Yeah. All right. Alex, you got anything else, man? No, that's, I think that wraps it up, John dude. Thank you, man. For you want to hit this last question. I'm, I'm good to hit it. If y'all want to. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, the future of weight caps. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cause you were, I feel like this is a good question for you. Like you were affected. Like, I think now we see the best John, right? Like I think, you know, by far. And so I have this talk with guys and classic, like, I see this a lot in that, you know, we see errors now, you know, exploding onto the open scene. But I think what a lot of people don't realize with weight caps is like these classic guys are like sucking down just to like, you know, crazy 10, 15 pound cuts to like make weight for classic. And then they turn pro, but then they're going, they're turning pro and yeah, they get the 10 pound buffer, but they're already technically at that buffer. And so they're getting like, they're kind of doomed from the start. It's like, well, I'm tapping out my physique, with my weight cap already. Like, do you think, because me personally, I think it's going to continue that way. And we're going to see a lot more like not so positive things in the industry from it. Like, I think weight cutting is like the harshest thing and how we do it on the body. Like, where do you see the future in that? Do you think now with this rise of errors and then someone like yourself, like breaking into the open, like not restricting themselves and looking better, do you think that's going to take off more? I think we are seeing it already happen. Right. I think remember seeing the first two 12 guy kind of move up and you see the look like, Oh damn, could I do that? I think I see classic guys start to question that for themselves as well too. So I think the natural physique progression, you'll always kind of move towards where you'll see your best and most competitive version, but absolutely there's some physiques that, that, that shouldn't do it. And that's why the going up the Olympia stage, like a lot of those physique, two 12. They're all like less than five, five feet, five foot five and have a morecompact build that just not going to be able to trensition well into the open. Think of like an angel Calderon, very stocky stature, but you put them next to these open guys. And that's when you start really seeing someone get exposed like that. I think the two 12 division, you now have a very distinct look of the frame that works well. And I think you'll see that in classic too, that some physiques you just can't trensition the same or they won't be able to hold the tissue to fill out. Your point, Alex, though, I think more of the issue is the maybe safety about making weight. And so I don't think the solution to that is upping the cap because it's the same problem. You're just going to have bigger guys down cutting weight down even farther. I think what they, what I would think to do would be the, the more dangerous ones, I think cuts or when weigh-ins are farther away from the show, because guys know that they could cut further down and have time to fill back out. And that I w I would say to do the way in the day of the show. So you're, you're lightest in the morning and you have less time to actually have to come back up. So you're not going to be able to get as extreme to come down. Yeah. I think that would be one way to make it less risky. The other thing is just one, standardize it right now. That's all over the place. Like there's shows where you can weigh in at night or shows that you weigh in earlier. Shouldn't there two days out? Like that's not fair. It should be always, always the same. Like it's this many hours before you step on stage or it's like the morning of show day. Like something should be a place like that. But I, I would say like having it close to the show, you're not going to be able to deplete that much and fill back out. So I think that would regulate the safety of it a bit, but I think you need some type of cap because otherwise the classic guys are just going to look like open bodybuilders that are more aesthetic. Yeah. That's exactly it, man. Cause I've, I've held that dude. Like North Americans, you can take your guy, your, your bodybuilders up there on a Wednesday and lay in. And I'm like, this is like, yeah, let's go. It's like, yeah. Right. Then I had a guy do New York pro weigh-ins or the Atlanta pro one of the two weigh-ins were at like 9. PM. And I'm like, oh my God. I'm like, oh, this is a disaster. Like it's just, but it's, you know, but then you go to another show and it's like, oh, it's a 10 AM weigh-in. Like we're fine. We can bring the look, but you're right. It there's, I'm already thinking off the top of my head. Like, yeah, there's nothing I could do, but I would have to really, suck them down. And, and yeah, it's, I like standardizing it. Same with height too. Like, you know, I, and it stays. Yeah. I think they've kind of said you take your like three, three heights and then that's your height for like permanently, like on your card from now on. Like that's a, that's a good way to do it. Like that thing with like changing, like that guy's, that gets guys doing extreme things or you just piss. You're like, oh man, I could have been like, whatever. Or didn't have to do all this weight cutting, like would have made it. So yeah, I think it, it does hold people back, but for a reason, because that's what the division should be. But you do need someone that can like assess you and determine if that's the right division to stay within, or if the chasing the better version of yourself would make sense in a different, different class or not. And that's huge. Well, yeah, that's all. That's all I got. Chris, you got anything else? No, I think that was going to be, my question was about standardizing the heights, especially in classic. Um, because IMean, and granted, we see it at all the shows where you'll have, you know, one show, they'll measure you on carpet. The next one at hardwood and this, that, and the third, I've been as short as five foot 10 and as tall as six foot one and a half. Wow. Yeah. Huge discrepancy. Yeah. IMean, it's a total of like 21 pounds in a weight cap difference. Right. And we saw it with one of my buddies who did a Tampa pro. He, they hid it in wrong. So he wouldn't did open instead about classic. Cause he just couldn't make weight. Um, so I do think that in the case, especially for the sake of health and just so you don't see a bunch of people trying to slam, you know, die side last minute to make weight. If they're a quarter inch short, I do think there needs to be some standardization there as well. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. Hopefully, hopefully it goes that direction. I think that would help out the division. Yeah, man. I've done that too. I've, I've looked at people like the, the expediters at the scale. I'm like, Hey, look, we're going to make this way. So like how, how much y'all want to risk this athlete right now? And they're like, Oh, IMean, it's just, it's just a pound. It's all right. Okay. It's good. IMean, I get it. Right. Like that's, I think like, man, they, they need to be like, they should have you weigh and there should be like a display that everyone can see of like what the weight is. And so people are held accountable because there's been some shady shit that goes on like that. And I don't know if you're going to be a sport, I'm like a stickler for like, you need to be by the rule. Yeah. If we're going to be like a show. It's for entertainment. Well, yeah, I guess if you want to see the big athlete come and he's like out of weight, but it's going to be fun to see, I guess let, let like change the rules as you go. Again, I think like we all need to like play by, play by the rules as far as that goes. And I've been on scales where I get on and I've been like over like barely. Right. Like it's two 12.6. Yeah. Like two 12. And that's all we got. Um, now, mind you, uh, everyone that was like, Hey, was that over for you? They're like, no, it was two 12.0. Like, yeah, so was I, man. Like really? They're like, the scale, the scale seemed like it was heavy for everyone. So I think they, they knew that. But, um, but I've been at like the Olympia. I remember we're weighing in and like, that was your Tony was still two 12, his last two 12 show. And he was like, wait in. They're like, no man, you're over. So he had to like leave and go like make weight. So at least they're like, it seemed like the high level show, like Olympia, like they're holding you to it. And they should. Yeah. But I think, uh, rules we should stick to. I think how wEQualify for shows that shouldn't change. Like, I don't think there should be, uh, like an invitation, you know, for like, Hey, I want this guy to show up. Cause it's, I think if we're going to, we havEQualification way to get there and hold it to a prestige level that we should just stick to the rules for, for our like legitimate legitimacy of a sport. Yeah. That's just my, my hot take. IMean, John, it sounds like we're going to be, you know, promoting a show in the upcoming years. So I'm really looking forward to it, man. We're going to say, don't come to John's show. They're like, really make you make sure you're at your grade and height. There's a moral compass here. Shame on me. They made us take our blood pressure before we got on stage. It's so funny, man. Well, John, we appreciate your time, man. Um, hope to have you back. Um, for those listening, if he has, can leave us a five-star review or thumbs up, comment, like, share with a friend. We would, uh, greatly appreciate it here at J3 after hours. And until next time.