 There's, there's situations that should be happening, environmentally, environmentally, where, yeah, you can prep, but there's other ones where you definitely shouldn't be prepping. I think that probably gets back to your point of, Luca, when we should be recognizing, you know, burnout. And I think the first off is like, if they don't take a person in a prep when they have that, that poor of environment. But if you're there and you're going, like, what does that even look like? Yeah, I think there's, a couple things, a couple things, a couple things, self-awareness wise, you as the competitors out there can start to look at, and there's also some things on the coaching side that we can start to look at. I'd like to share just some of the coaching ones first, because I do feel like this is kind of where you have to be extremely attentive to the clientele when you're kind of looking through, like, their feedback and their check-ins, and you can start to start to pick this up and air quote, read between the lines. When we start to see, like, negative comments about the physique or negative comments towards their process in general, especially if they are extremely process-driven individuals. So, like, the entire off-season, extremely productive, a lot of positivity that comes from that, went through the first portion of the prep, and then we're starting to see that dialogue start to shift into, like, a negative nature. And then the other one, too, that I think is, and as coaches, like, you've got to realize there's an element of friendship that gets developed. With a lot of the athletes that you work with, you'll start to have some athletes report, like, relationship stressors and things along those lines. And it's kind of like, again, reading between the lines and giving someone, like, the understanding that, look, this is going to add to the stress of what we need to do, but is there ways that I can help you manage that? So, like, I've even, as a part of check-ins, like, for people, date ideas. That's something I'll do as a part of check-in is, like, provide people with date ideas in order to prioritize that quality time with their significant other. And I think this is where we can start to look into initial signs from a coach's perspective and check-ins where burnouts is starting to kind of crop up and try to get ahead of it as much as we can. And I think during this, you know, I came from, I played sports all throughout, and I guess coming up in, like, the 90s, it was an era of, like, tough it up. Like, we're not getting water this practice in football, and we're going to do, like, you know, burpees and suicides because out in the Texas heat and tough it up. Like, it wasn't about, you know, being soft at all, and I feel like there's a degree in coaching that you need to push, and I feel like that doesn't happen in bodybuilding to a certain degree because it's not like you're signing up for Texas football in high school. You're paying someone now to coach you, and you feel like as a coach you have to, like, cater a lot to people in a way, and you can't just, like, push them. But I think that's wrong because these people are hiring you to pull out more potential from them. But as a coach, it's important to know throughout the spectrum of your athlete's process and your different athletes how hard you can push them, where that development will happen, and before you take it too far. So it's kind of riding the line of this brink. And I think that's where you have to have a really good communication system made because there's a lot of things I would never have picked up on clients if I stuck to only doing text once a week email communications. For a lot of my clients that need that type of – what I see in burnout for some people is that the communication for some will get real sparse or they're the real robust. Like, they'll just be like, I'm starving on prep, right? And so you have to disseminate, like, are you really starving on prep or is it just you've never experienced this and I need to push you? Or is it my, like, type A client that is willing to do anything, right, on prep? And when they say that, I know that they are on the brink of, you know, just going off the rails here. So I think that I love clients send me, like, Loom videos or voice recordings. And I've picked up on more things from that than what I could ever do through a read email of getting a balance of, you know, when someone's burning out and also understanding that client in their athlete process of where they should get pushed and where they should get pushed. So you can't just treat all your clients the same as far as, like, just push, push, push them because everyone's in a different area of development. So I think those pieces can help try to pull out. And I think when you first start coaching, you have a bit of your own personal bias into how you would do things. Like, I, and Luke too, we would take it to the end. Like, you know. I would die on that Stairmaster before I did not jump on stage. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It would, like, suck me underneath. I would be under the Stairmaster getting beat to death. And I said, I did it, coach. Like, I, you know. And that's also the client you have to look out for too. But a lot of people aren't just, aren't, they're geared like that and not ready for that. And I do think there is a development that you can pull out from people. And you're not just, if you don't have it in you, don't have it in you. Because I think that gets into our mindset techniques now, Luke. Because one thing that, you know, early on in diving more into this. But you have a, there's a growth hormone mindset and a fixed mindset. And with these kind of theories around this, like a fixed mindset is that you can't change your mind, basically. Like, how you incur stress is just what you have to deal with. And you just have to work harder with it. While you can think of stress on the mind, just like you think of stress during trening, right? So if you're doing some bicep curls, you have some, whatever, burn in the muscle, you realize that you're going to have this adaptation occur. And you can come back and do more weight and reps. Well, same thing with the mind. Like, exposing it to stress. Like, the kind of, like, eventually you're reading something, you're kind of brain fogged. Like, that's a stressor in the brain to create an adaptation. So a growth hormone mindset is the belief that you can create change in the mind. And that is what I would want to incur of, like, someone that experiencing stressors in prep, that we have a growth hormone mindset, that we have the ability to change how we're dealing with this input and this stress. And so I think just realizing that you have the ability to overcome more versus that this is just the way you're wired, you can't change it. I think that opens up a lot of us to just having a more robust prep and realizing there's hope for us. Yeah. And I think there's multiple ways you can develop this. I think, you know, reading in books is a great way. Like, for those of you that like to read, like Ryan Halladay is the obstacle is the way, and he's got a couple other ones that are pretty good. Um, or kind of like the, the stoic viewpoint of kind of like developing growth hormone mindset. But I think visualization is an underutilized tool. Um, I think when you're actually putting yourself in like deep emotional visualization techniques, it can actually help you work through, through like extremely challenging times because it, it kind of makes the realization of what the end goal is. It's like almost brought to you in that reality. Um, this could be like used through meditative states or even for some people, um, triggers like are a great way to kind of click someone into that mindset. So like something I used to use and something I developed from a performance coach when I was really young, um, was using something to kind of help you click into kind of whatever the task was that you're about to do. This is like back from my golf performance days. Um, and I, during preps, like I would start cardio sessions with the same exacT3 songs because it would like click me into able to visualize kind of what those outcomes are on stage. Um, and it helped me a lot, like, especially those days, like your legs are 15 feet behind you. You've had like 12 carbs the last day and you've got like 85 minutes ahead of you. And you're like, I'm not really sure how I'm going to get through this. A lot of times the first 10 minutes is the hardest portion. And so I would, I would just start that playlist with the same exacT3 songs. I would literally close my eyes and visualize myself either posing on stage to that song or posing in a lineup or anything along those lines. And actually like visualize and try to hear the person calling out the poses. And it was, it's massive. And, uh, you can use that in multiple different, uh, stages and facets. So like in a gym setting, you guys have heard me talk about, I used to like take headphones out in between sets and use that as my physical cue, uh, that I'm about to do a set is putting it back in. And small stuff like that, that leads into visualization or leads into, um, being extremely present in what it is that you're doing. I think can just drive, uh, execution to a level. People, you know, don't know is there. 100%. Um, some of my hardest preps I had, I used so much visualization because I've been on the Stairmaster would just, it seems like endless time. Um, I think my soul is still on it right now, just going. Uh, but during that time it, I, it would be like eyes closed and just what, what was the ultimate success for me was being on stage, nailing it. Right. So that's what I would visualize. And I want that so bad. Like that was such a burning desire for me that I could keep pushing. Um, or for, for some that might be between a set when that days in the gym, when you're like, man, it's like one set at a time. You do a set, you sit down and you're like, okay, one's done. Don't look ahead. Oh, I got 20 sets left. It's like, all right, what's the next set? Like whatever that is, it's like picture yourself on the stage of executing that vision, that dream that you want to happen, like living it out and how that would make you feel and then attack your set. So I think it's a powerful tool and a powerful tool to also like reduce stress anxiety for when you do get in that moment, you've rehearsed it. That feeling so many times that of, of how you want to walk on stage versus the negative of failing on stage. And I think I would bring up the next technique would be, uh, positive affirmations and self-talk and shift mindset to just reduce this anxiety. Um, one thing that I would do before going on stage, I do it before nearly every time I go on stage, um, is it, it sounds, it sounds ridiculous, but I believe like you need to, you need to speak these things out into the universe. And just start to make them true about yourself. Like you determine your own truths, I believe. So I would say like, you're the best bodybuilder world. Own this stage. And just that positive self-talk of like, this is my space. I'm the best. I could walk on stage feeling charged up and just confident what I was going to do. I've had clients in the past that the self-talk is I'm a nervous wreck backstage. Like I'm just shaking so bad. And it's just repeated. Like, Oh my God, I'm just going to be so nervous back there. And I'm going to shake in my heels. Or it's like, if you keep saying that, that's, what's going to happen. You need to break through that cycle and start having positive talk about yourself, that you can do it, that you're going to be that confident athlete, that I'm going to walk on stage and nail it. And I think all those positive things will trensition to a positive mindset. So we're not just constantly beating yourself down. Yeah. And I think it's, it's huge to, to integrate this as a consistent portion of your, um, day to day. I think that's where it really starts to become something that's actually believable. Um, and it starts to kind of continue to drive action. It's, it's funny. Like I'll even call on like some of the times I've done been during prep, like when we're building something for the business. And I'm like up at 1am finishing it and I'm like, screw this. But then it's like, this is nothing compared to, you know, some of the stuff that I've done in contest preps. And I think, I think one of the best things is like recall. Um, I think it's like proof of concept, like for those that are a little bit more experienced, like if you've been through those really tough preps, it's, it's huge as a part of those. So like understand that, that, that might not have been the best outcome, but that you can recall upon that and that you made it through that level of execution. Um, and I do think like anchoring these techniques to habits or times during the day is a great way to do it. I used to put like blocks on my schedule for this, uh, whether it be like meditation time, kind of right before bed or time to read or whatever it may be. Um, or kind of like IMentioned as a part of the cardiovascular activity, but not doing it consistently is not going to see the positive outcomes that could potentially be there when it's a kind of time to perform, uh, whether on stage. Um, or kind of like, uh, whether on stage.