

=== FILE: 3 Lessons to World Class Coaching [pqRKAnNJk5o].txt ===

 geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez geez, geez geez, geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez as a client yourself. And some of these are going to fall in that outcome portion of the process, whether that's not getting stage lean for the show that you're prepping for, not getting lean enough for the photo shoot that you're wanting to do, feeling like you have a lack of control when it comes time to land the physique on that day, whether it be for that show or that photo shoot. And you feel like year after year after year, your physique's not progressing because your weak body parts aren't improving. You're not moving your physique towards that ideal physique that you want. And that's going to be problems that need to be addressed within that process of world-class coaching. And a lot of this happens generally from a lack of attention to your process. Coaches over time will tend to automate portions of the process, not really make it an N equals one coaching of the client. And this becomes a major issue for your outcomes that you have for yourself, your outcomes that you provide to your clients, because you're going to learn a lot through coaching experiences that you have and the coaching experience and environment that you're in, and kind of how that's going to be provided then to the clients that you work with. So whether you're a coach or athlete, being under a world-class coach is a massive learning process that not only expedites your ability to progress, but it's also going to allow you to learn more, to be able to apply more, whether it's for yourself or for the clients that you work with. Now, our goal here at J3 University and J3U Coaching is to empower and educate physique athletes and coaches in order to elevate the industry standard. That's why we've created all the courses at J3U University. That's why we've built that team of coaches at J3U Coaching that have been mentored by myself and John and gone through all the coursework. It's so that we can provide a service and provide education on what world-class coaching should actually look like. So we're going to be answering thosEQuestions for you of how do I actually get better? What does science bridge with experience actually look like? And we're going to be able to limit those mistakes and fast-track those results. Now, for these three things that we commonly see, the first one is not getting stage lean or not getting lean enough for whatever it is that you're preparing for. And the main issue here is incorrect prep timelines. Now, the solution to this is obviously having accurate prep estimations or accurate diet phase estimations. And a lot of this comes from how your process is ran as a whole well before you actually start the prep. So you need to understand how much body fat do you have to pull off? What does it look like to actually pull that amount of body fat off over a period of time? And what does that have to trenslate into how much time you need to diet? That needs to be kind of mapped out with a reasonable fat loss per week and have different scenarios that could pop up with some wiggle rooms because life's not always perfect. And that needs to be a part of that planning process well before you get into dieting. So that's going to be counting the non-dieting weeks. So this would be deloads from your process to drop fatigue. This could be periods of time where you take a little bit of a diet break so that we have that time in advance built in. And it doesn't take away from our ability to actually deliver that result on stage or that result for your photo shoot or whatever that end date is for you. Now, with the coaching process, we should be thinking about this well before the diet phase actually happens. And so we're actually going to be planning the phases leading into it to end at a body fat percentage that allows for the prep timeline that is going to be proposed to actually be executed on and delivered with the final result. So we need to be having this timeline built out well ahead of time. At J3U Coaching, as a part of the onboarding process, we actually build out that entire timeline from where you are to your end goal with the phases color-coded so that you can actually see how we're going to take you through that process and so that you know what those endpoints are so that we're not taking you 10, 15, 20 pounds above where you need to be for the end of the off-season where that debt needs to actually be paid on the diet phase and it makes the dieting process absolutely horrible. We're going to check these client variables throughout the entire process. Monitor your response to these estimations and make sure that we're staying on track so that these timelines stay accurate and we keep you on pace for actually reaching those goals. Lesson number two is lack of control on show day. This is the epitome of delivering the result on the day that you need it. Your show day, your photo shoot, your wedding, whatever that might be. If you don't have any assessment in what peaking that look looks like, then you're going to be operating in the dark. We set up the timelines with that extra wiggle room so that we have that ability to test that peak look and we're actually able to create a repeatable process that is foolproof and actually delivering it on the day because we did our homework well before we actually dieted. We did our homework in the dieting process. We tested the variables before we actually got to show day and we're able to repeat that process on command with situations like you see here. So when we build these peaking processes, we have a spectrum of where your best look is going to be and variables that can push your look up or down through the spectrum. And this will have been tested well before the actual peaking process. So on the left, you can see the flat look is around 220 pounds. We're plugging in some food and fluids with sodium, build that look up to 224. We find that ideal look there, but we continue so that we know where that ideal look starts to wane. We see it starting to get spilled around 226.5. So come show day, we know that it took two meals with X amount of carbohydrates, X amount of fats, X amount of sodium, X amount of fluid to get you to your best look. And now this becomes a repeatable process that's going to always deliver on show day. And off the back of building this process is why we won as much as we did last year with J3U Coaching, having around 20 pro cards won last year across the entire team. So a really productive year for us, but it's because we don't operate in the dark. We operate within predictable processes. Now, the final one that I commonly see as a problem is weak body parts stay weak. Either you think you're educated enough to do trening on your own, or there's not a needs analysis that's built out by the coach in order to match what the client needs. And we don't create that five-step approach solution process in order to actually address the problems that you have. So this is going to be a pose-by-pose breakdown or a full physique analysis of what you actually need to look your best come your show day or your photo shoot day. What do we need in regards to the movement analysis? So actually putting clients through a movement analysis, seeing what you're good at, seeing what you're bad at, seeing why you have the weak body parts that you have, and then applying this and learninGHow we can massage these plans to be the ideal plans for you rather than the ideal plans on paper. Because over time, the biggest thing that's going to create results is adherence and sustainability of that adherence that are all pointed towards what you actually need as an athlete. So with the coaching process, we should always be going back through this five-step approach in order to make sure that the plans are specifically set up for you to sustain that adherence and actually create better outcomes in the long term by fixing the core root issues of the problems and why your body parts are not actually getting better. So this is how we do this in a detailed manner and are always assessing after each phase whether the trening volume and the exercise selection address these weak body parts so we can pivot or continue down the path if it is solving those problems. So finally, really the big thing that we want to make sure that you understand is J3 University and J3 U Coaching, our biggest thing is about delivering results. We merge what we understand from a science perspective and a physiology perspective with what actually works with the N equals one clients. You can see this with the J3 U Coaching team. You can see this with the people that have gone through the coursework and applied this with their own process or with their own coaching process and honestly, just the results talk and they speak for themselves but this is where world-class coaching needs to head is having this really, really refined detailed process that is able to take the physiological understanding of what drives hypertrophy, apply it to the N equals one case study of yourself and actually build sustainable, adherable plans that are going to pull the best physique out for you and your clients and learning that process through experiencing that coaching through J3 U Coaching and learning it in the courseworks at J3 University. So make sure you check that out. We'll have the links in below. If you want to build your best physique this year, make sure you don't miss out on your opportunity to hire a J3 U Coach because your options are to either A, keep doing what you're doing and spinning your wheels and not making the process that progress that you want to make, pulling stuff from social media and YouTube to try to piece together and piecemeal a plan that's not actually built out specific for what you need or you can hire a coach at J3 U Coaching so that you can get a customized coaching process to fast track your progress, understand that you're working with coaches that have been through the entire J3 University coursework and have oversight from both myself and John Weakley on your athlete process so that you can expedite your ability to develop your physique and take that information and actually apply it to people that you're working with if you are running a coaching business.

=== FILE: Andre Adams： Female Labs, PED's, Volume Progression - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.170 [WZiS8LL-33w].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. What should we do in the coaching world? We have trying to bridge the gaps of science and also outcomes. It's exactly why Luke and I wanted to bring on Andre Adams. And he's to help us to help us to help us to help us to help us to help us do this because he aligns so well with what we do because he aligns so well with what we do in J3U and bring you outcome-based and bridging those science gaps, education for top-level athletes. And Andre being an, you know, a well-accomplished IFBB men's physique Olympian, he's also runs his own coaching team called Team Adams Contest Prep. I saw on your, on your, on your, on your, IG. Yep. You also had the past 12 months, five pro cards, 20 NPC overalls, and is also an, NASM master trener and PPC specialist, and now working with NASM to now bring that into the NPC IFBB and establish some just improved coaching standards for all of us to operate within and also leading a lot of the seminars that are occurring across NPC and IFBB shows. So, Andre, welcome to the podcast. You're doing a whole lot for the industry, and we're just honored to have you to talk with us today. I appreciate it, John. And Luke, nice to kind of get some face time with you. I've seen you in the J3U courses. I feel like I know you already. It's been a pleasure, guys. And I tell people, learning is a continuum, and you hit the nail on the head. As far as the NASM and the PPC, for you guys that are new to that, that's Physique and Bodybuilding Coach course, we're really trying to look at just setting the standard in the league and really just taking initiative so that people are constantly learning and evolving. And I've taken the J3U courses as well, and those have been extremely beneficial for me. So I appreciate you guys for that. And I'm excited, man. We've got a lot of collaborative opportunities. And there's going to be things that everyone, right, we've got pockets of knowledge in the industry. And when you put all those heads together, those great minds, those great forward thinkers that actually care about driving results and helping athletes, you get some really wonderful experiences. So proud to be a part of the team, man, and excited for this podcast today. Oh, it's been incredible to see where the industry has gone over the past few years. Because I think back when I started, like there wasn't any information out on bodybuilding. It's like you could maybe find some in some forums, but who knows who was in the forum, you know, hidden behind some type of handle. And you maybe could get some a few coaches that were out there that were putting people on stage, or you go to your local guy, which maybe he just did a show in his past on advice. But now we're at this point where, wow, there is like some completely leveled up coaches that even great coaches that just don't have that like main spotlight on them. And all this, you know, people like ourselves, just improving that coaching standard to where it is kind of removing some of the coaches that are, you know, probably maybe producing real more risk for the athletes and really needs to be. And so, you know, what I see when that competitive bar raises up, you got more coaches bringing that level of standard kind of raises everyone up, you know, in the industry. I know a lot of people get, I think, intimidated when we see the evidence-based, you know, practitioners coming about and you feel maybe a little threatened and defensive around it. And everyone's kind of like, it's this anti-science thing, but really embrace it because it's a way that we will all have to have to level up to. So good stuff. That's exactly right. And, you know, you'll see some of the rhetoric around it, like, oh, it's, you know, it's a money grab and it's, it's this and it's that. It's like, just, just what you said, it's really about just elevating the entire industry, making it, you know, a safer environment for our athletes, reducing risk and liabilities for the league. I'm, I'm honestly, I couldn't be more proud of the league for standing behind it. And this is like the launching pad for what's to come. You know, with again, great thinkers like yourselves and, you know, we got George Farah coming up, right. We got our seminars where we're doing all these collaborative things with other industry experts. And, you know, John, you and I lightly touched on like HTMA mineral balancing, right. We call it biochemical therapy. There's, there's other things we're introducing and integrating into our contest preps that focus on overall health and wellness that maybe 10 or 15 years ago, nobody was thinking about. So it's, it's an exciting time to be in bodybuilding right now. Well, Andre, we, you know, for the viewers listening, we, Andre and I, we put on our stories, like a bunch of questions to, to prompt from our listeners, but one already could have stands out that I want you to hit since we're on this topic. And I've seen this conversation happen. I think there's a lot of misconception around NASM. And I think a lot of people have a perception that is just like, Hey, just this general fitness education that you get and that, or even what they're talking about, about the coaching credential for your physique course, that that is confused with the CPT course. And, um, I, you know, I like you just to address that piece. And then, you know, one of our question was like, how to, how does like other courses, like say J3U, um, or other education bodies, there's a lot out there, right. How does that kind of all fit together in what someone would want to kind of take the steps through their, their own journey? Yeah. So that's an excellent question. I actually love that question. You know, I saw on Tyler's announcement video, you guys probably saw me getting tagged in a lot of things and interacting. And it's a great question, right? Because historically to your point, John, not a lot of, you know, educators in the industry necessarily, uh, we're, we're known for bodybuilding, right? So if you take NASM, right, gold standard, kind of global leader in fitness education, but primarily known for, you know, we'll call it like lifestyle clients, right? Um, people think OPT model, right. Optimum performance trening and strength, endurance, stabilization, all that kind of stuff, which is good. Those are the foundation things that maybe we progress when we first start. But for bodybuilding specific, we started developing this course abouT4 years ago, right after COVID. And, you know, in a nutshell, 23 SME subject matter experts, um, myself as one of the contributors to that course. And our lead SME was actually my good friend, Dr. Guillermo Escalante, uh, Dr. G and I just did another, um, podcast and John, I think you, you might, you may have been, uh, you know, interacting with, with Dr. G at some point, I think during the development of the course, I can't remember. Um, but yeah, we, we definitely brought in 23, you know, very bright minds, um, high level summary there, right? We've got MDs, we've got PhDs, Olympians, prep coaches. Uh, so really good mix of qualified people to speak on very specific areas. You know, like my contribution, for example, was the trening programming modules, right. As an NASM master trener, that's kind of my, that's my thing. That's my jam, right? That's where we tend to excel at. Um, you know, we had someone else handle the AAS and PED section. We had someone else, you know, handle the nutrition and, um, you know, metabolic section. So, uh, we tried to get as specialized as, as we could, and then have it peer reviewed by, uh, again, other industry experts and, and subject matter experts. And, and like I said, this is really the launching pad. It's the framework to take anyone from a personal trener to give you like those foundational skills as a prep coach who works primarily with athletes, but it's certainly not a Bible or an end all be all. Um, this is a continuum. And I think one of thEQuestions was, well, I've already got J3U, or I've already got NASM PBC. Should I take the other one? Are they, you know, and my easy response to that was, look guys, I've, I've taken them both. They're two totally different things and they're fully complimentary. Um, you know, you guys are able to go down a little deeper than maybe I'm able to do because, you know, there's certain things I can and can't say within the realm of NASM. Um, however, the practical side, right. When we're talking to evidence-based science, um, latest and greatest scientific data and research, we got coaches experience and we got client outcomes, right? Those three pillars, you guys are extremely practical and can take, you know, real life scenarios and outcomes that are repeatable and speak to those. Whereas, you know, there's certain things, again, I can't go too deep into the, um, anabolics, um, on my end, right? We can talk about it from a risk standpoint. Here's what coaches need to be aware of. Um, things that you're going to encounter with your athletes. Here's the mechanisms of actions of, you know, anabolics, androgenic steroids, cutting agents, all that good stuff, diuretics. But I can't go as far as to say, Hey, you know, I prescribed this to an athlete and here's the outcome I would recommend as NASM trener. Right. So that's where I think they're fully complimentary and you guys have a different, uh, perspective and expertise that really, really compliments the, the PPC course. Yeah. I think you, you had made a great point that, you know, your, your education is going to be a journey and you'll have a spectrum of learning that needs to happen. And as you, you know, getting your coaching, you're going to find like areas where like, maybe you're not as proficient. That's not as much of your background. And you find some course that you dive into there. Like right now I'm doing like a deep dive in like GI for dietitians specifically. It's like, so, you know, your journey is just a continuum of always learning. And, uh, Luke and I both would take a number of courses. So it's not just, you're going to take one, you're set. It'll always be occurring. So, and, uh, even then we've had people, I'm sure you've had people with the NASM course too, that I've gone through it a few times because you'll pick up more as you keep going through. So it's a great, just like reference and resource, uh, to, to have. Um, yeah. So, uh, so Andre, with that being said, uh, you coach a lot of athletes yourself, of course you're an Olympian. We have some actual stuff that we can dive into now that is getting into the client result outcome-based coaching experience, which I wanted your insights on. People wanted to know specifically for me, these, thesEQuestions. Now, let me, let me ask you, do you have kind of a, uh, a niche of, of the type of, um, client you coach, do you do more female? Is it more men's physique? Cause that's kind of your background or a mix. It's a good mix, but right now we're definitely, definitely known for our females. So today, 2025, you know, we coach about 85% females, which is the polar opposite of where I started. You know, I actually started working with athletes around 2014, 2015. Um, I had been pro for a couple of years, got my NASM, you know, master trener cert, and I started just helping kind of, you know, a few friends and you know how that goes. Like a few friends, you produce some pretty good results. You're learning more as you go. And then it's a snowball effect. Um, but I would say back then it was primarily physique. So, you know, I started out in men's physique, got my pro card there, um, qualified for the Olympia there, did the Arnold and all that good stuff. 2016 through 2017 classic physique came out. So actually took a year and a half off to grow. Um, I went from just to give you some context there from about 200 pounds to 240 pounds for classic. And then, you know, obviously had to come back down and make weight and all that good stuff. And, um, I did pretty well in classic, not as dominant as I was as a pro in men's physique. Um, but you know, made top five a couple of times, runner up and didn't qualify for Olympia. Um, got a few injuries, bought my gym and launched a nutrition store and went full blown with, you know, with coaching. So, um, I came back last year just for fun, but it did trensform. I'd say abouT3 to four years ago, we started really, really dialing in on females. So started with like bikini. And then obviously when wellness came out, that was huge for us. It's like right now with fit model, right? It's an opportunity for coaches to really just, you know, go all out in this first year or two snatch up some pro cards and establish yourself as, um, you know, a really good coach in that specific group. So, um, really good split though. IMean, I still do work with guys. Um, we've got quite a few competitive men's physique, classic physique and bodybuilding athletes, but yeah, 85% women these days. All right. Well, that's, that's perfect. I think for our first questions that we can dive into here. So, um, man, I think the lab work questions are like never ending. Um, it'll always be something just to keep learning on too. But, uh, one was like pretty focused in that. So I've come across a few females with terrible lipids profiles, high cholesterol, et cetera, how to mitigate these or lower that in particular is what they were curious on. Yeah. So I love this question too. And, you know, if you guys follow, we did an IG live, uh, I think a week or two ago with one of our, uh, team naturopathic doctors, Dr. Indy, and we actually went really deep into this topic. And to your point, John, we could probably spend a whole podcast on any one of these, but we'll keep it high level, but informative and actionable enough. For me, I always start with, when we're talking like lipids, um, for one, we kind of, we've got to delineate, is this a natural or enhanced athlete, right? If we're pushing, you know, oral DHT compounds, things that are giving us unfavorable profiles with triglycerides and cholesterol, we can, we can be proactive about it, right? Because we know what's going to change over time with their, their lipids. Um, but some of the main things I like to start with is controlling glucose, right? So a lot of athletes, anytime we have repetitive trening patterns, you'll get a bit of insulin resistance. Um, you know, if we're at a extreme deficit for long periods of time, right, you're still going to get some insulin resistance. So I like to control glucose first, um, things like GDA, berberine, metformin, those types of supplements. Uh, obviously GLP ones are like, you know, the, the hot topic lately. We can, same thing. We can go down a rabbit hole on those if we want. Um, but you know, anytime we can control glucose, that's also going to have favorable impacts to things like our cholesterol downstream. And, you know, for me, if I've got an athlete, especially our females, uh, but this applies to males and females that would be, um, enhanced and maybe they're using some oral, you know, DHT compounds like an Anivar, uh, or Primo, anything like that, we can more aggressively support their triglyceride and cholesterol profiles. Uh, we'll call it proactively, right? So supplementing with some of my favorites that, uh, myself and Dr. Indy would normally prescribe I would be like, you know, B3, niacin, um, CoQ10. Uh, I love citrus bergamot, uh, red yeast, rice, curcumin, soluble fiber. Um, a lot of these things, omega-3s obviously to keep those HDLs up. Um, so a lot of those natural type supplements that will help just maintain those profiles before it becomes an emergency situation. It seems like in the female crowd, you're probably have a lot of the, the lifestyle aspects probably already in place. Like they're not individuals that are pushing crazy amounts of food or, um, you know, eating a bunch of rice crispy treats post-workout to get all these carbs in or, uh, a ton of like saturated fats to where a lot of just the basic dietary interventions might've already be there. And usually they're already doing a lot of cardio. So like you've already kind of pulled that lever. Um, it almost seems in that population, when I see lipids getting skewed a lot, there is probably a genetic proclivity already kind of there. Um, and then if you add on the enhancements with PDs, the supplement side, if you've already pulled that lever too, you might have to go to, you know, see if the pharmaceutical route is needed. And to add on to your, your point too, is I would be cautious on the supplement side, just because I state this just because the mechanisms of action of a lot of those supplements that are out there. Cause you see them, like, you don't know how they work for a lot of people. Yeah. I'll take red yeast rice and citrus bergammon. And, uh, both of those work through like HMG CoA and through like, like a similar to a statin. So you might be stacking things that are kind of doing the same mechanism of action. Um, so just be, be cautious of like you are overlaying these different interventions that you're not just doubling up because it actually could be harmful in a sense. So, uh, just something, something to be considered of. Yeah, absolutely. And, and, you know, you pointed out something good that, you know, my mind usually jumps to competitors because we work primarily with competitors, but to your point, you know, for those lifestyle clients and again, myself actually, um, on my mother's side, right? Maternally, um, there's definitely some genetic predisposition to high cholesterol. So I've always had to be extra cautious with mine because mine will go through the roof instantly. You know, anytime I'm on prep within the first month, my cholesterol profiles are shot. So, and same thing with, you know, obviously my mom is not a competitor in any way, and she's struggled with this for the last 20 years. So you do have to be mindful of that and just making sure that you are checking the boxes on those normal habits and routines, right? That you're eating clen and exercising regularly. So start with the basic foundation, but then to your point, if you've got a lot of those systems in place and you're still having, you know, extremely unfavorable triglycerides, cholesterol, it's not a one size fits all, right? You've got to really, um, do your homework and see what's going to be the best solution for you. Yeah. We, uh, we, of course we plug Merrick health for if you're needing that medical intervention, um, get some like thorough lab work to assess. And then from there connect with the provider that might, if you need to go, the pharmaceutical route would be the way to go. Like even speaking to, for my wife Renee, um, hopefully she's not listening. It's like my ears are burning, but oh, we've tried everything to lower LDL things. Just her, uh, you know, her why Hawaiian genes just love to be high in LDL or April, like light bro protein, little a is higher too. So it's like, even, even then it's like a little bit more atherogenic risk. Try to everything. And it's like, this is just a genetic thing. Like you're on prep, you're offseason. It's just high. So that's when like the pharmaceutical intervention might be considered from there. So, um, well, on a similar topic, you brought up anabolic and females, which now like the, the follow-up question that comes from there. Um, just of course this, this question, uh, approach to anabolic steroids for females and how much very generalized. That's like, uh, lectures upon lectures, right. Of, of material. So maybe, maybe we can give some, some, just some outline of a framework of mind. Yeah. Yeah. I'll give you my thoughts. And I actually love your, I've, so I've taken your female module guys and I actually love the approach that you guys have. Um, I share the exact same mindset. So, you know, anytime we take an athlete, especially someone who's like novice new to lifting for one, when we talk about approach to AAS, this really comes down to the individual, their personal goals, their genetic makeup, um, their timelines, obviously, but I don't like to throw, uh, PDs at anyone when we're starting out, right. If you haven't done the foundational work, we're not going to rely on PDs to, you know, put you on stage right away, right. You should be really, really pushing your genetic potential and your limits naturally for at least one to two years minimum before you even consider, um, any anabolic, in my opinion. Now, is that a blanket statement? IMean, there's always going to be exceptions, right. Just like with our guys, right. And there's no different, right. You might, you might've had low testosterone at age 25 and we got to address that. Um, but just in general, I like to, to start there really, uh, maximize their genetic potential. But then when we're looking at things like blood work, so, um, and I don't think they mentioned blood work in that question, but that's the first thing that we want to do is see what range they are in. So when we're looking at females, I do prefer the J3U approach where we're really focused on optimizing things like their base level of testosterone, looking at the relationship and ratios between progesterone and E2 or estradiol and females, um, really before adding any additional compounds, right. If we can optimize the body's hormones and get those into a really good position, honestly, I like to run there and see how the body responds. First, if we're not achieving the physique outcomes we need, or you've got someone that's built like a bikini athlete, but she says, coach, I really want to be a women's physique athlete. Now it's a different ball game, right. And now we got to get a little more hyper-specific and maybe start thinking about other compounds. Um, right. But obviously it's a low risk first. And, you know, I think John, this would be good for you guys to reiterate too, but I really liked where you guys broke down on a milligram for milligram basis, the effectiveness of different DHTs and different anabolics, right. They all really have a similar effect on skeletal muscle. So we got to look at which ones are going to be, you know, the most effective with the least amount of risk and then start phasing things in appropriately, um, with appropriate deloads and durations, and then constantly having that feedback loop for, you know, the onset of any realization because, you know, blood labs are one thing, but they're also not going to tell us, uh, some of these, uh, potential risk factors and, um, other things that I do again, that might be a little bit unique. So we do a combination right out of the gate of blood work. And then we also do the HTMA hair tissue mineral analysis. So if someone's testosterone, let's take a female, right. Just for day to day quality of life, we like to say over 40 nanogram per deciliter testosterone, right. Normally you're going to measure day 12 to 14 of their cycle. If they're getting a cycle, um, that's kind of a base, right. But optimally, I think you guys like to go around 50 to 75. That's, you know, a little bit more preferred for most females. Um, so I usually start there and let's say that it's suboptimal. We're at like 30 nanograms. So it's not terrible, but it's not quite, you know, in that optimal range for, uh, an athlete, you know, IMight look at their HTMA first, and then we look at what mineral imbalances and ratios are driving that dysfunction in the first place. So instead of treating the symptom and going straight to HRT or TRT, um, we would actually start with biochemical therapy first and aggressively support that. Now, if they're, you know, let's say they have run a cycle in the past and they come to you for coaching and their testosterone's crashed out, it's nine. That's, there's no amount of, you know, uh, mineral balancing that's going to drive that all the way back within range immediately. So there's times where we might have to implement, um, testosterone, get them in range, then support it with the mineral balancing. Um, and again, start looking at, do we need other things like, you know, maybe there's growth hormone hormone hormone peptide therapies and, and, you know, some different things that are maybe lower risk. Yeah. I think there's a lecture that I put in there too, that kind of runs through the levels. I don't know if you've kind of ran through that new lecture that's been put in there, but running like level one, level two, level three, level four, and then some special cases within those as well, as far as considerations for that. I think there's really big goal of the coach to have some expectation management with clients as well, relative to that risk profile of the athlete and communicating with different levels within the sport. Um, and I think this is huge, especially for if you coach females, there's a lot of younger females getting into the sport. Um, and I actually had a conversation this morning with one of the younger females on the team about delaying, dipping their toe into exogenous PD exposure because that athlete process is still in the process of being perfected. Right. It's like, and there's, there's so much that can be raised that glass ceiling of potential when you go through that process of optimizing like their ability to tren and doing that on the forefront before we go into, uh, the PD side of the equation. Um, and I think that kind of where that HTMA would fall would be perfecting those baseline variables before you progressed up. And now there are special cases where, and I put one or two in there that potentially skip that level two of HRT, go straight to the exposure, but it's, it's rare. Um, and it's something that I think needs to be taken with understanding that the long-term risk might put them in a place of a different viewpoint of a lifestyle. If they, if they're not aware of it, um, and there needs to be some real conversations that are had, um, where the clock, the coach prioritizes the client, not their outcomes for the business. And I'm really passionate about this topic. I coach a fair amount of females on my team as well. Um, and it, it needs to get very specific to risk profiles relative to that athlete, because I've got some WPD girls that, you know, are no holds barred, but I've also got some wellness girls that arecompeting at the top levels, but still have some pretty strict limits with what they're, what they're capable of doing or what they're willing to do to be competitive. So, um, I think there's a big coach conversation piece of this, that we not only need to lay out mechanisms of action and risks and what does the financial considerations for health management look like, but we also need to have some expectation management so that the coaching process goes smoothly. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3 team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, actually, Luke, I love that you mentioned, you know, the coach's responsibility too, because I don't know. I think a lot of coaches are in it, you know, especially when they're just starting out. A lot of them are athletes that are maybe trying to pay for their prep and they start coaching other athletes. And it's like, uh, let me just rack up the wins. I don't really care about your longevity or what happens, you know, you get a bikini athlete who right out of the gate is put on a really aggressive, exogenous cycle. And then all of a sudden she's got realization for the rest of her career and it's not necessary. Right. Um, so a bit of irresponsibility on the coaches, but athletes also have to take some accountability, right? You know, as athletes, guys and girls, we have to do our homework, make sure that you do have confidence in, and you're able to be fully trensparent and you feel safe and open with your coach, you know, talking about these things. So I can't encourage that enough because that's something that, um, I'm very passionate about too. And, uh, I think also just writing out that initial newbie gains phase. So, you know, that's a real, real thing, right? There's a lot of science behind it, but John, you and I can, can tren as hard as we want for the nexT3 months, but the, you know, the incremental amount of muscle mass we're going to put on compared to someone who's just starting in that first year, they can, we can do the exact same trening. They're going to get a little more advantage. So I like to ride that newbie gains phase out before their body starts to adapt and plateau a bit. Um, you know, and, and it's not always necessarily to jump straight to PD. So, uh, yeah, I definitely like that approach guys. And that's a, that's a long topic for you guys that are watching. Like, IMean, that's going to be one that we could really do a deep dive on, but start checking those fundamental boxes, start with blood work, you know, encourage you to check out the HTMA biochem therapy. If you haven't done that, it's, it's complimentary. It's not a replacement for blood work. Blood work is that snapshot, right? I can go have a cheat meal and drink some alcohol and hit legs. And then my, you know, CK and my BUN and all my values are all off versus, um, the HTMA, which is actually taking three to four months of data that's accumulated minerals that have accumulated in the tissue analysis. So it's a little bit more, um, I don't want to say accurate, but it's a little, it's more context. It's a bigger picture of the story, right? Your, your potassium could be high on blood work, but could be completely normal on an HTMA where it's just a, an acute response to something, you know? Yeah. I think it's great job showing a long-term tren of the state, a mineral balance that you've been living in. Yes. In that, in that moment, your lab work can show, uh, potential of what that momentary state is. So, you know, like you said, I think they'recomplementary. I think there's, there's probably pros of where mineral analysis and certain minerals are really good in hair, but maybe not even replacing in the serum, which you still need to be looking at as well. Um, and there's probably, uh, if you had a, a fiscal, you know, confines, um, probably labs still getting that base first. And then hopefully maybe you can do an HTMA's addition. Like, hell, we would all do all the tests, right. And be like superhuman. Um, I realized some people have some confines to work within too. So, um, stair staircase up in your testing. Yeah. You need to from there. Um, I I'm going to skip, I know we have onEQuestion, but I'm going to skip to this next one because someone brought this up and it seemed like a kind of like a jab at NASM. And I, and I want you to give clarity there because I think they were just, uh, you know, not accurate, but it says, why, why is all the medical stuff necessary when ASM clearly states to stay in our lane? Right. And honestly, I, it's a good question. Um, because I talk a lot about this on my NASM peak physique podcast and, you know, here's why it's important for you guys that are wondering. Um, so from the NASM side, yes, it's very important to stay within your scope of practice. And that's why we do. And I, I encourage this for any of you guys that are coaching athletes, build your network, right? We've got a medical team that we partnered with here at our contest prep center. We've got Dr. Indigo, our naturopathic that we talked about with biochem therapy. You know, we've got specialists for each one of these things, um, that specialize in different areas because here's the thing as a coach, there's going to be times where we kind of blur the lines, right? Um, yes, we have a certain scope, but we also have a duty and a responsibility to understand when an athlete is at risk or potentially, um, you know, heading towards risk, even if that's not our scope. Uh, so for me, it's, it's essential for prep coaches to be very well rounded and definitely have a basic understanding of at least how to interpret blood work. Does that mean that you're a doctor? Absolutely not. You should not be prescribing or recommending, Hey, you should take this because you know, your hemoglobin is high. You're, you know, your RVC is off. Um, your, your liver enzymes are elevated. So take this. Now there's times where again, as coaches, we can, we might have to give recommendations and guidance, but, um, never try to play doctor, right? Always out outsource and refer when possible to medical professionals, partner up with them. If you can, um, you know, we brought them again in house on our team so that we do have some of that expertise because again, it's not my place to understand that, but I should know when one of my athletes does blood work and there's a few big red flags staring me in the face and Hey, is this athlete, you know, in a healthy enough position to really push hard through this prep or do we need to pump the brakes and shut it down for the season? Right. So that for me, that's why it's necessary to understand, um, things like, you know, blood work and some of these more specialized issues, uh, hormone dysregulation, you know, down regulation of the thyroid, right. We get metabolic adaptations on prep when we're in a deficit. Um, and those are again, areas that we, we can understand and then we know when to refer out. Um, but even non-physiological things like eating disorders and behavioral eating patterns, I'm not specialized to diagnose or treat those, right. However, I certainly can suspect that we have a bit of that going on and refer them out to, um, a registered dietitian, for example, right. Or someone that specializes in that area. Yeah. I think people need to realize like, you know, in your general lifestyle client or even your athlete, like how often do you go see your doctor? Like ask yourself that it's like not very often, right. How, how much contact are you when you're with your nutritionist or coach, uh, some of them might be weekly to even daily at moments. So in, in that line of practice, like you're going to see your client more and potentially be a first line defense of some bigger picture issue that they might need to go see their doctor about. And then if that is the case, you also need to be familiar with what that doctor's intervention might be as you can have a supportive role in that. Um, I just had a client, we pulled out of prep. She's having a lot of GI issues and where that kind of led to us like, Hey, we should do some GI testing. It turns out she had like H. Pylori. She had SIBO. So now am I diagnosing this, this, you know, and giving medications? No, that's out of my scope. I aligned her with the physician that we coordinate with, but there's also dietary interventions that I can do that support her rebalancinGHer gut, et cetera. So, you know, I need to understand what the doctor's doing and, and why that happened, kind of get this root cause approach. Uh, so that's why we do need like a pretty big scope to be able to understand, especially if you really want to move up to higher level clients. Right. Otherwise you're going to stay in this just very generalized practice and you won't be able to solve a lot of problems. And we, we've spoken to like where artificial intelligence is going. And if you're only able to provide a very generalized service of like, make five meals for my client and make this workout plan, like an AI is going to be able to take your job. You know, you need to be able to expand beyond just like general practice now and problem solving, through those experiences where you can really improve your coaching business. So. Yeah. You hit the nail on the head there, John. I love the collaborative approach, you know, work with those medical provider or those specialists and you're going to pick up a thing or two, right? I'll be honest. When I, when I first started getting introduced to the HTMA, which is about a year, year and a half ago, it was, it was totally unfamiliar. It was like looking at Chinese or hieroglyphics. I'm like, what in the world is this? It's that Dunning-Kruger effect, where just when you think you kind of learned everything that you need to know, you're like, oh my God, there's this whole other world that I don't understand. And now that we've worked with, you know, 50, 60 athletes and put them through the biochem therapy, you start to see common denominators. You start to understand and realize common solutions and strategies. And, you know, so yeah, you've got to be collaborative and don't have an ego in it. You know, if it's something that's outside of your comfort level or your scope, partner up with those collaborative specialists. Well, Andre, I'd love to shift gears a bit because your area where you've already said you shine is in trening. And Luke is, well, we all are. We love trening. So I want to, I want to jump to this next question on, and Luke, you actually just did a big VIP call on this too. It's like, do you think stronger, more advanced people need less working sets? Oh my gosh, we're back on the volumEQuestion. It's never ending. This is a good question. I'll chime in from my perspective and mine, mine is going to be two things, right? I've got the, from an NASM, put my NASM master trener hat on, and then I've got my Andre the athlete and I've been trening 20 years hat, right? So my personal experience versus like the way I'm taught. You know, for me, it always depends on the individual, but let's just start by prefacing it, that it is a whole heck of a lot easier to maintain muscle. Once we built that foundation, then it is to initially gain the muscle, right? So let's take any of us, you know, another good example would be like Kai Green. Do you think Kai Green is trening as intensely as he was when he's competing against Phil Heath? No, but he still looks pretty darn good, right? IMean, it's a lot easier to maintain that. And even, even myself, so there's a whole nother rabbit hole. We could go down with set point theory. If you guys are familiar with set point theory, we're basically causing adaptations and we're changing those homeostasis levels of, you know, muscle mass, metabolic adaptations, depending on what we're consistently doing for a long period of time. So yes, when you've already developed a certain amount of muscle mass, if you're just looking to maintain it, you probably could get away with less working sets, right? Theory tells us in the books, if you're touching up that muscle group with moderate intensity, let's say 15 to 20 sets, one time per week, you're going to at least maintain your muscle, okay? Now, that being said, most of us aren't here to maintain. We're here to make improvements. We're here to grow. We're here to push it to the maximum, right? We're bodybuilders. So one study that I actually talked about on my podcast last year that I appreciated was published by MedScience. I want to say October, 2023. It was Tocito Souza Jr. And the study indicated that there's a dose response effect to higher trening volumes for developed athletes. So that's going to be the key when we're talking like normal, let's say the normal average Joe at your gym, or even a sedentary person versus a well-trened athlete like one of ourselves, right? The study actually showed this dose response effect or this adaptation where they're still achieving results without diminishing effects up to 52 working sets per muscle group per week. Whereas, you know, with beginners or intermediate clients, it was less than 20. That's kind of the range that NASM would normally recommend as well. But you do get these adaptations where when we're trying to achieve higher results, we're trying to shift that set point higher. We're trying to hold on to more skeletal muscle. You can actually go to higher volumes over time and they produce results at 52 sets per week per muscle. So that's my long-looking answer. Yes, you can grow and actually do more volume. But if you're just looking to maintain, sure, you can drop the volumes and maintain pretty easy. Do you want to go first, John? Or do you want me to? No, go ahead. You have your trening bit. So I would push back on this a little bit, especially when we see the expectation of a recovering athlete, right? So this is the trenslation piece that I would start to kind of intervene with, like the trenslation from research into actual application. You cited 52 sets per body part, correct? Like it was a thing kind of like that. Right. So the most advanced athletes were able to still record results over that 12-week study at up to 52 sets per muscle group per week. Yes. I would need to familiarize myself with this study to dot I's, cross T's through it. Was that like on the small muscle group? Because I remember like the Schoenfeld study where I was like 45 sets. It was like for biceps and I counted all the bicep work of like rows and pull downs and direct bicep work. Or was that across every single muscle group? Do you recall? I don't recall. I'd have to go deep into it. But let's just take a broader muscle like a lat or, you know, chest. You know, so if you hit chest, focused chest exercises, you know, twice a week and your volume is 20 to 26 sets of total chest exercises, right? It doesn't seem too unreasonable. Twice a week, you could get to your 52 sets. I'm probably doing that today, if I'm beinGHonest. Okay. Yeah. So my thought goes to the Schoenfeld study, which is what I was going to point out, like the cross trensfer. But secondarily would be your narrowing window of adaptation as you progress in regards to like reps and reserve and proximity to failure and making sets like actually count. I think we can bEQuite a bit more efficient with one setups, driving more mechanical tension per set. Secondarily proximity to failure in setups that allow for someone to take it to that level. And then tertiary would be program design that allows for long term progressions with not having to consistently interrupt it with deloads. Because when we have like short term breaks within program design, we keep having to take deloads over the long term. We're taking a lot of weeks off of driving and progressive stimulus, which is kind of where I would start to push back on the 52 sets outside of stubborn body parts. So this is kind of where when we balance program design and cups. So like if you've heard me talk about like a three cup theory, three cup theory being squat, hinge, pressing, all of these have cross trensfer into these and you fill these cups up different amounts depending on the athlete's needs. This is kind of where I would say we could probably push people further into specialization in the advanced world than we do now. Of like filling cup up quite a bit more than what's the general volume recommendations of the 15 to 20 sets per week. Just coming off a block with like Darren Farrell, classic physique Olympian, who's going through some specialization. We got him up to like 30 sets per week for hamstrings. However, when we look at continually progressing the physique as a whole, there's no way that he could have progressed that trening block consistently from a progressive stimulus standpoint. So I think there's some cross trensfer into anecdote that we need to see at that level and at that level of strength and the ability to output, we probably wouldn't see recovery capacity be able to maintain that level of trening in my opinion. Yeah. It's a fascinating concept. And I'll, you know, also say this, right. All sets are not created equal, right? If you're Ronnie Coleman and you're hitting 52 sets of 800 pound deadlifts, that's going to look wildly different than a bikini competitor doing some banded clamshells for 52 sets on our glutes. Right. So we would have to take that into consideration for sure. I would also delineate our natural athletes versus enhanced, right? As we all know, muscle protein synthesis, muscle nitrogen, a lot of those things are going to be much lower for natural athletes and the recovery. Right. So I always like to point out like the SRA curve, so stimulus recovery adaptation, and we are basically breaking down that muscle tissue, right? Providing the stimulus. And then we get into this window where we start the recovery process. And then we get this super compensation and the super compensation brings us to a little bit higher than homeostasis levels of muscle. Right. And we're continuing this curve over and over until we establish as much mass accumulation as possible. So it does definitely depend on the trening intensity. Luke, I like that you pointed out some of those different mechanisms, right? There's more than one way to achieve hypertrophy. And, you know, NASM, there's a couple different things. I won't go too deep into that, but we've got a five stage. It's the optimum performance trening module, right? We're primarily trening in the, you know, strength, we'll call it hypertrophy phase or muscular development phase. And within that framework, I like to implement things like progressive overload. For those of you on the call that maybe you have heard of like said principles, specific adaptation to impose demands, and we're starting to cause adaptations. And, and to your point, you've got to really look at your athlete to understand if they're still getting results. Are they still progressing? And maybe I'm progressing weight. Maybe I'm progressing volume. Maybe I'm progressing duration or intensity. So there's a lot of different ways that we can continue to progress the stimulus without necessarily only leveraging trening volume. And I think, you know, thEQuestion was on working sets, but again, it doesn't really take into consideration the amount of weight and intensity within those working sets. Yeah. John, you want to chime in? Yeah, sure. I had, I had a quick, like kind of find this little paper to, because you had to be too interested. And now I kind of recall a bit more about it. There was three groups within that paper, right? And they, it was a, every two week they added sets in to then peak up to either 22 set, 44 set, and then like a 52 set. And that high volume group for, for a lot of measures they did have improved growth hormone hormone. And there was like a two RIR. So it matters, right? Like of proximity to failure. And I think these researchers are so cool because it's where now you shouldn't take this and make your 52 set program. Right. It's like, no, no, no. This gives us insight into volume accumulation. And what kind of is conferring like a driving factor in muscle growth hormone hormone? Because what do you happens after the 12 weeks? Could you do this on prep? Could you keep sustaining this? It's like, well, this might be kind of unsustainable. But this is where we, we didn't find like, Andre puts his like coaching experiential hat on, right? You're like, yeah, I'm probably not going to make a program with 52 sets immediately if I did that. Yeah. Okay. So I remember this paper because it was progressive volume over time. Right. And I think we talked about this in the sense that you trenslate this in the program design of testing the limits of volume accumulation for that athlete. And then you kind of find where that athlete's limit is relative to their proximity to failure and their ability to drive tension per set. And then you kind of go from there, which is kind of what I, I, I like another piece. So that was, this question was around like stronger athletes they mentioned as well, which is a unique one, because we have some athletes we coach, right. That has just a greater propensity for strength adaptations and not as much for size, which I don't know, Andre, if you found like you have whatever, two bikini athletes, right. And one's crazy strong. The other one's not, but they have the same muscularity. I am sure like the systemic fatigue to manage the really strong athlete presents some very unique challenges versus the one that is not nearly as strong. And same goes with like some of these open bodybuilders that I've coached ones that are really strong. They move very fast with fatigue and they have to be watched very closely. Their output's so high. I don't know if you want to maybe speak to that because I think that's something really interesting that many don't think about. We just think about volume, but the, the, how that volume, that one set increment might be impacting, um, for the level that the athlete can execute or even the strength level, uh, might really determine how you might manage things as a coach. Yep. Yeah. And that's, that's where you have to really get hyper-specific, right. Where the cookie cutter plans don't work. And to your point, you could have, I could put two bikini athletes on, uh, an in-body scanner and they have the exact same amount of skeletal muscle. You know, they aesthetically, maybe they look pretty similar, but this one's work capacity is through the roof. And this girl, I can throw 25 sets at her on a leg day without really, you know, breaking a sweat. And the other one is completely burnt out after anything more than three to four sets per exercise, you know? So that's where, you know, I start to look at different things. Um, there's also one thing I take into consideration is like skeletal muscle fiber type, right? So if you are Michael Jordan and you've got all this, you know, type two muscle fiber, this explosive fiber versus having a higher percentage of maybe slow twitch fibers in your muscles, this can also make a difference. So, you know, if we've come back to just base level, how does hypertrophy work in the muscle? We're providing a stimulus, we're creating muscular tension. Uh, and those mechanisms would be, you know, if I look at exercise induced muscle damage, we've got metabolic stress. Those are kind of secondary hypertrophy drivers. And then you've got, of course, the, um, tension in the muscle, right? That's going to be, uh, you know, time and attention, how much force we're loading up on the barbell. So you can lever, you can leverage any one of those three mechanisms. So there's times where athlete B doesn't have the work capacity as athlete a, um, she's not able to push as hard or push as much weight. So we're going to focus on metabolic stress. I'm going to give her, you know, consistent sets of 12 to 15 reps, moderate weight, shorter rest periods, uh, and really try to, um, Andre, you might've froze. If you can hear me know if I lost you here, guys. We'll save you on freezes. Nope. We're back. Yeah. I didn't know if I lost you. Can you guys still hear me? Yeah, you're back. You're back. Okay. So we're going to keep going with that, you know, looking at metabolic, um, stress, you know, for an athlete who maybe can't push as much weight, you know, that athlete, we could look at shorter rest periods, uh, maybe a little bit higher work volumes, but lighter to moderate loads for her, um, or more frequency. And we're, we're leveraging the secondary hypertrophy benefits like, um, you know, exercise induced muscle damage. And then, um, you know, maybe some metabolic adaptations to the muscle versus just smashing a lot of weight and she's doing three plates on the hip thruster. Um, so you do have to really craft those plans specific to each person's work capacity and, and also things they enjoy, right? IMean, not everyone enjoys pushing that hard when they're trening. Yeah. Personal preference, sustainability and trening is kind of like your base pillar sometimes of, of, of programming. Uh, maybe not as much, uh, in preference, depending on the goal, right? Uh, as you get more hyper-focused on your goal, you might not be doing things you always love. So, uh, they put split squats in my program. Damn you coach. Leading with Bulgarians. There you go. So, so no, that it was a good question though. And, you know, even thinking like high level about the, um, you know, the, the volume back to the volume thing, you know, if we think about wellness competitors, for instance, where we're intentionally driving disproportionately more muscle mass in the lower body, you, you girls out there got to love trening legs and glutes and the volumes, you know, for looking at the total Trening split, I'll give you some, um, examples. You know, I've talked to, obviously I have some wellness Olympians on our team, but I've also talked to like Francielle and Issa, um, you know, I'm close friends with Cass Gillis and it's funny. I'm always listening. I'm always want to hear what are, what are they doing? What are these girls doing? Their trening splits are so wildly different based on where they're at. So the amount of volumes that they're lifting, some of the girls you'll see, um, like Issa is actually a smaller girl, but super muscular dense, and she can push a lot of weight on hip thrusts. I've got some of our wellness pros that are twice her size that can only hip thrusts half as much before, you know, they get low back pain or, or the mechanics are off and there's compensations. So I have to have a little bit different approach for them, but it can vary wildly by the athlete, the intensity and volumes. Yeah. Go ahead, Luke. Now I was just gonna say, this is kind of where we get into that cup theory, right? Cause you're opening for wellness. You're dumping a lot out of that shoulder pressing upper body trening cup into that lower body to allow for bias adaptations there. And so that's where we see that. And then I'm not going to open that can of one of your profiles to here and send me down the path of another passion of mine, but Don, you go ahead before I spend time talking about injuries and wellness. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. I swallowed something and now I'm dying. No, I did have a follow-up question around that. And I just go on offer from our questions that we had listed, but since you coached a lot of females, bikini wellness, and are there some real standout trening issues that just, you always see repetitive that like, if you had to speak to these females that are listening out of like just the red flags that you might want to put in, like, Hey, these are things that just, we could probably cross off the list of like not having a lot of, you know, bearing a lot of fruit in your trening program, anything mistake wise that just kind of, you always see that just drives you crazy. You know, it, it's a mixed bag for us, if I'm beinGHonest, but if I really just zoom in and focus down on like, let's just take a, well, now that we got fit model, we'll say fit model bikini wellness. I'd say 90% of the females that come to us have very underactive glutes. And even if their trening volumes are actually relatively high on glutes, they're not necessarily executing those movements with good, you know, body movement efficiency. No one, I think, you know, we're talking about setting the standard for fitness education in bodybuilding, for example, a lot of the novice coaches aren't even thinking about body mechanics or postural compensations anymore. Right. When you deal with a lot of females, you can deal with a lot of scoliosis and asymmetries left to right. So I do like to still just ground myself in things like body mechanics through something as simple as like our NASM overhead squat assessment. You know, you can also do aromasingle leg assessment and look for compensations through the low back, maybe a bit of lordosis. It could have some upper cross syndrome. They could have tight hip flexors or calves that are driving dysfunction in their body mechanics when they're doing any type of lower body. It could be a squat leg press, hip thrust. You know, if you if you guys can just picture, you know, a girl on, let's say, like a Nautilus hip thrust machine or a booty blaster, and they've got this big arch underneath their back, you can put your hand underneath their back, right? They've got a bit of lumbar lordosis, right? So a bit of deep arching to the low back that's completely inhibiting their ability to drop into posterior pelvic tilt and really get in those glutes a little bit deeper. But you might see the same athlete moving three or four plates, right? So there's compensations, and they might be developing bad movement patterns or overdeveloping the wrong muscle groups. So I think just widespread the biggest mistakes I see, bad form, compensations, you know, postural compensations, we'll call it. And then just like the guys, right, girls tend to do a little bit of ego lifting, too. And, you know, they'll be doing RDLs, and they look over and the girl next to them is or the girl on Instagram is doing, you know, two plates. So then they want to do two plates, but their form is crap. And, you know, we're starting to not develop the muscles we're targeting. So that's my trening philosophy is always just bringing those weights down, drop the ego a little bit, focus on perfecting movement patterns. I'm huge on high time under tension. So you'll often see us, let's take a hip thrust, for example, or a gluteator machine. You'll see us do doubles or triple progressions or triple contractions, excuse me, where we're maximizing time under tension. We might do some isometric pause reps, other progressions like drop sets or rest pause sets. So, you know, that's the main things I see is just bad form or the tempo. You guys ever see that? You get the little speed lifters, they're doing a leg press, and they're just speed lifting. It's like, no, let's slow this down. I want you to feel each rep. Do you find that your volumes usually come down once you make those corrections for someone? Absolutely. And it's funny, because, all right, so I'll give you an example. I've actually got two trening platforms. You know, the primary one I use is Apotheo for our competitors. But a lot of our newer competitors and lifestyle clients actually tren in our trener system. And you can give for each workout, they can give feedback and rate the workout intensity, right on a scale of one to 10 drives me nuts. I'm like, I know, as for team Adams, we're known for legs and glutes with our females, we have never created a leg day that was a three out of 10 intensity ever. Like our leg days are brutal. And sometime I'll get those newer clients, and it's like, they'll finish one of our full leg days. And intensity, you'll say like two out of 10. And I'm like, I'll pick up the phone, like, all right, tell me exactly what you did. I want to know exactly what weights you use. And then when I get them in, if they're local, I'll get them in for PT. And then I see the issues, right? They're just rushing through the workouts, not feeling any of the reps, just going through the motion. So yeah, it's just really slowing down and feeling the workout and, you know, thinking about what muscle am I trying to activate with this exercise, really building that mind muscle connection. Yeah, I think that's such a great point. And we make really a point of it with all of our coaches and J3U, like using video analysis, which not to look cool on Instagram, but to actually like look at your mechanics, kind of break down, like, how can you improve execution to get more out of your sets? Or if you're doing a movement, you're like, I don't really feel this muscle at all. It doesn't get pumped. I don't have any soreness. Like, it's like a feel is, you know, it isn't everything, but something should be happening. So maybe we need to correct these, this setup. And then from there, maybEQueuing. And I think that's an excellent point. That is, for me, it's been an ongoing learning still to this day. So I'm still every time I'm in the gym, like, how can IMake this movement improve? And so it's, form corrections is an, you want to call it an art of trening, but to a degree, it kind of is. So yeah. You know, one other thing too, I had, you just sparked the thought, John, as you were talking, when we're talking about queuing, I'm huge, huge, huge. One of our staples is activations. So, you know, a lot of people, because we're all strapped for time, right? We're all busy, whether you're running your own business, competing, coaching, or working a day job, kids, whatever it might be. So a lot of people will skip the warmups. I actually do ground myself in corrective exercise and our warmup and activations. Normally it takes you about five to 10 minutes, but you know, we come in, let's say we're doing legs, we're going to foam roll or inhibit some of those overactive muscles. Maybe it's biceps femoris, maybe it's the calves and TFL. And then we would stretch or lengthen those muscles second. And then after that, we'd go into some activation. So IMight have our girls throw a band around their knees and do somEQuadruped kickbacks or some sideline clamshells. You know, one set, 15 to 20 reps each side, waking those muscles up, especially those underactive or those lagging areas. I'm going to pre-activate before we go into our, what we would call our integrations or our compound movements and start our actual workout. But I'll also implement that same strategy for lagging muscle groups. You know, for our guys, let's take rear delts, for example, right? A lot of guys struggle to round off those rear delts. IMight do some banded pull-aparts and some, you know, YTAs or prone cobras and try to get everything activated here before we go into our shoulder press and our rowing and our compound integrated movements. Okay. Solid, solid. Those are all great tips to take away and be able to utilize, which again, trening, you can just never learn enough. I feel like that we should spend more time on trening and for all the drug questions we get, far less time on drugs. So, but anyway, Andre, we're coming up on, on our hour here. I wanted to give you a chance to, you know, give some people some insight of like, where you mainly have your, your contacts or where you're mainly, if you're on Instagram or YouTube, I don't know about YouTube, but if you want to share that, I'll also leave it down in the description below for anyone that wants to contact you, but where can we learn more from you, Andre? Yeah, I appreciate it, John. You guys can actually find me on Instagram and YouTube at Andre Adams underscore official. I've also got our coaching page, which be the Team Adams prep page or teamadamsprep.com. That's where we do all of our biochemical therapy and the fun stuff. So if you guys are interested, we've got some free videos you can check out there. You'll meet some of our team partners like Dr. Indigo Vasquez and, and you know, our other resources there. And then, yeah, IMean, honestly, I welcome anyone to reach out. Like you said, we get so many questions, John, you know, I've got a whole like document full of additional questions that, you know, I'd love to get into on the NASM peak physique podcast. So if you guys aren't following that one too, subscribe, you know, it's, it's something I call it a project, right? It started as a project about a year and a half ago after we launched PBC, just to let people know some of the topics and, and bring guests on like yourselves to talk about different things going on in the world of bodybuilding. So you guys can always find me on there and I'd love to even morEQuestions. You know, if people want to reach out, John, we'll just rack them up. We'll add them to the list. I think we got enough for a whole little mini series here. Yeah. With questions, you can just keep them going, going. So anyway, anyway, Andre, really appreciate you having on. I'm sure of yours will be, you know, very appreciative of all the insights that you had from your years of experience now. So again, thank you everyone for tuning in. We appreciate you and we will talk to you next time.

=== FILE: Are PED's Popular？ [hxz5_eU9xhY].txt ===

 It's all. It's interesting. Like, when you think on it. Where do you think is kind of coming from. Like what factors might be driving. The increased popularity. P.D.D.s. as part of like this enhanced lifestyle. Obviously. Obviously. The usage of. Just P.D.s. has been always been around. Whether you're. In the Cisco out. It extends outside of just fitness. Right. Like whether you're. You're. In the Cisco. It extends outside of just fitness. Right. Like whether you're. You're. A. CEO. A. CEO. A. student. Like. Back in school. People were taking Adderall to study longer. Yeah. Or. uh. you know, in business or something like that. But it seems like even more prominent now. So do you see something that's popped up more in culture to where this is like become an increased in popularity? There's twofold things that I see. One, I think you have people like Chris's that are popularizing the sport. Like it's becoming something that's a lot more attractable to a lot more people. Secondarily, there's no longer the veil of the curtain between what you see in the magazines and what you see on social media versus gym population because it's a little bit less faux pas to talk about it. Like for the longest time in culture, it was one of those things where people wanted to look like the people in the magazines or the fitness models or whatever. And they were trying to do it with just nutrition and trening as best as they could. Not understanding that there was that background usage of like enhancements. But now that it's a little bit less of, like I said, faux pas to discuss it and talk about like this is what these people are doing. It's almost like less than the air quote evil of it, where it's an understanding that I can't get there without this. So if I can't get there without this and this is what I want, what do I need to do in order to get there? Because it's becoming an extremely outcome-focused society of like, what does my presence from like an image perspective become with the popularization of social media and the development of that and building brands around yourself? And I think that's probably a lot of where it comes from. It's interesting with social media because as you know, and as you know, like if you search something or you click on something or you sit on a page long enough on Instagram, that's your feed and everything will start getting populated more around that type of content. And so it's quickly to easy to be just kind of immersed in enhanced usage if that's something that you start looking at and even starting to get a target with marketing that would leverage that interest as well. So all of a sudden, your cultural norm becomes this enhanced individual. And so I think this normal look is no longer really normal. Now it's become, well, the norm is this like steroid using bodybuilder and it looks like everyone's doing it. So I think that's part of how normalization might see in like at least someone's that is coming across like social media and has those type of interests when very well, it might only be immersed in your own little circle of influence and not the reality of what's going on in the world. But I think another interesting area that's immersed is just the HRT wellness side of things. You know, there's a lot of things that are driving this. I think as a whole, society is looking for more preventative strategies around medicine versus just, you know, the old Western model. Just don't, you know, fix it once it's broken. So, you know, with the emerge of that, I think you're having all these clinics come up. However, a lot of these clinics are also kind of operating in a gray area. Like there's, it's a newer area of medicine. So there's not full regulations on certain things. And even like we see peptide hormones that are coming out, which they're not FDA approved. However, they're not like banned either, but you can still access them through physician scripts, which is kind of strenge. So yeah, I think the emergence of those clinics and giving accessibility to this enhanced lifestyle for wellness has also driven that the accessibility is just there. And being that it's through physicians that are prescribing, it seems like this is now a new way to increase your well-being. So I think just the combination of the two, when we're society now is we're very open to being different in any capacity. And so, and more acceptance of even taboo areas. So if you're, you know, an enhanced bodybuilder, hey, natural bodybuilder, don't PED shame me because this is my choice, right? But as a whole, I think we're becoming more open to like what's going on in different parts of the world and societies and trying to be more accepting of other people's decisions. And that's just kind of like you said, remove the veil behind what people are doing. And things that are, it's pretty wild really on social media, because even things that are very illicit, people are like just showing and openly talking about like, these are still like in your country that you're talking about very well could be in a legal act and a legal thing that you're doing, but you're just so open to share it now. So it's almost become like a removal of ethics and morals and legality around these things that still have moral, ethical, and legality issues surrounding them. But yeah, that emergence has come. So here it is. We're here now and it's accessible and people want that.

=== FILE: Are You Really Ready for Contest Prep？ - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.175 [gNZOVAwEFNk].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Are you really ready for contest prep? And some people think like, all right, I'm recourse, I'm ready. I want to get on stage and do this thing. But are you really ready? And there's a lot of questions that you need to go through. To make sure that you need to make sure that you need to make sure that you need to make sure that you need to make sure that you are in this position to fully see out a contest prep, truly get stage lean. And Luke and I are going to hit a lot of topics that I don't think a lot of people do consider that are going to make your contest prep so much more effective if you can check all these boxes. Yeah, and I think it's, it's a life audit, right? Like, I don't think there's one or two things that you can point to that are the only things that we should be checking the box here, but we'll kind of run through them as we kind of move through that. But I think just to kind of start with the obvious, like the keep it simple, stupid point of is your physique ready? Like, are you at a place where you can run a contest prep in an acceptable amount of time that allows for an acceptable rate of loss that's not too overbearing or too much of a rate of loss in order to try to get there and potentially detriment your physique at the end of that. And that kind of range is a bit variant. I do find somewhere for me at like 16 to 18 weeks is kind of where I'm wanting a lot of my guys and girls so that if we're doing like 20 to 22 weeks, we're not spending the entirety of it dieting. But man, this is so undervalued. And this is the part of the contest prep that is set forth by the six, nine, 12 months leading into it. I think for this audit and just to put someone so they have a time component that they may maybe keep a little track of because our timelines are our biggest thing that we utilize and bodybuilding make sure we finally land someone on stage. Right point because the biggest mistake made is running at a time. And so what I would suggest is that at 30 weeks out, so this is getting into the tail end of your offseason, start looking at weeks out and start assessing and reverse engineering your body fat levels. And this might be looking at your past offseason of like, where's your current body fat? And how's that compared to last season and how many weeks it takes for you to diet down? And so that might then say, oh, you know what? Like I'm already at my stop point. Like I won't make it. I need to stop now because think about Luke said 18 weeks out where you're going to have maybe six weeks of like kind of this whole maintenance phase to happen that kicks you back to 24 weeks out. And so this last six weeks of your offseason, you can start assessing if do I need a slight fat loss phase before prep or can I extend out all the way to being 24 weeks out hold and then start prepping. So don't don't start just assessing this like, all right, 16 weeks out, let me hire my coach and we'll start prep because you might find out, hey, sorry, you're actually 24 weeks out or you won't make it to that show. So start that audit definitely earlier on. And we've spoken timelessly about timelines, but it's unbelievable how important they are. And before we move on, like I do understand that there's some people who listen to this that maybe in the earlier years of bodybuilding where you're not sure when you're going to be ready for a prep. Like you're just trying to keep your head down and work and prepare your physique to be a better version of it than when you started that push phase. And you're just kind of waiting for that moment where you realize that physique's ready. This is where if you're working with a coach, a lot of times I'll set up planning calls around this time frame. That's like 30 to 35 weeks out of what a potential prep would be in an all season in order to have that planning call to know what we're pivoting into next, because it changes how I run that back end of the all season push phase decision making, according to kind of what John was saying. So when you're mapping out your timelines, even if you're running a more open ended timeline where, hey, like I'm early in my years, I just want to be the best bodybuilder I can be relative to my level of competition. I know that's going to take time. Just sit down and have like a state of the union. Every time you get to that point where you maybe got six to eight weeks of all season left, it could potentially pivot into a prep, make sure that it's not going to pivot into a prep. Or if it is, you'll be able to make those back end all season decisions, because some of you guys are just kind of in that. I need to improve mode and kind of waiting for that decision to be made. On that point, I'm going to jump ahead of our points, Luke, because it should be said earlier on is the psychological readiness to a contest prep, because when you're looking at timelines and I've done this before. I do this all the time is looking at a show as like your ultimate goal date. Right. So you have whatever it is, the the Tampa Pro or maybe it's your local city classic insert city name here. And so it's like that is the show and IMust do this. And we could get so honed in, focused with the blinders on that you lose sight of what what what is the real goal? Is it stepping on stage at X, Y, Z show or is it stepping on stage like truly at your best on the day? And I know everyone is like, yeah, I want to be my absolute best. And sometimes you have to be able to disconnect of your psychological focus in on that exact show and be a bit more open to just landing your best look on stage. And I know not all of us have the luxury of having a lot of shows around them. So that might be limited for a few. But if you can prep if this earlier on, like Luke is saying, and you have a few shows that line up on the calendar around when you could be potentially ready, it allows you the flexibility to land your best look and not get locked in to a show date where you actually could use more time. And now if for many people out there, you might be in a country where there's only like a couple of shows a year and that's the reality of it. So you do have to adhere to that well. And that's when, hey, if it earlier on, just build in some buffer weeks and also psychologically realize that you're not going to be at a pro level size and condition your first show. And so make sure the process is about just giving yourself the most enjoyment out of this and realize like refinement takes time. But there's a lot to more to add on to psychological readiness as well. And I think this is an athlete development process. Would you agree? Yeah, man, the athlete development process is so underrated. I actually brought that point up because I had some check ins early this morning that were kind of timelines that have been moved around based on athlete readiness. Like we started a diet phase and then we're like, hey, we've made a ton of progress, but not to the level of expectation we would want to put a physique on stage or just kind of answering that question. When is my time? And really the answer to that is just athlete development builds skills that allows the life side to match the physique readiness side. And then those mesh together for a prep to come to full fruition. And actually kind of this pivots well for me because I have a client and this person will know who they are where we're actually running a mock prep right now off of the back of she came to me with a lot of issues that had to be fixed. And making sure that metabolic health and just overall hormone health and her ability to respond to dieting is a huge component for her as someone who hadn't made it to the stage ready and in their previous showing. And so like we spent a lot of time in all seasons fixing a lot of this and then having a diet phase that went okay, kind of pulling back out and making some modifications and then going back into this one. It's been a much more efficient phase because we're getting better as an athlete at the execution side, but we're also fixing kind of some of the response portion of the variables. So metabolic health, hormone health, et cetera, in order to allow for that prep to happen in the future. And so this is something that needs to be taken into consideration. Obviously, if you're earlier on, you're probably running into less issues, but especially for more advanced people, like it's so underrated how much efficiency can help if you, if you take the time to actually fix things appropriately. I've seen that largely on the female side and a few females that I have coached that they've come to me or they've started the process of a prep and those areas weren't addressed in like lab work and health marker checks before entering prep. And then you finally get this client and look at their labs and like they weren't having menstrual cycles like estrogens like bottomed out or they have some type of thyroid suppression issue or I've come across people havinGHashimoto's and more immune response because they're already overstressed, over dieted. And so now we're having this immune reaction occur and that can just lead into like more GI issues and just the snowball will continue forminGHere. And they come to a very unproductive, frustrated point on prep and they don't understand why their body's not responding. It's because a lot of these health metabolic checks weren't in place further on in that pre-prep phase to make sure that you have optimal hormone and overall health to be able to even execute. Contest prep because the basics of health are going to have to come first before fat loss in what a physique wants to do. I'm not saying that we're not going to have some health risk here pushing the bodybuilding. You still have fat loss occur. But if your systems that make you productive in fat loss are dampened, you're not going to be the best ability to get stage lean. And so that's what needs to happen first before like entering a contest prep is like you have to have that metabolic health status in a good spot and be able to check those things with like comprehensive lab work. That's why we use Merrick Health and send all of our athletes there and consult with the providers that are with it with our coaches to make sure those plans do align really well and get our athletes to really good points. Yeah, and I think patience is a huge thing with this like it's not always depending on how far you are from the norm. It's not always like aromasingle fix a few weeks later start the prep right like sometimes it's we have to return to some sort of normal right whether that's your relationship of food relative to body composition like that ratio of food going in relative to start point or whatever that might be. That might take a couple up and downs to fully fix it right. So I think the patience is the big key with that point. Yeah, and I think getting into also making sure you have the ability to have patience later on your prep is to do like a stress audit because the worst case is when you're going to be at the tail end of your prep just flooded with all kinds of stuff that happens in life. And the accumulation of time requirement in prep to where forget patience you're going to be stressed out and anxious the whole time. You won't have the ability to be patient in that type of situation which is I think this gets into areas where people aren't considering because I think we just think about the physical component of like yes, I have the muscle. Yes, I have the ability to get clen, but do you have the environment set up to do it and part of that is just like what is your ability to manage stress to get there. And I think that's looking first at like a job. You know, what do you do for a living? So in our assessment forms, that's what we have like what is your occupation? How many hours per work per week do you work? Is that a home or do you drive to work? What's commute time? Considering all those things because for one, it's going to eat up time. But also, if you have extremely stressful job, like wow, this could be extremely limiting to getting someone lean. And I've, gosh, worked with all kinds of clients. You know, first responders can be really problematic because schedules variability. And also depending on what type of first responder you are, you can get thrown some really high stress situations. Or even just a normal shift worker is also a stressful one. For me, when I was like bodybuilding earlier on, I worked nine to five as a clinical dietitian in the hospital, which is not stressful. So it's pretty laid back. It's conduced to bodybuilding. However, the fun bodybuilding, I'm also coaching clients on the side and then trying to prep. It was like time I get up to the time my head hits the pillow, it's go, go, go, go, which of any little wrench gets thrown in there. Man, it was stressful. It could throw me off for the entire day or entire week. So do you have the ability within your current job to execute a prep is something to consider. And they would say like, what do I do? Quit my job? I was like, well, no. But you need to make sure like if there's ability to take time off work or how you might be able to shift your schedule around. Like these are things to start considering to be able to fully see out the prep. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I think that kind of goes into the time audit, too. This is why I promote block schedules so much, because you have a very good understanding of how much workable time in a day that you have. And being able to understand, like, you may be able to start a prep and manage that pretty easily. But what happens if your prep is a little bit tougher than it's maybe been in the past? Or it requires a little bit more effort because these life variables are a little bit higher in the stress component. And so we get to, instead of 45 minutes of cardio a day with 12K steps, you're 60, 65, 70, right? Like, that's the time component we have to be willing to be able to give to this in order to make sure the outcome is there. And that's part of that personal life stress audit is, can my schedule even account for this? And if not, like, maybe it's not the time to do it. Yeah. And, you know, within time, it's like, okay, you have the time. Excellent. What does thEQuality within your obligations entail? And this gets into what your environment is your prep, which I really like that saying. Because, you know, what is your relationship status look like? Not status, but just, like, thEQuality of relationship. I've had lots of clients, like, trying to go through divorces while they're prepping. And that is a lot of stress on the body. Or even, you know, what is your gym setting look like? Is it supportive to bodybuilding? Do you have a network around you that is supportive as well? A lot of people earlier on in bodybuilding, none of their friends and family, like, get it. And they're kind of, like, tired of you wasting time on this and ready for you to move on. And so you might get a lot of those comments back and forth, which isn't very conducive to bodybuilding when you don't have people that are supportive around you. So, you know, that's when you're starting to look at, do you have the environment that's going to be productive for prep in, you know, form? What I look for to be the best at bodybuilding is to make that environment the most conducive to my goal possible. So that's looking at my job, my relationships, you know, my gym setting, people around me, friends, family, supporters. Do all these people push me forward and make me better? Or are there ways that they're limiting and not allowing me to be the best version of myself that I do want to be? And that's when you need to start maybe considering that it's time to change your environment. Yeah, and it's, it's, uh, people, people get a little bit hesitant with this because some will go to the extreme of, like, the Gary V suggestion of just get rid of them, right? Like, just get rid of the people that are closest to you if they're that much holding you back. And that kind of, like, puts you into understanding your why a bit of, like, why are you doing this? And needing to align those variables together. Does your why of pursuing competing match kind of the expectations of the family and or personal environment that you have around you? Um, because when those match and when they align, like, the most unbelievable results and productivity and outcomes are, are capable. But when they don't, it's just a tren wreck waiting to happen. I think that can be a, the why question is a hard one for a lot of people, which your why is kind of like behind your, your purpose and passion. And, but that's also leading to, like, we talk about Menslow's hierarchy of need, right? Self-actualization, which I, I feel like for a lot of people that gets a little blurred there. And I feel like maybe they think it's making their better version, but it's still very, you know, more superficial of maybe a status or a recognition. Even if it's like a self-recognition. And I think sometimes self-recognition might even be the idea that that's going to be a self-actualization, seeing out your best potential. And you just feel like everyone else is kind of like holding you back and you're, you're, you're not able to like fully see that out. Um, I think that's when you have to get real honest with yourself. Like, is this truly going to be the best version of yourself pursuing bodybuilding at that level? Um, or is it just you wanting to just have that status or goal kind of checked off? Cause I know a lot of people that are like, I have to bodybuild. Like, this is everything to me. But you kind of see like, it's hurting everything around them too. When, you know, maybe they have a wife and a, and a, and child and like, or truly like their, their purpose should be focused around their relationships and being a father or being a spouse. And ultimately that was what defines you. And it's not, uh, just something you do like bodybuilding is just something you do. It should not be who you are. I feel like pursuing bodybuilding is just trying to get absorbed in this thing that you do and taking you away from this ultimate purpose of like being a dad or being a spouse. And so I think that's a big differentiator of that should be clear of like, don't allude yourself to thinking that bodybuilding is your purpose and passion. And it'll lead you to the better version of yourself when it's hurting all the people around you and they see it and you just can't cause you have a little bit of the blinders on. I know that's kind of a deep like soapbox rants and it's kind of a little philosophical in there. But I think, um, it, to the, to the ultimate point of like, are you ready for prep? Like, uh, it's kind of like considering those conversations. Cause I had this similar conversation with a client of mine who was competing, but it really wasn't doing the best thing for his life. And where he really was excited about was business and growing that more. And you kind of read a bridge across roads where you have to kind of choose, like be the ultimate in your business or try to be the best in bodybuilding. And which one's going to lead you to more happiness and business? Was it like loved it, thrived? It doesn't mean you can't be involved in, you know, having a business related, uh, in bodybuilding. And so he stopped competing. Simple as that. So, uh, he's so much happier. So anyway, just things to consider. Right. Did you just tell my story or did someone else? I promise that that wasn't your story, but I guess it is your story, right? Yeah. It's similar. Um, but it's funny, like it's, it's, and I was, I was going to pull the like Southern Baptist, just preach amen and just like kind of reverberate. Right. But it's so true. Like the fulfillment and enjoyment. I know from my personal side of just being the coach and mentor that I get out of the sport of bodybuilding allows me to appreciate the sport that much more, even more so than when I was in it, pursuing it competitively myself. And that's kind of where thosEQuestions start to lead is like, where does that, why come for you? And I was a decent competitor, but it wasn't my purpose in the sport. And that's kind of where you start to see that. And I think what ended up happening, and I kind of want to pivot this into the last port part is it made me better at aligning with my athletes because I was able to pull that out of them and like build frameworks for them to execute on based on that. Why? And I think that coach athlete alignment is huge. And I think that's a huge one. I think there's like the ability to execute is a huge one and listening to your coach and just putting your head down and executing, but also communicating what's happening to you are like big aspects of that coach to athlete alignment. But I think when we're in tune with that, why it allows us to be better at serving the ones around us. And for me, it just made me an even better educator. It made me a better mentor to the coaches that work under me. It made me a better coach to the athletes that I work with. So it is pretty, very important to understand kind of what that is for you. Yeah, and just on that same line of thought is the coach athlete alignment that you bring up and making sure like part of your environment support system is the coach. And so for one, do you have all those people available to you? You know, someone that's kind of head of the entire program, nutrition and trening, PDs, all the oversight. Do you have like opposing coach that's kind of building out your multidisciplinary team, right? Do you have someone that's maybe doing PT work for you? Those are kind of your three big bucket type coaches that you might have around. But then you have those people. Great. Are you coachable? So you actually just because you have the best coaches there, they're not magicians, right? Like you do have to be able to be open and adherent and listen to them, but also have coaches that can take your feedback as well. So there's a balance in being, you know, open lines of communication. And then within that, being able to execute out those plans. So I've had some athletes with great potential that just aren't that coachable. It's almost like they, you know, too much for the that's like, and almost a detriment to you. So just to just to tack on a bit there, Luke, about, you know, coach athlete relationship. But you brought up something else in how your change of pursuit went into coaching. And part of that in work, I want to bring up the financial side of this. So important. That's gosh, I will earlier on just wanted it to work. And, you know, I just I'm going to do a prep. And I remember when I first started working with with Matt Jansen, like I hadn't taken a lot of supplements that I probably should have been on. And he sends me a supplement list. I'm like, man, I can't afford all these supplements. So just that alone was already a bit overwhelming. So I'm like trying to budget and figure out costs like on the fly to make this work and just naive of what everything's going to entail. And now it's even cash. It's even more expensive to compete because there's the travel costs are so high. Or if you're a female, like, wow, like some of these suits are like a thousand dollars for a suit or more. So it's starting to like plan out and get educated on what is it going to look like budget wise to compete? Because the worst thing you want to do is get towards your last weeks and have budget limitations to where you can't really execute your prep the way that you want to. So it might be like, hey, maybe you need to save up and make sure that you can push back the timeline and then you can go all in on your prep that way. But I had a girl at the gym a while back. She was like using credit cards to buy supplements and like tack up this like thousands of dollars of bills in her credit card just for a prep. And then after the show, like she even stopped competing after that because it wasn't for her. And now she left all these bills. It's like, gosh, what was what was the purpose of all that to dig you into a hole? So I think being in a good financial position, that freedom from that will just create a lot less stress and let you be more productive in turn in your prep. Yeah. You talk about like the life audit. I think that financial piece has to be part of that life audit. Absolutely. 100%. I don't have much more to add. Like, it's just so important. Yeah, I know. I'm AI'm a big preacher of like Dave Ramsey's financial piece of adversity. So I love his little podcast clips, like the ones that come on Instagram. They're so and they're yeah. Yeah, I think this. Yeah. So plug like we're not financial advisors even close to it. So you want some like some good basic financial like framework to work with. And I think Dave Ramsey has some some good stuff. And then, of course, if you're if you're business owners like Luke and I, you're probably already have your financial advisor and you don't need something elementary like like that. But anyway, the basics apply here. You know, don't buy stuff that you don't have money in the bank for. So exactly. And that all inclusive to your your bodybuilding prep needs. I think that wraps it up. Yeah, I believe so. I was trying to think if there's anything else that we we really left out there. But I think the big piece to this was the big life audit that a lot of people don't consider. And just thinking about your your the physical side when if you don't have all the environmental side, you know, and the why behind it, those aren't all lined up. It's going to bleed into the physical side because this is all interrelated. So go through this this podcast, make your check loss list and see if you have any of these items that need to be addressed and try to keep optimizing your contest prep. Leave any comments, questions down below. We'll address those. And next week will be men's health week. And so we're going to address like just burnout identity and the mentorship that you never got as a male coming up to see out your the business side, the bodybuilding side and everything around that topic. So look forward to that conversation and we'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Breaking Through Plateaus Near Your Genetic Potential - Combo Sets [BT1FykkRFm0].txt ===

 Bustin, busting plateaus, busting plateaus near your genetic potential. Hey everyone, I'm Jon Jon Jewett with J3 University, we elevate physique education. And today we're going to continue our series on busting through plateaus once you've kind of reached that slow part of your career moving from intermediate to advanced where progress just doesn't come along quite as quickly. Now if you haven't caught part two, I started talking forever and just about using resistance profiles and adjusting those to put milk more out of every set. Please go check out that video.

=== FILE: Build your next split based on what show day revealed ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 193 [UlWXPzwEsU8].txt ===

 Welcome, let's jump in to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. John Jewel. And I'm your cohost, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Based your next split on what show day revealed. We are here today to talk about how do you trenslate your stage look, what you need to improve in, and that actually put that into a program that's going to make those changes occur. Have you done a gun too quickly to jump into a gun too quickly to jump into something different and completely revamp the system where they may be they didn't need to. And how should we be looking back on what worked well and implement that in the program ahead. So Luke. What's up. Tell me. You're just telling me for we're on the podcast. Your trening is taking off. Yeah. And you're enjoying again. What is. What is. What did your split. What are you doing. It's four days. It's kind of built around trening with Colton. So I was like, all right, these are the days I can probably tren with you at this time. So it was like Monday, Tuesday, Friday. And I was like, what do you tren on the days? He's like, legs, legs, and back. And I was like, great. So it's kind of built around that. And I plug, push in kind of in the week based on kind of where I can fit it in. So it's either Thursday or Saturday. Usually I do push. So it's four days a week. But honestly, man, it's like it's the first time I've loved trening, like loved, loved trening. Again, in probably over two years. And I, you know, with a lot of this, I think even our topic today, it is about why we probably all started. This is just loving to tren. Yeah. And that's usually this guys you see that end up doing the best in bodybuilding. What, what in this, this new setup for you or not even the setup, but what is it about now that is making you love trening and excited to go into the gym? Yeah. Yeah. I think it's just like getting back to my roots of purely bodybuilding trening, like stepping away from the sport. I felt like this pull to try to like try new things, which was horrible. I should have never tried new things. I should have just like kept trening. But I'm also trening pain free. I've gone through a few injuries in the last year that have made trening really tough. Like not being able to fully squat, not being able to fully hinge because of some of it, which is like for me, like what gets me up out of bed in the morning, especially squatting. Um, so there's an enjoyment factor to that. And I think that's kind of the big thing. And I think it's something you can trenslate into this conversation because in programming, like I think one of the reasons I love programming so much is there's the analytical nuts and bolts piece of it. And then there's the emotion, passion, enjoyment portion of it. And we have to overlay those in order to create the best solution. Um, and it's such an interesting dynamic, but for me, that's definitely why I like to be able to squat pain free. Now it's like the first time I've strung together five weeks of squatting pain free in probably over a year is really nice. That's awesome to hear. And I, I think for so many people that is just be able to string together successful trening, especially as you get older. Uh, but that, that is like the core principle. I think even with dieting is going to be sustainability and enjoyability. And if you have those things, especially if you enjoy what you're doing and it's something that's set up to where you can continue doing it without breaking down or getting injured, that's going to be a trening plan. That's going to lead to results because you can be consistent with it. And so with yourself and even with what we're talking about today, I think that that's, that's the core principle. What we should probably start looking at is, you know, what were you doing over your past program from that worked well? And where did it kind of fall apart and how does that align with your, your stage needs? Right. So maybe we start this off like, well, you're coming off stage and you were told you have gaps. Yeah. And so you have these gaps. What do we do about them? Where's our, where's our first step here? Yeah. It's an interesting dynamic to manage because I think there's certainly a component of you have to keep your strong body parts strong. Like you don't want to go so far down the rabbit hole specialization that we push the potential for maybe regression or barely maintenance in like those really strong body parts. Um, I see a lot of this when they, when someone wins their first overall and they kind of go into pursuing the pro card, it's like they get off that stage. Right. And they're like, ah, I'm losing the side chest because of my hamstring and classic physique. And it's like, well, you know, there's a lot more to the side chest than just the hamstring. Right. And so this is where the needs analysis portion comes into play for me is because I actually do a pose by pose breakdown relative to the previous year now and relative to what we were on stage to the other people that we beat or the standard of that level that you're at. So Olympia, if you're a pro or national winner, if you're an amateur level athlete. Right. And so what those two comparisons tell me is if I worked with you in the all season from like right after your last show to this one, did the program design that we do bring the physique up in the ways that we wanted it to answer that? Yes or no. If no, you kind of need to look into why. Um, was there injury profiles? Was there, um, anything that could have prevented that? And then secondarily, I confirm this with, are we moving the physique of direction in the direction of being morecompetitive or not? And then that's kind of when we start to review, like what was done over the last year. And really, I think we need to start with what can we pull from the previous year that worked rather than starting from a blank slate. And you've been working with someone like this, in my opinion. Yeah, I think that's a great start point. Because I know a lot of times we're just looking ahead of like, what is the next program that I should be doing? And we see like in the J3 forums, people post up their new split layouts all the time, but you never see what they were previously doing and how that was working. And that is such a valuable data to have. And I think that is a good takeaway for people is that you also to not be changing your program so often that you can't pull away something from that to be able to assess. Like you need time for this to work. And for many of us, especially listeners, that you're likely in that intermediate phase where it's going to take a while to see a program kind of play out in the results that it produces. And that's going to be several months, which very well, like Luke is saying, comparing from an off-season to an off-season or, you know, better, like what did it trenslate to progress on stage? So you can see that kind of change. And maybe the stage shots aren't necessarily the best ones because stage shots are very right. But maybe you have your same setup, home setup in same phase and body fat that you can compare it to and be like, oh yeah, man, my back really came up this past year. But this body part didn't. And then you can look at, oh yeah, well, I was doing 30 sets of back. Like maybe I don't need to be doing 30 sets of back now. Okay. Back down to 20. And man, my side delts really didn't move much. Oh, well, I was only doing six sets of side delts and they were at the end of push day. It's like, all right, so where should we move some volume around here? That's the example of how you should be thinking about looking at your physique across months of time, looking at your program of how the volume was set up and where you might consider reallocating it. Now, with that being said, if you are beginner, intermediate, but hell, even advanced, it's not also just about shifting volume around because that is like the nuts and bolts on paper of programming. But there's also, I like to call it the art of trening or just what is thEQuality of that set? If you want to get more on an analytical side, how are you applying that tension within the set? And is it quality? Because just because you're doing only six sets of side delts, maybe it was a really shitty set of side delts as well. So, you know, could we improve the exercise choice and the loading profile? Well, also, like Luke mentioned, were you running into injury issues or, you know, like for myself on side delts, like my forearm gets beat up if I'm doing dumbbells or cables and things. So it needs to be like a lateral machine. So that's like a limiting point for me. Or maybe you did get injured, you tweaked something. Like, why did that happen? Is there a movement pattern that we need to address or some type of dysfunction? And those are going to be put in to the plan. But I think, you know, before people want to just jump to move in volume around and split around, also assess, like, what is your quality? And that's where the video analysis piece should really be there for you being able to assess. And more people that I work with, this is the key component of improving thEQuality of that volume, not just moving the, you know, sell sheet around and the numbers around. 11 times out of 10, John. It's like if there is a problem, it is in almost every scenario has something to do with one execution or two picking the right movements for the way that individual moves so that they can drive a higher quality stimulus and then not have a glass ceiling above them. And, like, from a performance perspective and seeing progressions over time, progressions in the way that we deliver mechanical tension. So I would, this is, like, the one place that IMight have an absolute is there is no one I have come across that has perfected trening. So, no, in or it slips, like, even for myself, like, you, you slip back into old patterns or the pendulum swings a bit. You, like, start chasing a bit more load reps and form sacrifices a bit. You're like, I'm just moving weight. Like, I don't even feel my chest getting any type of much stimulus as it was. Like, I'm losing the pump. All right. Then you move to a new exercise. Like, oh, man, this one connects so well. Why is that? It's probably because you start to get more intentional again, moving to something that's a little more novel. So about 100%. Like, this is the time post-show to reset the form if it's been slipping and just be more intentional with the exercise choices that you are making and making sure those choices also are ones that you can sustain and not fall back into previous injury profiles. I've started doing this recently just real quick on this point. Like, I said this to Colton this week or last week. I started doing this with my athletes over the last couple months. It's like when we, let's say we're doing a progression model where if it's like an 8 to 12 rep, we get to rep 12 or 13. That's when we move load up. Like, treating the load jumps as form resets. Like, you should earn the ability to be able to do that load jump and you need to, like, film it all angles, fully reset form, make sure that you're delivering the stimulus with this increase in load. Because that's honestly where it starts to slip, right? It's like you put a new load on the movement pattern. You want to hit a logbook number or you want to get it in your rep range. And so, like, the hips start moving on the lyinGHand curl or the head starts going backwards and forwards on the chest press. And so I've been using that recently and it's been helping a lot. Like, it slows the progression rate down, but it slows it because it's more accurate, which is a great reason for it to slow down. Yeah, I'm post-show right now and my constant struggle has been chest development. And one thing just going into this is like, all right. And it came from my buddy, Matt, that I was helping with his trening because injuries crop up a lot. So we really slowed down his eccentric to trensition to concentric. And he's like, man, my pumps are, like, crazy now. Like, and not that we're chasing pumps, but just meaning, like, hey, there's a really strong stimulus going to the target muscle. It's like, well, why is that? It's like, well, we can keep form more locked in. You're more intentional, right? So I'm like, all right, let me slow down my stuff, right? Let me really make sure I have the right cues. And lo and behold, it's like, oh, wow, my chest is getting smoked now in a set. I'm like, all right. Every session I go into, it's like I reference the logbook. I know what I did more so so I can set it up appropriately. But in the set, it's still, like, nailing the execution, not thinking about the next rep that I need to hit to make sure the logbook progresses. It's the next rep is can I keep squeezing this peck how I need to. And I hate using those terms. It sounds very bro in that, like, I'm now, like, a pump chaser. And that's not the case at all. But when you are, like, have a form that's very standardized, that's locked in, that's tardying the muscle you want to, that's what you should be chasing these sessions. And then the load and rep progressions you will realize as you're more advanced will come very slow. And just like now, I'm post-show, and there's a lot of times I'm not making progressions. And I am just totally fine just leaving the same load on. And when the reps come, they come. And I'd rather have that progress up than just chasing loads so quickly, which seems like when I chase load quick, that's when I really lose the intention of where I want the tension to go. So that's been a big change for me. It's like I nearly am doing, like, four-second eccentrics on all my lifts now. But, man, the trening quality has been really high. And maybe we should talk about these kind of generalities of volume start points when you are coming off your show. I can speak to, like, my own case of what I've done, but maybe as a general piece of, like, all right, you're done with your show. Here's your trening you led into peak week with. What do you do kind of after your show, knowing you do need to make a change because you have some gaps in development. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. I think the start point is the week leading into peak week, kind of where that volume set total is for each body part. Probably cumulative shouldn't exceed that total number of sets. So this is going to look like maybe trading sets, right? So like maybe let's say delts is the issue. Like maybe we trade a few back sets for delts sets or whatever, right? Vice versa. And so we do those changes according to the order of priority, which if you guys have been through level one, you've seen how I build out an order of priority on a needs analysis. But that's kind of like step one. And then step two is I just don't like massive increases in frequency. A lot of injury profiles crop up with frequency being too high and sustained for too long. And in my opinion, the post-show phase, like the immediate phase of trening post-show is meant to like set the framework and the groundwork of logbooks and execution and a close resemblance of what you're going to tren in the push phase. But it might not be the maximum frequency that you're going to drive, especially when you start looking at those like ticky-tacky movements, like the ones that get added to sessions to hit your total volume landmark for the week. Those are like probably the two pitfalls I see is like frequency too high and then volume too high because they see that gap and they just throw a ton at it. So my start point is always reference the trening leading into peak week. That's going to be pretty close to my start point from there. And I know that it's a safe start point because they should have been recovering from it leading into peak week. Now, the caveat is like picking someone up from a different coach that might change it a little because there's recovery metrics you would need to discuss on how well they're recovering at that point. But yeah, that's typically going to be the start point for me. Yeah. One key thing you said of like if I had someone like, where do I start trening this week that they just came off a show? And I was like, well, I know your past split you were recovering from. And now that we have more food and sleep is improving, like it's like a safe spot to start with. So like post-show, like what you're leading in a peak week, likely we could just start there. But that first week is still like, let's film lifts. Let's make sure we're doing form resets. I usually tell people keep like a rep or two in the tank to make sure you can put priority on the form reset that takes place. Because just like you said, people are excited to go tren and just slaughter something. And with like, or even more volume or the effort's really high, then they're just tanked after that. And I just go back to this thing of like why the post-show immediate is not like the optimal time to grow for many. It's so easy just to get tanked hard, especially if you've been digging down for a show. But I digress. With that aspect, that could be a start point. Or if you had someone that likely that they came from another coach or something, they had a split design. It's usually, hey, laying them into straight sets, make sure that's there, then adding in the rest day. So if they're running something like push-pull legs, push-pull legs, like, all right, let's do push-pull legs off. And then we shift that frequency apart so they have more recovery between sessions. And that takes care a bit of the total weekly volume and giving them that extra rest day that they probably need. As far as someone now that would be a little bit more apt in the programming design, I think you could move someone already into slightly specialization of a split. I agree. Yeah. But set up, like you mentioned, that they're not exceeding the total volume of what they're doing leading into the show. Because that's probably where you get problematic is most people want to bring up body parts without losing other ones. So, like, the volume stays the same on the strong body parts and doesn't, you know, then increases on the weak ones. So, like, I'll say, like, in my case, I was running push-pull off, push-pull legs on prep. So, like, legs basically once a week. Yep. Well, now, post-show, I did change my split. But there's more rest days now. So, it's push-pull off, push, kind of like pull legs off, then push legs off. So, legs essentially, my same volume got spread across nine days instead of seven. Yep. Pull, same volume, got spread across nine days instead of seven. However, push volume stayed the same, but the frequency slightly moved up. It moved from, like, now I hit it every three days when it was every three days and every four days repeat. So, there's a slight increase in frequency, but the volume metrics came down on the other days, and there's more rest days between. So, there's less overlap of beating up connective tissue too. So, that worked well. However, I didn't bump volume up in body parts. It just stayed the same or in turn went down for the weekly total. Ride that out, right? Then you assess as you're getting more recovered. And I'm more apt to hold that all the way to post-show once you're done. And then if you're bringing gear up, because IMade this mistake, is gear goes up, strength goes up, all good at first until you get really strong. Then if you've had increases in volume at the same time, it all leads to, like, a stalemate of, like, breaking or just being really fatigued. So, you know, I would probably ride that out for a good period of time and, like, have several weeks before you're, like, assessing to make increases. But it kind of treks back to our previous point of that. When gear goes in, people are excited to, like, get strong. And, you know, I'll admit I'm guilty of that, too. So, likely, hey, back to our first points. Like, video your lifts. Earn the right to increase load progressions. And more so, make sure you're standardizing your form and putting tension where you need it to. And likely, you'd be less likely to run into those problems like I have in the past. Yeah, 100%. I think people tend to forget that it's an environment of volume going up anyways because the progressions are going up. Like, the amount of work you do in a session is a measurement of volume, right? Volume load. Yeah, volume load. So, it's, like, when you plug in all these variables that, like, are going to push your lifts up, it's, like, okay, you're taking a volume jump in and of just doing that. Like, just ride it out for a bit before you start pushing it. I really don't start plugging volume progressions in. For most people outside of my, like, really adept people that, like, reporting and tracking, like, probably three to five weeks into that off-season phase. Probably closer to the five-week mark in the off-season phase because I just, I know where people can go if it goes in too quick. Anything you want to add on, like, kind of the ones that are already running specialized splits? Because it's almost the same principle, but maybe you want to touch on it. Say you have a wellness girl that's trening legs three days a week and went up her session from prep into post-show. Is there an adjustment you make there? It's kind of the same principles, though, would you say? It's almost like if the, if what you, I find these easier than the other. The reason I find these easier is because you know what the problem is or you know the problem you're trying to solve. And if what you were doing made massive improvements from, you know, show before the prep you just did and the prep you just did, it's like, why would you not set up something that is extremely similar? You know you're going to push forward. Like, there might be small adjustments. Like, think of someone like an Emily King, right? Like, she was trening upper leading into her pro qualifier when she won her regionals and won her pro card. And then the season between winninGHer pro card and stepping on the pro stage, she trened upper like three times that entire year. Like, those are the small things that might change, right? You might just pull more from the weak body parts, the things that aren't needed, and put that back into the sessions as a biggest priority, especially in specialized classes like bikini and wellness. But those to me are the easiest because it's almost rinse and repeat. Like, yeah, some movements might swap here and there, but honestly, like, if you're progressing something and you get a really good stimulus out of it, why would you seek to change something that's providing a growth hormone hormone hormone stimulus so well? Other than novelty, which then starts to get into the dynamic of enjoyment versus progress, right? But that's kind of my view on it. I find the specialized ones easier because it's almost like as long as it moved the needle at the rate we would expect to, like, just kind of double down on it. Ogon, something you said around enjoyment because some people are, like, excited to get back to certain lifts. Are you okay plugging in lifts that you know, like, might be more precarious in the post-show phase? I don't want to, like, overstate fatigue because some people are, like, most people are, if you've been running, like, a squat throughout, you just start it back up or it's just built in with a progression in place that's, you know, okay to manage. Is there anything that you don't do or you're okay doing in certain instances with, say, they want to do a hip hinge or whatever? I don't think the movement's the problem. I think it's how we approach the movement usually. It's like if we're going in with, like, nose torque and, like, yeah, I'm about to rip this thing off the floor and just, like, shake for the last rep, it's like, yeah, that's probably not a great way to approach reintroduction of an RDL. Like, if you're week three in a program design doing this, like, that's a problem. But no, like, especially my more advanced athletes, like, they've got a level of maturity with trening that they can be objective where I am reintroducing something. They know kind of how to approach one to two reps in reserve in week one, slowly progress that up, and be patient with those progressions in the first few weeks. IMight even, and I've done this a lot recently, like, deprioritize the movement for a couple weeks. So, like, put it after some pre-exhaust work so that load's not the issue, but we can tren the neural patterning and, like, the skill acquisition of relearninGHow to, you know, do a Smith machine squat or whatever that might be. So, no, I don't ever think it's, like, movement restriction. I think it's more, like, how does the athlete approach that movement outside of, like, I'm not going to deadlift someone off the floor, but that's just not really going in many hypertrophy programs in the first place anyways. Yeah. I think another piece here is starting to, if they haven't already, because prep is a hard time to, like, start to addressing, like, dysfunction in movements. And usually we get pretty regressed in our hypertrophy trening to where everything's very braced, a lot of bilateral movements. So it doesn't require a lot of stabilization, which some of that needs to come back. But also if you're someone that was running into injury patterns, you might need to now program into your split or the front end of your prehab, like, prehab work to address some of those issues, which would be, like, is it functional movements? I don't want to say functional movements, but, you know, and bodybuilders were a lot in just, like, one plane of movement. So you might need some movements that challenge, like, anti-rotation or anti-flexion, some of those degrees to then be able to set up to go brace properly for your hypertrophy work. This is especially for those that if you were running into injuries in the offseason or you have even a hard time connecting with certain body parts, it might not even be the right movement. It might be needing to kind of reprogram neurally how you're setting up and bracing for that movement. Now, that's a pretty complex topic to just speak on. It's kind of a lot of stuff to be able to show. But it should just, like, just want to plant that seed for individuals that that could be a case, especially if in your posing assessment you're seeing discrepancies between body parts. And the asymmetries between body parts, a lot of times it's not just like, oh, IMust be, you know, biasing on one side when I'm doing my pressing, so I'm just going to move to some unilateral work. Maybe, but I would almost bet most of the time is that there's an issue on that side of the body that needs to be addressed from a dysfunction aspect. So it's like my left shoulder is not quite the same as my right shoulder. It's not because I don't execute the lift the same. It's because I have some rotator cuff weakness there that doesn't stabilize the shoulder. And in turn, I don't output the same on the delt. So I need to address that, like, prehab setup to where I can then output well in my session. So just an example of that for something to think on. Same with, like, a squat and, like, hip strength and being able to get the most out of your quad that looks small. So some program pieces that should be built into your split design. And this post-show phase, now that you have the calorie influx, is the time to be able to start making some of those changes stick? Because in prep, it's really hard to fix stuff that's been broken. Yeah, it's like that's such a rabbit hole you could dive into. I think that's just another episode for another time. But it is where you do reintroduce that. It's definitely the place to reintroduce it. And I do think it's also the place to introduce patterns you think may raise that glass ceiling for you. Kind of like IMentioned earlier, like, you might even have things that are keeping you at a certain level of progression. From, like, movement selection that doesn't fit you. Like, now you need to start tinkering with this idea of different patterns to raise that glass ceiling if you can. And another thing to program, and I think it gets, like, a little bit underemphasized, is core waist trening. That's just such a big centerpiece on stage that so many people lack in. Or over time, it's going to lead to issues in your look kind of fading. It's like, it's not just going the off-season, add on muscle. Like, you need to keep your aesthetics. So continuing to do, like, built-in abdominal trening, like, vacuums and things like that, of course. That fall off easy in the off-season. But then also being able to tren bracing of the core and, if you need development of the core, doing that as well. So there's kind of, like, three pillars there to make sure you are hitting. I feel like the old-school bodybuilders, they, like, really hit a lot of waist trening as a big emphasis. And I don't know, you don't really hear it talked about that much. But to see, like, guys get easily beat just from having poor waist control or kind of, like, going one off-season, being able to control it on stage is huge. So keeping that in the off-season, I think, is very important. Yeah. Absolutely. Anything else to hit around the trening? We kind of went more of the trensition from prep to post-show in the general setup. But I think that is the big piece of it for a takeaway. It's just how you do it well. It's just, like, when in doubt, go towards quality is the summary. Like, thEQuality in your rep execution, thEQuality in the volume that you're performing, thEQuality in the way that you recover between days, I think, is a big thing. Like, that's a – we didn't even touch on that. Like, the rest days are there for a reason, right? Like, people love to do their mobility activity, extra fluff session, like, you know, go in the gym, do something. It's like, man, recoverinGHard is a part of treninGHard, too. I think it's just when in doubt, go to quality. It's so easy to – it's like, yeah, we have the enjoyment, emotional aspect around trening. Don't let that take you to a bad spot. It's like, oh, yeah, you know, this push day, I think I'll pull my tricep work off and do it as a two-a-day. It's like, no, no, like, you should just tren and have, like, a true, like, rest day. At least one day a week where you do nothing. No cardio, no mobility, no extra mini session of ab work or whatever it is. So I think it's something that could be definitely underthought on in the offseason is the recovery piece. So you can't just, you know, out-tren poor recovery at all. But anyway, we'll wrap it up there. Next week we're going to cover the coaching mistakes you don't know you're making. It will be more so judging around flat versus full versus what someone looks like if it's just fatigue and what to do about it. So anyway, thank you all for tuning in, and we'll talk to you next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: Building Muscle Off-Cycle - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.165 [2yCAuQaimVs].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Building muscle off cycle. I know that sounds like a complete oxymoron, but we have a lot of people that are making this trensition now from off-season into contest prep, or maybe from an off-season growth hormone hormone phase. into another off-season growth hormone hormone phase, but there needs to be this trensition period that's going to take place. Am I just pulling you in with saying off-cycle or cruising or a hold phase? But this phase can really set the stage for what your total projection of muscle accrual is going to be, leading that into your prep or your next off-season push. Luke and I are going to discuss it today. Yeah, I think there's a lot of names for this. Like, you'll see different coaches call it different things, whether it's, hold phase, trensition phase, prep trensition, whatever, health phase for some people. I think really the thing is like assessing what does the athlete need in order to retain the tissue that was built in the last phase. Are there any habits that need to be implemented for the phase that's coming? And then use this as a way to maintain trening performance, kind of fix any issues that may have cropped up, but also kind of start to develop the athlete and the habits that need to move in that right direction. Because I think one of thEQuickest things that you can see in athletes who don't make the most progress is they get sloppy in their execution when the compounds start to drop off. Wouldn't you agree? Yeah, definitely. And with moving into, and let's be real, no one's really coming off-cycle in this phase, but it is just a back to a baseline of what's going to hold tissue. And that's what we've always called it a holding phase. It's about holding the tissue and then correcting the issue. If there was some that cropped up in your push phase. And hopefully we stop the phase, push phase from moving on before you get issues. But that shift in the shift in the hormone phase. And that shift in hormonal environment can influence a lot of people of how they want to execute the phase, which is the problem of when you're really going to not be holding on to that tissue. And this really is like the hold phase, trensition phase is where you can really solidify the tissue. And I don't mean in an actual literal sense, but if your trening input is dropping off because of probably the mental aspect, or you're just poorly managing variables that was kind of a massed in your push phase. That's when you won't be holding on to the tissue and wEQuote unquote solidifying it to a degree. So making sure like when we are moving into this holding phase, that we do set the environment of variables up in a productive way to where we can get the most out of just being on a lower gear amount. And so I think a lot of things need to be set from when you're in this push phase of pre-athlete expectations. And they should really be already be in place, right? IMean, that's the reality of it before a lot of people that might not be the case. I see this as having to be even a stricter phase because you're not going to have the hormonal environment to partition as strongly towards muscle. And also a little bit more towards body fat and you're going to have your just overall recovery drop down to a degree. So there's some reactive and proactive things in coaching that that do need to take place. But Luke, what I think a good place to start is like probably the the mental side and expectation side. Like what are your kind of focal points there? Yeah, I think that's why in the initial the initial portion, I try to shift people in the very process oriented. Stuff like talking about it. There's habits that need to be implemented in the next phase because in an offseason phase, we can get very performance driven and like psychologically driven by that performance, especially when we start to see large increases. And I do like the idea of like slowly trensitioning into this. So like when we like if you've taken the level one course, we talk about rates of gain in all season push phases. And that's like a discussion of an average across the entire push. Right. It doesn't mean every week is that percentage of rate of gain. A lot of times with athletes that I'll have like as they start to phase out of all season into this holding phase, I'm letting that rate of gain drop so that I'm already starting to find like a little bit of stability from a weight perspective at the back end of that push. And we kind of trensition into that hold phase pretty well. And oftentimes those last few check ins will be about dotting our eyes and crossing our teeth with our habits, making sure that we haven't like letting it slip because that margin of error is so tiny in the hold phase. And then also some expectations of understanding progressions will probably be slower. I'll probably have to drop off some volume potentially depending on how recovery capacity holds. But mentally just preparing someone that progress is probably going to be slower, especially for your bigger, stronger athletes. And it's something that it means that the execution and your ability to execute has to be at an even higher level for this to trensition into the following phase. And honestly, when this hold phase or trensition phase goes into a prep, so it's like the end of all season hold phase or trensition into a prep, the way someone executes that trensition phase can tell you a lot about how that prep is about to go. For my athletes, I tend to see that tren at least. Yeah, the mental side can be tough because, you know, and even before it's even happened, I think people have a bit of a risk. Active response to gear coming down that it's not as motivating to go tren. It's like I can't make progress right now. And I think that's looking very short-sighted at what this phase is because your true progress is over all phases, accumulative over your entire course of bodybuilding, right? So this phase is just as important as the next, even though your potential rate of ability to increase tissue is going to be a lot lower, or for some it just is at maintenance. But I just keep in mind that if you're on two grams of gear per week and you're coming down over the nexT4 to five weeks, you're still going to be super physiological. So for some people, that is absolutely – I still see progress keep moving along. But in those individuals, what really sets the stage is like the expectation of what you need to be doing in trening shouldn't be changing. So you're the mental side to go in the gym and execute your lifts the same and the effort the same I think is a big one. And some people just lose some of that mental drive because those androgens aren't there to drive that sympathetic nervous system as much. And you don't feel as full either. Pumps aren't going to be as amazing. So you have this perception that your workouts aren't as good. And you just need to realize that's par for the course. And you might feel a little softer in this phase too. And visually when I see these athletes, they're like, man, I feel flat. And then you look at them, you're like, man, you barely look any different. You truly do. I think the perception is a lot different than the reality of it. And some guys will start looking like, oh, man, I'm dropping off size really quick. And when you look at how trening performance is, it's like if you're holding that well, that's really our best proxy that you're not going to lose the actual tissue, contractile tissue that you gained in that push phase. So execution of trening is the big thing that needs to be the expectation set moving into this next phase. Like it should be a smooth trensition. Nothing changes. But the reality is it does change for some guys. And so that's something just to really, I think, look out for and also know like, hey, you're supposed to feel not as full and pumped up. And that's going to be pretty normal for this phase. And I think another expectation to be set moving into this phase is outside of the mental side of like, what do we actually need to make corrections to if there is some? And preparing for the phase that jumps after the whole phase, because usually push phases in for a few reasons. Some, maybe everything went perfectly. It just is about to hit to into a prep timeline. And we just need a phase of like lower gear, dropping some stress down before we accrue a lot of stress across contest prep. But other things are like, hey, you accrued a lot of body fat. Health markers are maybe getting a little skewed. Blood pressure is a little high. We see like lipids are probably not where they should be. And we just know that trajectory is not going to keep going in a positive way. It's only going to get worse. Or a lot of issues are like, guys just hit the wall with appetite and digestion and just cannot keep sustaining the rate of surplus that needs to happen. Those are three kind of main big ones that run into. And so if those were the issues running in the push phase, the hold phase, it's not just about holding tissue. It's also about correcting those issues. So some expectations there is that, hey, we need to have these be focal points so when we get to our next phase that we are able to make the corrections and then be productive again, whether it be in fat loss or into another extended push phase. So depending on what that was kind of dictates also what the hold phase should really look at, right? Because it could be like you say, Luke, for some guys, you're just kind of lowering the surplus down and then they just kind of trensition into maintenance into that phase. While some guys might need more of a drop because of food appetite being problematic or body fat being problematic. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, and I think, IMean, arguably, that's probably the more common one, right? Like it's probably more common to see off the back of an offseason push that there needs to be some sort of drop in order to set themselves up for the next phase. Whether it's GI just can't handle the food load anymore and it's not like a body fat percentage issue. It's just building more room for being able to grow in that following phase for like the extremely high metabolism into the bell curve or like just tidying up so that you have room to run another push. It's going to trensition into that. And I don't know about you, but when we, when I go into this hold phase, like I do find that there is some sort of food drop kind of initially off the cut. Like even if, even if like we're not wanting weight to drop a ton, like if we haven't found weight stability and we've seen that weight kind of go up towards the back end, most of the time heading into the back end of that phase, it's either food drop or if they've let cardiovascular activity slip, it's like getting that activity metrics plugged back in. So that we kind of have them moving in that direction of maintenance to slight deficit. And I will say that I, most of the time I'm looking to improve nutrient partitioning, improve insulin sensitivity, potentially improve body composition. And, and start to kind of bring in the reins quite a bit through that in-between phase. It's, it's kind of how I'd say a large percentage of clientele are going to have to run these hold phases. Like a week to three weeks of holding kind of trensitioning into, to deficit for, for a lot of them. I know a lot of people, maybe you're in your final weeks of your push phase right now. You're thinking I'm good. I can keep going. And it's those guys that you shouldn't probably keep going until there's a problem. Yeah. That's not what you're aiming for. I think a lot of people, you do a lot of things around that. Like, Hey, I'm using tren. I don't have any sleep issues. Like, or you just keep using it to make sure like there is an issue present, right? Like my hands aren't numb using growth hormone hormone hormone. Like it must not be working. It's like, you shouldn't be chasing the negative effects. But I saw a great analogy. Credit to Joe Jeffrey. He's the one that said it. It's like, if you, if you throw a frog into boiling water, he'll jump out. If you put them in there and slowly crank up the heat, he'll stay in and just get, you know, boiled alive. Why is Joe cooking frogs? I don't know. But to the point is that in an offseason push phase, it's very similar to the frog just slowly getting boiled. You just keep accruing this damage and stress to your system to where, where you're at the end. You don't really realize how bad you actually do feel and how, or how much better you could feel. I just had a client situation where I could see all the signs of this was just negative. Like digestion was really poor. Just looking at the individual, they're holding a ton of water and they wanted to keep pushing. There was time left to keep pushing, right? The timeline was okay, but it's like, there's been a long time on cycle. I don't think we realize how poor this really is in the environment. So gear came down, food came down, like 10 pounds off in a week, drastically different physique, right? And then sleep's better, digestion's better. Like this, these are like immediate turnarounds. He's like, whoa, you know, I had no idea this is like how I even felt. It's like, yeah, it's just like the slow accrual that happens and why we do need these phases to occur. So just an example of like, I just want to quickly turn someone around and get productive. And once I see that, then I can bring some food back up. So for some individuals, it's as simple as that of just making that trensition like that into a whole phase. Some guys, it's more like body fat related. And you could pull some fat off pretty quick, like even while gear's coming down the first few weeks. And then once you're reaching that kind of four week mark, then you bring food back up and you maintain weight into your next push phase. And for a lot of guys, usually those are guys coming to us that are brand new that probably have just let body fat still get too high. And even four weeks into a whole phase isn't going to be enough time. Then we start the cut on the beginning of the fat loss phase or the front end of the push phase next time. So just to account for all that. So, but point beinGHere is like, you know, what is your issue to end the push? See if you can correct some of that on the front end of the whole phase. If not, then that might extend into your next push up phase or it might be extending into your whole phase. But I think we need to keep like the ultimate goal in mind. And like my Cairo says, the keep the goal, the goal. So the goal in bodybuilding is keep building muscle and maintain body composition, right? To a degree. So we always still want that to be the main priority in our whole phase. And if we are getting to points where we're removing us from that goal, we probably need to rethink our entire planning. Would that be like, hey, the last push phase, like where do we really go wronGHere? Like cropped up a ton of injuries to now this whole phase is now more of a rehab phase. It's like, okay, the goal is no longer the goal. We're not building muscle anymore. We're becoming like a rehab case. So we need to address those issues. We're noticing your whole phase needing to extend really long and not being able to move into your changes from there. But Luke, let me throw it back to you because we're getting a little touch into trening. Yeah. What type of trensition should be making on the trening side with the case of not being injured? Yeah. Yeah. With assuming no injury profiles are present. It's an interesting trening period. A lot of people like tend to want to tinker pretty quickly. Like they've been trening on the same trening program for a pretty long time. Um, and it's something that they're excited for a new program or something along those lines. I do find straight off the cuff that introducing new program designs, probably not the move. Um, you're wanting to maintain performance to retain the tissue for as long as possible. Um, so I'd rather go the route of running a deload if it's needed to maintain performance, keep a lot of the movements similar, drop the volume to match the dropping of the recovery capacity that's coming and then a little bit closer to the following phase. So when you're at the end of the hold phase or the mini cut, then you're looking at potentially new program design, new patterns because you've progressively light titrated that volume or total stimulus down to keep thEQuality of the stimulus high. You probably reached the rock bottom of volume by the end of that phase that you're kind of in a place where you can start to make movement swaps of movement swaps are needed. Um, and I think that's a place where like, if I'm going to raise a red flag of like the beginning of a hold, it's like wanting to pivot programs so fast because you ended the push. I don't think it's probably the best way to have your trening be productive for tissue retention. I think that's probably the biggest takeaway that you could probably take from like what needs to happen trening wise, in my opinion. Uh, when you said deload, do you like your deload right before you drop gear or drop gear and deload at the same time? Or does it not matter to you? It doesn't matter. IMean, serum levels are going to be dropping, but IMean, compounds are probably so high that if it's the week before I drop them or the week after I drop them, like the difference in that athlete's probably not too much different. It's more, I'm subjectively watching these metrics and I'm probably pulling the plug on the all season when the deloads coming more than likely because those metrics tend to line up pretty well. Like some of the other metrics that I'm concerned about that are non-trening related alongside some of the trening fatigue tend to kind of align towards that back into the push. So I'll drop the compounds when I start that deload and then roll. Yeah. I think you brought up a good point here is, um, to not just throw in a deload because you should throw in a deload. It's like, what does a deload do? Why do you use it? Do you fit that criteria to use the deload at that moment? Then you do the deload. Uh, not, don't just assume because gears coming down or something, you should just go ahead and deload. Right. Um, there, there's situations where I don't deload because that wasn't the problem. Yep. You know, doesn't always need to always need to happen. Uh, for a lot of guys, it could be a little bit, I've done some things just proactively of like taking some extra rest days off because they could just keep trening, but just, uh, with the long durations of trening in mind ahead. And also some of these guys, the way they would describe their trening fatigue is more in favor to, they psychologically want to keep trening. So, uh, as a protective aspect for them, it's not going to hurt them to do a little bit of a deloading. Um, if anything, help them to just keep sustaining that ability to tren. So whether that is the week of, or the week after, I think more just assessing where the athlete is from a, a trening fatigue standpoint is probably what is more of the case. Um, you brought up around like not making vast changes to trening. Uh, I guess my case would be if you've gone to a vast specialization. Within the push phase. Yeah. And you are trensitioning pretty far down into a recovery state that's going to be lessened, right? So less food, less gear, maybe even cutting some body fat off that you should probably trensition back from that specialization phase more to your overall balanced type programming. So, but that, that, that's like my minor trensitions. We're not talking like what should be my new trening split B. Yeah. It's like, no, we're just like pulling a few things out that maybe got some extra priority. Like for instance, for myself, right? I, I threw a bit of chest and dealt work on my leg day for some extra frequency and volume there. And like, I just might pull that out. I still have my two push days per week. Um, I've also made the very simple case. If you, you know, you don't know what to do in your hold phase, an easy way to kind of regulate recovery is just take your split, do the exact same thing and add in a rest day. Just spread out the frequency. Yeah. Yeah. Um, cause cause usually within the session is not a problem. Once you're off gear, I find it's the frequency that really becomes the problem because connective tissue just doesn't have the same recovery capacity. Like when you're on cycle. Yeah. I'm glad you made that clarification because in my head, when I was saying volume adjustments for specialized program design, those volume adjustments are directly towards the specialized body parts, right? There's a higher percentage of volume drops for the specialized body part typically because of the amount of work you're doing relative to some of the other sessions. So I do think it's important. I do think kind of like trensitioning out of trening into potentially like the next topic to discuss is one of the things that I think can happen, especially the more advanced that you get is when you're, so like you're pulling someone out of specialization, right? You drop the program design to bring the volume down. Um, potentially you've got some problems to fix. There is such a case as doing a hold phase for too long. And I think that's like a topic that needs to be discussed because when you're pursuing the highest levels of competing, your efficiency across long-term is determined on how well you trensition in and out of phases, which is where we made the acute comment of like the execution needs to be really tight here so that we don't accrue body fat too high, or we don't lose tissue that we've accumulated in the previous phase. And I think a lot of the times some of these phases can get extended because the execution is dropped or they don't execute at the same level. So to achieve the amount of change in the hold phase or mini cut, if there is like a body composition improvement takes a little bit longer than you would expect it. And you end up getting to a point where the, the time at the lower compound load is too long for maximizing the ability for someone to progress over the longterm. Yeah. Yeah. And to that point, this is why you're trying to really clip the push phase before those problems do arise. Uh, because if you're running into more of a, a fixer upper in your whole phase, that's when you're going to be suboptimal in a lot of areas to keep holding tissue. And you're going to see a drop off potentially a lot faster than the guy that was very well managed his push phase. We ended up an appropriate time and he can just kind of just seamlessly move into a whole phase and you'll have, you could extend that phase as long as what, whatever would be needed there. But once you move up to a high enough level, it's not a sustainable amount of muscle anymore to where you do start to lose some. And usually I find some guys in that six to eight week period when compounds come down, which if you really think about it, it's probably only two to three weeks. Of getting to a baseline amount is when you really see shifts start changing in the physique to where you're starting to backpedal and you'd have to make that up on the next push phase. And for a guy that needs to just keep moving forward to compete at the level he wants to, we just can't allow that to happen. And that's kind of the reality of the guy on a higher risk type of setup. And when we see that kind of decline, again, keep the goal to goal, right? If we're moving away from like progressing physique, it might be just time to push back up. So, and that's, that's the gray area of like, when is that right? When is it not? Yeah. Um, so we just kind of look at the overall picture, make sure we're mark, you know, monitorinGHealth markets efficiently. The guy that is in that type of risk profile doing all the things that you need to be doing to, you know, protect yourself as well. I think just, just to point this out, like this is why we stress so much of offseasons having contest prep based habits, because if you let yourself slip to the point that you accumulate health issues, body fat too high, whatever it is in the offseason that doesn't go the way that it should have been had you executed at that level. It's not only potentially ending that phase in a place that you shouldn't be, but it's also extending that hold phase after, and it's preventing our job of being able to keep you moving forward the entire time because we now have problems to fix in the hold phase that wouldn't have been there had the execution been there. So it's like when in doubt, like just look at the way you execute your process and try to execute it at the highest standard that you can, because it's always going to pay off in the longterm. It's going to allow your hold phases to be as short and efficient as possible. It's going to allow you to trensition out of that offseason phase seamlessly. It's going to allow you to trensition to the following phase seamlessly. So I just, a lot of it comes back to how well it's executed. And as I don't want to belabor a point, but it's like hold phases that go too long or many cuts that go too long are often a product of the previous phase not being done the way it should have been. This rewinds back to what you do the first week after your show, like sets the stage for all of these phases ahead, right? Amen. You nearly rewind all the way back to that point because some guy that I've seen screwed up that first week, it's not just a week of screwing it up. It really is months of making a suboptimal process. And it's, it really does set up your next contest prep and what you're going to bring on stage. So if you can trensition even from your last prep into the post show, into your offseason, into the whole phase, all like you were executing on prep, there's flexibility within offseason. Not saying that, but the routine like structure and narrowing your variables and being consistent in those areas will make all these phases so much more, more seamless, productive to where you will have the most tissue accrual and physique change possible across a true offseason. And you won't be spending so much of your offseason, your hold phases in fixing issues, clening up body fat. It'll be actually what it's meant to be doing is improving, which I think it's a, it's a great time just to kind of end on that point because I think, you know, as Luke point out, it's the most important point to make out of this is the hardest one to do. And I do think it takes years to develop that and the experience to even do it. And for a lot of people just kind of revealing layers of the next level that you can be executing at some, sometimes you're just completely naive. That even is, was a thing in certain areas that you could be doing. But anyway, with this off cycle, quote unquote, hold phase, it's not downtime. It's nearly never downtime. It's just, this is still an investment in your longterm progress, set clear objectives for what you're doing within this phase, execute it like it is your prep, stay stricter in this phase because the hormones aren't present to you partition in your favor. And this will just make the next push even better for you or the next prep even better for you. Thank you all for tuning in and we will talk to you next time.

=== FILE: Fat Loss Diet Mistakes to Avoid - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.169 [c8WtFkzNYSM].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Fat loss diet mistakes. Luke and I have covered muscle building mistakes made during dieting with... Let me just start this over. The Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Sü Um, but I look, I, I love seeing like the different ways that people respond to the, to the start of dieting. And I think that's kind of where this, this conversation starts is it's like, what does the beginning portion of diet look like? Because that to me is where people make the biggest mistake and, and put themselves behind the eight ball. So like when you, when you see people starting preps, John, like what's, what's the biggest things that step out that stand out to you as far as like the biggest mistakes in that portion of the dieting phase? Yeah. At least on the initial part and where I've made my own mistakes in the past was just starting off the calorie deficit to conservative was the thing that I did, uh, with the idea of like getting the most from the least. And then like, so you have some cards to play later on, uh, ends up, you save those cards and you have to play them all later on. And then you're like, damn, I just played my whole hand and I run out of time. So that was like the past situation of like, then you're like get behind and you have to like get overly aggressive towards the end. Um, it wasn't till later on where like, and even now, like we have like science coming out to kind of verify this on more aggressive deficits on the beginning of a fat loss phase when you have the greatest ability to maintain tissue would be making sure you're starting the fat loss phase off like aggressive enough. Yep. 100%. I think there's, there's multiple things that you can look at too for this. It could be like the initial diet change, um, and kind of how you go about that. Uh, one of the things I don't like seeing, and we do see this in a lot of client plans is too large of like caloric rotations trying to drive the deficit. Like they're very trening performance logbook based. So they keep their trening day food quite a bit higher. And then they drop the rest day food way down thinking I can just drive the deficit by taking a larger chunk out of the rest day, which I think is not, it's not long sided enough. Like it's pretty short sighted move in regards to keeping a contest prep rolling throughout the entirety of the contest prep, because ultimately contest prep's just fat loss in a fatigue management state. Like you're pushing as hard as you can for fat loss to occur while keeping someone in a place that they can still adapt to the deficit. And this attachment to performance and attachment to logbook, while it's important for retaining tissue, we don't need to have such a caloric intake on trening day, be that differential from rest days because those days that are off are also contributing to recovery capacity that is also going to contribute to your performance in following days. And so I'd rather see like a net change across the entirety of the diet. A lot of my clients too, like they'll, they'll have caloric rotations in all seasons for digestion purposes, but man, I'll, I'll borderline almost eliminate the rotation and caloric intake, uh, with the start of prep. Like it just, it doesn't need to be super high in my opinion. So when you're, when you have that situation with a client, are you pulling most of the calories off of the trening day to where then they get pretty close to the same or, or is it just like a little bit less pulled off of the non-trening days? Like how, how, how do you look at that for that particular client? Yeah, typically it'll be pulled off of both. It's just a little less pulled off the non-trening day. Sometimes I'll even pivot people into aromasingle meal plan where the only differential is the intra-workout carbohydrate exposure. Like if they have intra-workout carbohydrate powder makes for execution to be really easy. They don't have any excuse to not be prepared. Like it's, it's a quick and easy way to make sure the consistency is at a high level because their food's not changing day to day. Really the only thing is supplementation around trening. Uh, so that's kind of how it goes. Like I'll, I'll start people with 20% deficit straight off the cuff, like no problem, like super easy. And it just gets them flying because when I look at that, that fat loss chart that IMake for people in either in their timelines, if I want them to see it, or IMake it in a document for myself if I don't want them to see it. What I'm doing is, is I'm watching that 1% rate of loss and I'm wanting to get close to that 1% rate of loss for that first portion of prep, because that puts me in a position where I can run 0.5 or less almost that back end of prep where it's like, I'm not really even barely running fat loss the lasT4 to five weeks for most people. Yeah. I think you bring up a good point around that for one, how much are you pulling off the start? And I usually advise people, Hey, don't go over 30% of a calorie deficit off the front of a prep. And if you're having to, to make that timeline, you probably want to expand your timeline out a bit longer just because more aggressive fat loss phases as very well could be suited for over a short term. Over the longterm is when you probably accumulate too much fatigue and it wouldn't be sustainable across 16 plus weeks of a contest prep. But to bring to your point, like, Hey, 20 to 25% could be a very good starting point. And if you do need to make up a little bit more of that, doing it off the output side. So a lot of times I'll, I'll bump up steps or add a little bit of cardio in, but the majority of that chunk coming from the diet and you know, they're basically, we're all trying to create that weekly rate of loss. That's going to align for the timeline and, and how we do that, there's a lot of flexibility within that. So you don't have to go to a straight every single day, uh, being a diet monotonous as that might psychologically not align best with the client profile as well. But for, for the clients that I have on like larger amounts of calories where in the offseason you have to get pretty strategic with where you put food. So, you know, one client with really high amounts of food trening day hunger is a lot higher. So it makes a lot of sense that we put a lot of calories into that day. So a lot of the food is coming off that day and then the rotation is a much less aggressive moving to the fat loss phase versus maybe a female client and lower food where it just really isn't that big of a rotation and their output on a trening versus a non-trening day. It's not that vast. And what I found is the bigger you are, the more vast it becomes like a big bodies burn a lot of calories. So, uh, you know, some people are like, you don't need more than 500 calories on a trening versus non-trening day. Like to get to like two 60 plus forcing a body weight that you're not supposed to be at. Like you will burn through it and especially strong individuals that tolerate a lot of trening volume. So anyway, um, yeah, you have just some different tools to create that deficit. I hope you saw that question on the forum we had. Someone asked like, I'm going to the fat loss phase. I need to create my deficit. Like how should I structure my high day? Uh, and it's kind of thinking a little backwards about it. Yeah. Because you're like, well, you know, you want a 20% deficit for the weeks. For instance, if you want one high day, like to add in another 10% of calories that day, you need to make it up somewhere else. So you need to get like a 25% reduction on whatever, four days out of the week. And then it gets really complicated. So you would have to align with that. I think some people, they don't even do that. If they just take calories out there, uh, every day, then a high day gets kind of arbitrary of like, well, I'm going to double carbohydrate in this day. And it's like, well, what about like your calorie? What does that mean for your calorie balance for the total week? So I think, uh, that might get a little bit into our, our next topic, but, um, two larger rotations could be problematic for the recovery piece and managing fatigue. Um, but some rotation could be plausible for those that have the psychological aspect that would benefit from a diet that would be less, less monotonous. I'm going to, I'm going to make a shirt that says pre-planned high days are overrated. And we're going to have that on the back and then the J3 university on the front. Cause I think it's a product of not doing step one correctly. Like you're not matching the rate of loss with the timeline appropriately. And as a result, you're having to dig yourself out of the hole with food. When, if you're having to dig yourself out of a hole in the first place, which is normal for a prep, you'll have that sometimes, man, an activity adjustment down is a massive one for most people. But I digress before we get too far off topic. I do think that kind of brings us into refeeding too often because the longer I do this, the preps that are the smoothest and the preps that get to the final outcome, the easiest are always the ones that seem to have the least amount of refeeds and the least amount of need. And a lot of the times this has to do with how strict the individual is with their schedule and how well they execute the contest prep, how well they manage their time and how adaptive they are to the, to the contest prep response in the sense that they move fat loss along pretty steadily each week because they've done the work on the forefront to set up the prep. But they've also got their life variables in play where they're not driving stress or fatigue really high or they're not running into all these roadblocks. And I think really the topic to discuss is just refeedinGHappens too often for a variety of different reasons in my opinion. But I think it's something that would definitely be a huge mistake if you kind of went down that path. Yeah. Back when, well, high days, refeeds, they've been part of dieting culture for a long, long time. And, but the idea used to be like, right, keep your metabolism from slowing down, speed up metabolism, just keep your moving, prevent your fat loss from stalling. And then we're like kind of learn to find out like, okay, that's not really the aspect around refeeds that's beneficial, but there is potential around, you know, prevent, preventing loss of tissue we saw some of these other studies starting to come out around like a five on two off kind of rotation or diet breaks and and a lot of the studies don't quite trenslate over competitors but some were so we see like pre-planned refeeds were then a thing but it also extends the timeline for our contest prep as well now kind of fast forward now is like well what should really guide us around if we're using refeeds or or not and i think people are trying to build their diets based on the research of what we're seeing that wasn't really what we should be doing it should be based around like why are these being done what are the benefits of them then how do we leverage that for those benefits and so you know what we probably see more out of refeeds is like when you are in a state where trening is suffering that it brings you back to a state where you could have some trening performance and maintain tissue also there's definitely the the psychological benefit of dropping off fatigue maybe some improvements to sleep and that in turn allows you to continue the deficit and keep movinGHigh output so those should really be our assessment tools of when these refeeds should be going in and on the front end of prep you're not going to be really running into those and as we know it's not really going to be preventing metabolic down regulation from occurring like that's occurring either way if any you're just extending your prep timeline so with refeeds off the front clip of a prep they don't quite make sense because you're not really getting a state of glycogen depletion where trening is really being problematic and what i come across more is that fatigue accumulates more from the trening side or the cardiovascular output side and it's a lot of times from people that have you know more inconsistency within their daily prep to where we can't control as much and some days kind of creep up on someone but the solution to that isn't from adding a refeed in because i don't see as much fatigue drop as i do with removing the issue that started the problem which is the output side so we kind of coined the term like the output days where a complete removal from trening and cardio and step reduction just to full-on rest in turn the the diet stays the same but it puts someone back towards a maintenance or slight surplus and that's the bigger fatigue drop that can allow them to keep moving in a contest prep however refeeds on the tail end of a prep when you are getting very glycogen depleted and trening performance is starting to suffer that starts to bring in the logic and rationale of utilizing a refeed with the caveat that it doesn't take away from the end goal of of being stage lean and i think that's where you have to get really cautious with what does your refeed look like and slowly implementing when luke uh created a you know i actually i took this from one of your lectures and put it into our coursework kind of like how do you how you incrementally go about testing refeeds and moving someone up across the prep so you don't uh lose time because i've made that mistake earlier in coaching it's like all right clients dying 200 grams carbs i'm gonna bump it at 400 then they're like gain three pounds and it takes them like another three four days to get back to a baseline then you now only have a week a week where you had like two week two days of that other week of like productive fat loss you're like shit i pretty much just lost a week here yep so there uh there should be strategically implemented and monitoring the response of a client to where you don't lose any of your timeline and i guess that's the problem right luke like on the front end it's just way too easy to lose a lot of your time yes you can lose so much because that refeed just like the response is is sticky almost like it it's it stays with the client so long and i think the point that i want to pull out before we move into the next topic is it's not the primary goal the primary goal is to get into contest shape and so there are preps where you have to dig those last seven eight nine ten weeks just to make sure that you get there where refeeds are kind of few and far between but if you're in a place where you can utilize them which happens when you push the front portion of the prep in your head it allows for that to be plugged in as needed for performance retention so i think there's a a mindset shift that has to happen like we can't replace getting in contest shape as the primary goal with making sure refeeds are a part of the prep as the primary goal because i do know that people get pretty emotionally attached uh well this client's getting refeeds why am i not or they see it you know kind of pervade in in social media culture because good grief a day in the life of like see what i eat videos or what does john get sushi and i don't oh man it's so funny but it's like it's you have to be so specific to what each person can respond to in regards to what you're putting in so that you know you aren't removing that time like when you go get sushi it's because you're ordering the same exact thing and you know your response to it and you know that it's not sticky where you're losing that week of fat loss it's enough to pull you back up but then it's pulling you back down um at a quick rate to to keep you on track so it's it's it's a hard dynamic to communicate because as someone perhaps it starts to flip right you start to see like that desire for contest lean for some people start to move kind of equal to wanting the refeeds and we have to make sure that people are reminded that that's not refeeds not the primary goal used as needed to achieve the primary goal of contest shape thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with j3 university our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our j3u team to answer any questions you have and livEQ a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top ifbb pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at j3 university let's get back to today's podcast yeah and with getting into food variety on prep we kind of get into the topic around which could be a mistake made is macro matching now that's not to say that don't ever do it it's just that it can take you down a path of making errors and utilizing it with uh for one i think on the on the coaching side is that there's kind of a question mark or vagueness around what someone's eating and might leave you when a problem does arise where do you really start so if you have someone just off numbers and you're not able to actually see their food sources they're utilizing for one they might have shifts in what they eat and if it's prior to a check-in day oh maybe they had more a more more sodium bump for that day you see their check-ins and it looks softer their weights up you're like man do i need to be more aggressive and it's just a fluid shift it's not actually representative of the rate of fat loss that's occurring so that's one thing when it gets a little too inconsistent with shifting of foods um that could be a problem then you know the other one is like as you're getting farther down the dieting process and stress is higher in the body the gi track can get a little finicky you can start running into gi problems and if i knew exactly what someone's eating and we can identify it in a meal pretty quickly you can you can shift and make those adjustments pretty pretty fast if not you're like okay well let me see your whole diet plan like when are you having this problem they're like well these meals are changing i'm subbing in these macros here and so it creates a delay in the timeline of figuring out problems if they were to rise so on the coaching side those are at least at least two of the the problems that i could see come out like earlier on not even talking about peak week but that's how you're on in prep yeah it's it's so funny because i coach a few what i term is advanced dieters so people who are good at this like that run macros for their preps like especially the first half especially like i just give them macros so uh emily king's one of them mitchell's one of them um but when we get to the back end of prep like it goes from like me just giving the macros to like hey like this is the foods and this is the meals and we're kind of running this into a peak because man thEQuickest way to screw a peak is to start to do this inaccurately like with what you're plugging in from a meal by meal perspective as far as digestion right because um it's you're not only controlling for like the macronutrients that go in but you're also controlling for the micronutrients but tertiary the digestion piece of it when macros come up for loading is such a quick way for people who have been dieting for so long even if they're advanced dieters seeing those macros and plugging in foods that may have been fine in offseason but as you get through contest prep there's not that tolerable or they do drive some loading and that to me is just not worth it so when i see macro matching as far as a part of a contest prep it's not that it can't be done it's that the tolerance that you give yourself has to be much narrower for a contest prep in my opinion and then potentially even removed once you get to that last piece because it needs to be so predictable by the time you're running a peak that it's it's not a question of if the macro matching is getting in the way um and it's so simple to screw it up like just we talked about this before but like subbing seafoods like one trip for a different trip that you buy at a different grocery store having quadruple the sodium or even just like switching sauces like i i've seen people go to a show and it's those shows that have expos at them right they buy a sauce at the expo and it either drives gi issues or it has different like sodium content relative to their other sauces and it's just so frustrating on the coaching end because you spent 18 20 24 weeks doing everything so well to have something like that start to mess it up you know yeah in that you know the other thing is the volume side yeah it's volume side too yeah and people started shifting to foods that are more voluminous which you can make a pretty large plate of food that still fits within some macros but another thing about getting on stage is like yeah you need the devs to create fat loss but you also need to be able to control your waste so if you're spending all day long with this in way so you can't tren it to the absolute smallest ability all prep long that's leaving some ground on the table that you could be gaining uh then also the fiber part of the equation some people might be looking at carbs protein fats but if you're not accounting for fiber uh for one you know bloating could be a problem or even if you had someone that's low carb you need a certain amount of those carbs being able to fuel trening and now we're getting to the muscle retention side of the equation where they're eating a ton of fiber where we have the idea that's most that carb should be going into fueling trening and recovery then we're having limitations now for the muscle retention side so you know a few things that it could be accounted for it's like like you said luke it's probably making sure guidelines are in place or using that approach like hey i need you doing five meals per day and maybe those macros are now accounted to each of those meals rather than being a total for the day so no one's trying to like you know macro save and eat more of them in the evening or just go to a strategy that's more psychologically based over outcome based for the physique and i think that's where you start to have to start shifting things around for people and you know tail end of prep i've been there you if you have macros you start planning out the most strategic way to eat the most palatable volume as food that you can to just lessen the burden of hunger and when you're getting to that hey it's time to just to hang up the macros because it's not going to be psychologically benefit for you then you get to the back end of prep when it's all over you're like i wasted so much of my life thinking about food and macros when i could have been more productive so i'm laughing i'm laughing because i've been there man i remember that that last prep was jolly rancher cucumbers it was jolly rancher drink packets sprinkled on cucumbers oh my god it's so funny when you look back though like you just you just gotta laugh oh man and the IMean the other the other side of this mistake is being too strict with no variety to a degree um and again like a lot of this macros versus strict meal plan i think it does get into the psychology of the dieter but i still see problems when you have the meal plan that's i just rotate between chicken rice and beef and rice and that's what you do for weeks on end for one like micronutrients are missing fibers missing there's a lot of benefits around these two areas and then the long term i think is very important to consider for for gi health and we see just more gi problems cropping up for me in the same foods over and over and over with a lack of fiber and bodybuilding lack of microbiome diversity and bodybuilders easily because of lack of fiber and lack lack of fiber diversity as well so i think in the long term we need to think about our our gut health and our ability to continue the dieting process but even the short term being able to have something more sustainable and less burdensome because i've been on these diets for prep where it's just it's just chicken rice and beef and rice or some fish and man it is there is a less burdensome way to diet and enjoy the process more and i'm i'm all about putting in the work and if i need to work harder absolutely i'll take it there but i don't think we need to create a meal plan or a cardio plan that intentionally elicits the most suffering possible uh quote unquote when there could be a uh an as effective less fatiguing way to do so and so even with prep there's a physical fatigue there's a mental fatigue but it all adds up to our total allosteric load that we can handle on prep and going over that you just end up stalling someone out but a lot of people need to be coached and brought up through this process and advanced to the point where hey they could go to a very strict approach and handle it but if you're having people crack it's like is that you and they just need to suck it up or you know do you need to modify your approach and become an actual coach and kind of nurture these people through the process and find strategies to to lessen the burden and uh just uh use semaglutatide ozempic i'm just kidding on that but um kind of kind of uh along the lines like we should meet me in the middle here of like we're able to have some flexibility within dieting but also strictness where it applies but making sure that diet still guides them for a short term of getting fat loss and on stage but then also over the long term of being able to sustain this process over years of doing this yeah and i think one last thing on like the diet piece i guess that last point i think it's a good one to touch before we sure yeah to before we kind of log off because it kind of comes off the back of too strict and no variety i think there's so much value in that like you can have someone follow a meal plan and have that variety built in and um a lot of times people as we start to pivot into like especially those preps that you have to push hard this is such a good thing to to notice or to keep track of is you're starting to get into some protein veggie meals and then those protein veggie meals become multiple meals right um and protein the total protein intake a lot of times can be a little bit too high for what you need on that back end of dieting and it's a pretty simple macro swap to just pull that protein down and plug in carbohydrates on that equal gram per gram basis and be able to support trening a bit more and i've done this on the back end of preps multiple times and honestly probably saved contest preps from like putting someone on stage you know not quite there maybe a little stringy to still being able to tren and perform and retain tissue and it's it's something that's so huge to realize that as you get through this prep like it's pretty easy to have protein be so high that it's actually could be swapped for something that's more beneficial to the prep process from a performance perspective yeah and some people might be thinking like i know you just said a gram per gram basis right and uh yes they are calorie equated but say i hate thermic effective foods higher for protein like metabolically it's not quite the same right but what the thing around this is that when you're getting to a state like we're talking about here is that shift now increases someone output and an ability to tren harder move more throughout the day that from a net aspect of output versus calories in it's an improvement and you can see someone start actually dropping body fat because of it because they just start outputting more um and then they're even their trening performance improves so that's uh part of why we could even do a gram for gram swap out in that in that instance um and then you know protein yeah it can definitely help with appetite and hunger but that only just to such a far degree um in that if you're actually dropping off more fatigue with havinGHigher carbohydrate that could actually be the the greater benefit and i think the the sati point of carbohydrate of protein is a little um overstated to a degree um so i you know i digress a bit on there but i think uh you know protein only goes so far it's far more beneficial to utilize the substrate that we mainly use in our trening which is carbohydrate so but uh yeah i think we'll wrap it up there everyone those are some major fat loss diet mistakes that we've seen and kind of evolved thinking on too for ourselves and coaching if you have any questions or you know some other diet mistakes leave them down in the comments below and thanks for tuning in we'll talk to you next time

=== FILE: Female Growth： This Is Why You Stay the Same ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 197 [vKkfzy-0ewI].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Female growth hormone hormone hormone. Female growth hormone hormone hormone. This is why you might be staying the same. This is why you might be staying the same. Luke and I today, we want to dive into all the reasons that might be limiting you as a female geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez you you come across more of these issues in the offseason and made significant progress in your females so it'll be good to hear what uh takeaways that you've might have really shifted for those females and been able to progress them forward yeah it was it was funny i was looking at my roster the other day and i have something like six wpd pros and like a bunch of wellness pros and like all these people like close to winning pro cards and wellness and figure and i've actually got a handful of figure pros as well i think i'm at like seven or eight so um yeah it's been like it's been like interesting to see the the shift in the dynamic um but i think it's this this podcast could turn into like the clickbaity reel that's like are you not eating enough in offseason like are you afraid to eat and you're eating the bikini diet right but i think from a barriers mistake perspective like when we look at what actually kind of um limits a lot of these these girls is i think there's there's one um of like inputs from like outside perspectives which we'll get into from in a second i think that's one to manage heavily in this realm um but i think that really the biggest thing is learninGHow to to shift focus in different um sections of the seasons and i think that starts with trening and having a good relationship with trening of like what good trening actually looks like because that seems to be the biggest differential across the spectrum IMean i know like common barriers we're going to have to cover mindset and recovery and nutrition and peds and talk about all these things and hormone profiles and i think HRT is another one that needs to be discussed but the massive difference in how people approach trening across the female classes is where i think the most progress gets left on the table whether it's on the bikini on the side doing these dainty kickback stuff excessively and not like executing large compounds to get the most amount of growth hormone hormone hormone benefit or it's like on some of the more aggressive trening side like we're flinging things and creating not enough mechanical tension and but moving a lot of load for the camera like it's just such a wide spectrum in this realm like it's i find it's the largest spectrum of trening capacity or trening skill i should say um across like female competing yes IMean that answers kind of the first question that we had is why do many females athletes stall in the offseason yeah i think that'll get in a little bit more to maybe some of our other things around pushing body weight up as you need to but kind of jumped into our our second question here and asking this is like oh it's part of a bit right uh of the first two it is the biggest off-season mistake that happens in females and so you're saying your trening is a big piece of that and are you seeing trening mistakes that are you mentioned some that are unique to females with a lot of bikini wellness just doing more pump type workouts a lot of volume so you see like an overdoing of volume in those areas what else are you seeing as far as like the execution side because i feel like that's just such a so bad under prioritized area like let's let's talk wellness specific here right and i think i think this concept applies to women's physique and figure with some other body parts like delts and lats but the concept that we're trying to say here is like not really actually understanding what positions load these muscle groups like wanting the the glute development but their primary compound is like a wide stance ab ducted externally rotated goblet squat where they hold a dumbbell under them it's like you are getting a great squeeze at the top because you can just tuck your pelvis and like squeeze the heck out of your glutes but like we're not even putting you in positions to maximally load a glute or um do this safely like that's another one the amount of lower back injuries in these classes like just from poor squatting and poor pelvic control like we're not going to send me down the the bird dog rabbit hole but um i think that's like number one is like understanding what positions actually load these muscle fibers because like even i'm i'm coaching i'm coaching jasmine baker now and she's a great athlete like she does everything i ask but like she was dealing with so much lower back pain and like not being able to get a lot of glute out of her trening and it's like in the first few weeks fixinGHow she manages ribcage to pelvis and then puttinGHer in the right positions in a squat she not only squatted pain-free but it's just like the amount of glute stimulus from that one movement just that one squat is like more robust than almost the entirety of trening and she's someone who's competed at the highest level when it comes to wellness so it's like you take someone like that and teach that trening like i the sky's the limit for someone like her with something like that but that's across the board is just a misunderstanding and application of trening and execution to actually accomplish the goal you're trying to accomplish is like the skill that's so missing you can have the the perfect plan on paper but if it's not applied the way that we intend to it to be you could be missing the mark so much that's when likely you see a few things uh for one a lot of chasing the feel off of movements so you just well i don't feel this so i'll try to feel it in this way and a lot of times that's just a lot of short loading like pump band type work or it just leads to excessive volume taking place and hang in there ladies at the end of all this we're going to give you some solutions that uh luke and i have created for you but and i like had a wpd client that uh she's like i do these hip thrusts i don't ever feel my glutes it's like it's not the hip thrust was not the right exercise for her she was just going into like excessive like lumbar flexion and driving like her feet away from her and she just needed like the right bracing setup in the right cue like two simple things that i gave her and it was like like eyes like you know popping out of her head like whoa like light bulb off like there's my glutes so a lot of times it's comes down to some of like video review needs to happen and a comparison to like what it should look like then also given some good instruction and the right cues because you can you can try to mirror a lot of this stuff all day long but sometimes that you just do need the right external cue to help create the the true application there i do think as well you now have females that copy a lot of programs off other females that are seeing on instagram but then you also have a lot of the male programs that are just passed down to females which like hey the big tenants of hypertrophy apply here but females are different in certain aspects uh definitely like the recovery piece i've seen is still pretty huge if you do get females outputting at a pretty high level i think that gap closes some however i've still seen across the board like the frequency and total volume level that a female can handle is still slightly higher than what a guy can handle and i think that's too it's like for the wellness side you could definitely if you have a guy programming like he would program his own leg trening if you're only trening legs once a week it's like man you're gonna be way under doing what a female could actually handle like like for renee she could tren legs nearly every other day and for me that would just decimate me so yeah i think passing on the male the male program to the female which i think that might be closer what do you think to like what you would see in figure in wpd potentially done yeah and i have a lot of pet peeves when it comes to that like i i even sat with colton and rewrote a wpd program design the other day or he wrote he rewrote it but we went over some tenets of like just because these are the more muscular female divisions does it mean that this trening looks anything close to what a bodybuilder is is doing i think there's class specific stuff you have to consider about how different their poses are what's actually graded towards their criteria that skew those landmarks differently than how you would in bodybuilding so yeah it's just it's so bad in the figure wpd world of like doing the boyfriend or the husband's trening or you know i was handed a program design that uh you know similar to what a bodybuilder is doing and just expected to progress on that and it's like ah you're wasting so much recovery capacity on what could be more physique progress that matches your class standard in my opinion yeah and that's just IMean that's just touching on the trening piece but i think that is the greatest tool you have to change your physique and where the greatest emphasis should be and making sure like you do get away from pump work and you are focusing on progressing your stimulus tracking your lifts and making sure those main core lifts are moving up across the board and a lot of times they're they're more basic looking programs to be honest just the a lot of the movements that work are the ones that should be in place that are like your squats your hip hinges just unilateral movements like it's just basic stuff it's not needing to reinvent the wheel just continue to execute those better and then as you're adapting those loads reps are kind of organically moving up um outside the trening pieces there is kind of a lot to to cover here i think i think yeah i almost we need to address the mindset i think first because i feel like that's a a trap for a lot of the females of getting with body image scale obsession or fear of fat gain install would absolutely be like a big limiter that i see in females in the offseason and a lot of that has to start post-show like having a properly set up program to where you understand the expectations you're guided into a position that you can successfully execute the post-show and not leave you six eight weeks down the road not recovered and what you need to be able to start your offseason from a hormonal aspect from a mental aspect and from a body fat standpoint so there's a lot to that but i think where that all goes wrong is you have the female that's not guided well gains a lot of body fat mentally then gets in a poor spot and then you spend a lot of the offseason really just kind of eating maintenance calories and that's not the position you really want to be in so where we really need to see the offseason happen is being able to progressively increase body weight and have that linearly scale with you progressively and getting stronger in the gym so i think where a lot of this mindset shift needs to happen is is back to trening to a degree in making sure like that is your priority point in the offseason that you are fueling a female to grow and in that way perform in the gym and be able to recover so your your trening is kind of your checkbox that needs to happen first like is my trening progressing and then looking are you also moving up in body weight and if those things are happening that's great but a lot of times right we don't see those things happening when females come to us it's like a lot of stagnation and just maintenance across the offseason yeah and i think um i think this mindset comes with a few things that can be mismanaged that are like outside of the gym factors too um i almost see this portion as like the second low-hanging fruit like if i had to choose like we had all these apples to choose from right like if i had two low-hanging fruits to choose from it would be the relationship with body composition mindset and being able to manage that through hormonal considerations and nutrition considerations depending on where someone is and then the trening piece and these are like my two low-hanging fruits where i think we can continue down the mindset of competing and like potentially being a rate limiter for competitors getting to the highest level um is maybe understanding the path of what this looks like on the outside the gym factors in regards to not only the standard of execution but john i'd love to hear your thoughts on this because i know this is one that i i weekly have conversations with people wanting to get the highest level around this how to appropriately manage hormone profiles with these females as they progress into competing the deeper into competing they get because obviously we have the female module that we recover like the in-depth nitty-gritty piece of this right but just like hit the highlights of like these outside the gym factors can so negatively affect your ability to manage body composition to run progressive offseasons that i think that almost goes hand in hand with the trening as like the two lowest hanging fruit of like how someone manages outside the gym factors alongside how we provide that stimulus thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with j3 university our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our j3u team to answer any questions you have and livEQ a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top ifbb pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at j3 university let's get back to today's podcast yeah IMean i think for where it could cross over with a lot of the males is going to be keeping the consistent routine almost like a prep like structure but with flexibility that still aligns with allowing the physique to progress week to week so that that aspect doesn't change but i like you bring it up around the hormonal considerations those are unique to males and one kind of outside the gym factor that sometimes is not looked at a lot or it's very complicated as well it's so much morecomplicated than a male's hormone management and either it's not looked at when i see people come over or it's inappropriately managed and managed also like just a minIMan protocol because you have a lot of guys that are just giving out protocols around that but i i can't even tell you like the like renee's doing all all lifestyle coaching now right and every female that's come with all the labs that i see there is some skewing of a hormone profile and she is symptomatic in some way around having issues with her menstrual cycle around the time of menstrual cycle or having issues around gi function or her like cognitive state and all those things are intermingled i think a lot of people can look at this as like separate buckets of like you have your female that you know she trens there's the physique there's all those parts then you have this like menstrual cycle over here that that happens and it's like how these things there are absolutely all integrated and you have to be able to understand how that works because if you don't have a female that's in in a more optimal reproductive state that you have to keep in mind that's going to be the optimal recovery state is it's like the pinnacle of female health and wellness so all the hormone fluctuations that need to happen with rise of estrogen and progesterone and testosterone being in place dhea pregnenolone like all these hormones that are in play have important roles for female in recovery sleep cognitive function like that's such a big one is how how does someone mentally feel and a lot of that can be just in disarray from hormones not being in a proper place so where does it start baseline for a female is with looking at symptoms so you pick that up off your qa and you know how does she feel how is she having like around her menstrual cycles are they been normal what has been her past history is she on birth control birth control is huge like we have some females that renee came through came through the door with that you know we look at their hormones are like what's going on here they just don't they've been on birth control since they were like 16 she had like one girl had one menstrual cycle that her mom put her on birth control as this like that's what you do to manage it and so it's like never had a natural cadence to her menstrual cycle just don't even know what that would be like low test levels not optimal for recovery uh you know synthetic estradiol being present and it's easy to go down the rabbit hole here but to reel this back in like if you really want to optimize a female you have to look at their baseline hormone status and then not practicing beyond your scope because it's complex aligning with someone that can help manage you like we we use merrick health with with j3u because they have like over 20 physicians present and we can have the support there to have a really good overview and they understand what we need as competitors but then we can align if that person is appropriate for some HRT or not and there's other things that we can work on but that should be a baseline of improving your basic hormone health not just for physique but also just how you feel throughout the day and you would imagine like you now have better digestion and better energy and then better recovery and so all that trenslates to better performance but that's your baseline from there then we you know we step into the world of peds when appropriate for females and that's another thing that's going to be unique you know just to females and it's not the use anivar only on your first thing out the gate it's also not the minIMan cycle of like test EQ winstraw uh and there is a stepwise approach that should happen and an assessment of what that female really wants for their physique and what they consider feminine and what they don't want to see happen and what they want to see happen with fertility or whatever it may be so uh not not to take this podcast down that rabbit hole but just hearing me speak to this you could probably understand quickly that there is a lot of consideration points to be had around this i think that is a thing that absolutely should be happening for your female to be able to be progressing in the offseason and and luke maybe i'll throw this back to you because you can touch on probably what you see recovery wise from hormone status and where people kind of need to go eventually if they are considerinGHey i want to have periods because i want fertility but i'm also going to be competing again in two months and then i'm on prep again and that cycle eventually leads them to a place of what you probably might want to touch on that you see yeah i think it's um if we're not careful we're going to get in a rabbit hole here um so i'm going to like hit the highlights because i could i could talk for you could send me off on an hour on this but um primary benefits right subjectively um kind of how you feel in the day-to-day being massively improved this is going to help with emotional and mood regulation it's going to help with sleep quality it's going to help with recovery capacity um number number one and i think this is i think this is a bottleneck for a lot of females and it's where like when you have new things come out that help with fat loss and on the pd side of the equation it's like it becomes this buzz hype thing within like female competing but i think a lot of it is derivatives of mismanagement of this is body composition control like your ability to manage body fat accumulation is is largely linked to this hormone profile state right and it's like you get things that help with fat loss which are great but become so popular because it's mismanaged on the forefront right like it's mismanaged on how the hormone profile should look and how you replace it through a contest prep and how you bring it back to a normal hormone profile state for a female in an off-season setting and what it looks like to maintain that when pds are coming in and out in different phases and so we're just looking at some level of replacement um we go into the details of how to do this in the female module or work in conjunction with clinicians as well to kind of help with this but um test estradiol progesterone thyroid therapy are like the top of the line i'm checking whether that's needed or not again it's not a again it's not a plug all it's not give this to everyone it's a checking if it's needed type of a situation you're just going to get all of these benefits from a body composition management perspective but also recovery capacity we talk about like estrodol's role in recovery and being able to manage more volume to drive more progress in off-season setting but if someone's been competing long enough and they're using drugs that crash E2 like you're not going to get those benefits as robustly right so i think it's something to consider um i think that's like the thousand foot view of like benefits and things but was there anything else you wanted to pull out of that i think uh one thing is that when you're prepping a female you're going to suppress the hpo axis to a degree yeah and some females being more resilient than others but eventually you might get to a very low hormone status not just russian progesterone and testosterone but it could be even thyroid hormone and with some being farther away from their body fat set point than others hunger signaling can really really be high and so moving into a post-show period you're like all right cool we're going to restore hormones and then how long does that take in some females that are less resilient it takes a long time and right when it does happen it's already time to start the next prep and then you're right back into a situation where you're not able to recover or the hormone axis or it never did and so that continuous cycle is going to probably lead some people to eventually have that bottleneck where like things aren't working the same anymore like you ran this female like hey my first two shows i got conditioned now just it's like i'm really struggling now to make that happen and that's what i see a lot in the female sector is that you can run a few females through these preps but eventually they're not recovering like they did or the time learns are getting shorter and shorter as now you're getting in that season where you're trying to requalify for maybe it's nationals maybe it's now pro shows or olympia and so it kind of leads females to a point that for the less resilient female they might need that hormone support year round and that could be the limiting factor so that's kind of the the point around a competitor that's unique and that you know the idea on paper of like yeah we're going to recover or get your hormone status back like but when you weigh in competitive goals you might have to make considerations that HRT might need to be year-round to create the hormone stability to execute all phases have that successful post-show into an offseason where you can manage body fat in a better place which is where a lot of females can struggle when they don't have that hormone support present so so yeah uh you know if you don't have that it's it's one thing that's just kind of somewhat out of your control to a degree if that's not working right because you can be doing all the other things of what's what you can so you know control relatively like your sleep your trening your nutrition uh eating off plan and things but you're like still like man why is my food so low if i eat a little bit of something off plan it feels like it sticks to me it's like yeah it could be a consideration where it might be the hormone status that you really do need to address here but beyond that so i know the hormone thing can can be a rabbit hole but it's a it's a big one to address yes um i think on the nutrition side what i just spoke to that you're going to see like a pretty big discrepancy between for one males and females as far as how strict a female might need to be to keep the weekly rate of gain where you want them to i've had a lot of females in the past that the reality is that food is just not very high for female because they're going to be a smaller body weight so like renee and i we used to go out for dates and renee would like match me for food and it's not the same as renee and i like i'm i'm 100 pounds heavier than her like year round we like scaled like that so if she eats the same amount of food as me like yeah she's gonna have like a bigger weight spike than me and too much of a weekly gain so when you're going out with your significant other and you probably know like yeah my guy can eat so much and i it's not fair but that is you're just smaller person so that that's extra calories are gonna go a lot farther than what it would for him so you need to be able to eat within your offseason that still keeps you on track for your physique weekly rate of gain and not let that overshoot you i've coached some females where they go out for their their date night and it's like that's the only time they gain weight the next two days after that the weight sticks and the rest time they're like at maintenance calories or less and it just adds up to being a pretty unpredict unproductive offseason so really want more of that daily slight calorie surplus to happen and then being able to manage like through flexible eating on the weekends or macro matching and things like that to where you can have the flexibility but it still doesn't overshoot you and weight gain because that's quickly rerun the spot where you just you just run out of a body fat needed to play with in the offseason before you need to diet back down so i think that's just like the one unique thing in females that you do need to consider is that just they're smaller means less food means like the surplus can easily go farther than what you want to just because it's easy for calories to sneak in when in a larger male there's a little bit more forgiving it's the percentage of calories is just smaller there yep um other things that you think uh might be limiting a female in the offseason luke we touched on uh trening some mindset pieces around you know letting body fat increase and and not getting overly focused on the scale nutrition the hormone status that's that's pretty encompassing but anything else that jumps out to you just a small thing i think um females chat you are great but you chat and i think it that it uh diverges into multiple opinions coming at females sometimes and like staying focused on the daily tasks and the things that you can execute on and the conversations that you have with the person that you work with um is huge and i would just leave it at that yeah uh on the social side around that too it's uh social media pressure for females is i feel like it's a a lot different than males to a degree i know you can IMean we get it to you like we're all judged but with the female side especially with the more muscle you add it's easily to get like discouraged away from doing what you need to in the offseason and there's a lot of emails too that are just putting out unrealistic expectations of what an offseason should look like and there's editinGHappening of females on these pages there's females that only take all their videos and photos like close to prep time or at you know during their prep and that's what they post year round so you're like man this female she's making progress but she just stays lean year round like i think that's what i need to do and that's just that's what happening it's just uh a lot of like misguidance out there for for females and realize too you just have to be you're unique to your own self so the progress has to be measured against you there's an array of genetics out there and a lot of these girls that are at the very very top whether your top five wellness pros out there whatever whoever they may be not to pick on them specifically but just say the top in any division they can very well be the genetic outliers so when you look at how they manage their offseason how their trening looks they might just only have to pull like some of the low-hanging fruit and that's enough for them to be at the top and so they might do a lot of things that no one else is going to be able to get away with like well man they eat like pizza all prep they probably don't do that but or they're doing these pump workouts and or whatever it may be and that is enough for those genetic freaks to like look the way they do and we it's not fair but for the majority of us you need to look at probably more what the the averages are needing to do and that's when you have coaches that see them across the board and we know we coach some of the anomalies and it's incredible and when we put those anomalies in the same type of programming structure of like what we're telling you right here in this podcast and where we put more of the average lifter on that's where you get whatever the keyons or the the amazing things that you see out there that just could dominate classes but for those of you that need clarity and need clarity especially around trening this is why luke and i created the hourglass program and if you're a guy out there you might have been familiar with our x-frame program which is built specifically for bodybuilding classic physique also for the women's division figure wpd women's bodybuilding and it's it had great success and we have videos that accompany those trening programs as well and a lot of flexibility to customize it to what a male division might need well our hourglass program is is what we created more for bikini wellness and fit model and the structure being what do you need to truly bring your waist to a small size priority point of building out glutes legs that balance with glutes and give you like an hourglass structure that's why hourglass is the name and so luke and i have built this based on all of his work making progress like it's not it's not just a in theory type of program like this is what we use for what we've taken amateurs to pros with and also give you flexibility of different trening splits within the program so if you need morEQuad or you need more glue or you just need more overall we have a segment that you can work with it's a 10-week block and it's progressive so it teaches you how to move up and progress week by week to continue moving up stimulus and we even give you some volume options in it too that if you recover more than another female well you we tell you what to do from there i think the big value point too is like we we took my wife renee and we shot videos doing all of these exercises so you have the guidance to watch how renee does them and we give you some cues and setup tips that can help you just like we say like you know we don't want to just give you the excel spreadsheet here's your sets and reps go do it we want you to see how it should be done with the helpful cues along with it so that is the hourglass program it's on j3university.com you can put in the show note links below but if you need guidance for a program that truly works that can help you build the hourglass figure highly recommend it anyway next week you had something else to add luke no that IMean you just nailed it i don't need to add anything else i just need to know what we're talking about next week for next week what we'll be covering is the office's look how lean is too lean but also how do you make lean progress and still add muscle on thank you all for tuning in and we will talk to you next week geez!

=== FILE: From Bro Split to Modern Bodybuilder [RoG0LWZp198].txt ===

 modific. Modifying trening splits for advanced gains. Modifying trening splits for advanced gains. We're going to talk about going from the bro split to become a modern bodybuilder. Welcome everybody. I am John Joe at J3 University. We elevate physique education. Today we'll be diving into this topic and discussinGHow can we improve upon the bro split who has stood the test of time in making progress. And could it be a limiting factor though in pursuing advanced bodybuilding. And could we get more out of time in pursuing advanced bodybuilding. of our trening by going to more high frequency approach. So why high frequency matters. And this has been researched more and comparatively on different trening frequencies. And what a lot of you look into like the research world of things is that if volume is equated, so your total number of hard sets for the week is the same, whether it be once a week or twice a week or three times a week. As a whole, it showed that hasn't been much different as far as changinGHypertrophy outcomes. Now, you can tear into this a bit more and more further analysis around this. And I think as you get further into more advanced trenees, this becomes more apparent that frequency does have a slight advantage with a little bit more being towards two to three times a week for trening a muscle group and improving outcomes. So earlier on research, it kind of looked like, hey, just total volume is really what matters. But if you as you get more advanced, you do need more volume to put so much volume in a session has some limitations. So if you're trening, say back, you need 20 sets of back, every set you do after the first set of back becomes less and less effective. You have what you have called is localized fatigue. So fatigue within the muscle of like, hey, this muscle is getting tired, it can no more perform as much than we have something called systemic fatigue, which is feels like your whole body, your whole system makes you what you feel kind of like brain foggy while you're trening. And that affects the entirety of how you can perform in that session outside of just locally for the muscle. So we have kind of two things going against you as you're doing more and more volume for aromasingle individual muscle group. And there likely was is, and there is, I should say not likely, but is within a session, a threshold point of where more doesn't really produce more growth hormone hormone. So this would make sense, obviously, right? It's like, well, if I just need to do more sets in aromasingle session to grow more, it's simple as that, right? I go from my 20 sets, why not do 30 sets? Why not do 40 sets? It's like there is a point of diminishing turns, just like there's a point of probably a minimum threshold that you need. And earlier on in your trening career, that threshold's really low. Just take like one set, you can grow like crazy easily just off that. But as you need more stimulus, you'd need more sets, right? So there's a point where we're trying to maximize how much stimulus you need a session to reach that threshold before we go too far and just accumulating more fatigue and doing extra work for the sake of no further benefit, but just eating into our recovery bank. And so this is where the bro split can kind of falter. And it's not that it's a, not a bad program because it absolutely works. We see countless individuals that have had success with single body part per week trening. And those are individuals potentially that they get enough stimulus for the week to grow off of. Uh, the problem falls is like when you do need that extra stimulus and you're recovering, right? So that might take someone all the way up to a pro level. For someone else, if you tren a muscle, think about your biceps. For example, if you tren biceps in a session, you did 10 sets of biceps, how long are you sore for? It's like, man, if you've been doing that program for a while, you know, your biceps aren't sore for more than like two days, but you're waiting another seven days to tren them again. Now consider, Hey, I'm going to do back. I need my, my biceps somewhat fresh to tren back. But, but nonetheless, all these muscle groups you're trening, most of the time you're not wrecked for seven days. So what happens as you get more advanced is that you have that stimulus, you recover, but your recovery is a bit more enhanced now is because you're used to the program. So now by the time you have recovered, you have adapted to that trening that you did. You're actually starting to have some regression take place because you're not doing that same session again. So eventually you get to a point of just kind of plateauing. You have a stimulus, you adapt, but then you start losing some adaptations. You have a stimulus, you adapt, and eventually it's kind of a ceases flatline. But what if you tren and had a stimulus and adapt? And as you, right when you recovered, you could tren again, you do tren again. And the more trening stimulus is you can add together and adapt, the more you can tren, the faster you can grow. So this is the idea of having a higher frequency split and where this could really have more advantages than doing the bro split. Also thEQuality of volume. So think about if you had 16 sets of back for one session, what if you only did eight sets for, for a workout? If you only knew you had to do eight sets, you probably perform really high. And then those, those eight sets that you used to do on the tail end, instead we have a whole nother day. You can start fresh and you're going to be able to output a lot higher in those first eight sets versus trying to do after your set eight, set nine, set 10 could be starting to have the point of diminishing returns. So with even the same volume, you're going to have a lot higher quality level of volume. This matters when you're advanced because you only have so many sets that you can recover from when you're an advanced athlete. Another thing about this is lower fatigue. So high frequency treninGHas been associated for one with lower perception of effort. So your program is going to just feel mentally easier to you. It won't be as taxed just psychologically. You'll also have reduced muscle soreness from the program as well. So after you tren legs and you had to do 20 sets, you're not going to be like completely crippled the next day. You're going to be able to recover because you're only going to have to do six sets, then do your next, next six sets in the middle of the week. So it's going to be somewhat easier to recover from locally for each muscle. Psychologically, you have to overcome this though, because a lot of people emotionally need to feel like you got wrecked in the workout and that you're just obliterated the next day. And that's what you would perceive to be in a successful workout. And that's just not the case. So I'm going to have to tell you, if you move to high frequency trening, get ready because you're not going to feel like every muscle is completely obliterated and you're just devastatingly sore the next day. That doesn't necessarily mean that you're not going to be making great progress. And what dictates great progress is going to be that logbook moving up over time. That is your ultimate indicator. Your good workouts aren't going to be how sore you got. It's not going to be how big of a pump you got. It's about moving your numbers up in exercises that trened your intended muscle group. Now there's some pros with the bro split, right? It's schedule is straightforward. You can focus on one muscle at a time and it still absolutely can work for many lifters. The high frequency approach though, it just can really maintain consistent growth hormone hormone signals. You're constantly stimulating growth hormone hormone twice as often as you could be with the bro split. And also it gives you a lot of flexibility to able to address a weak body part areas. Like if you're stuck to only trening a muscle once a week, what if you want to bring something up? Like wouldn't you tren it more frequently? You absolutely would. And we see this with other approaches too. And I'm going to give you some hybrid approaches that you can utilize. So how can you actually apply this? Well, plan out your week. So how many days a week can you actually tren? Is iT4 days? Is it five days? Is it six days? And based on that is how frequent we're going to be able to lay out the trening frequency with ideally being able to tren each muscle twice. For some of your smaller muscle groups, you could program these to tren them three times, especially if it's body parts you want to be bringing up, especially the smaller muscle groups like biceps. You can easily tren biceps three days a week if you really want to bring them up. So if you're doing four sessions a week, this might cater doing an upper lower split. If you're doing even three to six sessions, you could just run push pull legs. From there, you could consideration for prioritizing weak body parts with specialization cycles. So this might be trening a lagging body part like its chest or arms two times weekly. And then you might drop volume on your strong body part. This is something you need to consider once you're advanced. Like you said, you only have so many sets that you can do for the week and recover from. If you're already maxed out on all your sets for your body parts and you need more stimulus for chest, you can't just do more and everything, right? You can't just be able to do more chest. You need to sacrifice some area to then add back in volume to the other body part. So now we're going to distribute volume. So example here, you had 16 sets of chest on Monday. Well, if you're doing your upper lower split, we could do eight sets now on Monday and we do our other eight sets on Thursday or Friday. So we're splitting our volume up. And here's some examples below of how you might adjust your schedule. So if you were doing a bro split, you had chest on Monday doing 12 sets, then on Tuesday you did back for six, 16 sets. What this high frequency approach would look like is Monday was just going to turn into more like this upper session. So we'll have six sets of chest and eight sets of back. So we're just dividing our volume in half. Then Thursday you do six sets of chest and eight sets of back. So again, just split. Now there's some hybrid approaches that you could take to this too. If you're not ready to go full swing from bro split to like a high frequency approach is you could have Monday, you could have your 12 sets of chest Tuesday. You still have back your 16 sets, just like you like, or maybe you have your arm day. And on arm day, what we're going to do is you normally have your 12 sets of arms. We're just going to tack on three sets of chest. So this is kind of like a weak body part specialization cycle where we're going to bump up chest volume by 15 sets. Now we might need to bring down leg volume or something else in turn, but again, it's monitoring your logbook and seeinGHow everything else is trening and how you're recovering if you actually need to do so. But you might need to even tweak this a little bit more by if you've been doing 12 sets, reducing down to doing nine sets and then having thaT3 sets later in the week. Now this also, this doesn't break down for everybody here, all the rest of the body parts of how you could divide this out. But easily, you know, you could move your, if you have a shoulder day and an arm day, you pull some from shoulders, you pull some from arms to where it does look like maybe you have a push pull upper. So there's lots of hybrid approaches to this. So you'd have a chest shoulder tricep day, your push day, could have a pull day, be back or delts, biceps, maybe have your lower body day and upper day. So you'd have the rest of whatever muscle groups you weren't able to hit on, on push and pull that you've been doing. So some combination of a push pull, a little bit of arm work in there. Then you might have just like hamstring work and a little bit of quad work for next session. So that could be, you know, five days per week of laying out a session, which absolutely could work very well. I've had people do push pull legs and then like upper lower at the end of the week. And that, that works excellent. But there's a lot of variations from this, but being able to ideally get as the stimulus you need in a session, recover and repeat that. And that's what you're looking to do. And if you are doing too much volume or too frequently, where you're going to see this take the hit is in your logbook. So if in the next session, your numbers aren't moving up, look back to your previous session and reduce your volume down. There's likely you did too much in that prior session, then run it back through. If your numbers are now moving up, perfect. That's where you have a volume sweet spot. Same thing goes when you go to that, that next session, are your numbers not moving up? All right. You might need to adjust the session before. So it's just something of how you could adjust your logbook, um, uh, from, from that data and make tweaks to your program. But I'll leave it here, guys. There's a lot more to this as far as adjusting program design. Just wanted to give you some tastes of how you can might manipulating the bro split and how high frequency trening could, uh, just elevate your set quality and push you through plateaus. If you are getting to more of that advanced state.

=== FILE: How Quickly Should You Titrate Up Growth Hormone？ [UQA4JhAC8f0].txt ===

 How quickly would you titrate up every two weeks, month, starting at two IUs to mitigate side effects? And they didn't say titrating up what, but easily assumed they're talking about growth hormone hormone hormone. And I had someone message me, a friend that he's like, hey, my hands, man, I, they're super numb. I can't even tolerate this growth hormone hormone hormone. Is this just what it's going to be like for me? I was like, well, what are you doing? He said, I'm taking six IUs. I was like, what'd you start at? He said, six IUs. I was like, oh, okay. So, you know, I was like, oh, okay. So, you know, a lot of this is just compression of nerves from the fluid increase around growth hormone hormone hormone, causinGHand numbness. And when you stay in one position for a long time and you're gaining body weight and getting bigger, it's just morecompression on these nerves while you're sleeping. So some people wake up with numbness and tingling this in their hands. So that's the common side effect I hear the biggest complaints on with growth hormone hormone hormone. So to mitigate that, a lot of times fluid will regulate as you're on growth hormone hormone hormone, a lot of things kind of regulate as you get on growth hormone hormone hormone, like even blood glucose levels, thyroid levels. So it's just a matter of like maintaining a dose at a steady state and then incrementally increasing. So, you know, at a minimum, I would say hold a dose for a week, but more so ideally two weeks would be what I would say to hold one, a dosage at that two to three IU mark is a pretty reasonable starting point. As we mentioned earlier, that's kind of like a baseline minimum dosing if you're a male. And then from there, I would say do half IU increments every two weeks up to the dosage that you're trying to reach for your peak. And that would be a more of a strategic way to go about to try and manage side effects that could be incurring from what you've experienced. And then if you got to a dose where you saw a problem from, then you just move back to the previous dosage from there. It's really tough when you jump, make too big of jumps because then you're, you have to like scale way back. And then you're kind of left shuffling between dosages and trying to then sort out where is your ideal spot versus just start low, slowly increment. And right when you feel a mild side effect coming on, it's a lot easier to scale back and you can have a little bit of time trying to tolerate that side effect until it diminishes versus having like a full blown issue with your, your hands tingling on, you know, an intolerable amount to where you just want to stop growth hormone hormone from home. But anyway, that's how I would go about it. Smaller titrations up make the assessment process a bit easier on the coaching side as well, as far as making accurate decision making about the changes that are occurring. For those of you who have ran out of growth hormone hormone hormone and didn't have it in play for a week or you went on vacation, you didn't have it in play for a week or two weeks. And then you come back and you plug it back in. Some of you guys, what's the first thing that happens? Weight jumps up five, six, seven, eight pounds. You just plug it in at the dose that you were at previously, right? So along a similar vein from a coaching process of like being able to accurately assess the direction that you're moving, whether it's up or down, those titrations will help you making sure that if you see shifts, that they're a little bit more from a percentage basis plan related and not large jumps in GH related, if that makes sense. See you guys.

=== FILE: How to Become an Olympian  ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 196 [9T25PENmGtM].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, how do you become a top Olympian? How do you become a top Olympian? In two weeks ago, I went to Olympia with LaShawn Clarita and we brought an amazing package to stage and I thought it would be important to interrupt our normal podcast schedule to definitely cover this as it's something I think we can do. I think we can take a lot away from. The Olympia was going to document our next document previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously not really seeing anybody that could be a contender. He came in and made Keon sweat a bit, and it was really impressive. And I think the shot behind the door or the peek behind the door that I think people are going to want is where did this start with you guys? Because you guys have been back and forth together for a while, and I know there's been a lot done on the trening side, and then kind of you coming in and taking over, there was a lot that got changed, so I do want to make sure that we covered that initial big change that set up the peak, because I think a lot of people are going to want to know kind of where that led. But the type of athlete that Sean is allowed for him to create the change that he did, and I think you're going to have the best perspective on sharing some of those intangibles that are hard to replicate. And if you guys learn anything from Sean in this process, not only the peaking process that happened, but the things that Sean does that make Sean who he is, right? Right. And I think part of who Sean is exactly what brought us to work together to begin with, and that we started working together right after the Arnold. So he did the Arnold. He wanted me to pick up the trening piece from there. You know, Sean was previously coached at the time by Matt Jansen. He also had John Meadows previously that had kind of laid out trening for him. However, he had just been following Meadows' trening program that he laid out a long time ago for his passing. So Sean didn't really have a lot of oversight in the trening piece. And just looking for gaps to fill for himself with this kind of change in coaching. And Stefan was starting to do the nutrition and the actual prep side for Sean as well. So me coming on board for trening. But why would Sean reach out? I think that's something unique of Sean himself is that knowinGHim, his main focus is always on what do I need to do to get better. That's all that matters. And he's not emotionally tied to any system, anything that's dogmatic that I have to tren to failure in every set, or I have to take X type of compound, or I have to peak in this certain way. The process he's on board with is the one that leads to the goal. And I think that's a huge thing to take away is if you're an athlete or a coach, is that it's so easy to be dogmatic and take up emotional ties to certain approaches, certain exercises, certain nutrition or drug pieces. But ultimately what matters is are you doing whatever it takes to get to your goal? And what that path looks like should be the one that you're on. And I think that is where Sean's mindset is. Within that type of mindset, it is someone that has to be very open to learn and a humility about themselves. And I think that's a great embodiment of a great champion is that Sean is so willing to learn and change his ways for the goal that it makes him highly coachable. And I think some people take that as weakness and vulnerability to be able to have your ways challenged. But that's a strength. And that's an extremely strong point for Sean, that he's okay just laying down things that he's done that have worked in the past if there's a better way. But absolutely, Sean has to have the respect of that person to take that opinion. And I think that goes to another strong point, I think, of Sean that we should take away that he only relies on opinions of people that are in the circle that matter. Because there's a lot of noise out there. Sean can do a great job of blocking it out. And you see him in 4X t-shirt. He's just blue collar in the trenches just doing the work. So he can block out the noise and listen to those who matter. So I think just, I know we haven't even gotten, that's already like a lot of information, not getting much into like the actual nuts and bolts of like peaking. But I think without those components, it makes it really hard to have the success that we did have. Yeah, and I think like even just like I went and trened with Sean, I think it was four or five weeks ago. And maybe it was longer than that, maybe six weeks. And, you know, he had said, you had messaged him like, hey, you should link up with Luke, whatever. And like I come in and like looked over his sessions you had sent me and everything. And he's like, all right, help me make this as best as I could. And he just like immediately just like handed it like, hey, like what do you think we need to do in order to make this the best? And it was really cool. Like we made some small changes with like activation, picked a better fly variation that like fit him. And it was awesome to see his face light up as his pecs were just like firing with every rep. And he was getting a lot of stimulus out of it. And I think it's like bringing you on board fully, like fast forwarding, right? Fast forwarding to where you completely took everything over. Like that trust had been bought in so in depth that I know the changes you had to go in and make were executed on immediately. And I know I want to let you kind of run through some of them. But I know a big one was probably kind of around the activity metrics. I know there was probably a pretty big change in activity and like that burden of activity of how that got executed. What do you think the key pillars were like the massive changes in the plans that started to initiate that process of bringing the best Sean to stage? Because honestly, I think that far out is where a lot of the changes that set up what you did on Olympia week. Yeah. And through Sean's, like I followed this all along, right? He's still sending me his visuals along the way. And Sean would ask me a lot of questions that were starting to get outside of the scope of kind of trening. Just in. I will say this ahead, like the right coach for the right athlete, right? Like right now we kind of had like me and Stefan doing bits and pieces. And it is kind of nice to have someone that just oversees everything. But for what Sean needed, he needed more oversight. And I was the one to be able to provide that. And we just connected well. Just the relationship was there. And I think that's so important to really be able to pull the most out of an athlete and pull the most out of a coach. And I've been like, you know, towards Sean's like 2024 Olympia. Like if you don't have attention to your athlete, like so much can fall through the gap. And Sean is someone that, man, he puts everything in. He puts his heart and soul into this. Like it's everything. For me, I knew it was going to be saving Sean from himself of like not working so hard and things. But I see Sean as like one of the greatest bodybuilders in the world. And to not have, sorry, I get like emotional about it. No, you're good. To not have a coach feel the same when you're, that person's giving you the trust and responsibility over something that means the world to them, to their family. It's so disrespectful to me. Yeah. And I know what that feels like because I've been in that position. So for me, for Sean and knowinGHow he embodies bodybuilding and what it means to him, I'm all in. Like it's someone so easy to stand behind and want to take up that goal and dream of your, as your own. And I think that's important from a coach aspect is like, do you feel that way about the athletes that you coach? Because I would pour everything in. And I did like for his prep and for the peak that I could. And I think that's another reason why it was so successful is because I would go the extreme to whatever it would take, just like Sean would. Like I could match him on that level. And I think they pulled a lot out of me of where I need to head with my coaching and who I need to coach and what that relationship should really be. And that I can't be half in on coaching or the athletes that are half in on their process. They're just not ones for me. Sorry. That was a bit of a more of a tangent, Luke. I didn't even answer what you would ask me. It's okay. It's okay. I let the passion take over, man. That's why we're here, right? Well, sharing is it just like that emotional piece for us was so strong when I first had the call with him and his wife. This was right around, I think it was four, four and a half weeks out from the show. And like, I'm passionate like I am now. And like they were in tears as well because they've been in such a bad spot and feeling that stress relief finally was what's there. And the piece that Sean was going to have of like trusting someone that could fully take over the process. And so that was one thing that already started improving the process for Sean was that there was a huge stress relief as there was so much unknown in his variables of he was having to make decisions. So he was given like X amount of cardio to do. And there was, when he was trying to explain to me, there wasn't a lot of direction. Like, what does that cardio look like? Do you do that on the step mill? Is it on the treadmill? Like, when is it done? How do you track the effort level? And also questions around, Sean, what do you do during the day? Like, do you go and do you work the railroad and are you pounding spikes in? Are you working a desk job nine to five? Do you coach people? Like, what do you do during the day? And Sean's a full-time bodybuilder, right? He's like, so I do cardio. I tren. And then most of the day he does content, right? And rests and recovers. Just like I would when I used to bodybuild. I would not use to bodybuild. When I had preps that I wasn't tracking activity. Right. You know, and I ended up doing like 3,000 steps a day. So activity was very, very low. We could say Sean was sedentary outside of his like direct cardio and trening that he would do. Yeah. Which when you look at his diet that he was on, he was on pretty low food. And to pull down, which doesn't give you a lot of fuel for trening. So the main thing that I wanted to change for Sean, and there wasn't huge gaps around like what you were doing with nutrition and macro setup. But the main thing was I want to get Sean moving more throughout the day and decrease direct hard cardio work so where I can raise the recovery ceiling to provide better trening. Because if I can get better trening for Sean, that's better muscle retention. It's going to be more of weight loss derived from fat over just getting a smaller version of him, which we've seen in the previous year. He's just a small version of Sean. Very conditioned, but gosh, like eight, nine pounds down. So step one was like, all right, Sean, like can we track steps? And he was not on board with the step thing. And I will say like, don't get me wrong. Sean will execute. But there still needs to be some buy-in and understanding of like why are we doing these things and will it actually work? It's just so far from what's been done. And it's kind of funny because he was – I got him doing like walking after meals and he was like, John, like I'm taking five showers a day. Like this isn't going to work. And I was like, why are you taking five showers a day, Sean? So like Sean was a previous wrestler. He's an athlete. And I think that's also why he knows how to work hard to his own demise. Like he wants to work hard in everything that he does. So he would go in his garage. We're in Texas. So we're still in the high 90-degree weather with like a hoodie on, like an Eskimo, doing treadmill. Just sweatinGHis balls off. Yeah, so it's like I don't want a heat stress on top of our like trening and cardio that we were doing. I want this to be like low effort. And it's a hard thing to feel like this should feel easy. It's like it should feel easy. So I actually got him to move his treadmill into the house and just walk after meals. And like digestion was improving. That was another thing. And also his legs starting freshening up like he didn't feel like his legs were beat up and heavy all the time because he was on the step mill. And so just gettinGHim walking was a big thing throughout the day. And that was some of the major things that was able to drive kind of the last bit of fat loss off. And he just kept improving in his trening, his lifts. And then with us like connecting with him and like showinGHim how the session should be, started pulling more out of every set and doing less volume. Actually, like we did a leg session together and do we smokEQuads in like five sets. It's like we don't need this other exercise anymore. Like so you're doing getting more out of less and recovery ceiling is increased that all will create like a really good physique on stage. A few other like nuts and bolts things change wise like looking over like the PD layout. There's a lot of things that were driving poor recovery with like there's a lot of estrogen management. Like estrogen was probably rock bottom. So starting to pull back on some of that and raise estrogen back up, which again, old school mentality, right? Like lower estrogen that's going to make you hard and dry. It's like, no, like it's just going to make your joints hurt and connected tissue achy. And you're starting to get some knee issues. So that, that improved in that piece also like the, uh, it was like lowering like some of the, like Trinbalone, right? Like didn't need to be that high because trening performance was now increasing just off improving the big basics. So we don't need these like strong compounds in place. Um, also was about to come in was like stacking oral, oral steroids together. I was like, dude, trening's in a great spot. You're gettinGHard. Like we don't, we don't need all that. So it was very much a simpler design in PDs and removing a ton of supplements because Sean, like through Matt, through like other, other things we pick up along the way, being like supplement junkies ourselves, uh, through Stefan, through, you know, all these things, it created kind of a big supplement regimen. So I was like, show me everything you take. And there's a lot of things where I'm like, I can probably simplify this more. I'm like, Sean, why is this in place? It's like, man, I've been taking that for years. Like it's just part of the regimen and it's, it's pretty easy how those things can kind of accumulate. So, uh, just stripping back some of the supplements as well and trying to simplify down to the basics of what's, what's really workinGHere. But through those changes, uh, is what, you know, brought Sean down. We were, uh, 11 days out when I'm like, all right, I'm pretty sure fat loss is, is over here. And, uh, we, we can stop here and bring up anything you want to bring up, Luke. But what, what I did for Sean and why I think a lot of people might miss the mark when taking on a client kind of last minute is, uh, only coaching in the moments at times. And what I, what IMean by that is just looking at that check-in alone and trying to decide if someone's where they should be, because you have variants in lighting and where they're looking at. And you really want to see how to, how does that compare to what they look like on stage? So I had Sean some, uh, his check-ins from 10 days out. And then also seven days out when he was out in Vegas with a similar light set up. And then also looking at his stage picks and how that trenslated from his seven day out last year. Yeah. From the previous year. And so comparing across all these, you know, I could see like, you know, Sean was now, he was like 182, 183 in the morning versus the previous year at that same time point being like, 174 just as lean, but man, the fullness was, I don't want to say fullness. I don't want to be alluded here. The muscle, because I think he got over dieted the previous years was just so much more prominent. And. Another thing. Well, I'm going to stop there because I'm going to get into like actual starting the peak of why I did what I did. But thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I was going to say, like, I think there, I know that, I know you did some like food variety changes to, I think, to the diet plan. You brought some like food. Yeah, fruits and things in. Diversity things. Yeah. Which I think is underrated for like, just kind of the nutritional, taking care of the micros as long into a prep as you possibly can. There's a lot of like secondary benefits. We won't make this podcast about that. But one of the things that I think people should, because I've done this quite a few times with a few other athletes. I did this earlier in the year with Jess, right? I took on a prep abouT4 and a half weeks out. She went from like 15th at Chicago with the old coach to fourth at the Texas Pro is like the consistent communication. And I know you did this. And this is the last piece I want to touch on before we get into the prep. I know your check-in frequency with them was pretty high and you were making sure that like every couple days like progress was happening. It was moving in the direction you needed to. It wasn't pulling them too fast or too slow. I think that's a last little piece that I think you all nailed because I remember when I was there when we were recording the Hourglass program, shameless plug. We were looking at like some of those side-by-sides from last year to this year. But like just the amount of updates that you were getting while I was there alone is like a part of that process too. Yeah, I wanted to get on board as fast as possible. And so we initially started with every other day because like four weeks out, it still didn't make sense to be like everyday check-ins. I need the plan to play out a little bit. Yeah. But I also don't want anything to move too quickly on me to where IMiss it. So every other day made sense. But very quickly we went to everyday and it's not a big deal for Sean. He's getting up and doing posing anyway. Yeah. And that's also when we were starting to like make tweaks on posing. Well, there's a lot to bring out through that. And it wasn't – I went out to see Sean. When he was a little over two weeks out where I actually get my hands on and actually start tweaking some poses. And he just – he had gaps that got missed. And maybe it's through like just not thinking to do it, right? Like I wanted to explore everything, every variable possible. And just through like self-coaching of myself, right? Like I – it's on me, you know? So I have to ask like why am I doing things? How things work? Does that – is that meaningful? Is it not? And so with Sean I wanted to do the same thing. And part of it was like looking at posing. Like he always hits his side chest with his left arm. I was like how does the right arm look? And he did that. It looks so much more natural. And he rotated easier. I'm like let's do that. So it was just like, yeah, just kind of tearing through his entire bodybuilding life, all the variables and seeing where we can really optimize it and make improvements. Let's get into the peak so that we can discuss it. Yeah. Where do you want to start? About a week out or a little bit further in? No, no. One week out is decent. IMean I'll just say that 11 to the 10-day-out mark was like making the decision of, hey, fat loss time is now over. And it was from there just kind of bringing Sean up to a baseline of a close to a maintenance amount of food before I could get him to Vegas, which he was going to be in Vegas at eight days out. And so that's kind of why I was like waiting for him to kind of get out there before I was really going to push anything any farther out because of flight and stabilization in that piece. But another part I want to bring up around the check-in process is before leading into that mark, I also started looking at Sean at a few other times of the day because I was trying to pre-plan some of the peak, not pre-plan of laid out, but pre-plan in my mind what might need to happen off of what he's done and what he's reported to me because he was bringing up that like on show day, like they've usually cut water pretty hard on Sean. He stays full. And that's a unique thing with Sean. Like he wakes up and he looks like he's fully full-blown, blast and full. So I knew like, and Sean was on 150 grams of carbs for a bit. So I was like, he probably doesn't need a lot of food to get full. And, uh, but seeinGHim with a few meals and fluids, I saw pretty quick, like Sean also doesn't lose a lot of condition, even though he keeps getting fuller. What more is the, the line cross is like the amount of food and fluid that might get him full. When does it take a hit on his waistline? And that's like the big cross or a point when you lose that X frame piece. So I kind of had already pre-planned that Sean was not going to be one that we're going to need to use like a diuretic on. Absolutely not. And that a change for him was going to be having food fluid on show day. And so getting into the peak here and when I got out there was starting to try to map out day by day, what would show day need to look like for him. Right. And what was going to be a good operating body weight range to put him on stage at. You can replicate, you know, the time that you're puttinGHim on stage for both days or for both times, I should say. And so there's certainly a buy-in process when you start to see those visuals throughout peak week. And I'm sure that happened is like each day you're mapping it out and you're looking at the visuals, X food and X fluid happening. It's like, man, look, this is clearly way better than this. And it's still like extremely sharp, much fuller. I remember some of the fasted to like one meals in photos you sent me. It was like massive difference. Yeah. Yeah. Just to give the big overarch here, just because to dive into every day is extensive. Yeah. But, you know, Sean basically started his week at 250 grams of carbs, around 50 grams of fat and 260 grams of protein a day, 4.3 liters of fluid every day, like little over a gallon and sodium was like just baseline of a quarter teaspoon of salt with all his meals, five meals a day. That's, that was kind of our start point within peak week. I quickly moved him to six meals and five meals was great for prep to like manage hunger and have them fast longer in the morning. But I wanted to have two smaller meals before going on stage, which was going to be probably be around 11 AM and is normally gettinGHis first meal in by like nine 30. So I want a meal closer to when he woke up and then be able to have the opportunity for another assessment point in another meal in on show day and have these meals be smaller so I can manage his waist better. And then that titrated up across the week till being about 600 grams of carbs one day out. Also scaling back his cardio, which all cardio is walking, but it was still like the morning. We had him at an incline at 2.6 miles per hour in the treadmill that eventually scaled back down to flat walking down to two miles per hour. A total of 70 minutes down to 40 minutes of walking. And then on, on course, one day out, he's so busy that we don't even track it. Right. So it's more of like just walking to keep digestion moving throughout the day. So that's kind of how we scale like macros in tapered, um, steps and fluid held throughout the entire week. And why was food scaling up? Because, you know, Sean was probably just indirectly increasing neat, you know, through lower fatigue. Uh, trening was improving. We did have some high output days that kind of threw some wrenches in there for us. Um, especially one day out is, it just really sucks for, for two 12. It's like, there's the, he had the press conference, which is like two and a half hours long and tanning. And then the athlete meet and greet is like two hours at nighttime. So there's like points even one day out. I can't even assess them. It's just like, here's a pre-planned meal. Let's roll with that. And I think issues with the peak. Like I didn't anticipate Sean to ramp up that quickly and need that much food. Cause ideally my thought was like, I'm going to load him up earlier. He'll start waking up heavier than I could scale back food. And I was pretty cautious with moving them up cause he's coming from 250 grams of carbs. And so I was thinking like, Hey, we're going to get to like 350. He'll be, he'd be good and hold there. But he sped up a little bit. So like just retrospectively, I, I would have been more aggressive with them earlier in the week and then pulled back. Like, uh, and so anyway, that was kind of like the, the zoom out of the entire power peak week. Um, I just want to say, well, let's go ahead and fast forward on like show day. Yeah. And where we see shot, like Sean would like, you know, if you want to body weight wise, like with removing veggies and also scaling back protein, like I do no protein on show day. You know, he, he ended up waking around 180.8 around that. That is what it was. It's the exact weight actually. I want to say, cause a lot of times around waking out around 181 was kind of the goal here. And if I, I, the working range for Sean was like, I, if he went up to 183, that was acceptable, but the comfortable was probably 180, 182 or a little over 181. Um, so anyway, he wakes up on show day at 180.8 and I check in on with them and we have like, he's no longer, it's dark out. So he can't pose in front of this natural light, which makes him looks really good. We had to use like kind of the shitty kitchen light that's yellow. And he, he saw his visuals. I could see it on his face that he wasn't impressed and it made him look kind of washed out. And so he told me, he's like, Hey, I really do well with not a lot of food or water. Like he pretty much didn't want food or water. It's what he was telling me. And so it took a moment of like, Sean, like every day of this week, we've seen food and fluid bring you up in body weight and you only look better. We know this works. This is what we need to do. It's like, all right. He's like, yeah, to just like digest the bet. Cause every, every that's been Sean's peak for years, right? Like that's worked in one him Olympias. Like, so it takes just a moment to flip that switch on. We need to do this differently. This go round. And that was a big change for him. Sean's never had the amount of food or fluid that I've given him. On show day, uh, which wasn't, wasn't a lot. We were probably, uh, I put a bigger meal in first. It was around a hundred grams of carbs and 15 grams of fat, which off my previous day's data is what I know like pulls him up because I wanted to pull him up closer to that one 82 mark. And then I kept his same start of fluid rate, which we put in 800 mils. That was right before he was about to, to then be on stage. And then, uh, all I saw him backstage and all we really needed was just a little top off to keep him holding throughout the show, which, uh, that we use our top secret J3U, uh, you know, pre show day pump up combo, right? Rice, crispy, treat, and honey. And salt, but that's what we ended up doing. And then between rounds, he would hit like a honey packet for his likEQuick glucose just to sustain them. And then he had like some sips of water. So it probably ended up being maybe a liter of fluid in, and then, uh, maybe 145 grams of carbs within that prejudging window. So, and, uh, yeah, he, he nailed it. He looked amazing. And coming off stage, he was still like 180.6. So I, I, I would assume cause I couldn't, I got, I got backstage for a moment. Someone was like, let me back there. And then the, the real person was like, you can't be back here. So I was like, Sean, Sean, quick, like, come over here, like strip down. Let me see you. And so I couldn't weigh him. You know, I just looked at visuals or crack. I couldn't even take pictures. It was just so quick. Uh, but I would assume he was probably a little over one 81 where we wanted him at, but he looked, he looked nailed on prejudges. It was so good, dude. When he walked out, it was like the perfect combination of like peak and the glaze and like everything was just so, so on. Yeah. Sean uses that, uh, likEQuick bronzer that protein has. It's like, it's like a goop and it is a tanner and a glaze within one. It works great for like darker skin guys. I've used it. Cause I saw Terrence use it at Legion. I was like, I want what Terrence had. Cause it looked awesome. It made me look like I jumped in like a puddle of mud. So anyway, anyway, Sean always used that and makes them look awesome. Uh, cause a lot of guys look kind of flat out there cause they didn't have enough oil on, but that stuff, man sticks. So anyway, his, his all around look just, uh, was nailed. Like it was the goals that he wanted was to not just be a blowout by key on to actually really give him a run. And the confidence that Sean had was tremendous. He, he, we both truly believe that he could win and that was, was definitely challenged, you know, like challenge key on that Sean could, could win. I thought it was funny. Like some of the posts that came out after of like, is this actual muscle or is this cause the change was so drastic. Yeah. I was laughing my butt off. And it was, is Sean using sight enhancements? Like it's like, no, Sean's a freak. So let's get over it. So good. And the, the, the, that final goal of Sean's was just to, to be his best, you know, to, to reinstate that he's not just the master's competitor that's fading out and someone to not be talked about that. He's, he's a real threat and is only going to be improving. So anyway, it did, uh, the, the rest of the show, you know, I don't need to dive too much in the details here. We put, put back another meal that was about the same as meal. I brought back some fluids and then tapered it back down into finals, which I probably would have used a little less fluid in the, in the finals. Um, just, I think he was a little fuller in finals, but I, I didn't like as much. I don't know if it was just shots that I saw or what, but anyway, I think his waist could have been like pulled down a bit more. It could just be the shot I saw, but anyway, um, I, I would have, uh, been a little, a little bit more reserved in that piece, but they, it's tough, man. They go on. It's like 11 PM. It's not really ideal at all. So they're the last ones to close out Friday night. So yeah, to keep someone on that long, but I, to, to our credit though, I think he was very much, um, close to his prejudge look. IMean, I'm hard on myself, but you could argue that it was damn near the same. I think Keon improved and closed more, much more of that gap for finals than we had the ability to prove him upon. Cause Sean was like, man, he was really bang on for prejudge. So it's not like we need to bring them back better. Just like, we just need to keep them as good as we have them. But Keon had a lot of room where he could improve with, uh, you know, just bring that harder for a look. And, you know, he did that. So that along with our Keon's other, you know, great features that he brings seal the deal. Yeah. But for us, it was still, still a win. Still a win. Well, I think, I think you absolutely nailed it, man. I think you should be proud of the work you guys put on. Um, it's going to be very interesting to see what another year's worth of work does. Absolutely. And probably by the time this podcast comes out, he would have already done his open show, which is, uh, he's doing, uh, Mexico. Yeah. So, you know, you probably already know the result as a listener, but, um, yeah. Anyway, goals is for Sean, like just continue to build a legacy and us to do that together and take back the Olympia title next year in the two 12. Love it. Love it. What we got, we got, we know what we got next week now that we've interrupted our schedule. What we're yet we're doing. It's going to be back to the females on how to grow as a female. So that late ladies, sorry if you had to listen to us, blah, blah, blah, blah. The Olympia and bodybuilding, but we will have that one for you when that comes back. And, um, anyway, be a Sean Clarita. Love it. Be focused on the goal. High effort in every area. Year round, nonstop. You don't, there's no, there's no off switch, right? Look, there we go. Now we're talking. There's a tagline. There we go. So anyway, everybody, thank you for tuning in and we will see you next week.

=== FILE: How to Pace Your Deficit in Prep [e6qvHtSiJec].txt ===

 Like, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez geez, geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez ends up you save those cards and you have to play them all later on and then you're like damn i just played my whole hand and i run out of time so that was like the past situation of like then you're like get behind and you have to like get overly aggressive towards the end um it wasn't till later on we're like and even now like we have like science coming out to kind of verify this on more aggressive deficits on the beginning of a fat loss phase when you have the greatest ability to maintain tissue would be making sure you're starting the fat loss phase off like aggressive enough yep 100 i think there's there's multiple things that you can look at too for this it could be like the initial diet change um and kind of how you go about that uh one of the things i don't like seeing and we do see this in a lot of client plans is too large of like caloric rotations trying to drive the deficit like they're very trening performance logbook based so they keep their trening day food quite a bit higher and then they drop the rest day food way down thinking i can just drive the deficit by taking a larger chunk out of the rest day which i think is not it's not long-sighted enough like it's pretty short-sighted move in regards to keeping a contest prep rolling throughout the entirety of the contest prep because ultimately contest prep's just fat loss in a fatigue management state like you're pushing as hard as you can for fat loss to occur while keeping someone in a place that they can still adapt to the deficit and this attachment to performance and attachment to logbook while it's important for retaining tissue we don't need to have such a caloric intake on trening day be that differential from rest days because those days that are off are also contributing to recovery capacity that is also going to contribute to your performance in following days and so i'd rather see like a net change across the entirety of the diet a lot of my clients too like they'll they'll have caloric rotations in all seasons for digestion purposes but man i'll i'll borderline almost eliminate the rotation and caloric intake uh with the start of prep like it just it doesn't need to be super high in my opinion so when you're when you have that situation with a client are you pulling most of the calories off of the trening day to where then they get pretty close to the same or or is it just like a little bit less pulled off of the non-trening days like how how do you look at that for that particular client yeah typically it'll be pulled off of both it's just a little less pulled off the non-trening day sometimes i'll even pivot people into aromasingle meal plan where the only differential is the intra-workout carbohydrate exposure like if they have intra-workout carbohydrate powder it makes for execution to be really easy they don't have any excuse to not be prepared like it's it's a quick and easy way to make sure the consistency is at a high level because their food's not changing day to day really the only thing is supplementation around trening uh so that's kind of how it goes like i'll i'll start people with 20 percent deficit straight off the cuff like no problem like super easy and it just gets them flying because when i look at that that fat loss chart that IMake for people in either in their timelines if i want them to see it or IMake it in a document for myself if i don't want them to see it what i'm doing is is i'm watching that one percent rate of loss and i'm wanting to get close to that one percent rate of loss for that first portion of prep because that puts me in a position where i can run 0.5 or less almost that back end of prep where it's like i'm not really even barely running fat loss the lasT4 to five weeks for most people yeah i think you bring up a good point around for one how much are you pulling off the start and i usually advise people hey don't go over 30 percent of a calorie deficit off the front of a prep and if you're having to to make that timeline you probably want to expand your timeline out a bit longer just because more aggressive fat loss phases as very well could be suited for over a short term over the long term is when you probably accumulate too much fatigue and it wouldn't be sustainable across 16 plus weeks of a contest prep but to to bring to your point like hey 20 to 25 could be a very good starting point and if you do need to make up a little bit more of that doing it off the output side so a lot of times i'll i'll bump up steps or add a little bit of cardio in but the majority of that chunk coming from the diet and you know they're basically we're all trying to create that weekly rate of loss that's going to align for the timeline and and how we do that there's a lot of flexibility within that so you don't have to go to a straight every single day uh being a diet monotonous as that might psychologically not align best with the client profile as well but for for the clients that i have on like larger amounts of calories where in the offseason you have to get pretty strategic with where you put food so like you know one client with really high amounts of food trening day hunger is a lot higher so it makes a lot of sense that we put a lot of calories into that day so a lot of the food is coming off that day and then the rotation is a much less aggressive moving to the fat loss phase versus maybe a female client on lower food where it just really isn't that big of a rotation and their output on a trening versus a non-trening day it's not that vast and what i found is the bigger you are the more vast it becomes like a big body's burned a lot of calories so uh you know some people are like you don't need more than 500 calories on a trening versus non-trening day like dude get to like 260 plus forcing a body weight that you're not supposed to be at like you will burn through it especially strong individuals that tolerate a lot of trening volume so anyway um yeah you have just some different tools to create that deficit i hope you saw that question on the forum we had someone asked like i'm going to the fat loss phase i need to create my deficit like how should i structure my high day uh and it's kind of thinking a little backwards about it yeah because you're like well you know you want a 20 deficit for the weeks for instance if you want one high day like to add in another 10 of calories that day you need to make it up somewhere else so you need to get like a 25 reduction on whatever four days out of the week and then it gets just really complicated so you would have to align with that i think some people they don't even do that they just take calories out of their uh every day then a high day gets kind of arbitrary of like well i'm gonna double carbohydrate in this day it's like well what about like your cal what does that mean for your calorie balance for the total week so i i think uh that might get a little bit into our next topic but um two larger rotations could be problematic for the recovery piece of managing fatigue um but some rotation could be plausible for those that have the psychological aspect that would benefit from a diet that would be less less monotonous you

=== FILE: Hyrox Sucks for Bodybuilding - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.172 [Y0QVKp45El0].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. High Rock sucks for bodybuilding. And this is all, this is all Luke's fault that I'm saying this, as he had a, he had a, he had a fiery post around. High Rocks, which has gained popularity, but really everyone that geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez And at the end of this, provide you with some clarity of takeaways of how you should be implementing some cardio strategies for your goals in bodybuilding. Yeah, I think a lot of it comes from like some old school rhetoric around cardio kills gains or cardio takes away from your ability to grow tissue. And a lot of the time, the devil's in the dose and then sometimes also the devil's in the modality, which we'll get into in a bit. But understanding kind of where it could potentially cross in our ability to drive hypertrophy stimulus and the cross point being where does it take away and where does it benefit? Because there's certainly going to be a place where it does benefit our ability to tren and our ability to drive the hypertrophy stimulus. But we can take it outside the confines of being beneficial. So I think it's a great one. I think you can kick us off with our first point and make sure that we address kind of all these myths that come about. When I got into bodybuilding around like 2011, 2012 time, I was getting out of powerlifting. And powerlifting, you don't do cardio because anything over five reps is considered cardio. So, you know, moving into bodybuilding, cardio was going to be a thing. And so I was already a nerd reading into this stuff. And this was around the timeline when some research in HIIT cardio started to come out. So actually my first bodybuilding prep, I primarily just did HIIT cardio the entire time. Which, which with, and coming from a powerlifting background is like you're kind of all out. So it was pretty intense prep wise. There was very high fatigue. Legs were very heavy that prep. I remember walking my 25 minute walk from the parking lot to my class in college and stoppinGHalfway with my legs just being dead. I'm like, I think IMight just sit down on the ground here. It was like, go back to the car, continue to class. But anyway, that was the time when like we were hit. Cardio was coming out, looking at muscle gain and HIIT cardio showing like you could actually increase hypertrophy. However, a lot of this was misinterpreted because it was just looking at could be a sedentary individual or someone very low in trening that wasn't doing resistance trening. And yes, they grew some muscle. But for someone, primary modality of trening is hypertrophy trening. There might be some interference there. And that's kind of like what wasn't presented. And also the management of fatigue that needed to take place when you're not only doinGHIIT trening, but also resistance trening and a calorie deficit and also posing. And so there's a lot of demands that might not be applicable around HIIT trening. But HIIT was kind of the thing where like this was like a cardio savior of like, oh, here's a way to do cardio and preserve tissue. But that wasn't quite the case. And I think if we go even older school, right, where you kind of have like trening and preserve everything for hypertrophy trening. So you just sit around all day and do nothing except like weight tren. I think that's kind of the other end of the spectrum. But even I think if we look in the anecdotal, like you have bodybuilders that did cardio all season long and didn't lose muscle. They're extremely muscular. I know these are this is very anecdotal. I I've heard like the Kai Green thing brought up a lot, like he would just walk in the step mill for a very long duration. I don't remember the actual duration before he trened, of course, heavily muscled individual or plenty, plenty of other antidotes of guys stay stay doing cardio. And so I guess to prompt, it's like, do you think that rhetoric of the interference effect with concurrent trening doing resistance trening and cardio together is overstated? Or does it just needs to be contextualized? I think there needs to be context around it. I do think there's plenty of evidence in the concurrent trening literature, kind of like the initiation of the current trening literature, I believe, was 1980. It was kind of like the initial proposal of it. And then you kind of get into some molecular stuff when you get all the way up into like a five study in 2018 paper that I'm vaguely remembering. Anyways, I think there's context in the percentage of the amount of trening that it actually takes away from it. I think that's kind of the important piece that we can have a small amount of cardiovascular activity in play in order to achieve the goals that it's going to allow us to achieve. So whether that's progressively increasing over time in a contest prep to increase caloric output in a state of contest prep where tissue retention is the primary, in an offseason where growing tissue is the primary, we're going to have a larger percentage of the total Trening stimuli being progressively into trening with a lower portion of that being cardiovascular activity, where its main goal is maintenance of health metrics and maintenance of our cardiovascular system in order to be able to not have that fail in us when we're doing some of our higher rep sets. Really see this potentially be detrimental. And I think you can even do this via modality. When modality becomes strening to the point that it adds to the fatigue portion of stimulus to fatigue, I think that's kind of where we start to get into the place of we're using or filling our cup of recovery capacity and taking away from the hypertrophy portion of that aspect. Yeah. Yeah. I think with a lot of the concurrent evidence that has been more recent has shown at least for hypertrophy trening that it might not be nearly as impactful, but context depend on like the type of cardio you've been doing. Also durations. Also durations. Also even gender differences. There was a paper comparing concurrent trening in males versus females in lower body and it wasn't impactful for females versus a little more impactful for males. So you can't trenslate the same because you have a female say doing wellness bikini and you know these individuals that are doing like a lot of lower body type cardio and it seems like they can still uphold the trening volume recover and sustain strength. And it's like females have better physiology and to be doing that type of trening and sustain it over males even more longer steady state cardio than HIIT cardio might be more beneficial around male aspect. And to bring to your point around a more recent paper Luke I had one pulled up was this was a 2000 and 24 paper by chin comparative efficacy of concurrent trening on lower limb strength and muscular hypertrophy. It's a meta analysis. It's a meta analysis. 40 studies were involved in this and you know with this being said that the lower body max strength analysis show that all modalities current trening were inferior to resistance trening alone. So resistance trening alone was still ideal but concurrent high intensity interval trening and resistance trening showed an advantage in that aspect. So you know there is some aspect around HIIT trening that could be taken away at least at least from this meta analysis. But again you have to look through this paper and see like well what does that mean for like continuous endurance trening and what does that look like. And I think in the context of bodybuilding a lot of times it's like just enough that you need in an offseason setting to keep health in mind to also like you're mentioning be able to sustain trening and not get gassed out during your sets. And I think that's gets really to the point of when you're getting to a larger bodybuilding aspect in general right. So if you're finding your stamina is getting taxed in your sessions you need to be able to sustain trening even from a digestion point of view and hunger signaling keep a little bit of cardio and can make a big difference for a lot of guys having some separate session in the day. And then health metrics like stayinGHealthy and being able to flex between different fuel types and keeping your lab markers in check allows you to sustain these growth hormone phases for longer. And I think for those three reasons is why cardio can be a tool that's in place and even the data showing that hey a little bit of cardio it's not going to impact your gains because the signaling we're signaling is so strong for resistance trening. But we should probably get into you know choosing the right type of cardio right. IMean we talk about lists we talk about hit there's even low volume hit etc. Where where do we see these kind of falling for different individuals. Yeah I think we always need to start with the basis of steps and steps can be an interesting one because it is very influenced by someone's lifestylEQuite a bit like you have the manual workers who are going to be having steps you know no matter the season 15 18 20 000 steps a day. Where they're getting that high output and in the steps category and so it's kind of lowering the attention to some of the others. That's the category of individual that going down the hip path can be pretty dangerous because they've already got quite a bit of volume in the steps step side. And then we kind of go into like the other side of the equation where the person who sits at an office all day and they're struggling to hit 8000 9000 2000 steps. Then we're kind of like opening the door to kind of what these cardio modalities would need to be. And I do think it's a little bit season specific. I do see hit from a health metric perspective being pretty impactful especially low volume hit like being able to do that potentially twice a week in an offseason setting. Duration of cardio is pretty short. We're getting pretty high heart rate elevations especially for some of my larger athletes. It's really great from like managing the blood pressure perspective. And I see it fitting in that niche very well. But I do not see that type of cardiovascular activity fitting within a contest prep just from the perspective of contest prep is basically long term fatigue management. And we're trying to take the least impactful steps in order to drive fat loss throughout the entirety of that. And I think there becomes a point where recovering from those hit sessions becomes a problem or even just getting up for them, like being able to get the same output out of them from like an energy perspective. Becomes a problem as well. Yeah, I think like you mentioned steps is your base to go off of. I see once you cross like the probably that 12 to 15,000 step mark is where you might be starting to nix cardio from at least within an offseason. Just because that side you're probably pulling out a lot of the health benefits from just a high activity level and on top of resistance trening that you really need. But again, we have to keep bodybuilding goals in the forefront because what I find with individuals that get into really high step counts and doing cardio is that you just kind of hit a wall with putting size on that you really need. And so you're not able to forget someone. So you're kind of having to move into a really maybe a suboptimal position of like, hey, you have to work. Your step count is going to be this high, but we might not be able to like fully optimize health with keeping some cardio in place like we would if you're able to list work at home and have lower step count. So there's that piece. Hits not for everyone psychologically. I understand like in an offseason some people it takes a lot to do that for another session or even after a trening session. So, you know, I think psychological preference can weigh a lot into that. I prefer it like that's my preference and to manage it too. It also depends on what your trening focus is. So if you have someone that is a large male that is trying to bring up legs and trening two to three times per week, it's also hard to do hit on top of that too and recover. So that might be a decision in how you're trensitioning. And then there's even upper body hit. So that's what I will do. If you had, say, like a spin bike, a rower and battle ropes, like hell, you could do nearly four sets on the upper body and one or two on lower body. And that's very recoverable. So there's ways to kind of work around this. But I completely agree with your point. Like moving into a contest prep, it's probably tapering those sessions down to out and then to keep output up, moving to like more steady state cardio. If time is not permitting for more steps. And, you know, within that, we're talking about cardio. We got a little bit into choosing the right modality, which is another thing around the research world is like think is aspects of cardio that have high eccentric components can cause more muscular damage and make it also harder locally to recover from. So I know everyone loves that step mill. And it's great because it burns a lot of calories. However, it can really beat up your legs. And so if you have someone that is focused very much on leg trening, that could be problematic and you might be better moving to things that just have like only a concentric portion to it. So this is looking at elliptical or a spin bike. Also past research showing like movements that have a close mimic to resistance trening. So a lot of hip flexion. So think about a spin bike being in a lot of hip flexion. May be less impactful than movements that are less like your resistance trening. I think this is a more nuanced like lesser effect component versus like absolutely the duration of cardio. But like that little nuance piece might be something to account for. So those are the types that I would at least stick to. I know we bring up like high incline treadmill walking. We see that a lot across the board. And that still does have a pretty higher eccentric component as you're going at higher speeds. So it's something just when you're getting into that type of cardio, I think to manage the duration. Like we do steps that's different, like walking at slow speed. But when you get to like started to really pound on the treadmill, it can start eating up your legs as well. And one thing that I noticed on my past preps that these past two years, I got a walking pad. And I was prior to that doing all my walks outdoors, which walking outdoors like on pavement or worse as concrete can really beat your legs up. Surprisingly, when you're getting up to like 15,000 plus steps. And man, my legs have been drastically less fatigued doing it on a walking pad because it's made to have some built-in cushion. Yep. Yeah. I think it's all considerations within that. There is – I'll say that because that's our next point. But when we look at like cardiovascular activity as far as like the choices I'm typically going at, I really like elliptical as an option because we can get like heart rate elevation without too much eccentric component. I really like – High rocks? Just kidding. No. No high rocks, no crossfit, none of the above. It doesn't fit in any phase of a – What about jiu-jitsu or boxing? No, none of the above. Oh, man. Don't send us down that rabbit hole. There is no place that even you can anecdotal evidence this like top 10 in the Olympia, how many of them are doing any of these type of activities, right? Like to steal your comment the other day. But anyways, from a modality perspective, I really try to push people towards elliptical. I don't mind bike, but the frequency of it, it can be pretty problematic. Like if you're doing it every day, like, man, you've done a 25-minute cardio session on my bike and your quads are just like blown. It's things like that you got to watch out for. So elliptical is always kind of first go for me. And then secondary is kind of based on access of what people have. But then it kind of pushes you into the time component. And the time component, which is like kind of like that next point of like what does someone have available in their schedule for the day if they're not just like an online coach? And what can consistently be executed and takes the least away from someone's process? Like this is where the art of coaching really starts to come into play and can be a challenge depending on kind of the type of job someone works or kind of the phase that you're in. Contest prep is really where this gets problematic as like that cardiovascular output is going up. And I kind of term cardiovascular output as all of those things that fit within that. So that would be posing sessions. That would be your step counts. That would be your actuALCARdio sessions. And just being able to be efficient with that where, you know, if time is a problem for someone, while it's ideal to kind of have step counts escalating up over time before you really have to put in cardio, that might be the client that cardio sessions go up a bit quicker than step counts do just because from a time component, that's what you got. And I think it's a really important aspect to understand from a coaching perspective. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, what I would advise to you is like within bodybuilding, you are looking for the least burdensome, fatiguing way to create an energy deficit. And that's what cardio is really serving its purpose on contest prep. So do you need it or do you not need it? It's truly like can you create the deficit with it or without it? That's the piece of it. And there's not a magical heart rate range that we've got to be in. No, it's just create the deficit with the least fatigue to support your resistance trening. And, you know, with that being said around the timing component is that, you know, I've done some preps with like pretty long, high duration cardios where you're like, hey, you need an hour of cardio done. And is it better to do an hour straight, get it done? Or what if you were to divide this up like, hey, I'm going to do 30 minutes in the morning, then I'm going to do five minutes before I tren, then I'm going to do another 25 minutes post trening or something like this. Is that less fatiguing? And I think you can you can easily find exploring those where you're able to tolerate the best or when you're kind of hitting your your high fatigue component in your duration. But in general, I would say keeping your sessions less than 30 minutes at a go would be some reasonable grounds for implementation. But, you know, your totALCARdio volume for the day is really what matters. Kind of like just like your total calories for the day is what matters. So if you have a 30 minute session, you absolutely could just knock out another 10 minutes post trening and make that session just 20 minutes long, which mentally and physically would be far less draining. So be strategic with your cardio time duration as well. Yeah, 100 percent. I was if you want to touch on like the timing, the ideal timing of day, like some people might ask, like, is it better to do it post or how far away from trening or et cetera? Yeah, I think there's there's some considerations here. I think the initial argument is like dosing growth hormone hormone at night. We've got that in play is the fasted going to be potentially the more efficient way. I do tend to bias people towards fasted, but I'm honestly so focused as a coach on adherence and sustainability and getting someone through that. IMy kind of my recommendation generally to people is just have some sort of activity to start your day, whether that's your cardio session or step counts. And just have it be where your cardio session that you do have aren't impactful to trening. And so my typical suggestion there is, you know, try not to do it within a four hour window of trening from concurrent trening evidence. It seems to be like a four to six hour window. But that's kind of like my general recommendations with that. And I care a little bit less of whether it's all fasted or any of it's fasted, because the effort piece is the second piece that you have to consider with that. And if someone's not great at having a lot of time in the morning or getting a lot of effort put into the cardio session, that can be pretty detrimental to how quick that volume then has to go up. So I do like activity fasted, but man, I think it's you're you're really nitpicking and pulling at straws because there's other considerations of doing cardio later in the day that could potentially be beneficial to the net cardio output across the entire day. I think that's one of the myths to bust right there is like that fasted cardio is superior to fed state cardio from a fat loss perspective. And that just hasn't panned out in across the research body of evidence as a whole. I think we just end up kind of leaning towards that because for our lifestyles, like you have to go to work. And so you can't just do some like midday cardio or mid afternoon cardio. It's like it usually has to be like before everythinGHappens for the day and then you tren after everything else has happened for the day. So you wake up in the morning, you do cardio, right? Is fasted superior to fed state? No, you could eat before you did your cardio and still like the caloric output is what matters. Far more nuances. Like if you are getting into, like Luke said, you know, agents that are aiding and mobilizing fat and uptaking it like some type of growth hormone hormone, L-carnitine concoction. Maybe you're able to leverage a bit more fatty acids during and spare some muscle glycogen and that could have some supportive roles for the process. But again, it's far, far more nuanced. I think our big ticket items are still like managing total fatigue for the day over just whether you're doing it in a fasted state. And that doesn't mean a dehydrated state either. Like you still want to be hydrated for your cardio. And I find that is one of the most impactful around it because you're just not great at thermoregulation if you're not fully hydrated, which can make cardio the perception of just feel a lot harder. So I would definitely just try to really focus on getting some good hydration in if you are needing to do your cardio earlier in the morning. Yeah, and that's kind of where that quality comment comes from, right? Because most people aren't doing a great job of gettinGHydrated prior. Like their schedules are pretty rampant trying to get to whatever their work is, situation is. But I think that kind of brings us to some of these last points. Like we've kind of touched on some of the health benefits already. It's obvious some of the cardiovascular benefits. But I think digestion is probably the most underrated one that you could potentially see from that, especially with step counts. Like I think it's, yeah, easily one of the most underrated. Yeah, I think that's where you need to look at, like spreading out your walking throughout the day. Or if you're at a desk job, like I feel like we're in a culture now where people realizing the importance of like postural health and getting people up from sitting all day. So like getting a standing desk or a walking pad, like I feel like a lot of places are pretty open to that to where, hey, eat a meal and then stand and walk for the next like 10, 15 minutes can make a big impact on posture, digestion, glucose and insulin sensitivity, management around that. So, and those are just easy ways to burn calories too if you are in prep. As far as like the other health metrics we mentioned, like, you know, great ways for managing blood pressure. And also if you have issues around your risk of like clotting and hematocrit, like it can aid in that piece. And also, of course, people are asking about like lipid profile and those alterations and triglycerides. Like you can prove all those panels. So it's something that should be in place if you are definitely struggling around those points. Another thing that I would just touch on as well, kind of how we move in cardio in and out throughout the bodybuilding season is that a more ideal scenario in a prep is that eventually cardio can come out towards the tail end as we move into peak week. And you started, what I'm trying to do is trensition someone that from that deficit to a maintenance level where I can have cardio as low as I can and primarily relying on steps and energy intake. And that way we can drop off a lot of fatigue. So a lot of people towards the end of the preps we're doing are doing cardio and we're just having them doing steps. And that's how we're starting to do the peaking process. Now, that's not for everyone. Everyone, some people are going to have to have cardio in because they're just so far below that like body fat set point that they still need a lot of output to maintain it. But a lot of times those are the females that actually already do really well with managing fatigue and higher direct cardio work. But that's kind of how we trensition in and out throughout the season is that you might have towards the end of your prep in a peak week, no cardio in place. But then as we move into the post-show period, that's like trensition back up. Then we might have some HIIT cardio that's in place. And then we're kind of moving back in a prep where HIIT's pulled out. We're back in a steady state. And then rinse and repeat. That's kind of how the cycle goes. But there's a spectrum across where we're going to see people with it and without it. So general overload over guidelines you want to hit just to wrap that up, Luke? Yeah, I think the statement, I just want to pull out a statement you said earlier of the least impactful modality in order to achieve the goal of cardiovascular metrics for that phase is just the epitome of cardio within the bodybuilding sphere and the bodybuilding space. Because on the continuum of driving adaptation, we're shifting goal sets kind of throughout these different phases in the year of the adaptation we're trying to drive. And it's going to be the least impactful to tissue growth hormone and or retaining tissue in a contest prep if we don't have a very large portion of that bucket filled up because the cardio output side is either so high or taking away so much from our ability to tren. And just remember that it is bodybuilding, right? So there's absolutely a place for cardiovascular activity year-round. It's just how do we achieve that goal of the least impactful for each individual that we work with. And I think that's like just the general guidelines I would try to give people. Yeah, that's well said. Cardio is our tool. It's not the enemy. It's how and why you use it that really matters. If you want to dive into this even farther in our level one course throughout our off-season module, our contest prep module, and our post-show module, we exactly show how we pull this in and out and the decisions around why we do it. So to learn more, definitely check out level one. That's where we can give you deeper guidelines of exactly what we would do. And so you have the understanding to make those calls for yourself. But anyway, thank you everyone for tuning in. And we'll talk to you next time.

=== FILE: J3U After Hours Ep. 1 ｜ Behind the Scenes with Luke Miller [nEetH722MC0].txt ===

 All right, all righty, welcome everyone to the first episode of J3U after hours where our goal is to bridge the gap between education and entertainment. I'm one of your hosts Chris Perry brought to you with Alex Ball as well and our esteemed guest Luke Miller. Gentlemen, how are we doing today? Freaking good man. It's wild that our bosses are guests. It's like, yeah, if there's a, if there's a, if there's any like awkward delay or pause, it's just going to be a moment. Cause like our bosses on the internet. Cause like our bosses on the internet, but it's fine. Yeah, I'm good. I think I'm like, so I had COVID prior to leaving. I got diagnosed Friday prior to leaving for US days on Tuesday. And I had a double ear infection and aromasinus infection. And so I literally slept for like three days. And then it was like, I have to go to Vegas. I posted a flu game meme or like picture on my story. And someone was like, Oh my gosh, I know prep feels. I was like, no, like, but, but yeah, so, and then now I'm just lingering the residue of that. So if I have to pause my mic for a second and cough, I'm sorry. But, but yeah, things are going great. Luke, what's up with you, dude? Man, it's just like peak show season over here. I was tellinGHim, like, just got off barely missing a pro card last weekend in Vancouver, won the class, lost the overall. So a guy that goT4th in the pro show a couple hours later. And then I've got a Tampa pro with Emily doing wellness at temp pro. And then I've got a girl doing a pro qualifier in Canada. So just like one peak after the next right now. Yeah. It's so much fun, man. Like, so this is, and so we haven't recorded in like three weeks. And so we got to, we got to recap everything that's going on, but I am on show 10 out of 12 weeks coming up or show 11 out of 13 weeks. And I finally get a break after this weekend, man. And I love coaching, but I've missed my bed. So, uh, yeah, let's recap it. What Chris, what shows do we have to start with? Is it universe? Yeah, we got universe first. So that's all you big dog. Universe was great. I had three people. Um, Darren, my master 60, I turned pro finally. Um, and I say, finally, we've been setting for that for the lasT3 years. Um, and he's the, IMean, he, he, he doesn't look 60. He looks like 50 at best, but he would always win the open middles. He would always win masters 40 masters 50. Like every regional show would go to. And then finally last year he won the whole show. Um, and I was like, all right, man, like we're ready. Um, the first trip to North Americans, we were, um, we were the tiniest person there. We got last place. We were like 58, 59. And so we came back and sucked down to make weight. We were like eight pounds bigger on stage this time. Um, he nailed it. Like it was, it was perfect. Um, then my master's 40 guy, Adam, we were one spot away from a card. And so it was weird. At university, I guess there wasn't a super heavies in the masters 40. Cause the dude we lost to is two 65 and we were two 10. Um, so yeah, so it was like, I wanted to be like, Hey, that's not his weight class. You know, regardless, um, the guy was a freak. Um, but Adam was in the same boat, man. So I've been working with Adam since he was 37 and he's won like three overalls. And it was just, we were just waiting to turn 40 and that's kind of how he played it. So we're, we're very, very close. Um, you know, bodybuilding math would say we're next in line. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Um, but, but I will say this, I'm a huge fan of universe. Um, obviously they don't do open bodybuilding if you're not natural, but, um, I'm a big fan of universe. I definitely want to take more athletes there. Um, especially after USA, we'll talk about USAs. I love USAs, but I don't like USAs at the same time. Um, then we get into Tennessee Valley show, which was Chris Berry's, um, unveiling, right? Yeah. We came back, dude. Talk about it, dude. Um, yeah, went and won an overall, which is pretty sick. Um, I think we came back like 11 pounds heavier than night of champions and much more conditioned. So take your long offseasons guys. It's worth it. Um, and then obviously getting to compete with Austin was like the highlight of my bodybuilding career. Just like havinGHim backstage and getting to hang out. He also took an overall. Um, and then I had miss Anna. She did her second show with me this season. Uh, and she ended up winninGHer junior class and we ended up like top three and open, which is to be expected just because she's, she's young. Right. And that's one thing that we just talked about managing expectations. It's like, Hey, we don't have the same muscle maturity yet as a 35 year old. But I think given where she's at in her track record and how young she is, like she has endless potential. So it was very exciting to get to, to experience that with her too. I am done competing into the same shows as athletes that I'm coaching three, too many times, five athletes, three, too many times. And I'll never do it again. So I did it once and I never decided to do it. It was just like, it was, I'm not competing anymore. So it doesn't really matter. But when I was like, I did that first time I was like, nah, screw this. Never again. See, I did it once in 2021. And then in 2023, I had three first timers compete with me and that wasn't enough to convince me not to do it again. So I've learned my lesson now. Yeah. And that was partially my fault because I was like, Hey, yeah, like y'all could just do the show be easy. And like, yeah, I won't ever put that on Chris again. I had obviously Chris doing it. And then Austin Goldman with his second overall was awesome. The kids a stud. It was funny because like, he kind of like blew his load, like emotionally at the battle show. So like, you know, cause I, it was his first time out. Right. And he like, just, you know, after prejudging, he's like, yeah, man, I'm ready to just like wrap this thing up. Like, let's do it. And you rightfully so, right. There's only so much better you can get in four weeks and stuff like that. But then I had a bikini girl, Alyssa Hamlin. She won her open class. And then I had a true novice and novice bodybuilder who's a big old boy. He won both his novice, true novice classes and the open supers. So all in all, man, it was a very clen sweep of the show. So I was, I was very happy with that. It was a good show to have, especially in Alabama, man. Like I'm like, I told Chris, like, Hey, like I'm pretty done, like playing in this arena after this season. So pass the coach along, but I got to go out like throat kicking people. So I plan to do that one more. I got one more show to do it. And then we get into USAs. And so I had a couple of people asking, Oh, Hey, where's Chris? Where's Chris? Like literally like come up to me at the show. Like we're asking where Chris was and long story short, like there was just stuff on my end and Chris's end. We needed to do to be perfect for like displaying at USAs. A national show is not for me and my standard or for Chris and Chris's standard, like where we go get our feet wet. It's like, we're, if we're like, if we're not perfect, not do that's a trip. We can pull up my credit card statement. It's just a trip, right? It's just not a, that's an expensive lesson to learn. So like, I just felt like there was stuff that we both could do to be better and just push that timeline out. So I didn't want to just like not talk about it. Right. So yeah. Thank God. Good. Good. Before we got too far into USAs, I've got a pretty funny universe story. If y'all want to hear it. Dude. Behind the scenes, haven't shared it. Like type of video, like some of the stuff you don't see. So I had two at universe. Love the show as well. I like, I send people every year. WPG girl won a card at universe. And I had a men's physique guy. Men's physique guy got second. Barely missed it. Right. They do the whole New York vacation thing. We weren't thinking about doing another show until North Americans. I was like, sure, go, whatever. So he was on stage like 181. Six days before Masters Nationals, he messages me. He's like, hey. He's like, I'm like 190. Can we do Masters Nationals in six days? I was like, yeah, I guess. It's like, let's give it a go. And so like, I basically just like, I took, got him back, put him on base diet, like slightly lower. And basically ran that as a peak. Just like frontloaded New York. Like let him like eat that food in New York. And then just ran that. And he won his card at Masters Nationals. Like. No shit. Really no shit. His food on show day was like his base plan. Minus veggies. Wow. All of this while in Birmingham with us while also peeking Emily to then fly to see her. Yeah. That was a week. That was a week. Dude. Yeah. Before I went to Austin for Republic. Came home for a day. Flew to y'all. And then on the last day there, changed my flight to go to Chicago. And on that last day, won the card with him. So it was a fucking week. Yeah. We think we work hard. And then we hang out with Luke. And we're like, no shit. I'm dumb and lazy at this point. That's how I feel. Doesn't sleep. Yeah. Dude, that's impressive though. Because a lot of people think when it comes to like a peak, like you got to do crazy stuff. Right. And you just were like, nope, let's just keep it. Keep it the same. I think it's good for people to see that. It literally didn't change his name. No fluid adjustment. No sodium adjustment. He did cardio up until like two days out. He flew there the day before. Made sure he got some activity after he landed. Rocked up on stage on his card. Nuts. Nuts. That's impressive. Yeah. And then so to finish out the USA's, I had Callie and Abby. This was Callie's first time back at a national show. Since we first attempted nationals. Ten times better package. All around. Like just, I was very pleased with the look. Got very generic feedback at first. You know, was like, we just need more glute. Got a little more descriptive feedback today. Just like we're still too balanced top to bottom. And then we need a little more balance between the legs and the glutes. You know, and again, so everybody like reams, like, you know, the comments and all that. Like, Callie's too big. She needs to go to another division. Like, we literally sat there. Like, honestly, and I'll keep it real. Like, I'll go to Bat for Gallatin and fine. Like, I could understand not winning. I could buy not being second. Once we got into that third, fourth place, it was getting more and more hard for me to, like, realize it. Like, just to accept it. Once we got into fifth place, I was like, I don't. I guess I just don't know what I'm looking at. Um, and, and, you know, it's, and again, like, that's me unbiasedly. Like, and again, looking at the feedback today, I was like, yeah, okay. Like, I'm not saying we should have won by any means, but like, I do. The longer we get down that list, the more I was like, okay, this is really like hard for me to accept here. Um, but regardless, like when you're sitting there, you have Sandy, you have Tyler, you have everyone, but Steve Weinberger on the table. Like, you got to know what they're wanting. You got to know what they're saying. So it's our job to come back and fix that. Um, because I can sit here and like be pissed off about the placing and disagree with it. But regardless, we, we have to improve it and bring what they want. It's not like, you know, oh, well, let's go see Sandy somewhere else. Cause she wasn't there. Like, no, they were all there. And, but, but I do want to make it clear that like, none of them said, go to women's physique. None of them said, go to women's bodybuilding. It's just, we're going to bring up more glutes and we've got more time to do that. So, um, but I was super proud of the look that she brought. Um, Callie is one of the hardest workers on the gym floor and then just day-to-day life. And honestly, there's a part of me that wish they would have said, go to women's physique just to make more sense of it. Right. Like, like I was like, man, I wish they would have said like, just hit a front double. Um, but, but again, like we can pick that apart all day long. Um, but that, that's kind of the outcome. And then Abby, uh, so Abby was one spot away last year from a car at North Americans. It was very obvious that we took Sandy's critique from North Americans and did exactly what she said. Cause when she came out numerically, she was, she was the third person in the call out of like 20 something people. Um, so like she, you're holding that front pose for a long time. And when they called her number, she was like, you know, obviously one of the first. So like, she's kind of on the end immediately first moved boom center. And like, as soon as she walked out, like to her individual, Sandy leans over to Tyler. They start pointing. She wasn't touched since like just boom. They swapped two and three around the girl next to her two or three times. Abby didn't move. And I emphasize that one, it was cool shit feeling, right? Cause we're around like all these other big bikini teams and blah, blah, blah. I'm like, here I am just one person, one girl, and we got it. Right. But that being said, we took exactly what Sandy told us to do. We fixed our back pose. We brought bigger glutes. We brought the same condition. I felt about a little better conditioning. Um, but when you listen to them, they remember you, you come back. It was very obvious. They knew who Abby was. Um, and then we checked that box for sure. So, um, me and Luke are actually putting together a nice little timeline of Abby's, you know, progression. Cause a lot of people like they, they talk about Abby. Like, Oh yeah, well, you know, it's Abby, right. They kind of scoff it off. Like, well, she's amazing. And she is, but she started with me. She was 20 years old. So like what we've done in five years, like, yeah, she's amazing, but we worked at it. And don't get me wrong. I remember everybody telling me Abby was a wellness girl that I trened my bikini girls, like a guy that, you know, Alex is aggressive. Alex is reckless. Like I remember all those little chirps and you can scroll down through onto the like list and you can find a lot of those same chirps. So like, I remember you guys and I love it. And I appreciate your support, but there was one time where y'all didn't think that I was a bikini coach and here I am doing it. So it was, it was a really cool feeling. I think one thing. Paychecks now though. Do I now? Then look at the resume and the paychecks now though. Yeah. Yeah. It's a, it comes full circle, man. I think one thing to touch on just like continue to drive home is Abby's been with you for five years. Right. So like the people out there who think like hiring the coach for 20 weeks is going to be the solution to all problems or six months or even a year. I think it's a testament to like, you have to give somebody years of your time with a reliable coach, obviously to actually see what you're capable of doing. Like this isn't a game of like months and weeks, you know, it's like years and decades in those cases. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, like I could pick Abby with my eyes closed. Like, and what to kind of talk about, like what Luke was saying, like, you don't need many crazy changes. All Abby did was her three regular, like refeed days, two days before the 48 hours out. That's all I needed. That was the data I collected throughout the prep. Boom. Like pulled some cardio, pulled some veggies and she was good to go. But that girl suffered like Callie suffered. Absolutely. And Abby was right there with like 80 minutes of cardio and two rice cakes were a lot of her trening days for like input and output. Like it was very, very low food, high output. A lot of her refeeds was just simply pullinGHer cardio out. Like, like that girl suffered. And so a lot of people too, like they, they look up to Abby and like, oh my gosh, she's just great. But like, she does that and doesn't complain. Same with Cal. Neither one of them you hear a peep from. Like they may be like, oh yeah, that'd be nice to eat this. But like, they're going to do the work regardless. And that's what sets those two type athletes who I'm like, yeah, we're going to USAs. Yeah, we're going to nationals. Then someone who's not there yet is they're, they'recomplaining along the way. They're not built up for that. Or they just don't have that. Like, you know, they don't have that extra gear that they could turn it into. And I think you'd find most people at that level have that same gear too. Luke, I've goT3Questions for you, man. Yeah. What kind of animal do you feel like right now? Ooh, kind of like a freaking polar bear. Okay. Why is that? Because I'm constantly sitting at this desk and no longer a bodybuilder. So I've got this like layer of fluff. But I'm still like kind of big. Like I'm bigger than the average human, but I'm not as big as I used to be and not as lean. So it's like, you put it on us on that leg day. Okay. So polar bear. I like that. If you're going to a gas station and you have to geT3 snacks and one drink, what are you getting? Three snacks, one drink. Is this like trying to fit macro snacks or like don't give an F about snacks? You and I, when you're on vacation, just road tripping. Okay. Okay. All right. So we're getting a Coke Zero or a Diet Sun Kiss. That's the drink. Great. Probably going Coke Zero just because it's like favorite. But Diet Sun Kiss is a nice little runner up if they don't have Coke Zero. So we're going true fatty Luke growing up with the fudge round for snack number one. Yes. We're going with orange Doritos for snack number two. Yes, sir. And then what is snack number three? That's the hardest one because you got sweet and salty. What do you do as snack number three? I feel like what car am I in? Because if I'm in Emily's new car, I'm not getting powdered donuts. But if I'm in a truck, like I don't give a damn. Like I don't get powdered donuts. I think that'd be my three. You guys got to remember, I grew up a fat kid. So like number three is either a tie between powdered donuts or Swiss rolls, depending on what they've got. Dude, I love you so much. Me and Deb, strong relationship. Me and Ms. Debbie had really good relationship. Yeah, me and Debra go way back, way back. If you only knew how much closer you and Chris just got there. Fast station snacks are not used at this point. Okay, so you pass with flying colors. I also appreciate you get bonus points for not describing the flavor of the Doritos, just the color of the bag. That is the correct verbiage. It's not nacho cheese. It's orange. I'm a purple bag Dorito man myself. Third question. What is your go-to like song? If you have to pick one song to listen to in the gym, what is it? Don't do this to me, Chris. It's Eminem without a doubt. Okay. And it's probably lose yourself. Classic. I think I would, I think my solid runner up is a Millie, Little Wayne. Ooh, nice. I can get going with some of that. Like anything Carter III, like just put it on. Yeah. Anything Carter III, almost anything Eminem except for his little pop era. Like let's not, let's not go there, but. We'll look past that. Have you heard the demo version of Lose Yourself? No, I haven't. Is it good? Yeah. The demo version of Lose Yourself is good. Yeah. Yeah. I also, I'll, I'll with some No Ceilings. I can get going with some No Ceilings. Like anything on the No Ceilings mixtape is, man. Prime, Lil Wayne, and Eminem. You can't, you can't be. I was pretty bummed with Wayne's most recent album. Be honest. I've given up on them. I've given up on both of them now with what they release. Like. Yeah. After the Carter V, I just feel like it just started to go. I just, I don't need anymore. I've got my discography of Eminem and Lil Wayne that I need and I'm good. Yeah. They're timeless. We still listen to them. Like we still listen to those songs. On show day for USAs, I sent, I sent Alex the song Put On. Or like Put On For My City. And I said, Put On For J3U on New Year's Day. Like I've got my little discography of like song references. Like my song taste is lyrical. So like Logic, NF, that kind of a rapper. So I've got, I've got some insights. So people don't know, I brinGHeadphones to shows. Like I bring little ear pods. Cause I, I don't like the, with a lot of like my big, like anxiety driven shows. Um, just so I don't like to, I like to just block out the noise. Um, but like each peak week, like I'll have certain songs and stuff like what I'm listening to just get my zone. Um, so one, it's, it's awesome. Like Luke, you send me that. And then Chris sends me, you know, the, whatever, you know, like he sends me some hype up messages and that's a lot of, it's a lot of pressure guys. I'm not gonna lie. It's, it's a lot of pressure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, but, um, so soon, you know, cat, uh, Callie went on first, you know, I was like, I was, I was just trying to make sense of what just happened, but then I had to refocus on, you know, Abby coming out. And so Abby had sent me this posing video of, um, buttons by pussycat dolls. And it was just, it was just in the background of her posing, but like, it was the look that I found was money and dude, from the time fit model came on to bikini class F pussycat dolls, buttons was the headphones, dude. I didn't look up when it's soon as bikini class a came out, I didn't look at the stage because I just didn't, I was just like sitting down in the little, you know, first couple rows. I didn't look cause I was like, it's just going to fuck with my head and I don't need to start picking apart who looks, what look they're wanting or whatever. And so, yeah, for a good hour, like pussycat dolls was playing. But that was the song for the week and it's unfortunate. I don't choose it. It's just whatever with, you know, whatever type of, you know, ADHD I have just gets you in sync with it. So yeah, I'm going to listen to that in the gym today and see how it goes. So we've got a lot of topics to discuss. Thank you to everybody who's always participates in our Q and A's. Obviously a lot of you guys are trensitioning from the coaches union over to this production now, which is super exciting. First one, Alex, if you want to do this one, it was about the Instagram story. If you want to take lead on that. Luke's Instagram story. Yes. Yeah. Luke, you made a post yesterday and like, since you were on here, I was like, Hey, let's talk about it. Cause it was like pretty in depth. So I kind of summarize it and like, kind of go into what you were talking about. Yeah. So I just want to pull up the wording real quick. Like it's, it's kind of one of those like mental health type of thoughts. Like bodybuilding is very, very driven in nature and it attracts people who are very type A. As a result, like it's very easy to kind of get into this hole of feeling like you're by yourself. And I think one of the big things is like understanding that everyone who goes through bodybuilding goes through moments like this. And like, sometimes just reaching out and talking to people is the biggest thing. Um, and so it's kind of like the, just to kind of read a synopsis of it, bodybuilding attracts a certain kind of person, the kind that's willing to do what others won't. But that same drive can make you feel like your life only matters or revolves around the next prep session or meal that you have. And with that discipline, it builds champions, but it doesn't mean you have to sacrifice your entire self for it. And so it kind of moves on to saying bodybuilding should be something that you're more than your physique. You're someone with values, depth, and the ability to connect, even if you've forgotten what that feels like in the context of prep, because it can be consuming. And like, one of the things I love about this industry is that I've made some great friends along the way. Um, some that have looked out for me kind of when I've been in those holes, I kind of just put that up because we've had some people in the collective of just the university as a whole, like the university is massive. Like, uh, there's a lot of people who are in the university in the forums and, and, um, you know, they're not even on the coaching team. They're just people in the industry. Right. And I kind of put it up there and at the side, I said, if you're ever struggling, feel free To reach out to me or any of the J3U coaching team, because like, we're all here to support the industry. Like as much as we'recompetitive individuals, like I'll be the first person to tell you, like when it's stage time and when it's stage time, and then we can be friends after. But like, um, I, I also care more about the status of this industry and the direction that it's headed and thEQuality of the people that are in it. And some of that just sometimes comes out for, comes with looking out for each other. So I just kind of put it up. It was just something that I had to answer a question on the forums, kind of centered around it. And so it was like kind of heavy on the mind and felt like it needed to be shared. Yeah. Yeah. Cause at the end of the day, man, like while when you're in bodybuilding, it's such a huge, you, you think it's, it's massive, right? But like, go talk to your accountant and tell them you just want an IPB pro card. Then we're like, what's that? Yeah. Well, you talk to a lot of people not in this industry. We're very, very small. And so, you know, like Luke say, like I compete with Luke, like I compete with the coaches on our team much more like coaches, like who are against us. Right. So like, I'm the first one to be like, yes, competition is great. But at the end of the day, we're all in this together. And, you know, this past weekend, you know, I was meeting a couple of different coaches who were there and they're just cool. And like, yeah, we'recompeting against each other, but it was nice to just be sitting in a show and you can shoot the shit with athletes. Like, Hey, look at this guy. Oh yeah. I see you're on Instagram. What's he doing? Like you have to enjoy that and, and not be so like just standoffish and just like, like it's competition to an extent. Right. But you're not here to, there's, there's room at the table for everybody. And the closer you accept that, like the faster you accept that, the better. Um, and then too, at the same, it's kind of why we started this podcast originally, because we wanted a collective of coaches to, to come together and our personalities to shine. Um, but then too, like, like you said, also we're, you're much more than your body or than your physique. And, and you get a lot of times where people, they, they value themselves so much on their look or their placing. And it's like, man, like that, that's your literal body. Like you walk around in that every single day. And like, while as much as, you know, we need to rely on the critiques of five judges at the end of the day, my one thing, and then I just had this with a girl, Haley. Um, she just did great at her first show in Tennessee. Um, but we were talking and I was like, Hey, like, I'm going to ask you, would you rather like, cause we got second across the board. I was like, would you rather have your body or the winners? She's like, I'm gonna be honest. I'd rather have mine. I was like, yeah, I'd rather you have yours too. Okay. So like, while we didn't win, that's usually like how I look at it. Now on the flip side, there's going to be some freaks out there walking like, yeah, I wish I had their body. But for the most part, like you have to understand that like, this is just a small piece of your life and you need to enjoy other stuff outside of it because you won't compete forever. Yeah. I think, I think with that too, it's like, to the point it's temporary, right? Like we're not, you know, we've had these discussions before, like you can't one, you can't hate yourself into loving the physique that you produced. I think we've all probably tried it at some point in our career or used like self-deprecation as a driving force. And you don't want to be 30 years down the road, looking back at pictures and going, damn, I was in my prime and you didn't even accept that or embrace that or allow that to be a thing. And within that too, like this, this is a very individual journey, right? But ultimately it becomes a lot easier and it's a lot more enjoyable when you allow a community around you to support you. And you need it, right? This, like this literally takes a fucking village at the end of the day to make sure that you get where you need to be. And I hate seeing it too, man. Like you don't, I feel like it's the industry is getting better in some regard. Like some of my best friends I've made backstage that I competed against, right? You're going to see like, there's actually a mutual level of camaraderie and respect in the, the hierarchy of this are the people who've done this for time because they understand that one, as much as it is me versus you on stage, it's really us versus the panel and what they want that day. Right. And like, we're not, we're not fist fighting up there. You know what IMean? We're hitting poses and they're deciding what they like that day. And so there's a mutual respect of saying like, you gave your all in your prep. I gave my all in my prep. I can respect you in this lineup because I know that we've both been through the thick of it simultaneously, whether it's together or not. It's generally like the new guys that come in where they're just like, they think it's, we're going to war. And it's like, dude, it's, it is not that deep at the same time. And I think that's where it's a little bit of a paradox where like, I love bodybuilding. I'll live and die for bodybuilding in this current chapter of life, but it's also not all that I am. I think once you separate that and understand it's just a part, in some cases, a majority of your identity, it makes it a lot more fun because you don't feel like your entire value system of your existence is reliant on how you placed on a stage. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like there's a, there's a competitor, like who we are as a competitor, then there's who we are as a person. And you need to separate those because yeah, sometimes as a competitor, you're only as good as your last show. But like you as a human being, you're, I hope you're much more than that. That's why I like, I get on, I don't like seeing people like, you know, oh, they changed their name in their bio to NPC something. It's like, dude, like that, like at least be a pro before you like tag them. Right. It's not for the sense that they're not cool, but it's like, you just paid money. Like that's like putting, you know, your five-year-old up for little league and she updates her bio to little league, you know, Orioles or whatever. Like it's, you need to be much more than just this sport at times, but then at the same time, you do need to let it kind of consume you and drive you and all that. So finding that balance, I don't think any of us ever truly do, but I'll say this, once you step out of competing as an athlete, you'll see how like, God might not have been that big of a deal. Like, you know, like it's, yeah. So obviously I'm a, I was a very mediocre bodybuilder, but I'm a very good coach. Nobody like pulls up my stats as a, as an athlete to like, that's what me. Right. Like, so then they, like, it's not that big of a deal if you win everything or you lose everything, just what are you doing next? Yeah. Yeah. That last part of that statement was kind of off the back of a conversation I'd had. Like someone said it, like leaving bodybuilding for me is always, it's been tough. It's like some of my fondest memories. Right. Um, but like last year, 2024 building J3 coaching and everything was probably the hardest year of my life. If I'm, if I'm completely honest, I, I did not sleep for about nine months of the year. And, um, it was like, I could have never done that if I was still competing, um, in, in what we do now. But where it came from was like, I realized that that competing was such a small part of, of, of me and who I am and what I have to give to people. And it's actually expanded my coaching. I haven't talked about this much, but like, I'm kind of in the place where now my coaching is not just X's and O's. It's actually athlete development, um, across the board. I have a couple of athletes that go to coffee with me once or twice a month. Um, and we talk about like, I've helped them build their block schedules. We talk about their work and their jobs and like how they're excelling and how they plan to take the next steps in their career, what they can do to differentiate themselves with where they're working. Like, what are they doing to give back to the people around them? And so like, that's like athlete development. Like, that's the things that we talk about that if we can improve someone across the board as an individual, it's going to make them a better athlete. Cause like, like even just the block schedule thing, like you're never going to miss a meal or a cardio session or a trening session. If you run a tight block schedule, right? Like, sure. I'm making them a better human by doing this, but I'm also making them a better athlete. Right. And so there's this like person development thing. I think coaching should start to embody rather than just like X's and O's. Like I think that's why I'm pretty passionate about the responses being not change meal too, to a hundred grams rice, right? Like it's, it needs to be something that's more than that, which is why we do the way we do it J3 coaching with the responses. Yeah. I think it's about serving people, man. I think that's where a lot of people kind of don't realize like bodybuilding is obviously a very selfish endeavor. There's, there's nothing wrong in that. Right. But I think finding fulfillment elsewhere in this life of, of, of feeling that you've contributed at something, a cause or someone positively, I think provides a lot more value in life because again, to Alex's point, it's not like when it's all said and done, it's not how you placed on stage. It's how you treated everybody around you in this life. Like that is ultimately all that matters. Yeah. And I've never had a successful person, like a big time attorney, a cardiovascular surgeon. I've never had someone like that ever say anything negative about me having muscle. Like they're usually very, they'll talk to me with the same respect as I do to them. I don't have any near degree or whatever that they have, but they see something in you that it's a dedication and a commitment to something. And it takes something different to build a physique. And that's why, like when you do trensition out of bodybuilding into other avenues, you have that same work ethic and discipline that you used to build your body. And that's why a lot of like upper level income, wealthy, successful people will respect that. And that's why they also have their set gym routine and they don't look sloppy and all that. It's, it's cause like, we're all in that same game. So like, you may notice that like people who, you know, downplay may call you a meathead or whatever. They're probably not that successful on their own. So, um, to touch on that tidbit there. If you guys could prep one celebrity, who would it be in for what division? I'm winning this. You go ahead. All right, guys. Well, cause I'm not playing around on this one and we're going to go pro and then we're going to go to the Olympia. Sydney Sweeney fit model. Game over. Game over. One season, one card, one Olympic qualification. No. All right. Wrap it up. I'm wrong, guys. Tell me I'm wrong. What's Olympian? They don't even have a pro standard for fit model yet. And you're telling me you're going to be Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. You don't even know what the standard is. Do what? Yeah. You don't even know what the pro standard is. Dude, I'll set it. That's in the bag, dude. Alex is like, screw all of them. I'll just be the, the, the shape shifter for this industry. Um, man, I'm still struggling with who I want to prep. Uh, okay. I've got, can I, can I, can I go from a different era? Yeah. Yeah. Can I prep prime tiger woods? Like. Okay. Yeah. What are we doing with that? Have we not seen like 1999 tiger to like 2006 tiger? Yeah. I'm looking at them though. Oh man. Boys. Homeboy. Homeboy packed on some, some tissue from like 1999 to 2006 to eight ish. geez. geez. create an Olympian. Yeah. Cause he's got that work ethic too. We were just talking about like, he's got that tenacity. Okay. He's got the Buddhist work ethic that his mom instilled into him. The dude could like see through walls. Like I would just, he would run through walls for you. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going Jason Momoa open bodybuilding. Oh, I prep Jason Momoa's lookalike. You did. Yeah. Yeah. He's still on the team. It's Bailey. Shout out to Bailey. He's one of the people that goes to coffee with me a couple of times a month. He does look like, how tall is Jason Momoa? Legend of a human. Same. Jason Momoa. Six, seven. Okay. Bailey's like five, eight. So we're like not in the same ballpark. But like, yeah. See, I was going to cheat. I thought the rock for a second. Yeah. You know, he's using PDs. Yeah. He's used to it. Yeah. He's not better. You got to take someone who already has a physique and hasn't touched drugs. Yeah. Back up. John Cena open. He was a bodybuilder prior to WWE. He was actually pretty jacked. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not an unfit model. So. What's the, what's the guy that played Wolverine? Hugh Jackman? Yeah. Yeah. That'd be the option. That was my first, like, idolized, like, what I wanted to look like when he comes out of the bathtub with all the veins. And thank God I get vascularity because that's really all I get. Like, that was like, I was like, oh, I want to look like that. Yeah. Yeah. I'm vascularity. I still have a picture from the last time I prepped. It's like, I look like a nurse's wet dream. After. Tom Hardy is another one. Tom Hardy. Yeah. Tom Hardy. He can do it. He can be a monster. We've got to find that photo. I'm an animal. Sure. I did an animal giveaway with the photo too. I explicitly remember it. Good old days. Yeah. Be finding it. Chris, what you got next on the docket while Luke finds that? The Redda takeover. More lordy. Here we go. Gosh, dang it. Where'd you start, Chris? Talk about this already once, but go ahead, Alex. Yeah. We had a team call on it earlier, actually. And like, so the thing about it, guys, the listening and girls, like it's just really hyped right now. Like, you know, but those of you probably don't remember when Adapax was also really hyped and like it, it curbed people's appetites there. And it was just a pill. So like, there's always something, right? And before this stuff, it was the Samorlin and Impamorlin, which is just water attentive bullshit. And so like now we're into like this new age and then there's going to be something else coming up. But like where where I'm having issues with it is clients who are well on schedule, well lean, like they genuinely don't need it or wanting to take it because they're feeling like there's something we're leaving something on the table. And it's like, no, you just don't fit that category of like that very niche category of who may benefit from. And so that's my issue with it. It's like I'm not not giving you drugs. It's just you don't need it. I think your take on what your clinical advisor said is a good start point. I think that's where you start the conversation because then you trenslate that into if this is where we're operating from, like what use case and bodybuilding fits. Yeah. So like so in school down at UAB, my advisor is in charge of the diabetic research lab down there. And so there's a lot of stuff that they do use, utilize GLP ones with and what these drugs are for. It's trening wheels for like genuine, like clinically obese people to like learn how to adhere to a nutrition plan. And so us as bodybuilders, like, yeah, we're hungry because we're like, you know, low calories and dieting. But these people like will genuinely like be diabetic, bedridden in the hospital and order pizza. Yeah. And like not think twice about it. So like it's genuinely helping people with eating disorders, whereas we're in this realm of like, well, how can I not be hungry during a low calorie prep? And so there's a lot of side effects with it, too. Like, and again, I'm I am not, you know, against it. I don't want this take to be that I'm against it. I'm very for it when it's the criteria. And a lot of times you just need to suck it up as an athlete and just be hungry for a little bit. And you like there's a difference in like, oh, I'm low carb for three or four days and like I'm tired and whatever. Or, oh, I'm craving five guys to I'm a bikini girl. I'm on 40 carbs and my cardio is an hour and a half. And I'm I'm so hungry. It's waking me up every 90 minutes and I can't sleep. And it's driving my anxiety through the roof. Those are two different like realms and avenues of athletes that would fit the criteria for or a guy who needs to make weight. And it's like, dude, we already look good. We're going to really need to dig an extra bit and it's going to suck. So let me help this hold your hand. But there's just a lot of it. Like, and it's kind of meatheadish of me to say, but like Phil Heath didn't use it. Like, you know, Jay Cutler didn't use it. Like all the greats before us didn't use it. So like it's not an absolute must. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's going back to it. It's like the game of escalation. Right. Our goal is to use the least of whatever, even as far as the severity or efficacy of the whatever we are using. And so if we can get away with using less or something that's more safe and reliable in clinical trials and has less side effects, I'd rather always lean on the side of that. Like this is a push comes to shove, comes to punch you in the mouth scenario. I think in a show prep situation where it's like we've got this is it. Right. But there's so much that can be done, including suffering before that, where we have to pull the trigger on this and hope this is what will will, I guess, save it in a certain sense. Yeah. Yeah. And you have to look at to like, where are you getting it from? Like, are you getting it from Amino Asylum that just shut down and then they just open back up under another umbrella? And like, do we really trust that? Like not saying it's not good and like no knock on them, but like where are you getting it from? Is it legit? You know, there's some and then you run into, well, how do I carve you up on it? Is there what's your hydration status on it? Like what's it doing long term to you? Are you taking the dose that we're actually telling you to take or are you doubling it? Like there's so much because like doubling that is a lot more like stuff that comes with it than you just thinking, oh, I just need a little more because I want to be better. But I think this falls. It's not a drug to abuse. Right. It's not a drug to because, IMean, we all see it, man, like an athlete where you say, hey, let's take 60 clen and they decide 120 is what they really need to do. Right. Or whatever. And you figure that out after the fact. Like there's always going to be those people that see this as like an extremism, especially from a drug application. Like this is not a drug that you are like, oh, we're doinGHalf a milligram twice a week. Let me start on two twice a week. Right. Like there's a lot of and everybody's we're seeing and as we're just having these conversations and some of them anecdotal, like everybody reacts much differently than the next. And just based on the conversations we've had with clients. So it's like we there's there's a lack of predictability within that. I don't want at six weeks out, we're throwing in an unpredictable variable and hoping and praying that's what's going to make us through. Right. At that point, we're picking a different show or we're doing anything else. But also say with no empathy, I just did six weeks of 40 grams votes and 75 minutes of stairs and no fats and just fucking did it. So just fucking do it. Like this is what we signed up for. Yeah, I think there's. To play devil's advocate a bit here, like there's certainly use cases where it fits. Right. And I think the better conversation to have around it is. You could have the conversation about how it works. Don and I have done conversations around that on the university podcast. You guys can go check that out. We can talk mechanistically, all that kind of stuff. But let's like talk use case scenarios. So my brain and those of you guys who listen and I'm in level one, you guys have seen my flow charts like this, where you start with the decision making and you kind of move down and find where you go. Right. It's not very high on the flow chart of the decision making, in my opinion. I think I would almost drop like SLUPP and MOTC in this conversation as well as like where it fits in the flow chart is like. We're using this in cases where we're going to have problems managing the client and we're getting the client in full content shape. And like there is potential where I think this fits very well in female categories. We have a lot of categories in females where there is weight loss resistance. A lot of the weight loss resistance comes from issues with just like managing the hormone profile kind of throughout. We talked about this on the team call. Like most females go through a period of time and they'recompeting where they have menstrual cycles, but they're not ovulatory. Progesterone drops. They have low tests. Estrogen a lot of times will kind of stay where it was or slightly lower. And so they're kind of like biased into slight estrogen dominance. Can that can be an issue, which needs to be fixed on the hormone profile. This then predisposes them to having issues within contest prep. And so those preps that are brutal is where this really fits. And like I think it makes a lot of sense. We have predisposition to have issues getting body fat off of a specific body part that's key for the class. And we have a prep that's going to be 900 cals and 90 minutes cardio. It's like, yeah, like let's absolutely use a tool like this to make this as manageable as possible. But that's where it fits. Right. Like I think that's kind of where it's like. Arguably, and this comes back to how we run coaching is like if you do your homework, you build the timeline and you sequence the timeline and phases into the contest prep appropriately. You've got all the tools you probably need to get someone in contest shape without this. Right. That doesn't mean you can't use it. I just. Some people are going to have GI distress. There's going to be nausea bloating. The same with this GI distress comes with changes and looks change with electrolyte shifts. We're going to have kind of adjustments there. So we're going to need to be starting this far enough out where that's not affecting the visual. So, IMean, there's there's a lot to consider on the short term acute side effects long and then also long term. Like nobody talks about the long term potential of like, where's that data? So, yeah, I think there's a lot to consider. But let's let's throw the long term risk out of the equation because it's bodybuilding and there's a select group that will do whatever it takes. Right. Even then, it's pretty low down the decision tree of like where it fits, in my opinion. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, it's just that niche category. And you make a good point. I got a girl. She decided three weeks out she didn't want to be natural anymore. But like, that's not my time to add anivore in because I don't know because I don't know what it does. Right. But like, OK, sure. We want to try some clen. Sure. We'll try that. You know, but that's again, it's just because IMean, realistically, we are kind of the clinical trial, like without the clinic overseeing it. So, you know, we're doing it right. Like we're the first human trials. Right. So we're open to I think that it's not even a problem I have with the the handicap I get stuck with is clients who are coming to me already purchased it and they already are like mixing it and ready to take it. And that's where it's like, oh, OK, because like I'm very good at driving my car. I can drive my car very fast. If I go hop in your car, I have to get used to that. You know, like it's different. Like it's the same thing. I don't know. I've never driven with this thing in before. So let me feel it out first. That's kind of my take on. Yeah, it's going to be useful in some cases. I think there's a lot of challenging perhaps that will actually make it now with these tools and it'll be something to use. I just I really hesitate with. There's two cases that I strongly disagree with. It's it's use case across the majority of bodybuilders. I think that's a fallacy and not necessary. And then some of the conversations around potential year round use, it's like like, yeah, that's why I can't comprehend it is year round usage. Yeah, I get it. I get like some people claim it for like insulin sensitivity and body composition management. I had to break it to you, buddy. You know what does that to you? Cardiovascular activity, appearance to your diet and actually running an offseason phase that looks like a contest prep instead of eating like an asshole. Yeah. But that's not as sexy. Luke, that's not as fun. Yeah, because it's not a like, don't think you can take this and get away with like cheat meals. Like it's not like an Involcana or a Metformin type. It's not that like you don't just shit it all out. In fact, you actually you actually do the opposite. You hold on to like much longer. So, yeah, I do think it's it's cool to see the bodybuilding industry coming out with new stuff. Yeah, absolutely. Right. And much advanced. Just like how 10 years ago, like, you know, we were all doing 700 trens, 700 mass, like 700 pro. And now we've changed and we've gotten smarter. So I do. I'm with you, Luke. I think there is a place. It's just we're still figuring out where that place is. Yeah, yeah. I just everything's over sensationalized. Right. Like I put up a post about peptides like a couple months back and y'all thought I killed the Pope. Like. It was like, guys, just like think critically about this for one second. Like, here's the data. Here's my thoughts on it. If I change my thoughts on it, I'll come back and visit it. Like, it is OK to change your mind on something. Like, I don't know where we got this idea of like once an opinion shared, like that's it. But like. I have I look at my past stuff and some of the stuff that I've said in the past and I'm like, Jesus Christ, where were you? And like, like, you know, IMean, it's just it's just part of it. Like you evolve. Yeah. What are you guys' thoughts on a coach not going backstage with clients? Well, with a $350 coach is passing USA is like. Yeah. You paying like you buying, bro? Like, that's my question. There's a regional show that's charging that much for. Sure. So there's a difference. And so I'll say this. I feel like I can speak on this. I'm a pretty damn good coach. I see a lot of coaches backstage pumping their athletes up for an hour. Like, you know, trying to get visuals every five minutes, trying to look like they're busy. Oh, man. Once they're backstage, it's it's it is what it is. Like, as long as they kind of know how to pump up, like you're you're reaching for the stars at that point. You're trying to just look cool at that point. You're trying to you got your photographer there. You got your coach on the back of your T-shirt and you're doing whatever. Like the job's finished, man. And there's no greater feeling than being like first, second row of the feet cross, just chilling out in the audience. Just know when your athletes are about to rock this shit. I don't have to go back there 17 times. Now, where it is beneficial is if an athlete like emotionally they stress, they panic, whatever, you know, absolutely. And if we can be back there by all means. But I wouldn't say it's like it should be expected. Your coaches backstage as long as they're checking in on you. Like Chris at y'all show, I had what, five of y'all? And I'm like, you know, hey, all right. Once this division goes, hey, come up, come meet me over the side. I'm going to take a look at you. All right, you're good to go. Yeah, here's let's stick to the plan once, maybe twice during the prejudging as long as the show doesn't go on for seven hours. But for the most part, man, like it's it's pretty much done at that point. But if you ask your coach, here's the thing, because I've had coaches. I've had clients come to me. I offered to pay for my coach to come to the show. I bought him a backstage pass and he just ticked off. That's where I'm and I'm bothered about. So like if you set that up, like, hey, you said you'd be here. I got you the ticket and then they don't come. That's that's not cool. Did I already feel bad, like asking my clients to pay for any of my shit? You know, like, why would you not like why would you be there? You know, and I work with a lot of first timers. So like I like to be backstage. Which again, it goes back to like my my history. And this is an athlete like my first coach. And it is what it is. Like, I don't have any hard feelings towards it. But like ghosted me on peak week, dropped off a bag of Lasix at my doorstep and told me to Google how to use them and then misprejudging. Right. And so, like, I didn't know shit for fuck about what I was supposed to do on my peak week or show day or whatever. And so for me, I don't want my first timers to have an experience where they feel like they're on an island or they don't have me in their corner. So generally, I always get a backstage pass. But to the same logic, dude, I'm looking at them like twice. Just right where we need to be. Like, I could do this at home. I could do this anywhere else. Right. But it's just more to make sure that if they have that moment of panic or when the expediters are telling them to go get their glaze and get ready right now. And we still have 45 minutes like I can be there just like, hey, dude, we're good. Like, let's just breathe, relax and keep it pushing. That's the value of stage pass to me is the timing of the show. So they don't start pumping up too soon. You can make sure the glaze is good because not everybody's good, which God bless the protein girls, by the way, the protein girls in Texas. They know me from a mile away. There's one guy on the team, like he'll see me walk in the venue and he'll be like, everyone get the glaze. Like as soon as I walk in, because like most of my guys and girls come in like really good content shape. And so it really pays to have a solid pace to make a tan kind of contrast and the lights. So I'm really picky about that stuff. That's where I think the backstage pass pays for itself if the client's willing to pay for it is the small details of like how fast is the show going, the glaze, that kind of stuff. But man, it's not necessary. Like unless you have a high anxiety athlete where your presence really calms them, like it's just not like it's it's really not. Yeah. And I like what. And so a lot of times, like most athletes, they'll keep their phone on them. And like if I'm there, I'm watchinGHow fast the show is going. And I've already I've already let them know, hey, when this class goes, that's when you pump. That's. Yeah. Yeah. And how hard is it to walk to the edge of the curtain to get a quick look if you need to get a quick look? Like, IMean, it's like steps from backstage to the door that lets you in backstage most of the time. Like, come on. Yeah. It's yeah, it's definitely nice. But for me as a coach, I like that separation of church and state. Like I like when I come to look at you, it's like, oh, we're we'rEQuiet. The principles in the room like I need hands on deck. And then I leave and then you can kind of get back to like, OK, now I'm going to chill with the team and all that. Like, whatever. Like, I don't I don't need us to hang out and be giggling. Dude, my two best friends competed and I wasn't giggling with them at all on stage. Like, it's it's business. Right. And sometimes I think like like we're not there to hang out. Like we're there to get a job done. Then we get done. We hug. We come by. We take pictures and all that. But like I'm very business mode during during prejudging. I'm going to send your next athlete with one of those bongo drums. Yeah. Yeah. That's good vibes for Alex. Yeah. What were the dumbest things that you guys did early in your bodybuilding careers? Deadlift drop sets. Build character. That was fun. Build character. Oh, probably just like the amount of drugs. Like just for just because you're just told that's what it takes. Like, you know, you're just you're told that and not not like managing my blood pressure, not looking at my blood pressure. That, you know. Yeah. Because you got to think when we like look at me and you started 2013. That was 12 years ago. It was very not. IMean, like taking blood pressure medicine was like, I'm not fat. I'm not over. Like, what are you talking about? It wasn't a thing. But like now, like, you know, so much more. So, yeah, that's probably where I went wrong was just I didn't have any insurance in play. Like other than this is the cycle. Drinking egg whites, drinking whole eggs. I'd put this up there. Yeah. I think drinking caffeine at like pre-workout at like eight o'clock at night. You know. German idiocracy. Yes. German volume trening. trening seven days a week. I'd say those are probably some of the dumber things that I was doing consistently. Yeah. There's a lot. I think a lot of how we got here and like, I know it's why I'm good at making calls as coaches. I've done like what not to do. I'm about to say that. I'm about to say that. I'm about to say that. I'm about to say that. I'm about to say that. People know me from like the trening stuff I put out quite a bit or like me nerding out. I'm like, y'all, you do not know one, the amount of times I've lost sleep over like trening patterns. But two, the dumb shit that I did in a gym setting that made me learn this quick. Yeah. It's crazy. Yeah, dude. I think that's, you have to go through that though. And almost like, let me ask you this thing too. Would, would it benefit you or not benefit you? Would you've rather, if you could go back to day one and just miraculously hired like a you, right? As a coach or would you rather gone through the shit of trying to trial and error and learn through however many years it was before you hired a coach? Hmm. Hmm. I just got a really dumb question. Um, what was thEQuestion? I think so I hired early. Mm hmm. So I think I would stay with that. Cause I think honestly, like the reason I was so passionate about learning every single little detail about how I can get better was because I knew pretty quickly that I wasn't Tyler. Tyler, for example, Tyler needs a client of Alex is like 26 and 275 right now, not 280, whatever he is. Like I wasn't that right. Like I was 140 pounds soaking wet when I started bodybuilding. So like it was, it was not my calling necessarily from like a competitive standpoint, but it's served me well. And like what I do as a career. Yeah. ThEQuestion Alex was if you went back to day one, started bodybuilding, would you rather have just miraculously found like a you as a coach, like current you, or would you rather gone through the thick of trial and error for however many years before you actually chose to hire a coach? No, so I did. I worked with a great coach when I left him for like two shows is when I got the most aggressive. And then I went back to him for my best look, but as he learned, I learned too. He taught me a lot of even what I do somehow to this day. So yeah, I'm glad I found him. And yeah, it's just, it's, it was just at that time, man, like, you know, 2011, 2012, 2013, like we were like Mike Horn. You remember him from Alabama. IMean, he was doing the whole eggs and every meal thing. And we thought that that was the trick. Cause like, he's the big, he's the big pro in the state. So like where the sport has came in the last 13 years, like we all got better. It wasn't like, there was no Jew at 13 years ago. Jew was doing what we were doing 13, you know, like there wasn't. And so, yeah, I, I obviously, yeah. I tell you guys like my clients now, but man, I wish I had a meme, but in all honesty, like I did at that time. I like that. How, this was a question that we got. How do you balancEQuestioning your coach versus wanting knowledge? As far as like, I guess the verbiage or approach to asking questions. Those are. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's a fine. It's not, it's a fine line, but it's not right. I feel like. I should have explained to you enough as to what we're doing or like why we're doing it, that there's not a lot of questioning. Like you at least understand the direction going at the same time. I don't have time to give you a J3 level one course. Right. Like that's, that's not, that's not my job. You're, you're paying me to do not to teach. However, I'm going to educate you as much as I need to, to where you understand. So I'm not leading you blind. I think a lot of this questions getting where, or where I see stuff is people come to us and like, well, my friend says this, my coach told me this recently. And you're like, you know, before you, I did this and we're having to like, correct a lot of errors that aren't even errors from us. It's like kind of PTSD from previous things or insecurities are getting from other people. And that's where it's like, Hey, you have to trust, like you're paying us for a reason. And the reason you left that coach is because they weren't doing good. So like, yeah, we are going to do things different. And so it's, I think a lot of it is in the, how you word it and how you bring it up in conversation. Not just, well, I was, you know, four pounds lighter last year with so-and-so, like, are we behind? Like, no, it's just like, that's my time as coach to explain and inform. You can't keep looking back at like what you did because here we are right now. Yeah. I, the person in the circle group thing, that's my pet peeve. Like, I lovEQuestions. Like I even have a second on my check-in form. It's like, drop threEQuestions here if you need them. I coach a lot of coaches. So like, they want to know things, right? Like, and I'm fine with it. So it's, it's something that I, I actually enjoy it answering people's questions. But that's where I, that's where I kind of like, think that's extremely disrespectful. It's like, I did this in the past or my friend says I look ready or my whatever, like, you know, whatever it is, or it's just like, they're there in their role and not coaching you. Because they aren't me. So let me do my job and just ignore everyone else. Like, if you got a question and you think something would work, talk to me. Don't talk to anyone else. Like, that's just, it's, it's just. They, people don't realize that coaches are always thinking like four steps ahead. So like, IMight be doing something because I want to pull a lever here, like the following week or another lever in two weeks. So it's like, you start like, ah, just that's my, that's an unbelievable pet peeve. Like, just save, save the opinions. Like, I don't need to hear them. Yeah. If you did, you would just go to that friend. You know what IMean? Let's again, it's like someone said, I'd go to Tyler or Sandy. Yeah. My opinion, Tyler, Sandy's or Steve's are the only opinion I care about. Yeah. Yeah. And again, it's the same logic is like, at some point you saw value and what one of us is offering as a coach, whether it's through our show wins or trensformations, whatever. And you said, I'm going to pay them my dollars for them to tell me what to do. And I'm going to listen to them. And then you sign up with them. And then, well, my buddy said, I'm like, why didn't you hire your buddy? Yeah. I noticed it a lot too. Like when you get into the drug realm and stuff like that, it's like, because you get so many people who are locked in on, oh, I love the DECA-500 and the super test 450. Like, and I don't mean this disrespectful, but oftentimes they don't have the biology or the anatomy and physiology background of education where I can even begin to explain why that like, it's not ideal. And so like, I have to really like invest in, like, I have to pay, I have to go back like seven steps just to get back to like, why the Esther I don't like, or the peaks and valleys of a testosterone, like all this stuff. And it's like, dude, if you just trust, like, if you just trust me, I got it. Right. And so that's, that's where a lot of like the, and again, it's understandable because like, hey, I've done it this one way this whole time. But like, sometimes it's just a difference in education that I don't have time to teach you. But like it says at the same time, like, I want to teach you. I want to tell you, hey, yeah, like, Masteron isn't the reason your hair is falling and we'll go into why. Right. Like there's, um, so there's parts of all that, but I think if you just deliver it respectfully and from a, a voice of wanting to understand and not questioning, that's the route to go for sure. Yeah. How do you deal with clients who are lying about following the plan? You don't. Cut them. Um, IMade this comment the other week. I was like, God, I love peak weeks. Cause it's finally when I find out what the fuck y'all are doing, like all the little thing. Oh, well, you know, actually coach for me when I've been doing this instead of this. Oh yeah. That's the best. They're like coming forward to you with the, you know what? I know you had this, but I've actually been doing X, Y, Z. It's like, yeah. And it's like, okay, so we're four days out. Thank you. And again, it's probably not that big of a deal, but it's like, that that's just not what we were doing. Right. And so the truth always comes out. Like, we're going to see it in your physique. The other day, like you lying to us is it's disservice and cheating yourself. It's not like, like I tell people on my consultation calls when I first meet them, Hey, I don't care if you go park at a buffet for 24 hours. Tell me like I can fix, I can't fix that, but I can mitigate, I can mitigate what to do next rather than like me just guessing what's wrong. And that's the thing is like, if, if you're not telling me what's wrong, I'm assuming I need to fix my plan. But in reality, me fixing my plan doesn't do anything because it's like, well, didn't even follow it. So why would I need to change it? And a lot of those times as clients just weed themselves out, like they, they don't last. Right. Um, you'll, you'll have some, like, there'll be all giggly after show like, Hey, well, I was actually doing this instead. And it's like, okay, cool. Like, do you feel good now? Like, cause you, you might've won and you gotten away with it, but what if you lost? What if you lost? And that always sat in my head is like, man, I knew I shouldn't have eaten that extra a hundred grams of rye or, you know, like it's, it's not if you win and you get to giggle and get away with it. It's, it's what if you lost? Yeah. And that would drive me up a lot. Yeah. I usually, um, I had one this year, which I won't get into like too many specifics with it, but again, like thermodynamics don't lie. And we've done this long enough. Like if I have you in a calorie deficit and you're gaining weight, clearly you're doing something wrong and you're not in a deficit at that point. Right. And, um, usually like I'll sit back, I'll ask questions and kind of see if they'll, they'll open up because I tell everybody the same thing. Like I'm the last person to judge. I'm also all of this, the relationship of coaching a client has to involve trust, right? There has to be vulnerability and a safe space there. And that does take time to develop and requires communication. But ultimately I say this verbatim to everybody, you can get away with murder and I will help you bury the body as long as you talk to me. Cause then we can solve something, right? Like much like a dog, I can't know something's wrong unless you tell me. So you just got to tell me and just bite the bullet. And it's not fun, but it's also, you shouldn't cheat on the plan. Right. Because I am, this is symbiotic. My success is relying on your success and I'm putting a stamp on you and you're putting a stamp on me. We're representing each other. So I need that. I need to be able to rely on you and vice versa. And I'll sit back and watch, especially if they don't give me the full truth. Cause I'm not going to sit there and be accusatory. I'm just going to sit back and watch. And then when I noticed something, they post something. I'll take a screenshot and say that just wait, you know, and we'll just collect a little bit more odds and ends or whatever. And I won't make it a conversation or an uncomfortable one until the conversation becomes, Hey, the plan's not working anymore. And then I go, now I have something to talk to you about. And here's all the proof. So do you want to talk? I've been through it a couple of times, right? Like I had one years ago. I'll tell this story because I don't, I don't work with the kid anymore. He was losing, you know, three, four pounds a week, pretty consistently for like eight or nine weeks. And then he started stalling and then inevitably started to gain weight. And he did the same thing. He comes to me, Hey, your plan's not working anymore. I'm sorry. Let's hop on a call and we can kind of talk through it and see what's going on. And so I'm just going through the list of everything that I think it could be. And finally I get to condiments. And I was like, have you swapped your condiments out recently? And he's like, yeah. And I was like, well, what were you doing before? And he's like, I was using like mustard, sugar-free ketchup. And I was like, okay, what are you using now? Ranch. I said, I said, okay. I was like, do you care to like send me a picture of your next meal? Like how much ranch you're using? And it was just straight up hidden Valley ranch dressing. Dude, it was like four or five tablespoons a meal, like four times a day. And I was like, one, that's rancid. Like that's so much ranch. It was like a bottle a week is when I did the math. That's like 4,300 calories. And so I explained that to him. I was like, dude, you're eating 4,300 calories of mayonnaise a week. That's why you're not losing weight anymore. So let's pull that out. And we pulled it out and they start dropping weight again. Right. So it's like, that was, that one was an easy fix. Right. But then you have certain people who are like, even when you, and this is the other thing I'll tell people too, is I've also learned when you ask and they do tell, it's like 40% of the truth. It's like, oh, I've had a couple of rice cakes. Okay. But how'd you gain three pounds off of two rice cakes? It's like, well, I had a pizza. Well, I had this. Well, I got that. I'm like, okay. So now we're actually getting the full scope of the, the fuckery. And then we just got to figure it out. And that's uncomfortable. But it's like, if you would have just been straight up with me up front, if you come to me in a place of vulnerability, like I'm always going to lead with respect. Hey man, I fucked up. Okay, cool. Let's talk about it. What's going on versus if I have to catch you in it, it's not going to be fun because we've wasted time between when it happened and in that moment, like there could have been a solution provided and we could be back on track by that point. You also have a responsibility to coach to focus on the solution. I think like in, in prep, it's not the time to have the sit down. I'm a, I'm a big advocate of like, okay, I hate this happen. Forget about it. I need you to do this. Like I'm a big ride the midline guy. Like, like your emotional state should not change too much in the process until like the process pays off. Like, it's like, okay, you made a mistake. Forget about it. We're going to do this to keep moving forward. And I need you to just focus and execute. And that's how you get someone kind of back on track. In my opinion, like the more you blow it up as a coach, the more they're going to be like. Yeah. And it makes them check out even more. And I will say that's the beauty of Instagram is like, I'll catch people posting their meals, their coffee orders. You start seeing a lot of like the extras that go in. So like every meal has a sugar-free This or a energy drink. Like you notice every meal that posts is energy drink and a diet Coke in the background. It's like, okay. Like you start to get an idea of what they're really doing. And eventually you can kind of mitigate it. Eventually you've learned your clients enough. You already know what they're going to cheat with. So like, like you, like I think Chris would ever go off plan. I already know what he, what I would do to like fix it and mitigate it. Like I, you learn Austin, same thing, Neely, same thing. You know, like they're little, like not, they do it in a prep setting, but like, you know what they would like do, but you just know them. And so, or sometimes it's the opposite. Sometimes they do more and you're like, I know they're doing more. I'm not going to talk about it. I'm just going to, I'm just going to make my plan accordingly. You know? Yeah. I think, I think all you have to do is give Chris banana nut bread, MRE light and some oatmeal and he'll just be happy. Yes. Mouth for sure. Yeah. I never seen, I never seen someone look so lovingly at food as that day that we were in the hotel room. He was making that. And dude, that's a good point. Cause you can see also how they're like their demeanor. You can know when someone's happy and fed and you can know when someone's. Yep. Completely different verbiage. Yeah. So you're, you're good, man. But, um, I think that about wraps up today, right? It's about. Yeah. That was the last one. Or no, we got when, if you guys want to touch on it, when can people start calling themselves a bodybuilder? Oh, I'm indifferent on this. I am a bit indifferent on this too. I think if you're pursuing it competitively, good. It's all a process and a journey. Like I think, I think really when we think about it and I think this is where like the identity conversation comes in is like, what do you gain from bodybuilding? Is it really being a bodybuilder or is it the things that it teaches you? Right. For me, it's the things that teaches, it teaches you. Um, so if you want to call yourself that, that's great. Just like hold yourself to that standard and execute. Like, that's fine. And just know that you're a long ways. Like I have a kid, Xavier just turned 21, never stepped on stage. He's more of a bodybuilder than 90% of the people in the J3 coaching team. Yeah. Yeah. And well, Luke, I'm almost a brown belt, so calm down. Um, but, um, but with that being said though, like, yeah, there's not a, I think about it as like, when am I in a scenario where I need to tell somebody on the body? Yeah. I think I want to get to a point where they look at me, which I never really got to it. Um, uh, it would be like, what do you do? And then they'd ask what division and I'd want to go kill myself. Um, but mostly it was like, do I play football or do, am I a wrestler? Right. Um, but I feel like you should get to the point where like, do you compete? You're a bodybuilder. Like I shouldn't have to introduce myself. Oh yeah. I'm a bodybuilder. Like you should, it should just kind of be understood. But yeah, like if you want to, like, if you're at show and tell for somebody and you got to tell them what you do, like, yeah, if you're eating, if you're eating your meals and you're trening, like, yeah, I'm a bodybuilder. Um, love it. I think it's a good way to put it. It shouldn't necessarily have to be like, so outwardly self-proclaimed because again, to the point, like we were talking about the account and stuff earlier, most people don't care like outside of this. Like when I worked in jewelry, nobody could have given a shit less that I was a bodybuilder. You know, I just generally am like, yeah, I compete. I've won some shows and that's as usually as far as the conversation needs to go. Um, but I think just whenever, like, I think if you, if you fundamentally check the boxes and this is something you're aspiring to do, you can call yourself one, but you just got to be about it. Like, I don't know if you can follow a diet for six months and tren consistently for a couple of years. And you look the part, like the thing is, if you can look at yourself objectively in normal clothes and look at yourself and go, could somebody tell I work out? Let's start there. Yeah. And then go beyond that for sure. Um, I think it's got anything else, gentlemen. That's a wrap. That's a good first episode. Sorry for the delay to our current listeners. Um, we are back now and for our new list on the J3 platform, welcome. Um, to kind of summarize, if you've made it this far, um, we are the after hours, we are kind of the, you know, kind of free range to talk about whatever, like the more day-to-day stuff as coaches and athletes, rather than just like the X's and O's. So y'all ever have any questions, just send them over, DM us, comment below. Yeah. Yeah. Well, until next time, thank you for listening to J3U After Hours.

=== FILE: J3U After Hours Ep. 2 ｜ Olympia stories, coaching insights & backstage chaos [ehFYqTnks08].txt ===

 All righty, all righty, everyone, welcome back to episode two of J3U after hours. I'm one of your hosts, Chris Perry, alongside Alex, Alex, Alex, and our special guest, Ireland's first Olympian. One would describe him as having the widest teeth in the IFBB. Darren, how are you doing today, man? I'm good, man. Thank you for the instruction. Good. I'm just out of bed. So IMight be a little slower. Yeah, what, uh, let me, I'm just curious. The, geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez So I started in Ireland and IMoved to London when IMet my nephew. And we were together, our relationship was getting pretty serious. And then we were kind of looking at things. We just didn't see a future for ourselves there. So we thought, why not try going somewhere? The plan was to come here for like two years, just earn a lot of money and then go back. But we're here, what, nearly 10 years later. Oh man, you've been there 10 years. Yeah. I'm here long before the hype of us. Okay. Okay. Dude, that's awesome. So when did you turn pro? I turned pro in 2019. Wow. Man, doing it. Yeah, it's funny, man. Because like, we'll be talking and stuff. And then I'm like, why doesn't the Olympian answer? You know, like, why are we? Yeah. Where are we? Who the fuck am I? Yeah, 2019. In New Zealand, I will actually. Man, that's wild. Yeah, it's cool, man. Because like, you're so humble about like this, like all together. You're a killer coach. Like, you're a badass coach. But then also like, as an athlete, you're a killer athlete too. It's like, but like, just talking to you, you never, you never treat us any different. You're never talking to you. You're just like, yeah, man, I'm, I'm just here like you guys. Like, it's cool, man. I think for me, my, my attitude towards it's very different to a lot of people. Because I came up, like, I started bodybuilding off the back of playing professional sport. And it was just something I needed to do. It wasn't something. And in Ireland at the time, we had, there wasn't no such thing as a pro card. You know, there wasn't a show you could turn pro. And so it wasn't a thought. So I just bodybuilded to do it. That's the way I've always done it, you know. Even as I got better at it, I've always been, I got better at being a coach before I got as a bodybuilder. You know, so I was coaching more seriously than I was competing. And so I would always consider myself kind of a coach first. So I bodybuild because I enjoy it. Not because I strive to go to the Olympia or anything. IMean, you just, you've been to the Olympia. Don't get me wrong. It's nice. It's cool to have done. But it's, it was never my goal. Yeah. Yeah. That it, I think that explains a lot. That explains a lot. Like, cause you're, I think that explains a lot. Cause you're such a good coach, but like you're, now we get coaches. They come about and they want to be like, they strive for it. Or the athletes will like taper off cause they're not a good athlete and become a coach. But you're like, no, I was a coach first. And then, you know, I just happened to also be a good athlete. Yeah. I was like, underneath it all, I'm a bit of a nerd. So my love for this kind of came, you know, I started getting into it often, like I said, off the back of sport. When I got injured, I was rehabbing, got into the gym, kind of fell in love with it. At the time I was doing, finishing my master's in business. And I was like, it's good. And I don't want to go to work. So I'm going to do another master's. So I did a master's in nutrition and just fell in love with that side of things and just opposed with my passion. Have you found struggle as being as high of an athlete and coach as you are? Have you found struggle in trying to find the balance between the two, especially when you're deep in prep? No. At the Olympia, I actually coached one of my competitors. That's so cool. I definitely think I'm probably the first to have done that. I think so. Yeah. That's great. So tell us about it. Who was it? Like, who was the athlete? Josh Easton. He came to me about a year to 18 months prior. As an amateur, he had been sort of placing okay in classes but not winning or getting to overalls or anything. But I'm a wicked athlete and a really good guy. Like a workhorse. One of these guys just killed it in the gym, like crazy strong. Yes, I started working with him and we got into prep and he was, his issue always was a bit of lack of belief. So that was the main thing was like tellinGHim he could do it and making sure he was head was screwed on. Did our first show, did a regional show, which you need to do in Europe to do a pro qualifier. He did that. Won the overall. And then the judge, the head judge from the show told him he needs to improve a hell of a lot if he wants to win a pro card. And then two weeks later we went to Finland. He was one of both. I think it was Finland. And we won his pro card and later won the pro show. Literally in an hour we went from amateur to Olympian. And then, yeah, we both threw out to Vegas. It was tiring, but Joe and I was actually the best thing because my mind was on him. I was just taking the boxes I needed to do. That's why we always say every coach, you have a coach. If you're an athlete and you're a coach, don't coach yourself. Because then, yeah, I imagine it would be pretty damn hard. But I didn't have to think about it myself. So, yeah. Man, that's awful. What a story, too. Because, like, that's so – that just doesn't happen. And one thing that, like, blows my mind, because here in the States, like, it's – I hear about, like, you people – like, I've got a couple clients overseas, like, in Europe. And they're like, oh, I'm in Switzerland, but I'll just hop over to Poland or I'll just hop over. They're, like, hopping countries. And, like, in my head I'm like, where – like, that's right. You can go do that? Yeah, it's just, like, two or three hours. Like, but to us, that'd be, like, us going to, like, a whole different state, you know. So it's just funny. It's funny hearing that. Yeah, but they can hop countries and be therEQuicker than, like, someone having to travel in-state America. Yeah, yeah. That's the difference. We're having to hit, like, two or three flights just to get, you know, across the U.S. It's wild. Yeah. Hell, yeah. Well, dude, and then you're – so coming to J3U, you were hired, like, right before – because, like, I know they have their little squad of coaches. And then I know you came and then I came, like, I think me and you, like, signed up together, basically, right? Yeah, I'm pretty sure I did my – we were on board at, like, the exact same time you and me. Yeah, yeah, yeah, which was super cool, but that, like, what – how did that, like, what linked you up with that? Like, I knew you met Luke, but then, too, like, what do you feel like it's done for you since, like, you've joined on? Because, like, we'll answer this, too. Listen, I've always been a huge advocate of J3 University. Like I said, I'm sort of one of these people. Like, I get interested in something and I just keep going and doing things to get better at it. And, like, one thing I do is every year I invest a certain amount of money into educating myself further through courses, be it on nutrition, biomechanics, anything like that. But J3, I've always said, has been the best one. Like, anyone who has worked with me and then will do the J3 courses themselves, you can see how my sort of philosophy is shaped mathematically. Not just from J3 University, but, like, from following John for years as well. So, yeah, I've known them both quite a long time. IMet John first in person in 2021. It was my first Olympia as a coach. I had two girls competing at the Olympia in 2021 in Florida. And we met there back at the gas house, I think, afterwards. And we were talking. And then I was doing the courses. Then met Luke and John together. And they came to Dubai to do a seminar. So, went to the seminar there and we got talking. And a little while later, John asked me to sort of, you know, be an advocate for J3 University, you know, talk about my experiences and, like, why I'm like and stuff like that. And then when the coaching launched, I just had a conversation with Luke. And I jumped at the opportunity to work alongside them and, you know, the other coaches here. You know, you're always going to get better. So, that was – and it definitely happened. I think it's leveled up a lot as a coach since joining J3U. Yeah. Dude, yeah, that's what I noticed too, man, is, like, it – you know, it's obviously like we get, you know, inquiries and stuff for coaching. But I think a lot of it was already kind of athlete to, like, kind of knew of me as a coach. It kind of just gave me the stamp of approval on, like, oh, like, okay, Alex is pretty good. Like, now I will go work with him type deal. And just kind of – then just, of course, learning along the way has been huge. Yeah, absolutely. I think definitely the stamp of approval, I think the biggest part is just, like, keeping it on your feet as well. Like, keeping you thinking and, you know, with, like, our – we're always having weekly calls and sort of being challenged in terms of, like, on scenarios and stuff like that. So, it just keeps you constantly taking over and in the loop rather than just, you know, stepping in your own lane. Yeah. Yeah. You want to get into thesEQuestions, boys? Yeah, dude. For sure. All right, Darren, I've got a couple for you that are not listed. You're not right or wrong answers, but there are. So, if you're going to a gas station and you've goT3 snacks to choose and one beverage, what are you getting and why? Macros don't count. Three snacks and one beverage. I'm doing an audible here because I'm definitely someone – I'm going to need two beverages. So, I'd go with, like – I'd go with something like a Dr. Pepper Zero and Monster. I'm probably going to go with Whistler's. Okay. Yeah. I'm a jellies person. Then some form of sweets, like, jelly sweets. I don't know. So, I'm trying to think of brands that are in America and not in the UK. Maybe, like, Swedish Fish or something. I'm getting there. Yes, sir. Yeah, I don't know. I'm not much of a chocolate person or anything, so there's not going to be one. Yeah, I don't realize we have, like, the shit of the shit junk food here. Like, we do it. Yeah. Dude, I saw the Cinnamon Toast Crunch Bacon collaboration. I was like, yeah, no wonder there's an obesity crisis in this country. I'm concerned. Way too much. What is both you guys – well, I'll answer it, obviously. But what – the best backstage what-the-fuck moment that you've witnessed as a coach or as an athlete? The Olympia. No, no, not one of the athletes. It's Shaq. Oh, yeah. What, just how biGHe was? Yeah. Dude, I saw Brian Shaw. He was probably, like, five feet from me before walking to the stage with Arnold to do his – like, one of his lifts. And it was, like, is the largest human I've ever witnessed that close. It was – so, yeah, I could imagine Shaq. But just, yeah. Does that work? Actually, I think the biggest one was – it's not backstage, but it's registering on the show. We were registering for the Arnold. And I was – like, they'd got us to come up, and we were, like – I lifted my head, and it was just – Arnold was, like, stood one foot in front of me. I was, like, hi. And only that – only that Wentley was behind me. And Wentley was, like, oh, let me take a picture for you. I was, like, okay. Oh, dude, I would have been so scared. What – so, me and Chris, we play this game when we're at shows together. We look for, like, the dumbest – like, what dumb shit people are doing backstage. Like, like, carving up or alcohol or whatever. Like, what's some crazy stuff you've seen, like, overseas? Oh, there's – listen, I've got – I say this is the Donald thing, but I'm pretty sure this guy went on to win. I've seen a guy sitting there with a full-on McDonald's meal chomping it down before he went on stage. He had, like, a burger, fries to drink, the whole lot. Oh. I'm almost 30 actually won as well, so. So, I have one – this actually happened at Universe, like, a couple months ago. This guy who won one of the classic classes was – he offered my client, like, he had three different kinds of, like, jumbo bags of M&Ms. He had regular peanut and, like, one other flavor. And the dude was, like, nasty peeled, like, veins everywhere. But he was, like, housing them, like, for – like, the whole time backstage. And he just looked insane. And I was like, I don't – I was, like, trying to, like, come up with an excuse on why he could do it. And I was like, I don't know, man. That's crazy. That's, like, back – the – the – Arnold in 2024, the year that, like, Dino was, like, disappointing. He came out prejudging that, like, not very good. The one Wednesday won. Backstage for finals that night, he came back and he, like, laid down on the floor. He was a couple of feet away from me. And he – someone walked in with just bags and bags of, like, salt and vinegar crisps. And he was just sitting there just – just eating, eating, eating. And then they walked in with a – with a 12 box of Krispy Kremes. And he's just sitting there just eating and eating and eating. Mate, he stood up and pumped up. And it was just, like, a different human. Yeah. It's – it's stuff like that, man, that, like, we have no way around telling our clients how that's not going to work for them. The only way is to go, trust me, it's not going to work for you. Let's not gamble on this one because – Because, dude, I was, like, we've all seen it. We've seen the freaks, like, do some – like, Chris, we've seen what? Marshmallow Fluff. Oh, dude. Marshmallow Fluff. I've seen a whole cheesecake backstage. I've seen a cheese pizza backstage. I've seen every candy under the sun. I saw a dude house a six-pack of Costco muffins. It's, like, 4,500 calories. I've seen Milo's Sweet Tea. I saw a dude, like – IMean, he was for sure blackout. He had – he drank a bottle of wine, like, between pre-judging and finals. I've known of somebody to roll, like, to take an ecstasy tablet before. Well, I was going to say, I know – I know a former teammate was advised to take a Xanax the night before the show, and she slept through the entire show day. Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of – it's bad, man. But, like, that's one thing we run into, like, as coaches is there's – you'll have those one-off freaks who can get away with something. Yeah, just do anything. Yeah, and, man, I'm – They could have eaten absolutely nothing and still look like a freak on it. Yeah, yeah. And, dude, I've even dealt with it. Like, I've had two, like, bikini girls doing the same show. One of them's eating, like, French fries and some bison. Another one's eating, like, you know, rice cakes and some chicken. And I'm, like – I can't – like, there's a few reasons why I can't explain to you why you're not getting that. But, like, it's just people are totally different, right? Yeah. IMean, you could look at me and Austin's Peak, and they were not remotely the same. And we weighed almost like – Yeah, that was fun. I genuinely – so, I had let – it was the guy carving up, and I told you I'd let him, like, try the Redda stuff for, like, four – I think it was, like, four or five weeks. I just couldn't – Oh, yeah. IMean, I just couldn't get him full. And so, this kid, like, and he's a freak, you know, kid, and, like, his free meals, like – IMean, dude, I watched him. We were, like, six weeks out, and, like, I let him, like, go to town on some food. And it was, like, burgers and cheesecake. And literally, man, it's, like, Friday night, and I'm sitting there, like – I was, like, man, like, I'm genuinely wondering what flavor cheesecake you want right now. And he was, like – he was, like, man, you're freaking me out. I was, like, no, dude, like – I was, like, that's where we're at at this. Like, this is, like, how much this is driving me nuts that you're still not full, you know. But, yeah, it's crazy, man. But that goes – there's a question with some of the, like, off-the-wall stuff. That was Darren's question. I was, like, no, if we're going down on a question, you're coming with us. A hundred percent. Or I've seen two. I watched a guy one time. This was the other one. It was at, oh, Kentucky Derby in, like, 2019. This dude brought an entire weight set backstage. And I shit you not, he worked out for three hours. Like, he – it wasn't even pumping up. Like, dude worked out for three hours. And he – you would be surprised. There's always at least one backstage that's, like, just fucking pumping up for a minute. You're sitting there looking at them going, like, what are you doing? Well, dude, I hate that shit as a coach because then your people start getting antsy. Because, like, well, they're pumping up. I'm, like, they don't – they're two hours ahead of schedule. They don't need to. I'm just always, like, the path that's on before you, when they're lined up and going on stage, you can start pumping up. Until then, ignore whatever the hell the people backstage tell you. Yeah. Dude, it's bad. Yeah, I was going to ask, what's it like, like, trying to pump up for the Arnold or the Olympia? Like, because there's so many people. Like, do you – is it easy to time? The Arnold was easy because there wasn't too many of us. And they were, like, buying on schedule with everything they said. Like, they brought us to a back – the Arnold, they bring you to, like, a holding area. And then they bring you to a backstage area when it's time for you to go backstage. You're backstage with just, like, one class who's on the front of you. So you're – and they're, like, you're going to be on stage in 12 minutes. And it's, like, exact. The Olympia is, like, fucking shit show free for all. It's, like, there's, like, 60 of us backstage. And it's, like, the worst part of it is, is, you know, you have to go on and you do, like, your individual. Then you do group comparisons. And then you do call-ins. But if you imagine with 60 people all doing an individual, that's, like, 60 minutes. Yeah. So you pump up. You go on stage. You come back. You basically lie down for 30 minutes. And then you've got to go pump up again. Go on stage. It's, like, rejudging at the Olympia is, like, two hours. I never even thought of that. Like, I think about it at nationals. But, like, it's never 60 deep, you know. Oh, that's good. Do you think they need to limit how many competitors there are? It's hard when you go back and forth on that all the time. I think for the viewership of the show and thEQuality of the show, I think so. And then you're, like, I feel like maybe you're taking away from the athletes. You're taking away from the overall viewership of bodybuilding. Because you're basically saying, like, you either have to limit qualifications, which is going to limit the amount of people competing throughout the year. So I don't know. They do have to do something. Because it's a bit wild, like, if you ask them straight up, I'm going to say all day. If I can choose to do either one of them again, I'm doing the Arnold all day. Yeah. It's a way better experience as an athlete. Because, you know, there's not a presence of you there overall. So you're actually treated like an athlete. You're treated like an athlete. And you get your time and everything like that. Yeah. I've heard of them, like, contemplate. I've just heard people talking online. Like, you know, having, like, an elimination round before it gets to, like, you know, what's aired on TV or, you know, on the stream. It's like, hey, we're going to cap it at 20 people. You know, there may be 60 here. But, like, to get to the next phase, then we'll cap it at 20. And then the top 20 goes. Would that be something you'd be like, yeah, that makes more sense? It does. But it's not essentially all they're doing, except they're just going to add in a third round then, basically. Because they're going to go, oh, the day before pre-judging, we're going to have a pre-pre-judging and eliminate someone. Then we're going to do. But in the morning, they have pre-judging. And then by finals, that's only 10. Yeah, that's true. That is true. So that is essentially what they do. Yeah. Yeah, that's tough, man. If they're going to do the elimination, right, they're still going to sell tickets to that. So people are still going to do that. Yeah. Man, yeah, what a problem to have, right? We have so many athletes. I guess it's a good problem. What would you guys say, in your experiences, but also as a coach and witnessing it, are the biggest hurdles for athletes? Work, family, discipline? What do you think is the most prevalent obstacle that you guys see? All right. Before, I would have said work, but I think so many athletes we deal with now work within the industry mostly. I think people who, like now, I think people know they want to be a professional bodybuilder when they're like 20. So they set themselves up to be able to do it. So it's not like 10 years ago where people were working real estate and all sorts of different jobs and they were just bodybuilding on the side. Like, if you were to look through your client roster or clients who are, you know, actively wanting to be bodybuilders, I'd say like 70% of them work in the industry as well. So it's probably not a huge factor anymore. Yeah. I think a lot of what we're in that trensition period, and this is actually a good point. It was a good thing I was hesitant to ask, but I want to ask it. But I think we're out of the, like, I don't think we're out of the phase of like, everyone wants to be a coach. But now I see like posing coaches are like really like making their leap into this. And I'm indifferent on it. Like I used to, I used to really not like it. I used to have a bad taste in my mouth with it because there was just some local posing coaches who would like come grab my athletes who just won the overall post a picture and be like, shout out to my client. And it's like, well, like, like, what'd you do, man? Like, you just, you know, move, move their foot placing around. Like we were going to win anyway. But then I've also had some really good posing coaches come along and completely change my athletes' physiques. So, like, like I said, I'm indifferent on it. Like I can make an argument for why I like it. I can make an argument for why I don't like it. But what's your thoughts on it? Both of y'all. I like it. Listen, there's some really good posing coaches out there now. And I'm really looking for them. They definitely make a huge difference. Because, listen, I will help clients with posing and inviting, but I don't want to sit in a Zoom call for an hour. I just have zero passion for doing it on it. I'm good in person. If I'm with someone in person, I'm good. I will go over it. I'll enjoy it. But if I don't have, like, a passion for it, I'm not really going to be all there. So all to the guy who wants to do it. And there is guys there who love it. And there's a couple of coaches I work with who are amazing. And they're so passionate about it. But I think it's like anything. You have the ones who love doing it. And you also have the ones who are seeing it as an opportunity. Like you said, it's growinGHugely. And there's ones in there who are just seeing it as an opportunity to make money. And I see some of the stuff they do. And I'm like, dude, you don't even know what the poses are yourself. Yeah. Yeah. That's where I struggle with it. Because, like, I have some clients who are, like, posing coaches. And the first thing I say is I'm like, you better be able to pose. Like, I don't need to pick apart your posing and your check-in if you're going to now be a posing coach. Don't get me wrong as well. Like, maybe I'm just one of these people. I'm like, you can't be a posing coach if you haven't been on stage yourself. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think, like, anything, man, it goes back to, like, we – I think we are more cognizant of the bullshit. Right? Like, we can see because we've been in this long enough. And it's like we know who are actually up to snuff. Like, we obviously work with a select few posing coaches that we all trust for a reason. It's – I think it's when we see, like, the disingenuousness, like Alex said. Or you'll see, like – I've seen some posing coaches post, like, trensformations. But it's, like, the physique trensformation. You know what IMean? Where it's, like, them at the beginning of offseason or end of offseason to show day. And they're like, look what we did for posing. I'm like, well, no, you can't compare those because you also didn't get them not fat. You know what IMean? So then from – but the outside optics, it appears that they have taken them to the finish line. Right? Whereas if you look at the guys that we use or the ladies that we use as well, it's very – they make it very abundantly clear who their coach is and what they did. And there's, like, a dividing line of, like, what was actually contributed to the process. Yeah. I'm big on if I see any posing coach, a lot of the ones I'm going to use for players are the ones who are going to be, like, straight mandatory trensitions. If they're in there talking about all, like, fancy posing routines, I'm like, fuck out of here. Yeah. I said, unlike any of my clients, if it makes no difference to your end result, don't worry about it. Yeah, I remember asking – I remember sending you a DM, and I was like, hey, man, what is your thoughts on the favorite classic pose? Like, how important is it? Because, like, I'll have so many, like, up-and-coming classic guys come to me, and they're like, what do you think of this with a classic pose? What do you think of this? And I'm like, dude, your front relax sucks. Like, I don't care. Like, I don't care about your favorite classic. We're going to lose on the front relax, you know? Like, reality is, I think, in classic. I think the favorite classic pose only comes down as it matters if you're 50-50. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Reality, by the time you get there, it's, you know, you've won or lost, and it's not going to be the game changer. Unless, like, you're 50-50 with another guy between first and second, and your favorite classic, you know, whoever's better between the two. Like, think about it itself. How do you compare two totally different poses? Yeah. Yeah, and so I think all this goes back to, like, thEQuestion, like, what's an athlete's struggle with the most? I think, you know, outside of the job, I could say, like, they can afford to do the, you know, the prep and the eating and all that. Like, I think more of what we deal with is the mentality behind it. And not just the, like, IMean, the, not, because we deal with two different athletes, right? We have the ones who are, like, hypercritical, and then we have the ones that are delusional, and then we have the ones that are just there for, like, a good time. But, like, I think what stands true out of all of it, and we say this in jujitsu a lot, it's not about who's good. It's about who's left. And you see that, like, we've all coached some freaks. And, like, man, remember that guy? They did it for two years. Or, you know, you get a girl, and they did it a couple years, and they dominated, and they wander off. And then you have the ones who just, like, constantly are just, like, chipping away, chipping away, and chipping away. And they may be, like, pretty mediocre the whole time. But if they just kept chipping away at it, they may get a master's card in their 40s or 50s or whatever because they just didn't stop. And I think that, like, so the mindset behind it all, the people that we can take the furthest in the sport are the ones who love bodybuilding. But it's not about, like, and I think that's where we do a great job. Like, any, the athletes we get coming through the J3U portal is, like, they may have never competed before, but they are at least serious. And they're all, like, whenever coach says I'm ready, you know, they don't come in, like, oh, I'm going to go pro. Like, they're, like, no, like, whatever we need to do that works. But I think a lot of times we have to filter out as athletes, like, hey, what's your mentality with all this? Like, you take Instagram and TikTok away, would you still be bodybuilding? Like, if you had no supplement companies. And so I think just that mindset is what makes or breaks people. You know, again, outside, like, we're all going to be critical of ourselves. We're all going to be this, that, and the other. But I think just, like, do you truly love this sport is, like, the hurdle that we have to jump through the most. Something I talk to a lot of my companies about is, you know, the ones I talk to about that just love the process. And I'm like, listen, don't worry about anything. If you just love the process, you're going to do well. It's the same notion of, like, the man who loves to travel will go further than the man who loves the destination. Right? Like, we have to look at this process as, like, not outcome-oriented, right, but just, like, process-oriented. Because it's, we can't, we can't get to the end game. And again, too, the other thing with the sport, I think a lot of people don't realize that, like, one, none of us know what we're capable of until we've seen it to the end. And the end is not tomorrow. Right? Like, 12 years ago, I would have never thought I looked the way that I do today. And for most of those 12 years, I did not like how I looked. I just did the shit that I love doing. And this is the byproduct of it. So I always tell people that come to me, like, dude, unless you're willing to sacrifice for 10 years to start to see what you're about, don't go into this with the expectations of going pro or winning or whatever it may be. Like, it's the cart before the horse. So I think a lot of people struggle. Absolutely. I resonate a lot with that. It's not like, I've told my clients this all the time, the ones who are a bit like this, and they worry about the future of it. I'm like, listen, when I first started bodybuilding, I was 170 pounds. In 2018, I weighed 182 pounds and placed dead last in a qualifier. I couldn't even win my class at a qualifier show in 2018. And fast forward to 2022, and I'm 227 pounds on stage at the Olympia. So, yeah. And not once in there was I thinking about winning a pro card or going anywhere. It was just doing it. Yeah. Man, and that's where it's like my competition days are long behind me. But, like, even coming up, man, I just – I always told myself, like, my pinnacle was – I never thought of the Olympia. I was like, man, it'd be cool to get a first call out of North Americans. Like, that's kind of where my head was at. Like, and, you know, I think now – because we'll get asked a lot of people who go, hey, you know, what do you think my potential is? I'm like, well, if Nick Walker had asked us what his potential was to this first show, we would have been like, I don't know, bro. Like, go do something else. That's amazing. And Nick's my favorite bodybuilder out there outside of John. I love you, John. But, like, it's something that, like, you know, to see that, it's like you don't know. So, you can't – and that goes into the mindset and the mentality of it is, like, you can't put that pressure on your coach or on yourself to be like, well – because on the flip side, so many people are like, oh, hey, my buddy at the gym says I can go pro. And it's like, dude, you don't even – you can't even eat six meals a day. Like, so, you know, so it's like – it's like your damage you do, your damage you don't, right? But I think the biggest thing is, like, if you just keep at it long enough – you know, I was shit-talking a guy with one of my buddies. He's like, well, yeah, IMean, hell, the dude's going to keep doing it, you know, 10 more years. Eventually, he's probably going to go pro. And so it's like, well, yeah, like, if you just keep at it, like, even if you're not that good, eventually it's going to – it will come. Like, you know, it's the ones who stay in it for the long run. I think it's too – understanding the value system within this because we – I think social media, though, it's like obviously the duality of it's rather extreme. But I remember – so, like, my first show that I did, I just didn't want to lose. That was my only hope was that I, like, won True Novice. That was ideally the goal. I ended up winning it, and then that became, like, what everybody was talking about was, hey, you can go pro. So that became, like, the next – they made it seem like the pathway to entry was, like, right there. I was 21 years old. I was 189 pounds. But then social media really started to kick up when, like, Dallas McCarver went pro. I'm trying to think of any other names that come to mind, but, like, it was always the youngest IFBB pro. So then that was, like, implanted. And now I think we see a lot of that in the younger generation of it's, like, this attempt to speedrun a pro card and by 18, 19, 20 years old. And that's just not feasible, right? I just think it's a very illogical ideal to have that you have to get it by this certain age or therefore it's not cool. I'm like, dude, I don't give a shit if I get it at 28 or 38 at this point. I just want to get it. Yeah. Yeah. I think social media told, like, the great success stories and then everyone thinks that the reality is those guys turning pro 21 or the 1%. You know, you're like, these guys have elite genetics, like, elite genetics. The majority of you guys out there who are going to be successful in bodybuildinGHave good genetics and you need to put work along. It's like – and that takes years. Yeah. Dude, do you remember Cody Montgomery? Yeah. I looked up to him, like, he was, like – because we were, like, the same age just about. And I think he was, like, a couple years – maybe two years younger than me. But I just always saw him as, like, oh, like, that's it. That's the guy. And then now, like, you know, I don't know anything that happened in his life or where he is now. But, like, he was supposed to be the next, like, you know, Jay Cutler. And then it just goes to show, like, you burn that candle out too quick. It's like, well, okay, yeah, he was amazing. He had crazy genetics. But, like, the longevity just wasn't there for him for whatever reason. I also think there's a certain beauty to having to struggle or persevere to get something. It teaches you a grit. Like, in any sport, because I've been involved with so many sports, I've seen it from a young age. Like, the guys who it comes easy to early on are never there at the end. Yeah. Yeah. And there's no – I don't think there's any value in that because it comes easy. So it has to leave just as easy, in my opinion. Right? Like, what's there to gain from that, from, like, a tangiblEQuality of life? Like, you can't – and I know we talk about it often, but, like, there's – whether we take anything from the sport or not, if you learn the ability to provide, like, discipline and delay gratitude over the span of decades, whatever the next passion will be is going to benefit from that, too. But if it's just kind of – I don't want to say handed to you, per se, because there's still effort applied, but it's – we've seen these guys where it's like they sniff an Anabar tablet and they're 280 and peeled. That's – they don't comprehend. They don't provide the same level of empathy and understanding as guys like us who've been doing this for 10-plus years. Right? It's like – it's like – those guys do it comes a little bit easier. Let's say a little bit easier to get to that point. The point where it's against the elite again. You know, you're not just up against ordinary people. So you can walk through your national show or your regional shows, your national shows, win your pro card. But when you step on that pro stage, guess what? These guys are just as good as you now. So now you've got a operator's work ethic. It's like – look at Andrew Jack, for example. That dude just started bodybuilding, started taking gear, and a year later he was wiped on the floor with everyone. You know, and you'd be like, well, that guy's guaranteed to be Mr. Olympia. It's like, yeah, he's up there, but, you know, he's up against guys who are just as good, and it's not as easy anymore. Yeah, and I said this the other week. We were talking about kind of the same thing, but it's like now you have this, like, pro, but they have these amateur tendencies still because they didn't have to correct it, and they didn't have to figure it out. It just worked, and they got away with their genetics or, you know, whatever to get to the pro card. And even, you know, dude pretty well because, like, if we were to look at Andrew Jack, and he's a perfect example because he's amazing, right? Like, but had we watched him climb up, you know, five, six, seven years, you know, win the Arnold Amateur, and then, you know, okay, now he's battling it out at the Chicago Pro, and, okay, now he's at top ten at the Olympia. But it's like dude just arrived and was, like, sixth, and it's like – so it's almost like it's kind of a letdown that he's still sixth at the Olympia. But, like, take someone who, you know, worked their butt off to get into the top ten for 15 years, and they finally get it. It's like, man, look at what I did. I finally got the top ten. And so it's weird how we look at it, right? But, like, you know, it's like, well, dang, like, come on, Andrew, get it together. But, you know, it's because it was – you got there so fast. So it's wild how we put that kind of, you know, label on it, I guess. Yes, I think we all love a good come-up story, right? We love an underdog. We love struggle for other people, right? It's a lot harder when we're the ones, you know, absolving that. I think another example is Keon, right? I think Keon – you know, I've known one of his old treners, and I've heard stories about, like, how he used to be when he was a lot younger, and it sounded like a case of, like, a pro with some amateur tendencies. And I think what we've seen in the lasT3 years is everything come together so perfectly. Yeah. That's all. He just needed that team around him to level him and get him on point. I think seven years now, and, like, he's always – he's always been a great bodybuilder and always had it there. Just needed to put all the pieces together, and he has that. It's just like nobody's ever beatinGHim. Never. Man, I saw him in person at the Dragon's Lair just trening. Of course, I just, like, I just mind my business and admire him. It was huge. It's like you wouldn't think he's a 212. Like, he was right there with him and Rafa were trening together. And you – they looked the same size. I was like, this is scary. Yeah. But do people do the same with – like, right? So, Jewett, like, it's like he's so good now in the open. We forget he was just in the 212, what, two years ago? Like, maybe. Yeah. It's like, you know, and everyone's like, oh, you know, if he could just get this. It's like, dude, he just – look at what he just came from. Like, and he's up 30 downs. Yeah, dude, he's had a governor on himself for years, and he just let off of it for, like, two off-seasons. Yeah. Like, let's give him, like, two more. Yeah. I don't think people give credit where it's due there. It's like what he's done off-season to off-season is stupid. It's stupid. Even from just last year, his actual off-season between last show into now was nothing, really. Yeah. He's like five pounds up of muscle because he's even more conditioned. And, like, I said that to a couple of people. I was like, imagine him, like, if he wants to – like, I don't know what John wants to do, longevity in the sport. Like, how much longer he wants to do it or whatever, but two, three years' time, he's 250 both on stage. That is, like, a freak. Yeah. Yeah. He was just 240 at his last show. And his shape keeps getting better. I think he's 37. It's like he's not some 27-year-old doing this. It's like he's – and I think the coolest part of it all is, like – and, like, not to just, like, you know, suck off John's. He's our boss. Love you, John. Thank you for this. Beautiful. It's tough. But, like, it's – he does it and puts it out for everyone to see. And, like, there's no hiding. Like, there's no backdoor meetings of, like, hey, guys, this is what I'm really doing. And so, like, if you're just a fan of bodybuilding, you – I say this. If you're a fan of bodybuilding, you have to love Jewett and you have to love James Hollingshead. Just, like, the love of bodybuilding. I think the crazy part is, too, man, like, John doesn't do anything out of pocket. Like, we see his stuff. And it's not – like, bro, are we going to let it rip? Or – Yeah. Like – I wonder why – like, I want to – which we're going to get him on here. I want to ask. Like, I want to go, hey, like, what – if you didn't know the science behind it, like, what would you really try? Like, what would you – what would you think you would, like, throw around? But I think it's cool because I'll have guys, like, killer athletes or killer coaches, like, man, he's so dice. I'm like, dude, I'm like, I couldn't pay him to do a diuretic to get that way either. That's what's scary to me. I'm like, brother, like, make it make sense because it's – he's nasty. And it's just, you know, yeah, I don't – we're trying to adopt his ways. But John's got something special, man. Yeah. That's nuts. What is something that separates the level of detail you take with your coaching over others? Luke asked this, by the way. Ooh. I guess what I asked people in thEQuestion is, are coachings detail-orientated? I very much like to think that I'm – I'm one of the people who is very detail-orientated. But then my mentality is just fucking work. So I'm a combination of the two. Because that's the way I've been. And, like, Luke's joked about with this as me as an athlete because he's like – and he puts the reins on you. And he's like, your lasT4 weeks of prep, he's like, I'm making you come live with me. But that's – I'm just supposed to run myself into the ground. I'm like, just work. And – but obviously, we know that's not always productive. But that's easier to look at someone and tell them that. But when you're in it yourself, it's a little harder. But, yeah, just, like, looking at all the details and making things predictable. Like, that's the way I think it is. Coaching – if you're doing your job well, coaching is pretty predictable. It's always going to be the case of some guy, and you're like, what the fuck is his body doing? But there is – for 90% of the time, you do your job right, and you can predict. Like, I'll do it when – I've got a couple of people on peak weeks. And I'm like, okay, so your nighttime – you're going to wake up at this weight. They wake up, and you're like, how did you know I was going to wake up at that? I'm like, because I've been monitoring your nighttime weight and your morning weight every day for the last few days. I know what it's going to be because your fluid intake is this, your food is this. You know? It's why we started using the magic wand emoji. Because, like, it was like a joke. It was like, oh, it's like magic, right? Like, you know, it's not. But, like, people think, like, oh, like, how did you know this? And it's like, yeah. Because, like – and it's not even a system. It's just, like, when you know what you're looking at, you know the variables. It's very – it does become very predictable. But, yeah, I think when people hear – repeat thEQuestion one more time. What's something that separates the level of detail you take with coaching over others? So people hear that, and they probably imagine, like, some coaches who, like, they write down the exact sodium and potassium and, like, all their ratios and all that. Like, it's not my style. Like, I have an idea, but I don't sit there and, like, plug it all into the, you know, the algorithm and let the spreadsheet cook. Like, for me, I think the detail that I think we all bring out, whether we think about it or not, is the athlete themselves. Like, we learn their – how they process, how they think, how they move, how they feel. Like, we know their feedback. And so I think a lot of it is, like, we can pick apart and analyze, like, how they text us something. Or, like, hey, they didn't send us a voice note this week, and they always send it. Or we know they don't like a lot on their stomach, so we're going to feed them this way. It's those little details that have nothing to do with, like, literal data details that I think makes us good as coaches. And it's something that Luke's, like, helped me bring out. He's like, you know, coaching isn't just programming. Like, coaching is – when I – dude, when I first came to JTU, I was concerned. Because, dude, I was a – I was a notes app and text message guy. Like, I wasn't – and Luke has his beautiful spreadsheets. He was like, dude, like, you're going to hate me. Like, and he was like, no, no, like, this is fine. But it turns out, he's like, man, I just – I need you to feel like how can I pull more out of the athlete in particular, not just, like, the system we have. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's – I think it's the biggest thing, dude, is, like, what we – because we obviously get – and part of why I'm so happy to be a part of this group is, like, we get presented an unbelievable amount of information, which is awesome, right? Like, what we're given every week, whether it's through you guys, through Luke, through John, it's great. So it's like we have this massive backlog of stuff that we're always learning. But then each athlete, I think where I kind of excel is, like, meeting the athlete where they're at, right, and just giving them what they need to know then until we get there right. Because it's also – it's the same thing, dude. Like, you know, there have been – I won't say the coach, but there's a coach out there who offered to, like, work with me for free, and I wouldn't fucking do it because I saw the spreadsheets. I was like, I'm not tracking all these metrics every day. I know. I know myself good enough to know. I don't need that, right? And so it's like we see that sometimes where it's like if you provide too much, it's analysis paralysis, and then you're overwhelming the client. And then they're not really understanding what's happening, right? And so there's like a – I don't want to say system, but it's like I have, like, a means to how I like to educate athletes over time, especially with my first-timers, to get them to that point, right? And it goes back to what we talk about all the time. It's like we're not coaching screens. We're not coaching spreadsheets. We're coaching people. We just have a really good app that allows us to do it in a very user-friendly manner, but then we get all of the – there's so much more nerdy shit on the back and that a lot of our people never see. It's just a means of how we communicate it to them when we need to. And, again, that is what coaching actually is. Exactly. You've touched on a couple of things there that I think is really important. I always say about anyone, I'm like the smartest person in the room is the one using the biggest words. The smartest person in the room is the one making it sound as stupid and simple as possible. I also think with clients, I'm like – like you said, there's so much information. Yeah, from a client as well. We're receiving so much data and information. It's taking that all in, processing it, thinking about the several different routes you could be going, but then coming back to your client and just delivering with conviction that it's just – this is what we're doing. This, this, this. Cool. Real easy. Don't worry about it. You know, and they're going away going, oh, cool. This is easy. Whereas you could have had a million different thoughts in your head. It's processing it. It's processing and analyzing lots of information coming through from your client. It's in pretty quick time. You know, you're not going to have two days to go over. You've got maybe a few hours maximum going over and thinking about the different routes, different solutions, and then being able to just tell them the basics in a simplistic manner that they can just go away from it and not, like, foolproof. You know, you don't, like, there's coaches out there who are sending stuff to their clients, like, and it's like they need a degree to understand some of the stuff you're sending. You know? That is a sure way to know that client is going to fuck up something and get it wrong. You make it sound as dumb and as easy as possible, like – I've got people on Beat Week, and I'm like, I go through all this stuff, and I'm like, all right, okay, salt, six grams. Water, nine liters. Steps, 8,000. Just bullet points. They're like, cool. Yep. No, we're not going for the details behind it or anything like that. I'm just a disorder. And it's – we're all good. Because it comes with experience, too, because you as an athlete on Peak Week, you don't want a fucking dissertation. You just want – cool. Nod my head and do it. Like, you don't want to think. No. Just want to know what you need to do in a simple way that you know. Also, that you as an athlete know, I can't fuck this up. Yeah. Yeah. Dude, because – and, like, so we get a lot of people. They're part of the curriculum courses and stuff, and a lot of times they'll want to go back and forth on, like, the, hey, well, John did a video on this. I'm like, yeah, but, like, that doesn't really fit, like, what's going – like, it's a – he can't get very specific on to what exactly you need to do. That's why I'm here to do it. And, you know, so on the same, like, token, there is times where we can fully dive in into, you know, your lipid profile for you and fully explain all that. But at the end of the day, it's like, hey, like, I'm here to do, not to teach. If you want to – if you want to be taught, like, use our discount code for level one, level two. But, like, you know, that's why we're here as coaches. And, you know, obviously guide them and make sure they understand, like, why we're doing some things we're doing. But it's like, I'm not about to dive into the coursework on you. Like, I just got to do it, and you got to trust me. And like Darren was saying, it's that confidence and that, like, hey, I know the decision we're making. This is how I'm telling you we're going to do it, and let's do it. Yeah, I think that – that's a hard one there because I think we all – like, I coach so many guys who are coaches themselves. And there's a couple of them that literally are check-ins or, like, you know, education conversations. I don't mind. My rule is if you have a question regarding your process, I will go into as much detail as you want. If you're asking me a generic question about one of your clients or a process like that, I'm sorry. I can give you a quick bullet point answer. I will because I won't leave you hanging. But if you want to know the ins and outs of it, you need to go. It's all covered there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, and, like, you know, because the more I coach – like, you guys, I'll coach coaches too. And there are some times where I enjoy – like, I'm like, yeah, like, let's see what you got. Hey, you know, but, like, for the most part, like you said, it's very, you know, hey, I need to make sure you understand what we're doing. But, like, we don't have time. Like, there's not enough time in the day to, like, give you the full breakdown. Unless I'm being a smartass. Like, because there are some times where people, like, I'll admit, like, if I got a point to prove, I'm about to J3U lecture you. I'm about to use a 10-minute spiel. But that's very, very few moments that that happens. But it has happened before. Yeah, if you get a nine-minute voice memo from me, it's an ego swing for sure. We haven't gotten to it at that point. But, no, it's fun. And that's the other thing, too, is, like, it's hard to, like, draw a fine line in that sand because I love – again, I work with a lot of first-timers. I want to educate them because, for me, I find that at least how I operate is adherence comes from education and enjoyment to a certain degree, right? Like, there's still, obviously, caveats within that. But if you like the plan, you understand why we're doing the plan. You're more liable to just do the plan. Therefore, you get the results that we're both after. So I love talking to my people. But there is a certain point when it's like, hey, I've answered the SLUPP question 47 times today. I really don't want to do it again. You know what IMean? It's like we're not even using it in your protocol. So I don't care to talk about it at this point. That's when I just send a – we get sent a post at that point, you know? That's all it gets. I have a number of clients who will send me on DMs on Instagram. I can post about one of these new peptides. It's like – Yeah. That's me. I'm not getting into this. Yeah. It's like, hell yeah. Awesome. I hope it works for them. Nice. Yeah. That is actually one of our questions, though, Darren, if you want to get into it, is Clin versus SLU. Shit. We can make it quick and keep pushing. I don't think they're in the versus. They're two totally different mechanisms. I think we're – I'm not going to discount SLU. I actually do think there's some benefits to it, and its application can be used. We all – I'm sure you guys have clients out there who can't use CLU. Simple as. So SLU is a good alternative, right? But we're going to go one versus the other. Let's look at, like, cost versus outcome. But you can run 10 all year long versus – for the price of SLU for two months. Yeah. You know, that's the reality. But then you look – like, there's a lot of study out there showing SLU benefits on, like, restinGHeart rate, insulin sensitivity, things like that. But I'm still not fully sold on it because I see all the anecdotal data. Like, we've seen the rat studies on it, and then, like, it's like 50 milligram per kg is the application of rats. I'm like, okay, make it make sense that a man is using 400 MCG, then. It doesn't make sense, right? And then all the anecdotal data on reports of people talking about, you know, their HRV coming down, their restinGHeart rate being better, their cholesterol being better. I'm like, okay, is that the SLU, or is it a byproduct of you're in a fat loss phase? Yeah. You're on a better diet than doing cardio. Yeah. Like, because I'm sure I could be taking 10 and make the same arguments because – well, arguments in our way, but – Because my body composition has improved, you know, my overall fitness has improved because I'm doing cardio, I can make that same argument. So until I see some data of some person who has stayed the exact same weight, doing the exact same thing for a number of months using SLU, and they see their health metrics improved, then IMay be convinced. So, yeah. Yeah, my thought behind it is like, hey, let's just put those two together, right? Like, but more like realistically, like, I don't like how we get positioned, like you have to pick one or the other. Obviously, like Darren stated, there's reasons to use one versus the other if you can't use one. But I think with us, like what – because we're now in the research phase, right? And, you know, the research era and the science era of bodybuilding. But, like, a lot of what we don't – like, I guess people don't realize or point at is like, Darren, how many people have you coached, like, over the years? Like hundreds? Yeah, thousands. And so, like, we have anecdotal evidence of wherEQuinn has probably worked on, like, hundreds if not thousands of people prepping. So, like, while, you know, and that along with, you know, research and, like, data that shows it works as well. So, like, we have human trials both literally and anecdotally of what we've seen work. So, it's like, why would we go off into this gray area and drive down a road we've never really driven in when we know that this lane and this car works really well, just fine? It's like there's not a, quote, need for it. And that's always my argument is, like, we're our own clinical trials for a lot of things in the bodybuilding realm. Because, yeah, there's probably not people running 80 mics of Clin at a clinical trial. But, like, bodybuilding it does. Like, we'll do that all day. So, it's like, you know, again, it's like, why would I go away from that if it works so well unless someone can't handle it, can't tolerate it, you know, whatever. I think it's just the in thing at the moment. It's new and shiny. And as humans, we love new and shiny. I think of it like as, do you remember when you first started trening and you first heard of creatine and you were going to take it and you thought you were going to be huge? Yeah. Yeah. But I think that's the way people are thinking about SLU. I think they're going to, they think, I'm going to take this and I'm going to be shredded in six weeks. Yeah. I hate to tell you, it's not going to make that much of a difference. Man. You're so, I so thought I was going to get huge on creatine back in high school. Sure. Dude, I remember when my buddy started taking it and we were all worried about what was going to happen. Kidneys are going to fail. Yeah. And he probably put on like eight pounds. Oh my God. Man, what's happened to people? We were talking about like, what, 15, 16, starting trening and like thinking about taking creatine and going, what's going to happen? That 15, 16 year olds arEQuoting science studies and, you know, doing little weird lap movements. Take a trip. Shut up. Worrying whether plane is going to make you natural or not natural. Yeah. Right there. They're taking tren and six peptides doing aromasingle arm lap pull down. Yeah. And we just want to create. Yeah. We just want to create. Creatine and barbell rose, dude. I don't know what happened. It's crazy. Yeah. Now it's, you know, we're fatigue maxing too much is the new thing. Next one. So what was the last part of thEQuestion? Can we use without negatively affecting body composition? Yeah. Yeah. Well, that part definitely. Absolutely. Of course you can. If it's used correctly. I think people misuse insulin all the time. I think the thing is, I think a lot of people look at it like, right, I'm going to start utilizing insulin. I'm going to use 15 A of insulin. I need to bring my carbs up to here. It's like, no, match the insulin to your carbs. You should be pushing your food up. And then when it's actually required and it's going to add some benefit, then you can put it in and it's going to be very effective. But, you know, this whole thing of like this guy being on 2,000 calories and 200 grams of carbs. And all of a sudden they're running and start using insulin and they're at 4,000 calories and 600 grams of carbs. Yeah. Well, no shit. You're going to get fat. It's not the insulin. It's you just ranch your food up. Yeah. Or they're like eating cheat meals and like slamming insulin. It's like, it's not really how it hurts. I'm like, you know. And I love, yeah. I don't want to say I love insulin because it's going to make it sound like it's in everyone's plan. But, yeah, I do. I do use it. Like, I think for guys, you know, you get to a spot where food's so high, it's like you just need it. Like your body, you know, in order to kind of stay healthy and keep a good body composition, actually, it's going to benefit you. Anyone going over like 500 grams of carbidate, you're probably looking at a potential use for it. Yeah. At that point, like your one, your appetite may be potentially slightly less. So it's going to help with it. And then also the actual processing of it. And I'm a big fan, even like with females, too, because a lot of times people hear GH and insulin for like males, like they think guys. Like I look at it for a female like perspective. Well, it's non like androgenic stuff that we have in our toolbox. Like what what's, you know, a good offseason is like, hey, you use a basal insulin or low dose insulin around some trening and GH. And like you don't have to touch, you know, androgens for six, eight, 12 months. And it's like, yeah, but we grew with food and just that. Yeah. I think with females, that should be your first exposure to anything should be GH and insulin. Like I said, non-aromatizing, non-androgenic. Yeah. So it's. But people hear it and they think like they think of like the big, you know, jack guys or that they feel like, oh, my gosh, they're so dangerous. But it's like, no, man, like it's it's it's a very useful tool when done correctly. You know, I'll I get before I even implement it with people like I'm watching their blood sugar throughout the day before they eat their pre-trening meal, after they get done trening, you know, seeing just like what their body kind of does on its own. Just because like there's some people with high food that don't need it. There's some people with like what you would feel is like not high food. Oh, gosh. OK, you actually could benefit. Yeah. I had a guy in the team at the moment who just finished the push base and he was eating 30 hundred grams of carbs a day. I'm still starving. I had to hire you to think. Yeah, you're giving me a hunger score every week. And I'm starving. I'm like, what is wrong with you? Dude, shut up. Hold on. How? All right. What food sources did you start working with? Like you can't do 30 hundred grams of carbs from freaking rice. He was. Most guys, I'm getting over 500 grams of carbs and I'm using dried fruit, honey, stuff like that. Trying to work on this dude. He needed the volume for society. How big is he? Yeah. What does he do? He only gives 25 pounds. OK. Dude, that's crazy. He was 222 pounds like 12 months ago. I hope to see this trensformation. Very. I hope you haven't posted a picture soon because that's freaking awesome. Oh, yeah. No, yeah. He's going to be a freak. Yeah. Is he like highly active? I'm still trying to wrap my head around this one. I'm sorry. Does he? Just show him. He trens like an animal. He's one of the strongest people I've seen in the gym. I would hope so. I would hope so. But he's one of these guys, right? He's one of these guys. He's in his mid-20s that's like never competed before. But his thing coming to me is, I want to be a super heavyweight bodybuilder. Hell yeah. He's like none of the most in of like men's physique classic. I know. I want to be a fucking monster. So. For those listening, this is what coaches like nerd out about. We don't talk about the problems. We're like, hey, look at this guy. They're like, guess how much I'm feedinGHim. Like this is what we talk about behind close to borders. Yeah. Like it's a dream come true of a client to come to you like that. Right? That's what we all want. Well, no. You kind of get to the point with like, what's wrong with this guy? How would he ever want to be satiated? And then it's like, how am I ever going to diet this guy? Yeah. Yeah. Like, bro. Like what? Like you're hungry now. Yeah. I need to send him Trey. Dude. Send him Trey Davis right now. So I have this. He's one of my good friends. I also coach him. But he was like just fat as shit growing up as a kid. And dude, his hunger score is a 10 no matter what. Like one week out, 180 weeks out, it's always a 10. And I'm like, dude, quit answering. Just leave it for you. So yeah, I'm curious to see how you diet this guy. Because that'll be, that's wild. Yeah. IMean, with that big of a metabolic cushion, IMean, in theory, it shouldn't take a whole lot. Yeah. IMean, so we're just starting the phase of like a little pullback phase before we go into another push with him. But his calories, his pullback phase, there are 6,000 on the trening day. My God. And he's dropping like four to five pounds per week on that. Dude, tell this guy we are rooting for him. Yeah, I am such a fan of his. It's absurd. So let me ask this. You have a guy like that. Let's say they're not hungry, right? But like what's one of the like out there things you've put in a diet? You're like, man, I don't like, not that you hope no one ever hears about it. But like what's something you're like, oh, that's definitely not normal. I was thinking not normal. I think it's all, usually I just try with guys when they start with such a appetite dip. Like, right? It's dried fruit, honey, rice krispies squares, bars, orange juice. Yeah. Yeah. Or any juice. I always put orange juice and say or any juice of equivalent. I've had a couple of guys that I've macroed in. Like, I actually put the macros in for a five-packer and stuff. Okay. Okay. Yeah. That's probably as out there as I've gotten to is like, hey, just like, you know, McDonald's every night or five guys every night. Just something. And then I've had some athletes, some football players I've worked with where like they would have two PB&Js at the end of the day. I'm like, hey, just play two big old peanut butter jellies and go to bed. Yeah. I used to do a lot more sports-specific coaching a couple of years ago, like working with rugby players and stuff. But I was saying that then their food sources were a little bit more like, but then it was like, you can have this, this, or this. It's like a rough calories. It's, yeah. Because they. Do what? You want to hear this diet when you're done? Yeah. Yeah. You got it pulled up. It's disgusting. Yeah. So my, because I'll have some, I had one kid this year, his name's Lucas, and I put peanut butter jellies in his plan. And I was like, listen, man, like, I don't care how full you are. You can get this down. Like, let's go. And then, but then he's like, well, how much do I weigh? It's like, man, I don't give a shit. Just like bread, peanut butter, jelly, eat. Like, don't. Don't do that. Like, we're fine. I have one, but it's not even that I gave them this food. I work with this guy and he works on macros. I've worked in a couple of years now. And the first year we were working together, we kind of, we started prep. And he was saying, he said, I remember what he said to me. I was like, what are you eating? And he was like, white fish, mochi, and peanut butter. That was his, that was his only food sources, really. He was using mochi as his carb source and white fish for protein and peanut butter for his fat sources. IMean, okay. Dude's hardcore. He just, like, he'll often post on it. I'm like, I am not showing your food because now that I've done eating, like, rice and stuff. Yeah. I'm like, I'm not showing your food, mate. You look like it's a prison diet. This guy follows macros and meals are just literally, he cooks white fish and then cooks rice and just eats them both out of the pan and cook them in and then, like, some peanut butter. I'm like. You're like, John's going to rip this meal apart if he posts it. I just give it. This guy is choosing to eat like this. Not a micronutrient in sight. No. I have recently had to, like, go through a minute because I was like, well, I know it's all season and it's like, it's not crazy. He said, well, my appetite's not great. I'm like, yeah, well, stop just eating rice as your carb source. Let's put in some fruit. Let's put in some honey. It's like, take those down. I've had to get in there with it. And he's like, okay, I can eat again now. I'm like, good. He probably blew his mind eating a strawberry after following that diet. Like, buddy's got exploded. All right. This diet is gross. Let me preface. This is one of my buddies. He was 270. He's like 6'4". He was 280 at the time with abs. Former swimmer. Was trying to get to 300. Iron gut. He gave me his base meal plan. And that's what I use as the framework because he can only eaT4 times a day because he's working a factory job. All right. His macros were 365 protein, 1335 carbs, 210 fat over the span of four meals. And it was two shakes and two meals. His first shake was two cups of chocolate milk, two scoops of serious mass, one scoop away, 300 grams of yogurt, 40 grams of jelly, 40 grams of honey, 100 grams of banana, two double stuffed Oreos, three ounces of heavy whipping cream. His meal two was a chipotle bowl. His meal two was a chipotle bowl. And I had to add pineapple and a kombucha to help with digestion. Meal three was seven ounces of 80, 20 ground beef, 150 grams of gnocchi, dry weight, 150 grams of pasta sauce, two tablespoons of olive oil, 100 grams of carbs, intra-workout from pomegranate juice and Gatorade powder. And then his final meal of the day was two cups of chocolate milk, two scoops of serious mass, one scoop of whey, 100 grams of banana, 40 grams of honey, 40 grams of jelly, three Homestyle Rice Krispie treats. I got him to 300 with abs. I think that's my wildest diet, I think. Dude, I was reading that during a prep and the whole time I was irate. Like as I was riding, I was like, you fucking piece of shit. Inspired by Michael Phelps. I love the kombucha for digestion. I love the kombucha for digestion. I'm like, yeah, just throw a plaster on your broken leg. Did it work so well? That and then the pomegranate juice, you know, for the heart health benefit. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I just want to get some fruit juice in there too, you know, for uptake. You know, I was thinking. I was thinking. It was years ago. I want to put that in a plan for John. And be like, hey, will you look over this diet for me? Yeah, just whenever you get a chance, just give me your thoughts. That's what we were. So Darren Luke was in town and I was fucking around. I was like, dude, I'm going to build out a trening program with FST7 on every exercise. And I need you to get John to audit it for me. And like, it's a review. And I was like, just see what he said. It's just FST7 plus. Oh, man. What else do we have? I feel like we have one more. Do we? Oh, the how to bring up arms, right? Yeah. PPL. I'm not the one. My arms suck. So. Yeah. Darren, you have good. Do you have good arms? Yeah. I've always. They've always. Well, I know that I've always been. They've been good for the last couple of years. Honestly, I need some ice cream on arm day. So I probably won't brought them up. But it's also what's left me with horrible elbows. Yeah. So I would. I would go like push, pull legs and then just an arm day. And kind of in between that. I was. I was explaining that to a guy the other day. I was like, look, like I'm tagging you an arm day in because like we need bigger arms. But two, it's just more of a day where like your fatigue's not that high. Like it's it's not necessarily a rest day. You're not like killing yourselves doing arms either. So it's like it's more so like positioned here as well to give you a break because you're coming off of like, you know, your heavy squat day. Then you have another RDL day in like two days. So like it's just kind of that like in between or. Yeah. I think you have to look at the individual when it comes to the arm day. Like how strong is this person and how much do they tren? Like how hard do they tren? Like really? I think having the arm day can bEQuite detrimental long term in terms of sort of elbow help. And you know, this guy is, you know, pressing four plates and pulling like four or five plates. And then you got them, you know, bicep curling the stack and tricep extension in stack. Yeah. It was going to be pretty fried after six, seven weeks. And so I get the whole thing to look at like, where is their physique overall? Is this person, you know, are they perfect every once they just need arms or is everything else the lead to come up? And I'm like, okay, well, you know, there's only so much you can prioritize them. So IMay be putting those exercises at the start of the sessions rather than the end. And I'll often put like some arm exercises before leg days. Yeah. And because like it's going to have no impact on your leg session. So doing like a bicep and a tricep before legs and then going into legs. And then you're having like biceps and triceps with all your sort of push and pull sessions as well. Yeah. I like that. I saw John doing it and I was like, I was indifferent on it. It was like, ah, well, just like a mind fuck. Like you go in there and you like start with some arms. Oh, it's going to be a good pump. And you're like, ah, now I've got to go squat. You know, it's a total like flip. You hit the point exactly. It comes down to the individual's intent. Yeah. Like it doesn't matter how the new fucking program arms. If this person is just going in and getting a pump, if you're going in and actively trying to like brain your arms, like you're treating them like your legs and you're doing progressive overload, you're drifting as heavy as you can and then you don't progress. But it comes down to the intent factor. We all, we know it ourselves. Like, you know, you do your push session, you got some triceps at the end and you're like, okay, yeah. Yeah. Well, yeah, they're probably not going to grow so much. But then you have like a tren by JP and he's hitting like, you have one, you know, single arm push down and it's like to death. So it's like, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think it just comes down to like, IMean, the little bit that I've gotten my arms to grow has been from having an exclusive arm day, but then still making sure the front end, because I just do modified push pull legs. So my secondary push days, just shoulder arm biased, but just making sure I actually keep frequency in the beginning of the week as well. Cause I'm always the one, like I'll tren back and then I get done with back and I'm like, all right, I'm going to do some preacher curls. And it's like not enough effort. And I'm fully aware of that. So the full arm day is the day I get fired up for it. I'm going to go beat the brakes off my arms. Yeah. That's yeah. I think my nephew came on the most when I was doing a full arm day. Now right and wrong. It was also a time where I trened like an absolute dickhead. It was like all I took in your trening for like two hours a day. And like me and my friend who trened together at the time, we go in and tren arms and we do like sticks exercises for biceps, six for triceps, like four sets all out failure on everything. And we were like stacking everything. Like it's swinging the shit out of them. That is why my elbows are so destroyed. Like everything drops. Like, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Dude. I, yeah. Like, and I don't know if that's what, cause I tell people like, as a coach, like I know what to do because I did what not to do. Also. Like I learned the hard way, but, but at the same time, it's like, you know, some people will do that. And that's what got me huge. Yeah. Like I'm, I'm, I'm married to it, but a couple of years ago, actually, I forgot I had done this a couple of years back, but five, six years ago, I did an experiment for a month where I, I didn't do cardio in the mornings. I did fasted arms every morning, every day for 30 days straight. I did just not like the failure. Like this was just like three sets of 10 to 15 pump. It was like three, three or four exercises on each every morning for a whole month. And my arms grew like over a centimeter. Well, you just goT3 of my clients who are going to do that. So, you know, one of them. Yeah. Neely. Yeah. Go ahead. Neely. As soon as your, as soon as your show's over, you can do that. Yeah. I appreciate it. I'll do an arms over. I'll do an arms over. They're doing cardio. Oh, man. No, that's awesome. Cause yeah. Like, do we, you know, I remember Steve Kuklo's like crazy eights arm workout, you know, and then Rich Brianna, you know, of course took it to the extreme and did the eight hour arm workout, which, you know, we all kind of would joke about, but yeah, it's there. There's something about a set of all. Let me ask this. Would you rather have like good arms or good delts? Arms. Yeah, I think so. Yeah. Cause for me in comparison, I have better delts, but like I have like long monkey arms. So I'd probably pick better arms. I'm still picking delts. I'm just thinking if either, in the market, you're not really going to be a good bodybuilder. So you're now thinking what's looking better than t-shirts. So it's fair. I always wear baggy t-shirts. I feel like it's a lot more prominent because I can hide my bitch ass arms. I think when I get smaller, I'll start wearing tighter clothing again. Like when you get, when you're actually big, you're like, I just want to, I don't want people to see. It's just, it's a whole bit of awkwardness of them looking at me and, you know, especially, especially obviously. Yeah. You don't have it over there. Over here. We have the, the Indian culture that every, every Indian who sees you as a bodybuilder is a nice body. So, Oh, okay. It's a whole level of strength. When another man, when the Indians like, nice body, sir. And it's like, especially if it's in a toilet or a changing room, you're like, yeah, no, dude, that's so funny. God, we got to go, we got to go over there, man. We got to go. Yeah. It's a quick trip. It's right down the street. That's the goals. We got to get a, we got to get a need for Luke didn't want to take us. But Hey man, like, come on, take us over there. I keep saying, he's like, team meeting in Texas. I'm like, why isn't it here? Yeah. Fly us out, man. I know we're doing good. I know those books are looking good. Yeah. It's only 20 hours and 13 minutes, give or take to get over there. What do you do? Okay. So there, what do you do on that flight? Like, because I've never, I don't think I'll ever take that flight. That sounds terrible, but what do you do? Okay. So most of the time I've been flying to America, I've been in prep. So I'm literally just raw dog, like staring at a seat, starving my head off. Dude, you're different. Yeah. You were. Not a choice. It's like, oh man, this is horrible. When you're in prep, it's horrible. When I'm, when I like normal, like the last time I traveled out, I'll just sleep a few times, take, take something, take his annex or something and sleep and pass out. But on the, most of my times I'm traveling for shows. And I'm just literally like, I've got two little bags of like 150 grams of chicken and, and a little bit of veg for an 18 hour flight. So I'm just sitting there going, staring at the thing in front of me going, how much time has passed? I'm like, okay, we're 20 minutes into a flight. We haven't hit it off the table. You know, you're only like, like literally it's a week before a show. You've got no concentration. So you can't even watch the movie. There's no point. How much weight do you, do you lose from a flight that long? Or like, how much does yours fluctuate? And I'll always, if it's in prep, I'll always drop. Damn. Like when I, the Olympia, I remember that, that travel was horrible. And it was like, can't buy direct from Vegas. So it was like from here to Los Angeles, Los Angeles, and just Vegas. They fucking lost our luggage. So that was delivered later. And then our, our rentALCAR just wasn't there. You know, we use a tour. It just wasn't where it was supposed to be. So we had no car. So we'd get like a taxi to our, to our accommodation, to our villa. We'd rent it and like try and book a new tour. And I ended up being, I had been like 25, five hours. And all I'd eaten was two meals of 150 grams of chicken, nothing else. And I got there. I traveled, I left. And I think I was one pound above my cap at the time. That was before. Yes. My cap now is 227. For that Olympia, it was 222. And I think I left when I was 223. And I arrived. And I was like 216. Oh, shit. Now you didn't. That, that, that whole week was like, and I was working with Callum, pro coach at the time. And he, he came over and he saw me. He was just like, that face. I went into Dryden's Lair that first day. And I, I've known Flex for years. Cause we were both at BSN back in the day. And he just saw me and he goes, that's the face of someone who's peeled. Sucked in. And I, we're like, I had to eat so much that week. And I think that we did like into the two days prior to the show was 16 and a half thousand calories. Oh man. To the point that that's not even fun at that point. Right. You're like, all right. All right. All right. All right. Dude. You're a savage, Aaron. Like, you're different. Yeah. Hell yeah. Boys, that was good. Is that it? Yeah. That's all we got. Hell yeah. You want to close this out, dude? Yeah. Well, Darren, thank you, man, for beinGHere. It is, for those who don't know, it's four 30 in the morning, Darren's time. So we appreciate your sacrifice. For those of you who listened to this point, if you can like, comment, share, and subscribe, share with a friend, share on Instagram, you can find all of us on Instagram as well. Me and Alex have our tags below. Darren, what is yours on Instagram? Just my name, Darren Farrell, underscore IFBB Pro. IFBB Pro. You heard him. So until next time, thank you guys for listening. to J3U after hours. Cool. Yeah. Awesome, dude.

=== FILE: J3U After Hours Ep. 4 ｜ Gym Sins, Coaching Truths & The Price of Progress w⧸ Colton Schultz [1R_vhK4isxg].txt ===

 All right, all righty, good morning, everyone. Welcome back to J3 after hours. Alex, how are you doing today, sir? Alex, how are you doing today, sir? Fantastic on this beautiful Wednesday. It's finally cold. Thank God. Yeah, we're like halfway through October and we finally kind of have to wear a hoodie. We're here. I finally get to wear a beanie and it doesn't look weird. Today, we've got our special guest, the overall open champion of Proposalty. The public of Texas, Colton, previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously you got appalled when you saw my legs because i just wore sweatpants yeah it gets a it's a rarity it's like a blue moon when chris wears shorts yeah IMean i know he's feeling good today oh yeah it's a good body image day when the shorts come out um exact opposite i'll wear i'll wear shorts year-round snore whatever but i'll have a hoodie hell yeah chris you've never seen colton's calves in person i would wear shorts dude i'm excited to see him um golden is like he's like the thing from fantastic four it's i wish bro you're so checked yeah dude um we got some icebreakers for you colton so i hope you're ready okay first one what kind of animal do you feel like right now in this current moment dude with like the beginning of this push phase and like how fast i've been kind of putting on weight like honestly like maybe cheesy but i kind of feel like a rhino dude like kind of kind of kind of thick kind of muscular like whatever i talk to the gym i feel that i can move like that's probably the closest thing i could relate to i think that yeah dude you're growing super well like your check-ins every week i'm like holy shit it's blown my mind too man i i don't know i don't i don't want to ask anything about your trening or nutrition but can i ask what drugs you're on yeah i'm not it's not a secret to me like like we're still like uh titrating up but i'm just doing the general like pushing tests more than i've ever kind of ram tests um so like right now my test is like at 200 uh my EQ is around 180 and my like a day every other okay i was like i was like if you're saying a week i'm about to fruit about the freak out you're about to jump off a bridge every other okay okay okay and right now and we'll pull labs here in a couple weeks and kind of see but my my EQ and my mass are kind of matched at 180. okay it's respectable yeah i like that i'm about to try it i think i should i think i should try that as well dude yeah that sounds good colton if you're going to a gas station you're not macro swappinGHealth is not a consideration whaT3 items are you getting is it drinking like drink everything all included yeah yeah yeah okay like so i just i love chocolate milk so i'm getting a chocolate milk of some sort oh yeah dude like y'all just became best friends yeah dude that's awesome i'm getting a chocolate milk uh i need something salty i need something sweet so i'm not a traditional like reese's guy i feel like that's overplayed you know what IMean so i need some sort of like uh like snack food like some honey roasted cashews or something and then like maybe some sort of uh uh man can i get a glizzy is that an option for a gas station food the world is your oyster buddy yeah maybe a glizzy too i think that's my little bit of everything there i dig that i think it's i think it's a fair meal swap the more i think about it you know i just imagine watching you eat that and then like washing it down with the chocolate yeah it was that guy like after practice or whatever like would come home like straight to the fridge gallon of milk like just down there IMean like that was my water after practice that's crazy that's how it was when i was growing when i was trying to grow when i was in high school because i lost 100 pounds and i gained it back the gaining it back process was a gallon of whole fat milk every day will you bring that meal into the house for the coaches weekend and just see what comes no kidding start gaslighting everybody just like john you put this in my plane i don't know what the issue is right now you said i could macro match something i think the the the hot dog would be the only thing that would be like super super out of wine yeah god the hot dog's just a tipping point just walk in the gym with a hot dog the sodium pumps man come on we can make an argument for it um currently what's your favorite song that you're listening to in the gym oh man somehow like i figured that was gonna come up and i was trying to think of something like and i i have no idea man i i have just been i bounce around so much between like like metal and then like some uh dmx type stuff or even static x i i couldn't i couldn't tell you um i had been doing like a lot of like spirit blocks lately though oh good choice right i couldn't say like i have one specific song i've been like on repeat regularly when you tren with luke do you use headphones or do you just listen to him all right i feel like this sounds kind of funny what you said um i i don't when i tren with someone i usually don't wear headphones because i want to be like involved with like what's going on between sets so i don't i don't ever wear headphones if i'm trening with with someone else that's so wild you would hate trening me and chris and chris don't speak we don't talk yeah we'll literally there's been times we'll go to the gym together like i'll drill we'll drive to wherever the other person lives which like three hours away get there say what's up what are we starting with and then we'll leave and we'll start texting on the drive dude like well where's the point where we just like point at the next piece it's like we're in sign language and then the same with plates we'll just hold up a number yeah i can get down with that i can get down with that i just yeah there's something about i kind of want to be like in the zone with with whoever i am so we can kind of have a little bit of communication but if you guys have been trened together for like that long you guys probably already have that built then yeah or we'll go like half a year like so i'll go half headphone and then just suck in here y'all like yelling yeah that's ideal are you guys this is always a question i like to ask people too are like are you over the ear or are you like bud your butt the issue is i lose so many pairs of headphones so right now i'm currently earbuds because that's just what i have available austin colvin has my over the ear beats i have one of his pair of earbuds and i don't know what dude if you go through my bluetooth actually i'll pull up my bluetooth and i'll count how many pairs of headphones i've connected to that i've either lost or broken one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve thirty four thirty six seventeen eighteen nineteen twenty one two three four uh thirty three pairs of headphones that's insane you know you can like forget the device on there and it'll go yeah i probably should clear them but sometimes like again if we're all trening together i'll just connect to whoever has a pair of headphones there for me yeah you know like dude i just washed my studio buds from the seminar because i forgot to put them back in the case oh god yeah yeah i can't do buds my stupid callifier ears like push it out so i gotta get the big like over the heads what about you um man i used to always do the like a bud because i didn't like i just get hot but now like if i'm on my own like i don't want to hear anyone or anything so i just have the the complete beats over the years um which are awesome actually but i think over the years help too with like people not actively going up to talk to you as well okay or you can like move it aside and be like hey i'm not taking my hand off this because it's about to come right back on and then people still don't even get the hint sometimes so i think like in the gym though like i usually wear my hat like super low like so you can't really see anything anyways like you're not really sure if i'm looking at you or not you know what IMean yeah he's never any eye contact like a bikini girl you know they do that where they like just fucking ghost in your gym room for what is a gym sin that instantly makes you judge someone i think like right now what i see is like the the long socks and uh what do they call them it's like they're like sandal like burke are they burks looking socks yeah man i don't know what it is with that yeah that's something i keep seeing and i think like a lot of it's from like some bigger dudes doing it probably like trened by jp and all those dudes but like right now i just see these dudes are like no joke like 120 pounds i'm like bro like go put on some shoes man where they can easily tie their shoes yeah yeah like look i'm a big advocate and like have you heard the saying you got to be two something to do something like like that's kind of the motto is like you got to at least be 200 pounds before you can like do anything cool like from a physique standpoint sorry for my guys who aren't 200 pounds on the team but um it's like i don't know man like that's my biggest thing is like the guys like they'll wear that or the pajama pants or the stringer and they're like a buck 60. and IMean i i was bodybuilding back in 2010 so like we it was just like 3x like you know dresses we would wear it was all like how big of a shirt could you wear luckily it's trening back into that now but like i don't yeah i don't know like you never wore a stringer unless you were like real close to the show yeah well dude i think like one the the the birkenstock thing i think going back to it like when i'm like 260 is when i start wearing slides to the gym because i physically cannot get down to my my shoes period and my feet are also too fat to put on my slip-on vans so that's my option at that point but with the pajama pants like what i can't i still can't conceptualize it in any way because i'll see kids do like i was at the gym two nights ago it was 8 30 p.m and a kid showed up in pajama pants i'm like did you wear those all fucking day or did you just put them on because either way it's weird yeah it's like are you are you comfy bud like you you comfy in here like is that that's that what you're coming coming for i don't know man unless i just wanted to have this the only thing and i wouldn't even wear it but i guess the one benefit of pajama pants is if you're just looking to have a wicked fucking like picture where you could strip down your pants and be vascular as fuck i could see where pajama pants would like come into play but outside of that man i just don't get it like i don't understand how you it just doesn't make it's like people who put on the headbands to like go tren it's like i at what point are you like getting dressed like you know what this hang on i gotta put my pajamas on or like are they fixing the headband yeah that looks about right like i don't i don't know i don't get it it's always the the dry t-shirt club falls into that category yeah but i don't yeah it's i think those are the biggest i guess i don't know if i'd call them sins it didn't even bother me people don't re-rack their like just lazy like but it's those things it's like that or i had a kid it's just it's the it's younger guys not like the old people here but it's like the younger smaller kids it's like we're in their way and like i i remember like being the younger small kids and like the jack guys at the gym would come in and i would like one get out of their way and then i would like ask a question or i'd be like excited if they'd like hey like what do you do for your bicep but like it's almost like they're they know more and they're like coming on to us like they're like scoffing at us like we're the problem and i'm like what is this the the way that i described it as we're all uh the the next generation there's now a generation below us is when i first signed up at arsenal which i was recovering from bulimia i was 18 years old i was 160 pounds and this was when like dallas was there michaela acock was there all those people it was a gnarly gym like i remember showing up the first day looking around leaving going to walmart and buying the biggest hoodie and then i came back and i did not speak to a fucking soul right i would not talk to anybody i remember there was one night i got done dead lifting and again me being an idiot i left the plate on the bar i start to walk away and this dude is a super heavyweight powerlifter i hear him scream from across the gym and i immediately just stopped and i was like oh shit and i turned and this guy's like 275 is running at me he comes up and like grabs me by the shirt he's like you're gonna respect this fucking gym if it's the last thing you do and i was like yes sir and i went and i clened it up and i was like hey i'm sorry about that he goes yeah fuck you leave and i was like i'm gonna go i'm gonna leave and at that point he passed the torch to me and now it is our turn to pass the torch to them very true great well alex we had the seminar what was your favorite part of it my sarcastic favorite part of it that was like just admirinGHow much fluke knows like this is just like it's uh that that was i'll say so like leading into that was probably the coolest thing thing was like getting the experiencing mining luke's like tandem back and forth was really cool because like i always kind of knew it would be that way but it looked like because like dude luke was luke talked about like my client's acetabulum and fucking like hit me it's just like it's so deep and like femur links and tibial shifts and then i'm just like yeah so anyway like we're gonna we're gonna squeeze our glutes here and um but just the way it kind of bounced off each other it worked really well it was really cool to see but mostly man just like the my favorite part was the amount of people that came i remember my first workshop that i tried to do it's like 2019 i got invited to do it and like the gym like i guess didn't really do much with it i had two people there um and then i've had one where uh there was a coach who like i i had done two three successful workshops before like i had mark lobeliner come to one i had the npc alabama come to one but i've been i've been screwed on some workshops too um like not being able like i got invited to mississippi and then they like kind of booted us to the end and then no one stayed um and then i had another workshop where kind of i had a whole presentation and they basically just like skipped around us like it was a a huggy feel good welcome to the npc deal and so like i remember leaving that one at the end of 2022 and i said i will never do a workshop that's not mine again and so like i've done more since but that was the one where i was like i'm never going to feel this way and then watching it all come together and people flew in from boston drove from oklahoma drove from texas like that was the coolest thing was like wow and like everything we talked about people took it and they're like they're like wow i never thought this i never thought about this stuff and you're just leaving the sport better because that that was one of the reasons why i wanted to do it was like we see these npc workshops and like they're great but they're they're for beginners it's like the athlete meeting at shows it's very like you only need to hear it one time but my goal was like hey we can do this on our own this is our thing we don't have to pose we don't have to answer you know little where do i sign up herEQuestions and we can make people better and i think we did exactly that for sure for sure mine was um shout out to cj perry for the pumpkin roll that shit was gas dude i ate that whole thing in about 12 hours and that was with self-restrent um good i didn't even get a brownie dude i was in my own little world in my pocket i went to town brother it was awesome and i still lost 10 pounds that day dude we didn't leave there until so we had this idea hey you know and it was the best idea to tren before because afterwards there's the best idea of the worst idea so we did legs before colton and we're like yeah that'll be smart and then we're wrapping up legs and people are piling in and like oh god like all right we got to do this and then it went great then afterwards was like you know just gym floor questions watching fixing form fixing this dude we didn't leave till 5 30 and i had one meal that whole day um yeah and so i got i just remember gettinGHome and like i couldn't see i was just like and then i started check-ins to do it was just mine was at 12 30 the night before i get the text hey we're gonna tren legs at 9 a.m and i was like word this will go swimmingly and um so we trened legs it was awesome it was hellacious and then i was like do i have time to go shower super fast i was like gonna shower eat a meal i go hop in the shower for 45 seconds it was just like nuts and pits i get out and they had started the seminar and i was like what the is happening right now so i'm sitting there just sweating my ad roll is worn off i'm an anxious mess and uh get through the seminar i eat my beef and rice meal finally and then i'm like dude i'm getting on the road i gotta get the fuck home because i had updates to do i'm 40 minutes outside of birmingham and luke calls me he's like hey my flight got canceled can you come get me and i was like word i got you dude so i turned around and grabbed him we got to my house at like 12 15 in the morning that's a that's a night it was a day it was a sprint but it was super fun dude it was fun to see everybody i found out i can fit in the corvette so that's the the goal for 26 now is i can do that so shout out to logan but yeah well definitely i know we won't tease it but i know we've got some ideas for like december and then early spring to try to get everybody together to do like a massive massive seminar somewhere colton you're coming early spring yep i would love to man like i was telling luke like i was going to come out um i was going to try and come out to this one you guys did but like it just turned out that i had like some family coming to town like the same weekend so uh because i really wanted to come out there and well IMean chris and i haven't got to meet in person right so i wanted to like meet chris in person just hang out and just be a part of all that because yeah you guys had like a huge turnout right like how many people do you guys think you guys had it was close to 60. yeah yeah i feel like that's a ton yeah it was it was a lot man um but yeah that then so that's the thing is like some people who maybe came in because they traveled like friday i was like hey y'all just come tren we'll get down so like we made it we made it a nice little weekend for what we could um but yeah dude like like the next one and we'll talk about it off air but we're gonna plan something big uh for for nashville um and that'll be we'll definitely get you in for a few days for sure um let's see next question we got when do you know it's time to hire a new coach well i guess like if it was me thinking about it like i think about if you'd communicated like all these goals or things that that you want to see happen or not happening or they're not like listening to your input to some extent right because as a coach like you kind of have to weed through some of that i feel i feel like at that point it's like okay like the communication's bad we're not seeing progress like probably that's the time to to move on um i'm kind of big into like just man-to-man stuff so like if it was me personally be like hey like this is what i'm not getting like and if we can't meet in the middle like i'm gonna find it somewhere else yeah yeah i think i think that's the most appropriate way to go about it is like not just like warnings per se but like just like as much as we're both checking in between an athlete and a coach it's like as a coach we're stepping in and checking in to make sure they're doing their job but vice versa right it should also be reciprocated because i always say it but look much like a dog we can't know we're doing something wrong unless we're told about it right or if expectations aren't perfectly aligned and i think that comes through and why we all advocate for consistent communication because otherwise the second it's in the gray it's going to end up being our fault in some capacity it's just the reality of the role that we play um but a lot of times you see too and that's where it's hard to like kind of i don't necessarily want to side with just the coach or just the athlete in these situations but in most cases that i see it always just comes from a lack of communication that then just causes a drift you know okay yeah go ahead no finish well i was gonna say like and i'm sure you guys i think we all kind of do it it's like i think a lot goes into like even doing like the voice memo or the video messages things like that so people can kind of tell tone but from like a client side and i do have a decent amount that will send like voice memos and stuff like that which i think also kind of helps decide where you are in your relationship too but like if you have people out there and sometimes like i'm sure everyone has them like you're kind of prying for information it's like yes or no's or like simple stuff and i think sometimes i find without me like let jimmy ask like hey man like how are you doing questions about these things i think sometimes that's where communication can go sour even though like we don't even know it's going sour you know what IMean yeah yeah yeah i i think it goes down in communication for sure um and because so when new clients come to me and they're leaving a previous coach that's the first thing i ask i say hey what what were you not getting from them that you're expecting there that you need because everybody's different like dude even like i have plenty of people we may talk for 10 minutes a week like it's not much but like as long as the plan is properly written it's great um but then i have some people like the plan's properly written and we still talk every day it's just this is what it is but i think the biggest thing is like the coach needs to lay out expectations of response time and turnaround time what i've noticed like i tell people hey give me 24 hours but what i like and it's not like flex like i'm usually pretty fast like when there is something like the workshop comes up and i'm not responding to to check-ins until saturday night or the next day people are like hey did you get my check-in and i'm like yeah just you know like it's so it kind of yeah obviously that's a good problem to have but i have you'll deal with like i've heard heard some bigger name coaches like yeah you know they don't respond to me for two or three days i don't think as an athlete i wouldn't mind that if i was just told like hey it's going to be two days before i give you a response and then the response is great um but i just remember like when i was an athlete i would refresh my email because that's like how we did it i'll refresh my email every 30 minutes and then you get so excited and so i try to remember that when i'm doing check-ins that like man i remember what my check-ins were like and it's just like it's like gospel so yeah i think that's where if you're not getting the attention that you need right um and now that's a that's an interesting thing to say because some people will say oh you're not paying attention to me it's like well yeah if i ask you hey you know instead of this you can do this but it happened yesterday hey yeah like give me some like squat squat footage hey well i'm actually not squatting in my trening plan okay and then i'll just go back and like okay see you know what it is or like hey you know like you accidentally put chicken in and you forgot like i don't like chicken like that stuff's gonna happen because i don't remember everything about you like you like the little little stuff right it's not that i don't care but sometimes that can be taken as like they're not paying attention to me it's like well could you like give us some lenience here because you know a little bit of grace yeah yeah but most of the time like i know what you do i know if you have a significant other i know if you have kids i usually know if you have a pet like so that that's like colton you were saying when you have the responses like it's like how how's everything this week good i try to dive in more just to just to have a conversation like the check-in's done but now i'm like hey i need to like let's just talk for a second yeah i have that the same thing because it's also me getting used to the app and that's why i tell people too is like you know your plans aren't copy and pasted because there's going to be some amount of human error from time to time right like i went to update a trening plan yesterday and i accidentally i didn't realize that there was a drop down and you could choose between the new plans and so i accidentally updated the old plan i was like see i'm human like this is real this is an AI but like let me fix that super quick and then it wasn't an issue but in that same vein to alex's point like you'll get some people who will take that poorly or that it's like either negligence or a lack of care and it's like hey we we make we make mistakes but they're also very solvable and every case that we go through is just a matter of communicating that to us yeah yeah i remember during a peak week i was telling this guy i kept referring to like cream of rice and i just because i'm like telling people carb options and i'm like yeah just like you know have this i've plenty of this i've plenty of this he's like i i can't do cream of rice i was like okay yeah well like just do the other ones right like sorry i'm just listing carbs here like it's not it's not that serious yeah there's there again it's like there's some points where it does not make sense to sit there and scroll through 8 000 messages to try to find that that one thing you know it's like let's here's everything let's just try to be as efficient as possible with our time management here um but i think going back to thEQuestion and and the guy who had asked i talked to him privately about this i think inevitably it also just comes down to if if you've given your coach ample time and opportunity to provide the service that you've invested in granted it's arbitrary to say what that time frame looks like i would say more than three months and you don't feel like you're getting the service that you were promised again it's it's like anything else that's what i explained to him is like you're investing in a service much like anything else it's like in his case it was his coach wasn't handling any of his trening i'm like well the analogy i use is like if you go to the barber shop and you pay 60 bucks to have your beard shaved and your haircut they cut your hair and then hand you a razor to shave your beard why are you paying for that right it's you're not getting all that was entailed in the initial conversation therefore if you're not getting the service that you feel you've invested in it's probably time to look for something else yeah yeah i think i'll say this so there's also times when not to leave perfect example was ramon last year at the olympia you know was clearly bad and then he stuck with chris asito they they figured it out same thing like nick walker's not leaving kyle you know like samson's not leavinGHis wife like so you can't just have like one bad show or one bad peak if if the effort was there if the and that's the thing is like as long as you're trying to like make it right and figure it out and giving your effort i think athletes should stay now if you if you're three four shows deep and you just can't like figure it out yeah you should maybe look somewhere else but um that's the biggest thing i think now with with clients leaving after one show it's like they're looking for the secret or like the missing link but it's like man if your coach like IMean dude i've paid entry fees i've paid for my own travel i paid for athletes rooms and it's like if you're leaving me after that like come on like i get it if i've had some some people leave like is they halfway across the world then like yeah like sure if you can find someone there heck yeah i totally understand but you know like james so james mentioned why he left you know chris tuttle it was like well he's not here uh but chris tuttle flew out over there and like was literally like tanninGHim backstage fixed a few things so it's like even james leaving you should still respectfully go about it like the right way not just popping up with a new coach because because buttle's effort was there yeah it's been like sending pics checking in and like hey man yeah good luck uh i know you'recompeting 12 hours ahead of me and i will we'll figure it out like just follow this plan yeah i get it but like tuttle's effort was there like you you can't just like ghost that yeah but then on the flip end it's like i'm going back to what you're saying looking at efforts sergio leaving boss was a prime example of when it's appropriate to leave yeah yeah did you hear did you see anything about that colton haven't no so i watched the interview of sergio uh yesterday is basically he was like look like you know and he made very good points like obviously urs was doing the show um obviously it's a little awkward you know why i put urs in the same show um but he understood like hey you know like this is they have this kind of like stepdad stepson relationship like i know he's going to be closer to him like i'm not offended by it i think that's great but like there's a few times sergio was trying to like check in in person and he's like no just send me photos send me this and sergio's like well i didn't like come to italy just to send you photos like like i i wanted this experience and then just some different things on you know like getting different you know languages different measurements being sent on his diet like things that just looked very like simple and they and i think you know and then i'm again i'm summarizing y'all can watch the interview but um one thing that sergio pointed out is like he's boss is so good at um like adjusting on the fly that he can give you kind of like hey you you fly in here's your plan and he can manipulate fast like he can plug it like a algorithm fast but like there's not a lot of effort into the initial setup for people and so just like little things like that but again it goes to the effort because it's like all right well you're there with you know obviously your prior client you've been with for six years yes there's going to be a relationship there totally get it but like don't you know don't just pretend like i'm not here and especially in it granted it to me it still doesn't matter the caliber of athlete like everybody should be given the same effort that's promised but like we can't we keep hearing these horror stories like some of the best in the world like not even having a direct line of communication with their coach i'm like dude i'd move the in with them i'd do their dishes if i had to to have a chance to work with them and you're getting the best in the world and you're just like i'll talk to you next week like how are you not excited that you're working with like the best in the world and it's your job just to land the plane yeah it blows my mind um go ahead alex i was just saying it's very um like you have that with clients right like obviously like you know if i have you or austin or neely doing a like i'm probably going to be staying with y'all right like not every athlete's going to have access to that but it's because like the and i've said this before like it's not that you've earned the the effort like everyone's going to get my same effort but like you you may not be as like emotionally close because you just haven't been with your coach that long so you can't compare it to like thEQuote a team or the favorites like it is going to be different but it's because like the relationship just hasn't been built yeah yeah that takes time i think it's going back to it like what you said alex about giving your coach time not beyond just a show because one it's also why i try to set up seasons for athletes because dude if you get someone brand new or someone who's just come to you right you guys just started together and they're you know they started let's say 20 weeks out and you have one opportunity to nail it with them or they're out do that that leaves a lot of room for for error in a certain sense like as much as we're all great at what we do we don't always nail the first peak perfectly as much as we can nail the next one better and the ones following now that we've collected the data to work off of to build that framework um and that's why like with my last coach granted effort wasn't there and we found that out after the fact but like i gave him three shows to figure it out and he couldn't figure it out so i left but if i if i just left after the first one which granted we all saw where it went but like i'd be like with alex and i if i left after the first peak it's like dude we didn't have that much time together in the first place i had three athletes doing the show with me i was cortisol central like so that's why we were still together the next peak was better than the last yeah IMean if you guys ever had it too like we're talking about like switching coaches um especially back when i was still in idaho like sometimes like it's a small kind of group of coaches and athletes kind of play their way through the coaches um and i've gotten some athletes obviously and really like the biggest thing that was happening is just complacency from them and their old coach they've been in the same routine for so long they just even having we'll say you left a lot of the macros are saying you change the trening program brought some excitement back into it like something new and then you see like the progress happening again right that that spark rekindled so i i i always wonder too if sometimes if that happens too is like almost like a little bit of a reset you know IMean like okay you're not happy let's kind of like let's pull things back let's start from ground zero again and use what we have as information let's change things up a little bit right because i think a lot of times what they want is a change just a change you know yeah i've seen that a lot it's like you're not really doing much different than they were but it's or you're just like you know putting it through a little you know filter and getting rid of some of the bs but then yeah it's very easy to but you notice that kind of like light bulb go off or they're excited again and yes it's because it's something new um you know and then it probably stays and then you hope like they don't just go reaching for something new you know every time progress stalls but yeah it's especially at the local like regional level you know everyone kind of works their way through other coaches and then you know but that's the thing is us coaches also talk about it so like we kind of know like there's been some people i won't even respond to the dms about somebody i've heard i've heard about you like and i've seen it so i'm like no i'm not gonna waste my time yeah i don't know it takes it takes time to find the right fit but like when i see people who've been through like three coaches in a year i'm like dude you're you are the problem like it can't like there are obviously some coaches out there like we all see like some of the nonsense that especially like locally or at a regional level but i'm like dude it can't be three coaches fall in a row like it's just impossible right right yeah uh alex you you brought up this question about what does bodybuilding cost beyond the financial sacrifices yeah so like uh i saw this post and it was like you know what is what does it cost and i wanted to ask y'all like what y'all felt like this sport has cost you over the years um and this could get deep as hell um so i'll start and this is just like brainstorming like i haven't really thought about it but like it's um it's cost me some heart health it's cost me some probably years off my life for sure um cost me a lot of relationships and friendships it cost me a lot of things that like man i want to go to friends weddings i want to travel it it cost me a lot of uh time where just going and having fun um like going you know floating down the river on a saturday you know and drinking or partying or going to football games or you know it cost me a lot of social life um it cost me a lot of friends not that we're not friends but like they don't call me to hang out because of so many times that i just would not go and it wasn't like bodybuilding caused it but it's because like i was trying to be the best bodybuilder and i either had to tren or had to eat or had to sleep or i didn't want to be the awkward person out not eat not drinking um so it cost me a lot of that cost me a lot of um um i almost say good relationships like romantic relationships i know it cost me one like back when i was in my early 20s um for sure um but on the flip side i look back at what i have now as a coach and i'd pay it every time because that's the one thing that's relatable that i can relate to with my athletes and that's the one thing that i get out of my athletes is i know everything that i sacrificed to be not like i didn't win anything um but i just knew the level of intensity and effort that i would give and i can once i see it matched in my athletes i'm like there's the one and it's it's something that that's what i'm like yeah i would pay it every day what about you colton yeah like i was thinking about the whole time he's saying i'm like yeah that that fits that fits uh like again like obviously like some health stuff like we we all know that like and that's that's the risk we take and i'm i'm okay with that at this point in my life like i've already i've already accepted that there's going to be a toll on that and IMay not pay it now that i'm going to pay for it later and at this point like i'm good with that like it's okay i always tell everyone like man i'd like to do numbers here right i would rather have we'll say 50 or 60 good years where i love what i'm doing and i'm enjoying it then 70 to 80 years we're like yeah i lived an okay life and i didn't necessarily enjoy it because right now what i do i love i'm i'm super happy with stayinGHome going trening doing my thing like i love that that's good for me um i have no complaints you know i don't i don't miss going out to the bars i don't miss beinGHung over i don't miss being sick from eating out i don't miss any of that you know but i definitely can say like like definitely friendships um definitely some family stuff just because of like what you said man like i'm so in in my head right to myself and like you said even being a lower end guy like my the goal is so far i know that in order to get anywhere close to that my variables of have to be so small because i don't i don't have that the best genetics i don't have all these things working for me so for me to level the playing field to be equal with some of these guys like i have to be on everything and that's where i feel i can make my money at is like doing all those small things that some people aren't willing to do and again that's like you said like going out with friends and doing all those social events like i'm 100 the guy that has canceled those off and is like okay with like hey if if that's not cool with you like that's fine if you have to go out drink to have a good time like we don't need to be friends and whether that's the right or the wrong answer again like i've i've already accepted that um definitely like definitely relationship for sure um um i especially when i when i kind of like got a little deeper into bodybuilding we'll say like the lasT3 or four years and i started my business and the forefront of everything was myself's bodybuilding coaching and then family and life came after that and again i'm not saying that's the right thing but that's just what i do and what i still kind of am doing now um because again like those are the that's what i want to do and that's what makes me happy and that's the biggest goal for me so definitely family friends relationships yeah huge things that have taken a hit does it feel good now like looking at what you have like coaching and like as an athlete that like you're kind of making it like like is it is it feel good you can be like well it was worth it i think i think for me right now where i'm at i can definitely say that i can i can feel that like the progress IMake whether it be my own progress or my coaching progress has been leaping like exponentially we'll sleep in every year and every three to six months like i feel like i've had a goal you know the first goal with my business was like simple super simple small stuff you know i had i started with like seven clients and i'm like okay my goal is to make by the end of the month like a profit of five thousand did that right the next goal was ten thousand did that next was fifteen thousand did that right i also said this is super cheesy right and this is it's kind of a manifestation thing but i'm like man if john ever does a coaching team again like i'm gonna be on that here we are you know what IMean like yeah yeah um so it definitely feels feels good to have that um and you know to like same thing with like this whole and i think john talked about it too um is like you know my goal this year was maybe not to get a pro card but like to prove that i belonged in that that realm of like a show and being worthy of being on there like again like the the overall like prove that it was again all those small work things missing out on things that contributed to that in my opinion those those small things that make the big difference yeah yeah i like to use the phrase like compounding interest like me doing those small things every day or building up to the guys that again are not willing to do the small things dude 100 what about you chris IMean all falls in the same same vein as you guys i've definitely accepted the reality that i've taken years off of my lifespan um and i'm entirely accepting and comfortable with that IMade that decision a long time ago hopping into all of this um dude i've had i've lost many friendships over the years just because we weren't in alignment on what we got enjoyment from right like i've got and again i love all these guys to death i'd still you know pick up everything to be there for them but they're drinking buddies i don't drink i don't go out so we just don't align and obviously i took that route like in my early late teens early 20s so i didn't really live out like a stupid college party lifestyle like i was going to community college and working full-time and just bodybuilding without even knowing i was going to compete um so obviously there was a lot of judgment casted with that because nobody understood why i was doing what i was doing but also didn't look the fucking part to do what i was doing either right i just started with the process um but dude i've like man i've missed weddings i've missed life events i've missed like i've lost friendships because of situations like that um personal relationships have definitely been sacrificed romantic relationships have absolutely been sacrificed through the process because like i finally got to a point where i understood the reality of the matter is like i actually have to put myself first if i want to go as far as i think i can right i don't have all of the genetic cards to just be handed to me to allow that to come to fruition naturally and so i've just i've i've laid it out pretty hard and straight to people like unless you fit into this mold of my life it's not going to happen because i'm not bending for anybody right um and show prep just exacerbates that even more like that's i got to the point in in my show preps where i would text the guys that i would tren with nick this is my schedule for the week this is what i'm trening this is what i'm trening if you want to see me this is your time to see me otherwise i'll see you when i see you right but i think as you you excel in the sport and i i see it a lot with some of my newer athletes who are starting to trensition to understand what all this actually takes to be successful you start to find the people who understand that i think those are the people that are supposed to be with you anyways not the people who are casting judgment because you're pursuing the goal they can't comprehend because to me it shouldn't matter what the goal is whether it's you know basket weaving or bodybuilding or whatever if this is where i find my fulfillment and my purpose as a friend you should be supportive of that in the same sense right um and so i think that's been interesting to see is like i've made my best friendships out of this sport for people who understand why we do what we do so in the same way i can't really say that i've lost a lot in that if i've actually found the people i'm supposed to be around and then now 12 years of work have come to fruition so like i don't give a shit like i i would go through all of that again if i knew it would land be where i'm at now yeah yeah i agree i think i don't know i worry sometimes like coaching athletes like you not only you see their physique and their progression there but like you also see like their outside life and you just don't know if it is going to be worth it and you kind of have to like like like so colton i'll say that like we're you know we're also like a manager as much as we are a coach too and there are sometimes like i tell people like hey we got to get some life stuff goinGHere like i need you to get job this career this degree like i need you to i need you to to get that because like this is not going to like i have coach pros i coach pros with sponsorships i coach pros who place well they're not living off of that and it's like and that's something that i again it's hard to tell people like oh yeah it is going to be worth it one day um but now that i say that it's only from the the financial and business side of it i never like you know we've talked about how to mitigate preps and pay back to your family significant others and all that but like that's the one thing where i think people may be like hey yeah it's not worth it is if you're in your 40s broke still competing nowhere near the national level or like you finally get the pro card but like your family's left you you've ignored your kids you not really like you just getting paycheck to paycheck that's when it's probably not worth it no i think and that's not a fun conversation to have to have right but that's what i tell because i work with a lot of younger people i'm like hey like my goal in this chapter of life is your education or your career path goes first bodybuilding can fall behind that for at least a period of time now as you elevate it might change but dude we see people all the time that are like incredibly successful that work very extensively like difficult jobs or the same way i've worked with numerous athletes in school and it's not impeded on their education but also tell them like you have to send me your report card like if you're failing then we're pulling the out because it's still not as much as i will live breathe and die for this there's a line of which i won't let other people do that if i know that long term it's going to affect them cataclysmically yeah like with that i think one IMean i hate to say this i'll be that guy like there's a genetic component right but there's also that mental side it's like people they want to they you know i'll be like how did you get to where you were like how'd you have to be a coach full-time and living your dream as a bodybuilder it's like well i literally didn't focus on anything else like that was when i woke up so i went to bed like that's all i did and the hours they don't talk about is like when i was starting that business dude i was trening 10 12 hours on the floor over three or four hours of checking in and it wasn't five days a week that was seven days a week there's people that like that's what they want to do they want that bodybuilding lifestyle i'm not sure they completely understand all the details that go into that because from the outside it looks fun like i do check-ins on certain days i set my own hours i go to the gym when i want it ain't like that you know what IMean like you guys know you guys have athletes other countries you know just a while back i had a guy in spain and you're getting up at 12 30 3 30 you know to to check on these peaks and stuff like that i don't think that like anyone realizes that when it comes down to that big picture goal of like being a pro or whatever that means there's a lot of small things that you get to miss out on dude it's it's not i love when people talk about like coaching from the outside in they're like dude you get to set your own hours it's all hours it's every hour dude or or they're like uh you know they'll they'll say like oh wow that's almost kind of like a real job i'm like yeah for sure hey how about you just like just keep your phone on you and have 120 people talk to you all day long and just see how that goes like and it's like um it's fun but at the same time it's like the beach bass show like smoked it right did great at it i don't remember like any of it because you're just so like locked in and then by the time you're done with the that work day like you're at dinner with like some people and you're like kind of falling asleep and and like you're just worn out or you know and then like me and chris were talking after he's like you know how'd the peaks go and i sent him just like something went wrong like not wrong but like no one would ever know the things i was dealing with on the back end with every athlete and everyone was different and it's like but people don't see that they see the instagram post like oh wow that was awesome he kicked ass but it's like dude you don't you don't get it and that's one thing that gives me the ick on like now coaches are selling their coaching and and you know you can be a six-figure coach and this that and the other it's like you don't even one you don't even produce but two like you don't even know like you don't even know what you're selling like it's not a dream come true i have to tell so i coach it's interesting i coach coaches who are also really good body but it was like perfect examples chris um austin brown's another one right top of my head um but like and i've had talks with like hey if you the best coaches are not the best athletes at the same time so it's like it's figuring out how to manage both but like also kind of how to hold yourself back in one because like you can't like i know for a fact i couldn't compete right now because i would be the worst coach for the last six weeks like just for my mental like mental mentality like oh god it doesn't matter like i just want to respond like i would be terrible no so it's an interesting dynamic and like hey how you have to if you want to be all in on the athlete even some of your coaching like you and what IMean by that is you just can't take on as many or you know you have the timeline like with chris we work on timelininGHis preps away from his clients preps and stuff like that so it's not easy no dude it's and that's where we're getting to is like i'm getting to that fork in the road where it's like one or the other right and it's like i i know ultimately coaching is where i'm always going to lean first but it's like i still want to take a couple more stabs at at bodybuilding competing beforehand but it's why we all part of why we made the decision to go to open because next season i've already laid out where all my athletes are and there's not a place for me to plug in my prep that wouldn't potentially impede on somebody else's journey and i'm just not going to put myself in that position not anymore i've done it too i do i've competed with athletes too many fucking times i won't do it anymore you mean like at the same show yeah dude i've done it five times that's wild i only done that one time yeah dude i did 21 2021 i had one guy do with me 2023 i had three first timers do with me and then this year i had one dude with me yeah yeah i did it once yeah just just once it was a cool experience because we both won overalls but again like the stress i felt from watching them out there and doing it like i can't imagine chris you doing it for that many man especially more than one you know yeah three was rough and i also got evicted the week prior because of my dog it was a whole stupid thing so like cortisol was high the whole time i can only imagine man and then and then alex you were talking about the the beach bass show and all those people i'm just like like you said when you're talking about being like the other day i'm like i can't imagine like because even like just a normal day of check-ins and stuff like that at the end of the day like i need like an hour just to not talk to anyone i just need to stop quietly you know and do something mind-numbing you know so to do that for you know two days three days in a row is that's a super impressive to both of you as a bunch of different accounts so thank you thank you i know you guys supposed to answer thEQuestion but i have a question for kind of both of you a little bit um when it comes to being an athlete and the coach which side have you've kind of found you've liked more you know i think this might be a little easier for you alex now that you've kind of separated yourself from the bodybuilding piece but for you chris i think i'm curious to hear your answer because i i found myself going in different pathways at different times so have you found like you you like right now the athlete side more or the coaching side more and again i guess that could be a loaded question but that's a really good question man um i think i get more i get more fulfillment and gratification from coaching um i think competing wise is obviously like the the the selfish endeavor of prepping is what i enjoy um and i enjoy like still finding that part of me because dude it's it's hard because like post show immediately i just shifted right back into coaching as far as like just where i was putting my fixation because it's not hard for me to check a box like i can detach from that emotionally but then the second i see like i've got like a bunch of my people are bang on right now and every time i see them in person i'm like mother fucker i want to be back on stage right so like it kind of like feeds itself in a certain sense um but to to i guess take ownership of it i also know that like kind of what alice is saying with him prepping like the lasT4 weeks that i'm in prep is when i become much less empathetic as a coach where i'm like dude i've i've been through worse right now you're okay it'll be okay so it's like they almost feed each other in a certain sense because i think it's allowed me to like harden up as a coach in certain moments of being like hey man if i can go through this i think you can too at a lesser extreme than myself um currently i'm getting more out of coaching i think or i'm finding more excitement there but then on the flip end being like moving into open has been very exciting as well so it's like it really depends on the day dude it depends on how check-ins go that day to be honest that's super fair actually that's a that's a good answer that's super fair yeah yeah for me it's obviously you know i never really won anything i love the process of it i love the process of getting like shredded um i still do like i still tren eat my meals like i'm very like contest prep regimen so i don't like i i get that fixation out of it and then competing in jujitsu gives me something to chase like doing that like i still have that like chase aspect so i think it kind of gets that itch for me but um i will say it's really nice like being able to go to shows and not having to worry about how big you look like it's probably like the number one thing that i like um because that was always like the the how you size up right it was like you know who's who's the big guy today or or you see like a good heavy like oh could i get them you know um so now it's just great to go in there like i gotta wear big clothes like i wear 2xl shirts like and they all look kind of baggy like i i don't like and it doesn't phase me like at all i'm like i don't care um but a lot of what i channel from because i don't compete as an athlete is i compete as a coach i look for other coaches that i want to go be i look for like like i so i take it very personal in that regard um and then it's but like the most gratified like i get so much more gratification out of other people's success whether they win or not uh it's so it's very fulfilling um i will say that the biggest downfall though is that it goes very fast they win they're very thankful some of them leave not because they like go to another coach but some of them just quit the sport and then some of you know but the ones i get to like ride the journey with like austin chris neely you know a lot of like abby's callie's you know it's like from the ground up are the most like i about cried watching austin pose um in tennessee i think i did start like tearing up because like just watching it all come together like from when he was 19 and then with neely i'm experiencing like hey man how do you manage being the it guy like how do we manage talking to sponsorships how do we manage photo shoot schedules you know like a hundred bras asking why we're not going to this show or that show like what do we say um so i'm enjoying that watching like i'm getting to mold him as an athlete like not just on stage but like that was one thing i told him before um he he walked out and and was at the beach bash i said hey like soak this up because we're going to the olympia one day and i'm going to remind you what this is like and that's cool to that's so cool to get to be able to do hell yeah that is wild man that's super wild that's like that's for me that's like dreams like that's just a dream to come through to be doing that kind of stuff yeah it's cool within the pressure man like because at the same time like peakinGHim it's like well i know you know if you miss like you know how many people be in his ear like oh what was that you know you should work with this guy you should look at that guy so like it's a double-edged sword man right and and i guess like from that aspect i'm big into loyalty so it's like man you've you've you've brought that guy up you've only guided him in the best decisions not decisions for yourself but for him yeah i think at some point athlete coach like there's got to be a leeway back and forth we're like man like you said mistakes happen yeah sticking with you like hey alex is my guy he's led me this far we're gonna we're gonna get it the next one you know and that's not gonna happen i can guarantee it but you know yeah really and that that's one thing man i can honestly say like and y'all probably feel the same way too about the people you go over and above for they're never leaving yeah like i i'm fully confident 90 of my roster will never will never leave me for another coach they may quit but they'll never leave me for anyone else 100 and that's what i call that's that's what i call my dogs like those are the dogs like they're they're willing to do whatever it takes they're yes sir no sir i'll get it done it's not i don't have time it's like yep i'll make time i'll get it done like those are those are my people man and like you said i think we all have that built up roster of them like you said they go above and beyond and they do the same for you like a lot of my best guys are very similar to you you know guys i call my friends and if i need something they're like gotcha man yeah so part of coaching is is super cool and rewarding like you guys said and for myself um yeah definitely like i think like a year ago is when i really started like leaning into the coaching piece and i started really really liking that even more than my own process um where i really really got invested into a lot of that and that's kind of where i am now i'm really kind of like still on that edge i will say this year has really invigorated my own process just because of the way things have went and just kind of like chris talked about is like making time for yourself and making sure that like that's kind of the first priority and it can sound selfish but it's what it's got to be in order for you to make it to whatever set goal is whether it's bodybuilding business it doesn't matter like that has to be on the forefront i think to some extent yeah because we've got you know 50 70 100 plus athletes that we're working with and it's like we have to we have a cup that we are expected to pour out to them and rightfully so so therefore we have to make sure that our cup stays as full as it can right it's like or ultimately we're not going to get anywhere you know what i'm saying um we did get a few morEQuestions since we've started do you guys want to blast out a few more yeah let's do it is insulin as scary as people act like it is no no if you do it right it's fine colton colton what's your take on it IMean i agree i think i think the devil's in the dose and it's who's who's taking it right like yeah someone more experienced to do and i think with that it comes down to like you and your coach having a very thorough talk about like what needs to happen when you're doing that because i'm prepared for if you could only have one pre-workout protein and cream of rice flavor for the rest of your life what would it be peanut butter chocolate and banana for which which ones like all together well so it's like your your one pre-workout flavor oh powder flavor one cream of rice flavor oh i thought we were making pre-workout would be uh pineapple mango okay cream of rice would be chocolate brownie protein dude honestly shameless plug axon sledge teddy vanilla teddy gram or whatever that one honey teddy graham doesn't protein it can go with just about anything yeah what about you colton man i'm on that same tren anything pineapple mango or like tropical like that is my jam like that's pre-workout or like ea's whatever um cream of rice i don't know they're not popular but i really like a pollen nutrition like their cream of rice they have this alpine vanilla like i would solely buy that you know like pride used to come in the 50 gallon drums or 50 you ever see those yeah on the drum um man protein right now i've burned through a couple of those teddy gram ones because those are super good yeah really good um right now i think like i would probably have to choose it's kind of a weird one the bum nutrition has this uh pre-lines and pre-lanes and cream or actually the cream uh become pie that's what i'm family so damn yeah i would go watermelon for pre-workout protein i really like the farm fed strawberry milkshake use code uh j3 please um cream of rice i'm going the chocolate brownie by pride yeah that's the best one never fails he's good chris um one muscle group that you would always want to grow but you didn't have to tren it biceps jesus christ biceps that you always want to grow but what like it would grow without you having to tren it oh my legs you gotta pick legs too yeah because i could still and i would just enjoy trening legs more because how jacked they would be yeah i like that would you rather have your own personal hype man following you around or background applause every time you say something cool i'm gonna go hype man dude every time i say something yeah yeah yeah i'm just picturing me and chris at different places uh yeah probably hype man i'm conflicted no i'm gonna go hype man too like full tilt cracked out of their shit hype man the whole time like that key and peel skit yeah i think java watch the and y'all play basketball you watch the and one mixtapes yes guys on the mic with the fruit yes dude it's a million percent what it would be um let me see i think that's all thEQuestions we got colton where can we find you man where can we find you on instagram uh so my instagram handle is uh just colt underscore five one five hell yeah well everybody be sure to check out colton um like comment share subscribe on the youtube channel if you're on spotify hit the notification bell five star review comment all that good stuff share with a friend um until next time thank you for listening to j3u after hours

=== FILE: J3U After Hours Ep.3 ｜ The Mindset That Built an Olympia Physique (and J3U) [sp-TTuY90Mo].txt ===

 All right, all righty, everyone, welcome back to J3U after hours with our esteemed guest, John Jewett, also known as Father John. John, John, how are you doing today, man? John, how are you doing today, man? John, how are you doing today, man? I'm doing great. Am I a pasture? Yeah, it's really old. Yeah, it's what we've been told. You're leading the truth in this industry. Yeah, yeah, well, thanks guys for having me on. I look forward to doing like a podcast where I don't have to actually, you might challenge me more with these type of questions. But I always enjoy our own bro chat, right? Absolutely. Alex, how are you? Good, man. We just got back from a big weekend. But yeah, the goal with John was like, we don't want to talk about Masteron and Prima Bowling the whole time. We don't want to talk about HGH use. Like, we want to get to like, I think, you know, the point of this podcast in general is just to open up everybody. to us. And I think that's like, I think this will be fun. Because when I when people ask about you, IMight look at them today. John's very smart. He's very educated. But he loves bodybuilding. And like, he's a bro at heart. He just, you know, is educated. We're going to start out with a good one, John. So the firsT3 are obviously my ignorant questions. I have to ask everybody, what kind of animal do you feel like right now? God, at the moment in my workflow, I feel like a sloth. So it's like trying to, sometimes I feel like I'm trying to be productive for the day. I'm just like, moving at such a slow pace. But I had to be an actual like if what represents me as an animal? Man, maybe I really did just see this question just now. Maybe an eagle. Okay. Ooh, flying for one. I don't know if I think flying would be really cool. But I think like eagles are like, very Mac, like macro vision, seeing the big picture, but then they have like excellent eyesight to like, hone in on like a detail and be able to like, strike when the moment's right. So it seems like they're probably a little bit more meticulous and planned out than some of the other animals. So I feel like that might represent me a bit, probably not the normal animal pick. Some of them might pick like, I'm a bear or like, or I'm a box or I don't know. So going with an eagle. I think that was the most well explained answer that I've ever received in the 10 years I've asked that question. So I love the same surprise, but I'm not. I really thought I'd stump you on that. Next one. You're going to a gas station. There are no macronutrient limitations. Let me preface there. You have to pick three things. What are you getting? Yeah, pick like, oh, you're some, am I trying to match my meals here? No, sir. You're just having, you and Renee are just on vacation. You're just having fun. You're just going somewhere. Okay. Well, I definitely want to try that Reese's Oreo, like mashup thing that I've seen. Um, probably get that. Then I'd probably want to hit something like salty, savory. So I'm going with like, uh, some kettle cooked jalapeno chips. Nice. Weird combo. I need some, I'm going like a Coke Zero cherry. So I'm going to need to wash all this stuff down with something. So that's my, I like that on the road, on the road. That's a good pick. I had the Oreo Reese's way overhyped. It's good. It's good. But like, don't, I don't, I think I went and looked at like five different places. It's, it's good when you find it, but it's not like, don't go searching for it. You know, the OG stuff is still the best. Yeah. It's like the novelty is cool. Yeah. What is your current favorite gym song? Yeah. IMean, Parkway Drive, Crushed. Okay. So I don't know if you, they're not, no one's familiar with that. They're like a metalcore Australian band and they hit pretty damn hard. So that's, I've been like just running their playlist the whole time while I tren. But I listen to all kinds of music when I tren. I need some mellow stuff every now and then. So. Yeah. So you were listening to, was it country music on your peak week? I have. Absolutely. Like I like country. Usually we'll drive around to that sometimes or even like, man, pop stuff, rap. IMean, I'm all over the place. Mm-hmm. I'm going to have to try them out today. Next one. And then Alex will take over for a couple. There's no budgetary restrictions. What is your dream three car garage? Man, for one, it would be a GT, Ford GT40. That is a badass car that Ford's made and their values have like skyrocketed. They're insane. Like to get one under 500 grand would be tough, but it's, it's one of the cars I think that can do all. Then I have one of my, the cars that I would already have in my dream garage, which would be a, a Gen five Dodge Viper ACR. And honestly, I already had my other like dream car was always like a 68 or 67 Mustang fastback. Mm-hmm. Doesn't need to be like an, an Eleanor clone or a Shelby or anything like that. I think I want something that's like a resto mod that has like some nice modern features to drive around. But I still think that is like one of the prettiest original American muscle cars. Absolutely. Have you, cause obviously we just, we acquired the Viper this year. As you get larger, have you noticed any limitations in getting in and out of that thing yet? The, the limitations were there to begin with. Yeah. Yes. So it's, it'll only get worse. Yeah. As you get bigger in the offseason, like just twisting and stuff just is more difficult. So man, funny enough on the Viper, the door doesn't open very wide. And so you're already kind of like slip in at a side and you just kind of like have to fall into the thing and squeeze in. But it's okay. It's okay. Like you're kind of driving with an arm up. Yeah. But at some point I won't be this big and I'll have it. So it's all good. Yeah, for sure. Totally worth it by the way. That car is gorgeous. Yeah. It's one of the most enjoyable cars I've had to like drive. It's a, has all the nice features. It's beautiful. And then it's very analog and manual, right? It's a visceral. Like I think like when it came out, the power level on it was legit. But nowadays, like man, 600 horsepower is like, everythinGHas 600 horsepower. Like my BMW X6 is like pretty damn fast. It would, off the line, it would probably smoke the Viper, right? So, but we get in the Viper with Renee there, like her seat dynometer is like, holy crap, this is the fastest thing I've ever been in. Cause it's like shaking and loud and it's very visceral. While the BMW is just like this very smooth acceleration. It's almost, would be worse, would be a Tesla. It's probably even faster or probably doesn't even feel as fast cause it's like so smooth and quiet, right? The Viper is just, it's raw, man. You're raw dogging in that thing. Yeah. Feel everything. I love it. I love that. Dude, that's so funny. Okay. So the next question we have, and I actually came up with this. Okay. So let's, because I asked it cause I don't think it's me, which is why I'm asking it. Say you have dementia, but you got to prep. Like you wake up and it's like, oh, I got to go time. I got to prep. You have to pick a J3U coach to coach you. Who are you picking? Um, now is, are we counting Luke as a J3U coach? No, no. Not the boss man. Cause Luke's like my second eye. So he would be like the next that I would trust with that. Yeah. Um, man, uh, Alex, I'd have to pick you, buddy. No shit. Yeah. Cause you have the, you have the experience with larger individual guys. To be able to manage that kind of prep. Okay. And, uh, probably the most experience along that line. See. And so like, I don't want people listening to think, oh, I'll just lobby that question. Right. But like, I genuinely, I thought it, I thought it would have been like, uh, Colton or Darren. Cause Colt, like you've prepped Colton yourself and like, y'all like he's probably similar to your style. Um, and then Darren obviously is, is his way as well. We're all freaking great at J3U. Yeah. You know. There's other things I would consider around that, right? Like, uh, the location piece. Yeah. Like Darren being so distant and also different time zones. That can be problematic, like for probably the attention that I would want and be real needy. Um, now Colton's closer. However, I, I, you know, Colton has great experience as well, but then it goes back to, okay, well, who has the experience with like a similar, uh, portion of what I need? So, yeah, I'll probably throw it your way. Well, cool, man. Well, dude, just let me know when you want to start. We can get you on call. Get it, get it going. All right. You can contact your sales guy, Zach, and he'll get you on board with Alex really quickly. Thank you. Is there a discount code or? We'll see. Yeah. Double charge for double the time. Yeah. Okay. Um, you're, we want to know your favorite show and like the, and like also your least favorite show. Like, and so like what, like it could be because of placing. It could be because of look or could be like, man, you know, that an emotional attachment to it, like favorite and least favorite. Uh, favorite show was the 2019 Olympia. Uh, for one, it's the first Olympia that I ever went to. So it was such a unique experience to begin with. And that one, like your first Olympia, just, I was in such a good mindset, like just so thankful to be in that position that like, it didn't matter if I was last or first, like it was all going to be like extremely grateful. And I took in every moment of that experience. And it was also still in Vegas then before like COVID happened and went to Florida. Uh, so it was still like a really well done production and man, walk down on the final stage. Like, I don't know when I, when I grew up, like, uh, all these like blood sport and kickboxer and these Van Damme movies, there's always like the final fight scene. And like, you see like the mats, like bright white and the lights and everything's like dim around. It looks like, like crazy. Like you're walking out, uh, amongst the world. That's how like the final stage scene was to me when I was walking out for like individual. Right. So it was like this big white flat stage. It probably wasn't even white. And it just looked tremendous. Like it looked like the whole world was there to watch you do your thing. And, uh, it gives me chills. Just like remembering back that experience. So, and then cherry on top, I goT4th. So I was like, like that wasn't expected at all. So that was definitely like a top show. Um, now the worst show, um, man, it was probably the 2018 New York pro. Yeah. We talked about that one off behind the closed doors. You got my back? No, me and you talked about it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh, yeah, that would, that would probably be it. Um, a lot of things just like for one, just a poor stage look for me. Um, just really off, terrible tan. I looked pale and was, was flat, not as conditioned as I needed to be. So just kind of missed it on that, on that show. Then also it was, uh, like a very small, like backstage area. And the expires, man, they were like, they were, they were kind of Jersey and East coast and really like pushing you. And it felt like, man, like for us to be pro athletes to be like, Hey, get in line. There's no time to glaze up. Come on. Come on. Like, dude, like I'm an adult man and I am a professional. Like you're not going to boss me around like that. And it's always like, hurry up and wait, hurry up and wait in a lot of these shows. But that was the first pro show where I felt like I wasn't being treated like as anyone should, whether you're an amateur or not. So, um, but I think more of the, the poor presentation on my end was more of the problem. And then like, yeah, with the coaching situation too, just kind of, kind of meeting at a point with like, um, Matt Jansen that we both weren't aligning well in, in what coaching together. And so there was like some frustrations that were there too. So that was kind of dampering like that show experience. Um, the outward to the New York pro stage itself though, that was still the like OG New York pro stage before they had had to move around during COVID. And I don't know if it's back in the same location or not, but that, that was a pretty tremendous looking setup that they did have. Like it was a big convention center and like huge grand stage. It was well done. But yeah, for me, that was, um, it just turned out to be like, not, not the best show. Yeah. I think it's interesting because that then you catapulted yourself the very next year and goT4th at the Olympia. So like it, it goes to show you can havEQuick turnarounds, but then to like that drove you more than anything to be who you are now. Um, I've always done better off like some poor outcomes. Like you go either way with those things. Like I've seen guys that just destroys them and they either leave the sport or they don't improve or they fall off for months. For me, it was always like, I would rage after these shows, right? Like be lit on fire to come back and prove something to myself. Um, and the, like when I did the 2015 USA is felt the same way. I got sixth, which I was just like, man, I was, I was pissed. I didn't win. Um, but yeah, there's always been in shows like that where, Hey, not winning or like not bringing my best was just more fire to like keep going. Yeah. Yeah. And it shows like, you know, you even like starting J through you and like making sure, Hey, like this doesn't happen for any coaches now, you know, and then into J through you coaching, it's like you leveled up so much, probably just based off of that one core, like experience. Yeah. Yeah. It just takes you like, cause those are all the moments where like I had coaching, but I also was trying to figure out, you know, like all of us, how do we keep getting better on our own? So it's to do that. And like one responsibility over my own preps had to keep asking like how things work and how do I get better? And I, I would say like, man, it's a close second. It's close. Might be worse. Actually, the 2020 Olympia, I could have put that one there. Cause that was a pretty shitty one too. But anyway, would you rather, cause you, you touched on a little bit about not bringing your best or not winning. Which of those two would you say matters more? Like if you were to say like one, either you always bring your best package, but you don't win or vice versa. You bring a package, you know, isn't your best, but you do win. Which would you feel more value in? Bringing my best and not winning winning. Yeah. Cause like, that's something you feel like you have in, in your control. And on is on you while the winning piece, it's out of your control. Who shows up where the judges think of you on that day. They, they could just, you could have improved and just had a better lineup. Uh, so does that mean you're worse? Like not necessarily like this last, last Texas, the Tampa show I did, like absolutely have improved. Like, um, the biggest ever been still very conditioned. And that was a better look than last year and the year before that. But, but I had worse placing than I've ever had at an open show. Um, I've always, I've always been third or above. Right. So now it's like, what's two fourth places. It's like, was that less satisfying than also knowing that I brought my best? Um, versus like when I won Vancouver, uh, man, knowing I brought my best, I can walk away and feel okay about. But man, when you, when you know you're off, even if you win, it's, it's still pretty shitty. So, yeah. Yeah. I was, I was going to say like that this season was probably a prime example of that. Cause I felt like that was truly the best view it like we've seen. Um, yeah, we had one, I can't remember what show it was last year. That was pretty gnarly. Um, it was like when you came in a little tighter, like the second show last season. Vancouver was the one that I won. I did Toronto and Vancouver than the Olympia. Yeah. That Vancouver look was pretty nuts. Yeah. It's, uh, I don't know, man. People judge these off photos, right? Like that Toronto stage is terrible. It just makes everyone look, look bad. Yeah. Yeah. So I leading up, I actually liked my Toronto look more than Vancouver. Really? But Olympia by far was like, like a way, way better compared to both nailed it on that one. But no, you're right. Um, as far as like the look goes and winning. Um, now if you're like, Hey, you have the option. Like you, you, you win a pro show and you're a little off and you go to Olympia. Like, would you pick that or you pick like in third place and being like at your best and you don't go to Olympia? Like, oh man, I don't know. I kind of take it. Yeah. For sure. How do you not pick that? Um, or like you never win the Olympia. You're always third place, but you're always like a little off. It's like, yeah, I'd probably take just winning Olympia. Screw it. Right. Dude, let's Chris, let's jump to the Olympia and then we'll come back to other ones. Since we're on it. Um, yeah. What do you think? Like, so this Olympia, you know, bruises it, like his visa is approved as of like Instagram, like five hours ago. Um, what are your thoughts on the lineup? Like, do you have a top 10, top 12 prediction? Like where, where are you at with it? Oh man. So that is a confirmed thing. I keep seeing like Bruce is not, or he is. So yeah. Uh, a few Milos and a few people have posted. He's, he's in. Okay. Um, yeah, I haven't, my list kind of jumps around, but I have just, I think my list is also off of like who I just hope takes it to. Yeah. There's a little bit of that as well. Um, do you have, y'all have your, your list like confirmed down? Yeah. Yeah. What's your, what's your hopeful list? We'll, we'll compare it all. Yeah. I want, uh, and I'll put them, I don't think it's that ridiculous either is Nick Walker for a win. Yes. Dude. I love Nick. I freaking love Nick. Yeah. I, I think out of this like current segment, like his representation of bodybuilding aligns really well with what I like to see. Yeah. How he executes it, how he trens, how he's all in and how he carries himself. I think he's just been consistent for years and being a true bodybuilder. Yeah. And then, uh, then of course the muscularity piece is just nutty. So, and I really think like we, I think Nick is the one that's going to bring the most change from what we've seen in a physique over the other guys in the top five spot. I agree as well. Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah, I think I'm with you. I've got Nick winning. I've got Nick Sampson, Hottie, Derek, um, as my top four, just like, I think everybody kind of does, you know, moving around. What about y'all? Yeah. From there, um, man, that, that one gets a little tough. I think I would go Derek, then Sampson, then Hottie. Yeah. You think it's, you think in Sampson playing this conditioning game is not the right move? I just wonder how much more really comes off them, you know, cause you see some of his shots, even in his like front shots, like they still don't have as much detail. It's a lot of, a lot of size and shape, right? That's really nice. But I don't know if he's still going to get as dug out as what you could see like Derek bring and seeing Derek bring it at the Arnold and that look next to Sampson being that Sampson, you know, it wasn't, it wasn't at his best, but I even feel like that Derek would beat that Olympia version of Sampson that came. Yeah. And so it also doesn't seem like what we've seen from Sampson is like a dramatically bigger Sampson either. So it's like, are we seeing like maybe a relatively similar muscularity Sampson with a, with a touch more condition? Could that, could that be to Derek? I don't, I don't know. Um, it's a tough one. I think they're, they're, they're the close ones that can like kind of go back and forth, I guess. Yeah. And then Hottie's still there. Just ruining everybody. Chris, who's your top four? I had, and now I feel stupid. Thanks, John. Um, I had Sampson, Nick, Hottie, Derek is my one through four. My only concern is Derek. I just feel like his legs back slipped last year quite a bit compared to the year prior. And I just fear we're kind of in that, in that realm again, whereas his lower half isn't going to match. They, they saw, they seem to improve at the Arnold, but then it seemed like the they slipped back for like, was it Pittsburgh? Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. I think it's like really tough to like strike that balance for them. I guess I was kind of banking on like, you have this, this gap in your season to like, you know, keep improving them. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And see how that pans out. So, however, with Hottie, I don't know, with Hottie, I feel like we're going to see a similar Hottie. Mm-hmm. Yeah. He's like Dexter Jackson was that last little run. He's just always there. Yeah. So, so I'm banking like Derek still has room to, I feel like he's still improved his physique. Hottie we'll see consistent. I think if an, I think an improved dot, a Derek could, could beat a Hottie and I would think he could beat a Samson. And maybe I'm, man, maybe I'm just like biased for the short guys to win. Yeah. Because I'm like, it gives me hope. And I'm not going to pick the tall guy. Dude, that's funny. My hottest take is I don't, I think Martin and Andrew, I think something's happening with them. I think they're getting moved out. Like, I think, I think Bruce is hopping in at five. Yeah. No. I think a Bruce could beat Andrew. Yeah. With Martin though. Man. What does he look like in person? I've not, I've only seen photos of him. He, he doesn't impress me. Like, he looks like there's always, he needs to be a little more dug out. He needs a little of this, like, I don't get the wow factor, but I've also never seen him in person. In person. He's, he's much bigger than what you like would see from like what it, what it appears. Short and just super wide, big, big, wide structure. And like a lot of, a lot of sweep to his muscle bellies and stuff. So the 3D aspect, you don't see with Martin until you like see him in person. But I, I know it seems like off his front shots, he kind of lacks some detail and like still like just a little smoother, but just gets dug out on the backside. So he's, he's similar in Derek in that, in that regard. Um, but he's balanced, man, like relatively, cause his back is what needs to kind of come up. But I think a lot of that is a opposing piece with Martin. It seems like. Yeah. But when I see Bruce, man, structurally he's big. He gets super peeled out. It's just his legs from the front. Just there are really a discrepancy. I feel like more than Martin, but maybe that condition piece of Bruce pushes him up. Not. So, yeah, that's interesting. So you've got, if you had to pick a dark horse, my dark horse is Hutchinson. And it's awkward cause you sit next to him, but like, I think he's a freak, man. And I'm a huge, like Chris Tuttle, like nut rider too. Like I love Chris. I think he's awesome. Like, I just think, I think Hutch, I think Hutch could like hurt some people too. He's really good. He, he's a super balanced, he's conditioned, good muscular wise. Like he, he's a very complete bodybuilder. Yeah. Um, I, I, I still see him in that like ninth to 12th segment. Cause then I go, I go down the list of who he has to beat. And I don't think he can overcome like a William Bonnick or a Brandon Curry. And Bonnick just keeps getting better. Like it's pretty wild. And on Brandon is still very hard to beat. Yeah. Um, I think we'll see him in that like. Tony O. Uh, Regan. Comparison piece. Yeah. Yeah. Right. That's where it gets awkward. Like, cause yeah. Like after them, it's like, okay, you got the Andrew Martin and then it's like game on. Like some people were sayinGHers. Some people are saying, you know, I think everyone forgets about Brandon Curry, but like they love Brandon for whatever reason. Like I'm not a big, I love Brandon as a person. His gym's awesome. It's where Chris lives. Like, I, I don't know, I guess. Cause like we're, it's one of those, I think we're just so used to seeing them. We, we forget how like amazing it looks. Yeah. His like, his shape is wild, man. He's very, very big. So it's just, if he comes in like peeled and that's the part of his life, I don't know. So that's the one where Brandon, like now with hers, I don't feel like hers could overcome like Andrew or, or Martin, but I think all the other guys he could give a run for. Shit. So we're thinking like, he could be like eight, nine, 10. Like, I think, I think he could sit in that like seventh to ninth spot. Yes. Dude, that's, that's big. I, I think so too. Like, I love hearing you say that. Cause I was, I was iffy. I'm puttinGHim in, but he looked freaking, IMean, he looked big, man. We think like he, he beats Quentin. Right. And like Jordan beat Quentin, like by what margin, right. Could you think earth beat Quinn by the larger margin than Jordan? Potentially. Potentially. Yeah. Yeah. I think so. Yeah. I think it's all. You're similar heights too. We're like, they're, they're very close to height, but I feel like Burr's carries it in a more aesthetic way. Yeah. Yeah. I'm right there with you. Man, it's going to be exciting. When do you, so people don't know you're coaching, um, the reigning. Well, it was at one from former Mr. Olympia, uh, two 12. Yeah. Two time, two time champ, two 12 champ, Sean Clarita. How do you go, how do you prepare him to go against what could be like literally the best bodybuilder on the planet? And Keon. Yeah. It's, it's a tough one, man. It's always just like prep someone to be their best. Mm-hmm. And that's all you can really do. Yeah. IMean, obviously like, yeah, you have that in mind to stand next to Keon, but like, uh, we still have to try to be the best bodybuilder that Sean can be and not chase like strengths of Keons and try to make Sean like into that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's like Sean has, Sean's vastly improved from last year. Like his last Olympia look was last year, the year before was arguably like two of the worst looks he's brought. Um, the year prior, he was like way too full and waist was like hard to control. And then the next year he's just waist sucked down, man. Uh, it was like down to like 179 and peak week legs were way faded. He was real flat up top. So like work with me for, for trening. That was been our focus, like bring up legs back to what they were. And always chest is like kind of the lagging spot for Sean. Yeah. He just kind of has like some narrow clavicles. So how you present it matters. But yeah, just focusing on that trening piece and that in this, like really changed his posing and his like waist control. Around it. So I think those pieces will be huge, but his legs are like way up from last year. Cause he should be like three, four pounds heavier than last year, but, uh, just like condition nailed. So, so with that, it was like, yeah, let me fix these poses that really expose Sean. Then also make sure I don't like suck him way down and use diuretics and stuff that has been done in the past or wait too long and try to load Sean heavy. Like when there were some past shows, Sean doesn't need a lot of food at all. Like he wakes up fast in the morning. Like it looks like exploding full on like 150 grams of carbs. And like, there's been like guys trying to load him like a thousand grams of carbs. And he's like, he's going to blow his waist out. He doesn't need that much. So peakinGHim, I've seen like, man, a little bit of food goes a long way. And then show day will probably be like very low food, very low water. Cause he just doesn't need it. Yeah. We see like his waist gets hit right away. We do it. So yeah, police been like some of the, some of the strategy. With the trening side of things, what, when you came in and stepped in and take that over, where did you see a room for improvement? So it's towards like leg trening. It was kind of following a traditional split, like kind of a bro, more bro-ish split. But it had been well-structured because like John Meadows was doinGHis trening before. So he had been running a lot of that same trening that he was. So it was well thought out. It just, I think he just hadn't evolved in a bit since, you know, RIP John Meadows. He just hadn't had a chance to overlook Sean, you know? So that kind of needed to evolve like with Sean. And then Sean had been like adjusting it on his own, whether he was in prep or in offseason. And I think that somewhat needs to be remodeled a bit. So like it was like a all quad work day. Then he had like a ham glute day. So like with Sean, we need, we need morEQuad. And his ham's are actually pretty solid. So like dividing that work amongst two days so he can hit quads twice and not just smoke one day, like water the plant and overflow it on one day and not sprinkle a little bit throughout the week water. That and then he still had like a kind of a chest day. Then he had like some shoulder work or arm day. Sometimes that would rotate in on prep. He'd bring in an arm day. And then back was, I think that was once or twice a week. So not like for what his development is relatively like pretty right on. But for Sean, I was like, dude, your shoulders and arms are crazy. Like you don't get a, you don't get a shoulder day. You don't get an arm day. Like we're going to have the like two push days chest. His chest was his focus. One pull day. Then those two leg days that were like split. So that was that part of it. And then making sure we just got him into movements that he could actually target the muscle he need to. Like it wasn't just until recently, like Luke went up and trened with Sean and like got him in the right position to actually press with his chest. He's like, I don't think I've felt my chest contractor get a pump in like years. And then going up this past weekend to tren with him too. And like just slowinGHim down and being able to like put tension into the muscle and not just move weight. Wasn't changing. Like we ended up pulling a whole exercise office program because the stimulus was so much higher just of how we set up his lifts and the cues we gave him. And I really need to get hands on with him because with Sean, he was doing this for like over 20 years. So to get into like a new pattern and pick something up, you kind of need someone to position you into it. And yeah, little cues or all that's needed to now like get a lot out of him. But Sean's what he's at, 44. So, but he's, man, he's so confident. I think more confident than ever now. And truly feels like he has a shot to like take, take a stab at a win here, which you need that mindset going into Olympia. And he wasn't there at all. He talked to me about taking over a prep for him. Yeah. You just, the, all there was gaps and there's a lot of assumptions that, and he was having to make calls on his own. So just take the full reins and make sure he doesn't have to think so much on the coaching side of the equation. Yeah. Man, that's huge. Cause I get, it's good to hear, cause we deal with a lot of, you know, we work a lot of genetically blessed athletes. Right. And they're in a spot where it's like, yeah, you have great quads and a great chest, but like you have to listen to us, give you this little fine tuning detail to keep you going. And so I think it's good for everyone to hear that even, you know, former Tutankhamist Olympia can like take note and learn at 44 years old after he's put on, you know, 70 pounds of tissue. Um, it's something that, and that's where, that's the one thing that I'll say that like both Luke and John have helped make me better as a coach is those small details. And, and like, you know, um, Luke will, like Luke shows me all the time. Like he taught me, I say, he taught me how to press. He taught me how to squat. Like I wish, I wish IMet Luke, you know, in his come up area, you know, like if I had Luke now, when I first started bodybuilding, I think I'd be older bodybuilding. John is absurd. If we can just rewind time, right? If you, if y'all look in your, our Slack group, I sent you Sean's like, correct. LikEQuarter turns. Oh, shit. But dude, this is absurd. This is absurd. So that that's fasted in the morning. He just wakes up like that. Just throw him on stage. That's insane. And so that that's one 82. And, um, what we, foul loss is done. I'm like, I saw this. I was like, it's over, dude. Like, we're just going to bring food up now. And this is, this is night and day. And, uh, so. It's so nice to hear you say that, like, because I've, I've made this mistake. I had a classic guy do the New York pro and we had to make weight. And I was just under the assumption he needs, okay, yeah, now it's time to get full. Right. And, but I didn't take into account and I've worked with them numerous times, but I just was in that mode of like, okay, it's show day get fuller. It got him so full. His muscle bellies expanded so big. He lost a lot of his detail. And it was that moment where I remember Chad Nichols talking about Rami. He saw him pumping up his legs backstage and they just all went away. And I fully, I fully, fully grasped what he was saying because it was, and it wasn't even a crazy amount of food, but the fact that you're, you're able to say like, Hey, I like this fasted look. I don't feel pressure to have to feed him because while this is quote is flat, it's still plenty full to the looking and judging eye. Yeah. I think that's where like people like you must have the load. It's like, no, not for everybody. Like when I ask someone that can walk out like that in the morning, like I don't need to do a lot of changes. And, and also Sean's, he's doing this long time. He's intuitive. Like he knows things that have worked well for him. So it's great where I can, I can take that feedback and pick up speed really fast and build, build front there. Um, but he's also a great athlete and his wrestled before bodybuilding. So he's always been in sports, but he's one that can pick up a cue and like implement it so fast. Um, I got, I sent y'all another pick of that. This was a side chest that he always hits with his left arm and it's his harder side to rotate on. But he like tendency to like, want to pull that sternum up really high. And I'm like, have you ever tried your other side? He's like, Oh, no, not really. Just always hit on that side. I was like, well, let's see it. And then like, man, two cues. I was like rib cage down and rotate even like, don't pick that back shoulder up. And that's what it did. And it's like flat stomach showing more chest and it's nutty. And that the lighting's different, right? Like that's like some natural side light. So he looks better on the, on the right. But, um, either way you see like from a bodybuilding perspective is a much, much better pose. And that was like the same morning, just doing a couple little work with them. So it looks more confident too. He just looks, exudes more confidence. Like comfortable, right? Um, so yeah, it's, it's been, it's so cool. To work with him because he's just such a great athlete and he's so open to make changes. Like he, man, he was just doing cardio right on like the step mill or, or spin bike. And then he would sit all day. And I'm like, cause I'm like, Sean, what do you do? Like during the day? He's like, I just bodybuild, man. Like he's like, I do my cardio. I tren the rest day. Like I just chill at home. I'm like, okay, do you walk? Do you do anything? He's like, no. So I was like, all right. Um, can I get you to do some steps? So that was a little bit of like a challenge. Cause he's like, John, I'm taking five showers a day. I'm just like sweating my ass off. I'm like, what do you mean? Cause his treadmill's in the garage. And so it's like Texas heat. So he's like going between like meals and stuff and sweatinGHis ass off. So like, can we move that into the house? But anyway, he's like, all right, let me see what I can do. So he moved his treadmill in the house. So now I have him just like kind of walking before each meal and just keepinGHis output up. But, um, man, he'd been stagnant for a bit on prep and like making some changes like that for him. Just of like, how do you optimize your lifestyle as a bodybuilder? Now we like pull down in like 10 days out. Now we're ready to go. So it's just, uh, stuff like that, that hadn't been like looked at, you know, like Sean, like, what does your life look like? What about posing? Has anyone ever looked at your other side of your, your, you know, pose on the other side? Or, um, have we seen someone do video review of your trening? It's like none of these things were happening. It's like, that's so much ground for improvement. Like this is a two 12 champion that wasn't doing any of those things. Like what, what happened now? Yeah. Like I look, I'm excited for 2026. Yeah. Dude, that's, that's wild to think about because you're right. It's a very, um, there's so much room left on the table for him to grow. And it's like, and it's almost like you said, it's like, he's just getting started. And, and I've caught myself up and coming coaching, just assuming like, okay, they're a pro. They know, they know how to tren. They know how to, and then you, you really try to dive in like you're doing, you're like, oh, they don't, they don't do all thEQueuing. They don't do the steps. Like, like, it's just very, and it's, it's wild. You see that and you can still get someone out, something out of someone that high caliber. Yeah. Yeah. It's been, it's been fun, man. I'm having a blast. So look forward to out there with Olympia and bringing it all in. Yeah. Let's see, Alex, you want to hop into a couple more before we wrap up? Yeah, dude. Knock them out. All right. So if it wasn't bodybuilding or powerlifting, what sport would it be for you? I think. So if I had all the skills, right, you get picking skillset and just drop me in. I think I would be a sprinter, like a hundred meter sprints. I watched a documentary on Netflix. Forget, forget what they call it. It's following some of the Olympian sprinters, but man, they're like stars in some of these countries big time. And it's just like a drag race of the human body, which I guess all my mentality of things I've done has always been like explosive, like short duration. So just like lining up and just hitting it, like everything you've got seems really exciting. And I guess like a lot of things I've done, the actual competition is like seconds or minutes, but it's like a huge lead up of trening and discipline that it takes to get to those moments. I think the sprinting might be my thing. Now, is there any hope for me after bodybuilding? Hell no. Like five, seven and not made for that at all. So. What do you think will be? Because obviously there's going to be other pursuits to pour into after this. But once you hang up bodybuilding, what do you think you're going to gravitate towards? Probably competitive breakdancing. Okay. Yeah. We respect you too much as a boss. Yeah. No kidding. I was in sixth grade, dude. Like I was all in on breakdancing. No way. Absolutely. I was so into it. Like I would practice for hours after school. I had a cardboard layout that I would have. And man, I was super into it. I'm not bullshitting you. Like this is serious this time. But anyway, no, what would I be into after bodybuilding? I don't know. Honestly, I'm not sure. I've talked to Renee about this. Like I know the martial arts and stuff. I did that when I was like a kid too. That's always interesting. But it's really hard. Everything I've always done has been all in. So I'm kind of fearful of like ventures too far from bodybuilding and like get obsessed on something. And then I end up not able to do all the things in the career that I need to like with business. Because that's what's also been my thing in the past is like I get pick up something. And like I have to remove myself from all other areas. So I don't know. I love bodybuilding trening. So I think I'll just keep trening like a bodybuilder. I'm not going to jump ship. And yeah, all of a sudden, I don't know, take up. Just be a cyclist or try to tren differently. Like I'm going to be a functional trener now or have like some strength trening mixed like just for powerlifting goals or strongman. Like I think I'll just keep bodybuilding and just not get on stage. That makes me so happy to hear. Yeah, I thought about it. And then I see a lot of guys that have stopped and like tried different things. They end up going back to still trening like bodybuilding. So yeah, man, I'll just like probably just keep doing this. I love the lifestyle. I love that type of trening. So for now, that'll be it until something really just catches my interest. Yeah. Chris, what was the one about the compound? Like there's no risk or anything. So if there's no risk or side effects, what drugs are you choosing? What's your top dog? No risk or side effects. Or we could just say back in the day, John. What did back in the day, John? Non-risk aversive, John. Well, yeah, for sure. I'd run some like testosterone as a base. Injective-wise, I've done all kinds of different mixes and nothing's been like crazy standout. IMean, I've used Trent in the off-season and things and it wasn't ever anything wild. I'd probably have like Primo and then maybe some like Nandrolone as well. NPP present. That was always like a really solid combo. But then if there was no side effects, the drug that I would use 100% would be Superdrawal. Yes. Let's go. That would be my number one pick. Add that in, run it year-round, just feel like you make it like. Like, dude, trening strength-wise, you feel crazy. The pumps are insane. And just like, yeah, put on a little bit of water with it, but not much. But made some pretty good like gains with it too. But fuck, it's so toxic. That would be one. If there's no side effects, like make Superdrawal with no side effects and that would be what I would do. Dude, that's about to get clipped and blasted and everyone's going to start taking Superdrawal. That's all. It's just a slip in. Superdrawal with no. Y'all, it's just a sign, y'all. Level three comes out soon. You all have one compound you'd pick? Like, that would be mine. No side effects. I can use it anytime. Halo testing, for sure. Halo testing. Yeah. I'll pop one of those before a jiu-jitsu tournament here and there just to get a little, get a little edge. Yeah, that's my go-to. That, Mint. I love, I love, so one of my buddies, he's actually a client and a good friend, Austin Brown, said Mint was, it's like the new hot girlfriend that you love and then one day you wake up and she just sets your house on fire. And that was the best description of Mint, is it's great for about five weeks and then you get into week six and it's just like, you just, everything goes. But yeah, I was, funny enough, I was a, I was always a Masteron guy. Masteron and EQ was always my jam because I was more genetically fat. And so I just felt the leaners, you know, the cutters and bulkers, right? Like, you know, I need the lean mass stack. And so, but yeah, I really did like Masteron. I'm going tren for sure. Same thing. If week six, it all goes to shit, but the first five are really cool. I was in the same camp too. It was Mast and EQ just because I was too broke to afford Primo. That's what I could get, get ahold of back then. I've always been a fan, but yeah, me and tren, we're, we're friends sometimes, just not all the time. But I, one thing I couldn't play out was I got in the offseason, my buddy had like, he called like Superman pills. It was just like a home capsulated, like it was a blue and red capsule, right? It was 50 milligrams of Anadrol and 50 milligrams of D-ball. And IMade it 10 days and that was it. So I don't know if it would have been amazing or not, but I just like felt so sick. Yeah. And you couldn't eat. And I think like, I, this has to feel like organ failure. So yeah, I just continued that one. Yeah. I had, it was my second coach. I hired him for three weeks and fired him because of this. And it was like my second exposure to gear. And it was like 750 tests and 500 DECA. And I forget what, and he started me at 75 Anadrol. And IMade it about a week and a half. And I texted him. I was like, Hey, I can't even fathom the idea of eating at this point. What do I do? And he goes, let's just double the Anadrol. You don't need food. It's so good. That's what I saw my way out from that one. Yeah. Yeah. Red a true side. Have you tried double dose Anadrol? That stuff might make you lose muscle. This one. Yeah. Right. You'll be cool, buddy. It'll be fine. Yeah. It's crazy how the industries like came so far, like back in the day, it was like the Hulk lens and they're doing four or five compounds in an injectable. And then now it's just like, everyone just wants peptides. It's like, they don't even want the steroids anymore. They just want peptides. Yeah. The deep dives you see, because it's like, you got to have novelty, right? So what's new? It's always been like that. Like when I, the first like exposure to like growth hormone hormone was like modified GRF 129 and CJC without DAC. Like, you're like, what are you talking about? Like, these were like the research Kim's that came out in 2015 that people were going up. And now they're still talking about them now. So a lot of this shit's still not new, but you know why I stopped using them? Because growth hormone hormone was still better. And, but if you use those right and time, try and time around meals, end up nearly spending the same. And then also it's just still not working as well as what growth hormone hormone can do. So, but yeah, you need to talk about the latest and greatest stuff and have novelty. And there's some interesting stuff out there that very well can become things to add in. But as of right now, it's still your big basics are what drives most of the progress around. That's why I haven't put much time into them. Just, it's not needed. But why you see a lot of them out too is because you can have like, hey, check out this, whatever peptide. Use code JOHN20. It's like, there you go. Oh yeah, we can make money off these. Yeah. So how much money can you use off code JOHN20 over on your like UG gear site? Like that, you don't do that. So people are making a ton of money off these and that's why you see them pushed as well. So you just have to be mindful of that, not to discredit like where they have their application and uses, but also just realize that they could be just a little over exaggerated because of those things. Yeah. I never thought of it that way. But yeah, it's totally, totally on point. Chris, was there any more on that list? Yeah. One, I'll tell you, talking about gear, another wild experience was using Trin. And I don't feel like I was like, I haven't had that. Like Trin's the best thing ever experience, I guess, with it. But like when I was prepping for the 2015 USAs, I was using like 600 mgs of Trin per week with Matt. And like I felt like my nipple felt funny and I could like pinch my nipple and like a little, this fluid would come out, like this kind of milky looking fluid. Like it made me like lactate, man. Like my prolactin had to be like just sky high. I was like, Matt, I think I'm getting gyno or something. Like this is what's happening. He's like, all right, let's just cut your dosage in half. And he's like, and of course I had like capers as well. But man, even then, like cutting, like it was intuitive, right? Like you cut the dosage half. It's like, it was, did all of a sudden now I was losing muscle? It's like, no. So like, it's like, I just really didn't need to run that much. That was like kind of the, the worrisome event that I had the first time using that much Trin ever. Yeah. I would be schizophrenic. I think on that dosage. Truthfully. Yeah. I remember this one prep I did and I looked great. It was the first time pushing. I did like a hundred. I'd gotten up to like 110 mg a day. And then, but man, I would come home from the gym and I would have to take a Klonopin. And then I would like have to hit like a little weed pin before bed. But dude, I would take a Klonopin just to be able to sit on the couch. And like, I'm like watching like Mike Tyson, like videos all day. And like, I'm just like a pure psychopath. Oh dude. Yeah. Like I could run through a wall, but, and that was literally like, I would do all that and hit the weed pin. And I would still wake up five times a night. And I would just like, well, but the problem was, is like, I did, I looked good. And so then in my mind, the high tren was the answer. And then it was just disaster after that. It's the hot girlfriend, dude. It's fun. And then it's not. No, my first time was, it was my first prep. I was way too young to be doing it, but my coach had me on like, we started at 300, went up to 450. And I just remember I would only get, three hours of sleep a night. And every hour I'd have to wake up. I would start on one side of my bed. I would sweat completely through it. I would get up, wipe off with a towel, lay in the other side of the bed, wake up an hour later and sweat. And then I would end up sleeping on the floor for the last hour. And so I was doing, washing my sheets every day. And I was like, well, I look sick. So I don't care. Yeah. All logic was out the window. It was like, I'm peeled. So it's fine. What a mess, man. Right. We live and we learn. Yeah. All right. Alex, you got anything else, man? No, that's, I think that wraps it up, John dude. Thank you, man. For you want to hit this last question. I'm, I'm good to hit it. If y'all want to. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, the future of weight caps. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cause you were, I feel like this is a good question for you. Like you were affected. Like, I think now we see the best John, right? Like I think, you know, by far. And so I have this talk with guys and classic, like, I see this a lot in that, you know, we see errors now, you know, exploding onto the open scene. But I think what a lot of people don't realize with weight caps is like these classic guys are like sucking down just to like, you know, crazy 10, 15 pound cuts to like make weight for classic. And then they turn pro, but then they're going, they're turning pro and yeah, they get the 10 pound buffer, but they're already technically at that buffer. And so they're getting like, they're kind of doomed from the start. It's like, well, I'm tapping out my physique, with my weight cap already. Like, do you think, because me personally, I think it's going to continue that way. And we're going to see a lot more like not so positive things in the industry from it. Like, I think weight cutting is like the harshest thing and how we do it on the body. Like, where do you see the future in that? Do you think now with this rise of errors and then someone like yourself, like breaking into the open, like not restricting themselves and looking better, do you think that's going to take off more? I think we are seeing it already happen. Right. I think remember seeing the first two 12 guy kind of move up and you see the look like, Oh damn, could I do that? I think I see classic guys start to question that for themselves as well too. So I think the natural physique progression, you'll always kind of move towards where you'll see your best and most competitive version, but absolutely there's some physiques that, that, that shouldn't do it. And that's why the going up the Olympia stage, like a lot of those physique, two 12. They're all like less than five, five feet, five foot five and have a morecompact build that just not going to be able to trensition well into the open. Think of like an angel Calderon, very stocky stature, but you put them next to these open guys. And that's when you start really seeing someone get exposed like that. I think the two 12 division, you now have a very distinct look of the frame that works well. And I think you'll see that in classic too, that some physiques you just can't trensition the same or they won't be able to hold the tissue to fill out. Your point, Alex, though, I think more of the issue is the maybe safety about making weight. And so I don't think the solution to that is upping the cap because it's the same problem. You're just going to have bigger guys down cutting weight down even farther. I think what they, what I would think to do would be the, the more dangerous ones, I think cuts or when weigh-ins are farther away from the show, because guys know that they could cut further down and have time to fill back out. And that I w I would say to do the way in the day of the show. So you're, you're lightest in the morning and you have less time to actually have to come back up. So you're not going to be able to get as extreme to come down. Yeah. I think that would be one way to make it less risky. The other thing is just one, standardize it right now. That's all over the place. Like there's shows where you can weigh in at night or shows that you weigh in earlier. Shouldn't there two days out? Like that's not fair. It should be always, always the same. Like it's this many hours before you step on stage or it's like the morning of show day. Like something should be a place like that. But I, I would say like having it close to the show, you're not going to be able to deplete that much and fill back out. So I think that would regulate the safety of it a bit, but I think you need some type of cap because otherwise the classic guys are just going to look like open bodybuilders that are more aesthetic. Yeah. That's exactly it, man. Cause I've, I've held that dude. Like North Americans, you can take your guy, your, your bodybuilders up there on a Wednesday and lay in. And I'm like, this is like, yeah, let's go. It's like, yeah. Right. Then I had a guy do New York pro weigh-ins or the Atlanta pro one of the two weigh-ins were at like 9. PM. And I'm like, oh my God. I'm like, oh, this is a disaster. Like it's just, but it's, you know, but then you go to another show and it's like, oh, it's a 10 AM weigh-in. Like we're fine. We can bring the look, but you're right. It there's, I'm already thinking off the top of my head. Like, yeah, there's nothing I could do, but I would have to really, suck them down. And, and yeah, it's, I like standardizing it. Same with height too. Like, you know, I, and it stays. Yeah. I think they've kind of said you take your like three, three heights and then that's your height for like permanently, like on your card from now on. Like that's a, that's a good way to do it. Like that thing with like changing, like that guy's, that gets guys doing extreme things or you just piss. You're like, oh man, I could have been like, whatever. Or didn't have to do all this weight cutting, like would have made it. So yeah, I think it, it does hold people back, but for a reason, because that's what the division should be. But you do need someone that can like assess you and determine if that's the right division to stay within, or if the chasing the better version of yourself would make sense in a different, different class or not. And that's huge. Well, yeah, that's all. That's all I got. Chris, you got anything else? No, I think that was going to be, my question was about standardizing the heights, especially in classic. Um, because IMean, and granted, we see it at all the shows where you'll have, you know, one show, they'll measure you on carpet. The next one at hardwood and this, that, and the third, I've been as short as five foot 10 and as tall as six foot one and a half. Wow. Yeah. Huge discrepancy. Yeah. IMean, it's a total of like 21 pounds in a weight cap difference. Right. And we saw it with one of my buddies who did a Tampa pro. He, they hid it in wrong. So he wouldn't did open instead about classic. Cause he just couldn't make weight. Um, so I do think that in the case, especially for the sake of health and just so you don't see a bunch of people trying to slam, you know, die side last minute to make weight. If they're a quarter inch short, I do think there needs to be some standardization there as well. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. Hopefully, hopefully it goes that direction. I think that would help out the division. Yeah, man. I've done that too. I've, I've looked at people like the, the expediters at the scale. I'm like, Hey, look, we're going to make this way. So like how, how much y'all want to risk this athlete right now? And they're like, Oh, IMean, it's just, it's just a pound. It's all right. Okay. It's good. IMean, I get it. Right. Like that's, I think like, man, they, they need to be like, they should have you weigh and there should be like a display that everyone can see of like what the weight is. And so people are held accountable because there's been some shady shit that goes on like that. And I don't know if you're going to be a sport, I'm like a stickler for like, you need to be by the rule. Yeah. If we're going to be like a show. It's for entertainment. Well, yeah, I guess if you want to see the big athlete come and he's like out of weight, but it's going to be fun to see, I guess let, let like change the rules as you go. Again, I think like we all need to like play by, play by the rules as far as that goes. And I've been on scales where I get on and I've been like over like barely. Right. Like it's two 12.6. Yeah. Like two 12. And that's all we got. Um, now, mind you, uh, everyone that was like, Hey, was that over for you? They're like, no, it was two 12.0. Like, yeah, so was I, man. Like really? They're like, the scale, the scale seemed like it was heavy for everyone. So I think they, they knew that. But, um, but I've been at like the Olympia. I remember we're weighing in and like, that was your Tony was still two 12, his last two 12 show. And he was like, wait in. They're like, no man, you're over. So he had to like leave and go like make weight. So at least they're like, it seemed like the high level show, like Olympia, like they're holding you to it. And they should. Yeah. But I think, uh, rules we should stick to. I think how wEQualify for shows that shouldn't change. Like, I don't think there should be, uh, like an invitation, you know, for like, Hey, I want this guy to show up. Cause it's, I think if we're going to, we havEQualification way to get there and hold it to a prestige level that we should just stick to the rules for, for our like legitimate legitimacy of a sport. Yeah. That's just my, my hot take. IMean, John, it sounds like we're going to be, you know, promoting a show in the upcoming years. So I'm really looking forward to it, man. We're going to say, don't come to John's show. They're like, really make you make sure you're at your grade and height. There's a moral compass here. Shame on me. They made us take our blood pressure before we got on stage. It's so funny, man. Well, John, we appreciate your time, man. Um, hope to have you back. Um, for those listening, if he has, can leave us a five-star review or thumbs up, comment, like, share with a friend. We would, uh, greatly appreciate it here at J3 after hours. And until next time.

=== FILE: Managing Mental Stress in Prep [Gb8kwDLuO4U].txt ===

 There's, there's situations that should be happening, environmentally, environmentally, where, yeah, you can prep, but there's other ones where you definitely shouldn't be prepping. I think that probably gets back to your point of, Luca, when we should be recognizing, you know, burnout. And I think the first off is like, if they don't take a person in a prep when they have that, that poor of environment. But if you're there and you're going, like, what does that even look like? Yeah, I think there's, a couple things, a couple things, a couple things, self-awareness wise, you as the competitors out there can start to look at, and there's also some things on the coaching side that we can start to look at. I'd like to share just some of the coaching ones first, because I do feel like this is kind of where you have to be extremely attentive to the clientele when you're kind of looking through, like, their feedback and their check-ins, and you can start to start to pick this up and air quote, read between the lines. When we start to see, like, negative comments about the physique or negative comments towards their process in general, especially if they are extremely process-driven individuals. So, like, the entire off-season, extremely productive, a lot of positivity that comes from that, went through the first portion of the prep, and then we're starting to see that dialogue start to shift into, like, a negative nature. And then the other one, too, that I think is, and as coaches, like, you've got to realize there's an element of friendship that gets developed. With a lot of the athletes that you work with, you'll start to have some athletes report, like, relationship stressors and things along those lines. And it's kind of like, again, reading between the lines and giving someone, like, the understanding that, look, this is going to add to the stress of what we need to do, but is there ways that I can help you manage that? So, like, I've even, as a part of check-ins, like, for people, date ideas. That's something I'll do as a part of check-in is, like, provide people with date ideas in order to prioritize that quality time with their significant other. And I think this is where we can start to look into initial signs from a coach's perspective and check-ins where burnouts is starting to kind of crop up and try to get ahead of it as much as we can. And I think during this, you know, I came from, I played sports all throughout, and I guess coming up in, like, the 90s, it was an era of, like, tough it up. Like, we're not getting water this practice in football, and we're going to do, like, you know, burpees and suicides because out in the Texas heat and tough it up. Like, it wasn't about, you know, being soft at all, and I feel like there's a degree in coaching that you need to push, and I feel like that doesn't happen in bodybuilding to a certain degree because it's not like you're signing up for Texas football in high school. You're paying someone now to coach you, and you feel like as a coach you have to, like, cater a lot to people in a way, and you can't just, like, push them. But I think that's wrong because these people are hiring you to pull out more potential from them. But as a coach, it's important to know throughout the spectrum of your athlete's process and your different athletes how hard you can push them, where that development will happen, and before you take it too far. So it's kind of riding the line of this brink. And I think that's where you have to have a really good communication system made because there's a lot of things I would never have picked up on clients if I stuck to only doing text once a week email communications. For a lot of my clients that need that type of – what I see in burnout for some people is that the communication for some will get real sparse or they're the real robust. Like, they'll just be like, I'm starving on prep, right? And so you have to disseminate, like, are you really starving on prep or is it just you've never experienced this and I need to push you? Or is it my, like, type A client that is willing to do anything, right, on prep? And when they say that, I know that they are on the brink of, you know, just going off the rails here. So I think that I love clients send me, like, Loom videos or voice recordings. And I've picked up on more things from that than what I could ever do through a read email of getting a balance of, you know, when someone's burning out and also understanding that client in their athlete process of where they should get pushed and where they should get pushed. So you can't just treat all your clients the same as far as, like, just push, push, push them because everyone's in a different area of development. So I think those pieces can help try to pull out. And I think when you first start coaching, you have a bit of your own personal bias into how you would do things. Like, I, and Luke too, we would take it to the end. Like, you know. I would die on that Stairmaster before I did not jump on stage. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It would, like, suck me underneath. I would be under the Stairmaster getting beat to death. And I said, I did it, coach. Like, I, you know. And that's also the client you have to look out for too. But a lot of people aren't just, aren't, they're geared like that and not ready for that. And I do think there is a development that you can pull out from people. And you're not just, if you don't have it in you, don't have it in you. Because I think that gets into our mindset techniques now, Luke. Because one thing that, you know, early on in diving more into this. But you have a, there's a growth hormone mindset and a fixed mindset. And with these kind of theories around this, like a fixed mindset is that you can't change your mind, basically. Like, how you incur stress is just what you have to deal with. And you just have to work harder with it. While you can think of stress on the mind, just like you think of stress during trening, right? So if you're doing some bicep curls, you have some, whatever, burn in the muscle, you realize that you're going to have this adaptation occur. And you can come back and do more weight and reps. Well, same thing with the mind. Like, exposing it to stress. Like, the kind of, like, eventually you're reading something, you're kind of brain fogged. Like, that's a stressor in the brain to create an adaptation. So a growth hormone mindset is the belief that you can create change in the mind. And that is what I would want to incur of, like, someone that experiencing stressors in prep, that we have a growth hormone mindset, that we have the ability to change how we're dealing with this input and this stress. And so I think just realizing that you have the ability to overcome more versus that this is just the way you're wired, you can't change it. I think that opens up a lot of us to just having a more robust prep and realizing there's hope for us. Yeah. And I think there's multiple ways you can develop this. I think, you know, reading in books is a great way. Like, for those of you that like to read, like Ryan Halladay is the obstacle is the way, and he's got a couple other ones that are pretty good. Um, or kind of like the, the stoic viewpoint of kind of like developing growth hormone mindset. But I think visualization is an underutilized tool. Um, I think when you're actually putting yourself in like deep emotional visualization techniques, it can actually help you work through, through like extremely challenging times because it, it kind of makes the realization of what the end goal is. It's like almost brought to you in that reality. Um, this could be like used through meditative states or even for some people, um, triggers like are a great way to kind of click someone into that mindset. So like something I used to use and something I developed from a performance coach when I was really young, um, was using something to kind of help you click into kind of whatever the task was that you're about to do. This is like back from my golf performance days. Um, and I, during preps, like I would start cardio sessions with the same exacT3 songs because it would like click me into able to visualize kind of what those outcomes are on stage. Um, and it helped me a lot, like, especially those days, like your legs are 15 feet behind you. You've had like 12 carbs the last day and you've got like 85 minutes ahead of you. And you're like, I'm not really sure how I'm going to get through this. A lot of times the first 10 minutes is the hardest portion. And so I would, I would just start that playlist with the same exacT3 songs. I would literally close my eyes and visualize myself either posing on stage to that song or posing in a lineup or anything along those lines. And actually like visualize and try to hear the person calling out the poses. And it was, it's massive. And, uh, you can use that in multiple different, uh, stages and facets. So like in a gym setting, you guys have heard me talk about, I used to like take headphones out in between sets and use that as my physical cue, uh, that I'm about to do a set is putting it back in. And small stuff like that, that leads into visualization or leads into, um, being extremely present in what it is that you're doing. I think can just drive, uh, execution to a level. People, you know, don't know is there. 100%. Um, some of my hardest preps I had, I used so much visualization because I've been on the Stairmaster would just, it seems like endless time. Um, I think my soul is still on it right now, just going. Uh, but during that time it, I, it would be like eyes closed and just what, what was the ultimate success for me was being on stage, nailing it. Right. So that's what I would visualize. And I want that so bad. Like that was such a burning desire for me that I could keep pushing. Um, or for, for some that might be between a set when that days in the gym, when you're like, man, it's like one set at a time. You do a set, you sit down and you're like, okay, one's done. Don't look ahead. Oh, I got 20 sets left. It's like, all right, what's the next set? Like whatever that is, it's like picture yourself on the stage of executing that vision, that dream that you want to happen, like living it out and how that would make you feel and then attack your set. So I think it's a powerful tool and a powerful tool to also like reduce stress anxiety for when you do get in that moment, you've rehearsed it. That feeling so many times that of, of how you want to walk on stage versus the negative of failing on stage. And I think I would bring up the next technique would be, uh, positive affirmations and self-talk and shift mindset to just reduce this anxiety. Um, one thing that I would do before going on stage, I do it before nearly every time I go on stage, um, is it, it sounds, it sounds ridiculous, but I believe like you need to, you need to speak these things out into the universe. And just start to make them true about yourself. Like you determine your own truths, I believe. So I would say like, you're the best bodybuilder world. Own this stage. And just that positive self-talk of like, this is my space. I'm the best. I could walk on stage feeling charged up and just confident what I was going to do. I've had clients in the past that the self-talk is I'm a nervous wreck backstage. Like I'm just shaking so bad. And it's just repeated. Like, Oh my God, I'm just going to be so nervous back there. And I'm going to shake in my heels. Or it's like, if you keep saying that, that's, what's going to happen. You need to break through that cycle and start having positive talk about yourself, that you can do it, that you're going to be that confident athlete, that I'm going to walk on stage and nail it. And I think all those positive things will trensition to a positive mindset. So we're not just constantly beating yourself down. Yeah. And I think it's, it's huge to, to integrate this as a consistent portion of your, um, day to day. I think that's where it really starts to become something that's actually believable. Um, and it starts to kind of continue to drive action. It's, it's funny. Like I'll even call on like some of the times I've done been during prep, like when we're building something for the business. And I'm like up at 1am finishing it and I'm like, screw this. But then it's like, this is nothing compared to, you know, some of the stuff that I've done in contest preps. And I think, I think one of the best things is like recall. Um, I think it's like proof of concept, like for those that are a little bit more experienced, like if you've been through those really tough preps, it's, it's huge as a part of those. So like understand that, that, that might not have been the best outcome, but that you can recall upon that and that you made it through that level of execution. Um, and I do think like anchoring these techniques to habits or times during the day is a great way to do it. I used to put like blocks on my schedule for this, uh, whether it be like meditation time, kind of right before bed or time to read or whatever it may be. Um, or kind of like IMentioned as a part of the cardiovascular activity, but not doing it consistently is not going to see the positive outcomes that could potentially be there when it's a kind of time to perform, uh, whether on stage. Um, or kind of like, uh, whether on stage.

=== FILE: Offseason PED strategy that actually scales ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 195 [S9WWIKfFR48].txt ===

 Welcome, let's, let's jump into the J3, let's jump into today's episode. Off-season, off-season, off-season, PED strategies that can actually scale, and off-season, stack design, it's not just about getting big as fast as possible, we do want to get really big, but also being able to sustain that and be productive over the long term, so that, is what we're finally getting into, is what we're finally getting into, if you've been following along, is what we're finally getting into, if you've been following along, the past episodes, we've gone through, some prep scenarios, as I've been in prep, Luke's had a bunch of clients in prep, Luke's had a bunch of clients in prep, we've done some post-show stuff, so now we're gonna make that segment into, off-season, and no better way, than to start off with some physique enhancing drugs, how are you, did you have a fun weekend, any physique enhancing drugs, any weekend, any physique enhancing drugs, any weekend? Yeah, I think it's, it's an interesting topic, I think it's the audience's favorite topic, I think one of the biggest things, when we kind of talk about, the phasic approach, that we use with clients, that I want to make sure is pulled out, is the thought process, that tissue accrual, happening over a longer period of time, is going to net a greater outcome, for the physique, than trying to rush into things, I think this is where people kind of make the mistake, like, bodybuilders are typically, very type A, they're very like, I want to make progress now, I want to do everything in my power, to make that happen, right in this very moment, kind of missing, missing the force for the trees, and, and, and trying to kind of push the envelope too fast, and so what I, what I'm kind of interested, and I'm going to just ask you this, because I think it's, kind of where the mistakes end up starting, is, like, what mistakes do you see people making, trensitioning from post-show in the off-season, or trensitioning, just directly into the post-show, and, like, what does that look like, when, when people escalate too quickly, and what ends up happening, because I think that sets the framework for why, we do stay focused on trying to maximize progress, over this extended period, because we know tissue can only be accrued at a certain rate, and, kind of, trying to perfect that pivot point, is, I think, where a lot of mistakes are made. I think mistake number one, is just the lack of planning, and assessment that needs to happen, to say where to go to next, and, I think we, we, you know, you might be out there, and you've, switching coaches, and, you're, maybe in that off-season position, you're like, alright, what are we going to run, here's, here's the fun stuff, right, and, there is not a, a question around, what did you do last time, and, was that growth hormone hormone response, on par, for what you were expecting, and, within the rate, that you need to move, for, the division, and level, that you'recompeting at, and, I think that's, kind of, the start point, and the mistake, of what you see, is that, that question, just doesn't happen, and, that's usually, like, when I'm in my current off-season, I just started my escalation, right now, of, I look back, on, you know, what did I do last year, what was that growth hormone hormone response, that happened, were there any issues, within that, or areas, that I can improve on, and, then, then, based on that, is what I start to build out, my, my next cycle with, that way, nothing's undershot, but, also, probably another, one of the mistakes, that's made, is the, if we call it the overshoot, I'm just, being too aggressive, I think that probably comes into, maybe a bit more of the self-coaching, yeah, or, if you're, if you're, just a recreational bodybuilder, just running more, and more, because more, relatively, does more, and, you don't want to leave gains on the table, so, I think that runs into mistake, probably, number two, yeah, do you agree on that? Yeah, I would 100% agree on that, I think, we have to realize that, like, it's a piece of the puzzle, right, and so, it's why we talk about, like, trying to go through someone's way that they operate as a bodybuilder, comprehensively, is because, we can make, certain pieces of the puzzle, more effective, where other variables, don't have to change, right, I think, you're caught in the more is more, right, like, I'm coaching someone, right now, his name's Dean, unbelievable, dude, just smart as a whip, self-coached for a long time, but, there's so much left on the table, with the trening piece, and so, we've been talking about, kind of, like, what this escalation is going to look at, looked at some of his previous stack designs, again, answering that question, what have you done in the past, has that progressed your physique or not, and it's like, man, we have such a big puzzle piece that's been changed, with how much change has happened on the trening floor, it's like, I've just opened up progress without that other piece, right, and so, the easy thing to do is just say, oh, we're going to take 35% morecompounds, we're going to ram this down your throat, and we're going to make sure that this physique progress happens, kind of missing the fact that we need to string this along, to actually get him into the open class, and try to leave those variables on the table, and so, I think if you always start with answering that question, you can kind of find what variables of that athlete's process are going to be largely able to push them forward, and then answer how much more is actually needed, because I do think there's some pressure, especially nowadays with, like, coaching being so public, clients sharing their coaching process with everyone, things along those lines, that there's this, like, combination of, like, the expectation of the client, my least favorite is, like, I want to get to X body weight, it's like, well, we'll see if that body weight is good for body composition for an all-season, right, and these types of conversations start happening when it's like, hey, it's like, if we look at the overarching goal set, we look at kind of a rate of gain that might not match what an optimal rate of gain looks like when we map this out, and so that's where I think the conversation should be had, to avoid just ripping it into the sixth year. Yeah, I think, to give more context around that, too, I think you, like, off my assessment as well, like, last off-season, I ended up going from, like, post-show to my peak off-season weight was about a 25-pound increase, then I looked at, okay, well, what did that mean for, like, tissue change, and it's like, all right, this is, like, seven to eight pounds of stage weight, it's like, all right, so that was, like, 17 pounds of body fat, or some water weight, too, that had to come off, and so that equated to roughly, like, a 0.4% body weight increase per week, and so I could say, well, I could probably not have such an aggressive increase in body weight, but it's like, oh, that probably didn't leave anything on the table, and I still had a quick prep, so, like, that's my trade-off there, and it's like, well, is there anything on the PED side that would have contributed differently in that, and it's like, man, that's a pretty solid on-par rate of gain over, like, a 17-week push to accrue eight pounds of stage weight, so it's like, do you need morecompounds with the potential that you might have a drop-off in health markers when they were relatively maintained? Then another question to myself is, do I want to take more risk, really? And I'm already at a higher amount that I kind of would want to push beyond, so, you know, with that in mind, it's like, oh, well, hey, have you pushed the growth hormone hormone hormone lever as hard as you could? It's like, well, I kind of wanted to see what that could go goinGHigher, so I've been in, like, kind of the 9 IU spot per day, so it's like, I'll push that up. Let's go 12-13 and see if there really is, like, a bigger difference there to see it out, but I do think at some point in your higher-level stuff, there is a point of just you're not going to pull more out of more, and likely I think a lot of individuals are going to cross the threshold of there's a very smaller, much smaller return of growth hormone hormone, but a much more substantial other effect of higher dosages, negative effects, and I think people are going to hit that mark likely before you're topping out at the continued growth hormone hormone rate kind of trailing off on that end. So another client situation I brought up is one where you don't always need to do more, and looking at the post-show phase of my current client, he's growing post-show, like, 400 milligrams of anabolics and, like, seven IUs of growth hormone hormone hormone, which I think that's a bigger one as the growth hormone hormone hormone came out, but a lot of variables improved, right? Like, such a better bodybuilder post-show than he was off-season last year for numbers of reasons, right? Recovery, trening capacity. And so last year was, like, I don't recall exact numbers, like 2.4 grams per week of gear, and I sit on the cycle and it was less, right? It was, like, two grams. Like, why isn't it more? It's, like, you're going to get more out of less because all your other bodybuilding variables have substantially improved, and you're already growing. It's, like, you're growing on 400 mg per week. Like, so why do we need, like, three grams now to grow, like, if you're already growing? So don't lose sight of, like, what happened post-show as well. And if you're seeing someone, like, improve and trening performance is going up, they likely don't have to go way beyond that because very potentially they improve their bodybuilding process from there. So with that being said, there's a point of, like, when should PDs actually be increased? And so what are indicators that you see, Luke, of, like, okay, this is clear. Like, we have to push the lever here. And do you do a little bit of that anyway just to make sure progress happens? I do. Especially the people I've been working with longer. I think people that I've built trust with over a long period of time, we've done a lot of athlete development where I know how they execute their process has kind of elevated from where they started, and there's probably less margin in those areas, right? We're probably a little bit more likely to bring that up in those cases. But as far as, like, when do I actually look at this being increased, it's going to be kind of based on rates of progress, kind of like John was pointing out mainly. But secondarily, it's going to be making sure that the stuff that we're doing is not skewinGHealth metrics too far. Like, if we're already having issues managinGHealth metrics, whether it be, like, blood pressure metrics or actually what we're getting back on lab work, we might need to change the dynamic of how that PDs ran. Luckily, it's very rare that that's the case. That's the rate limit that holds me back. But it's mainly that rate of progress thing. And I think of this in a way of earning the right to use that level of compound usage, which is just my coaching brain working. Like, I don't know that I necessarily communicate this to the clients unless there's a high level of pressure from the client of wanting to take more, that we have to have variables from, like, the trening, the sleep, the nutrition, the how we execute as a bodybuilder to earn the right to take escalations, in my opinion. Now, if they're uncontrollable variables, that variables, like, that can't change, like this would be work-related or things along those lines, then potentially, like, that's where making that a more aggressive PD increase is probably one of the only levers you have available. It's like the classic thing that comes to my brain is I have a client who works night shift currently. He's been working night shift the entire, or switch shift, the entirety of working together. And it's like his process is so perfected on every other variable, it's like taking compound progressions in that athlete is our only way to improve him as an athlete. And so I'm going to be taking that with the next push phase that we take. However, if that person was to step out of that job, and, like, we're no longer dealing with, like, switching from days to nights, that is a massive consistency variable that would allow me not to have to do that. And so I think it's kind of a balance of looking at what's on the table cards-wise. I'm always going to go for being a better bodybuilder than I am drugs, but you are kind of pigeonholed into situations where drugs is the only option, in my opinion. There's a lot of podcasts and people that are putting out information around top-level pro dosages. And do you think, just because of the segment that they might be seeing, that those numbers might be skewed? And also that in the position that someone might be in, at their physique level, that those numbers and just the bias of what's working now could be skewed? I guess to be a little clearer for the audience as well, that if you already have a ton of muscle, and now what you're currently using is more of a maintenance amount, I'd want to ask, what did you use when you really grew a lot? And I guarantee there's always some phase that someone pushed the envelope, and then they likely put on a lot of tissue during that time. And again, we need to move people up over time. But I think if you are looking at a lot of, who's going to have popular podcasts and content are going to be those that have some type of experience or they're pros, right? So their lens just might be a bit skewed in what they've seen. So it's like, look at a top whoever, name any top five guy on, you know, Phil Heath, right? Phil Heath talked about his gear usage. It's like, this guy sounds like barely did anything. It's like, oh, so the pros don't do anything. So none of us need to do anything. It's like, well, no, that's not really accurate, is it? Like, the more average genetic guy might have to be pushing that a lot harder. And the reality is that is the truth than what a Phil Heath would. 100%. So do you think there's a skewing of, and people not sharing the reality of like, once you coach more people in the average segment, that there is a higher dosage push that needs to happen, maybe over your top pros. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, 100%. I think it's what you actually end up happening is when you work with people long-term, like I have people, I use photo logs, so like my photo logs are numbers. I have people that are in the 200s now, like they've been working with me that long. It is, you get to a point where you can only do so much on the day-to-day life variables where it's almost guaranteed each push is gonna be between a 10 and 25% increase in compounds, closer to that 25% every time in order to gain more progress if you're seeing progress slow in the previous phase. It's just, it's basic math. Like if you have controlled every other variable, trening can't get much better other than minor tweaks. You can't be a better bodybuilder due to life scenarios, like financial work, whatever it might be. Like that is pretty much your only lever to pull and in order to make more progress, you have to pull it. And so usually the conversation starts around 20%. That's a conversation that's had with each athlete. And we talk about kind of benefits and attractions, what that health metric monitoring is gonna be, what previous health metrics have been for that person. Is this risk worth it? And then that decision's made. And that's just the reality of it. And then this is conversations with people like, it's crazy. Like some of my amateurs who haven't even stepped on pro qualifier stages yet, the amount that they're needing to get to that level genetically, it relatives to some freaks I've coached in the past is just, you're not even talking the same game. Like it's, it's just such a harder level lever you have to pull with those people. I'm gonna push you here. Do you have like a top dosage where you like, it pushed your comfortability? Yeah. But it's just what it needed. And do you want to share that? Yeah, yeah, I will. I won't share the person. Yeah, don't, don't share the person. I won't share the person. But there was one where it was like, we got to, I'm trying to remember the stat. This was like a while ago. Total stat design got to 2750. And I don't remember the ancillators what those numbers got to, but I know GH was well above like 13, 14. And that was like, I was very uncomfortable running that. But it was one of those situations. It's like, this, this might be your last or last couple of years competing. This is what you've ran in the past. And it's kind of in that 22 to 2300 mark. Didn't really make much progress last time you had an offseason. How was the progress then? Yeah, it was great. Best physique that had been produced ever by that, by that athlete. Yeah. Yeah, I had a very large human. Like you're talking 310, 320. Yeah. And seeing what they previously did and not wanting to leave anything on the table. It's someone too that we're not looking for like, I just need a couple pounds of stage weight here. When you're over six feet, it's like, all right, we really need to fill in some gaps. It's like putting that to 3,500 milligram per week, considering too, that this person's like over 300 pounds. And I think some of that is make it makes a difference. Right. But then we're seeing like substantial progress. Again, when that person needs it. Now, every offseason thereafter, that's when you can start dialing things back because the tissue's there. I think a lot of these pros like that have the genetic propensity to just put a lot of tissue on. They're just not having to do the thing in the offseason like other people need that need to fill in those gaps with tissue. Yeah. And I've seen guys that are running in that, thaT3 to four gram mark at times to like really push it, that have the crappy genetics, that also have still put on a lot of size already, and they still need more. And again, that's, you know, it's a risk thing. But what we're talking about here is trying to put a physique on stage. Yep. And when that's the priority, it's just it makes that decision making clear, right? This is like, and these are decisions with athletes who their physique is like the only thing that's like their primary focus. Like they're okay with managing the health risk according to doing this. Like I'm not, you're not having these kinds of conversations with someone who's a recreational or competitive bodybuilder at the amateur level. Has anything changed your approach? Like once you do start an offseason push, like when I first started doing cycles, it was like week one, you're full bore, right? Like if you're running a 1500 milligram per week cycle, you start 1500 milligrams week one, and you run that for X period of weeks. But, you know, we've been doing escalations over weeks to get up to peak dosing. Has your approach around that changed at all? Yeah. And maybe, do you see benefits or cons around it too? Yeah, I think it's morphed a lot over the years actually. Like I would take longer to build up to peak dose. Now I take shorter to build up to peak dose. I think in certain situations where I have all season sprints, so like I have a client I'm thinking about right now that's like got a, because of the way their life schedule fits, we're going to have like a 13 week push. We're going to have a little bit of a break, and then we're going to have another 13 week push later. Like in that scenario, I'll just go ahead and send full dosage. But like if I had the full 20 week buildup, I would do like reach peak dose in four to five weeks, kind of escalate that up. I do find that pretty beneficial for people that you're kind of trying to find the upper ends of tests for. Also, I find it very beneficial in this current day and age where nobody can get Maseron-E or Primo, and you're having to use drugs you haven't used with athletes in the past to manage that. Like just watching like if EQ gets plugged in, are we seeing crashed E2 from that being plugged in? Are we dropping the need for DHT derivative period because you get so much E2 management from EQ? These are thEQuestions you're having to answer now where like the escalation piece really helps because I like the idea of like having some testing pretty early on to see where that E2 is if that EQ is coming in early on. But these are like problems you're dealing with now. But yes, general rule of thumb is you're typically hitting peak dose somewhere between four to five weeks in nowadays. But I do like that escalation process just to kind of monitor how someone's handling each increase in dosage. One thing that I was doing with the Boldenone needing to be used more so, you can give your thoughts around this too, is that on the start of an escalation, for one, I'll be a little bit more aggressive with testosterone because there's more likely Boldenone's going to crash you too. But I will start EQ full bore. Yeah, I do too. And that way I get thEQuickest stability of that. And it's a longer ester, right? So probably six weeks in and you're getting more stable. But then tests can keep escalating up along the way. I can pull labs at any point and get a rough idea if I'm heading in the right direction or if I'm already seeing estradiolos like getting up there. It's like, all right, let's just hold test and I'll fill in the rest with mass or mass prop or whatever I can get. Or I could tweak Boldenone down so I can maybe get a quicker stability in one variable rather than both kind of escalating up along the way. I'm doing the exact same thing. EQ start is full bore dose straight out the gate and then you modulate the other compounds around it. Because for those that don't know, like test and Masteron is kind of nice because when you find your test dosage, Masteron doesn't influence it drastically. But with Boldenone, you all of a sudden will be able to run a lot more tests or you'll just smash your, and at the same turn because of that, you're smashing your estradiol. So it makes it a little bit morecomplex in cycle design and having to find with this much Boldenone, I can run this much test, but when Boldenone's not in place, then this is what my test should be at. So it's a little complex, but run it once and you'll know pretty damn quickly where you should be. It's just a one-time exploration of that. Having your test at Boldenone set for like six weeks, pull laps, see where you're at, and then also go off your subjective of how you feel. But anyway, around the escalation, I think that is a point to bring up too, is the contest schedule of, you know, what duration of time do you have to spend at some peak dosages to pull out progress? If someone might be competing like earlier the next year and just maybe you have to run something shorter. I think the physique also matters as well, which if you have someone that's pretty lean and has a long runway to grow, it could be very, very well okay to spread that out longer. But if you know you're going to reach a stop point to need to drop some fat off relatively quickly, it might make more sense to escalate up a little bit faster. And the whole theoretical concept around that escalation is that week one, you shouldn't need a full send to start growing. Now of course, these esters do accumulate over time, so there's kind of a natural rise in peak serum levels. But just tapering that off, out over five weeks, you end up kind of this, now a 10 week, just accumulation as you're requiring more to grow, just like more food, more trening stimulus, etc. So it just lines up really well that way. And also with the health aspects, like those past times I've dropped in, like one and a half grams week one as my cycle, it's like, holy man, like restinGHeart rate jumps up, like sleep starts taking issues, blood pressure jumps up because water levels are jumping up really quickly versus an escalation. There's just less organ stress and health detriments that can occur and impacts on sleep. And so that's part of a, more of the rationale on that. So you don't need to just take everything on week one. The con to it though, is the assessment point. If you were like, you do drop it all in week one, mid cycle, you can say like, all right, I actually should have done this. And you have some time to change it. If you escalate up too slow, and by week 10, you just got to stable levels. Well, think four weeks later, five weeks later, you might already be done with the cycle. So it might be more of this retrospective look at of like, oh yeah, I should have done this or done more. So there's just some pros and cons around it, but that's probably why we at both Luke have gone to a little bit, faster escalations up. Then we're able to make adjustments more. So probably in the newer client where you're trying to, to learn a bit. Yeah. I think too, it's like, um, you also kind of made the point of like making sure progress is happening. If you do bias, you do bias an escalation style and stack design and like doing that on thEQuicker side, like we are now, I think that's also where the conversation of PD progressions usually comes up a little bit more often because you know, you're really not going to get a full scope into how that person's progressing until they reach full serum levels, which might be nine, 10, 11 weeks in, you know? So, um, you're kind of like guaranteeing that if you run that escalation slightly higher than previous, it's going to be more and it's going to guarantee some sort of progress relative. ChallengEQuestion, Luke. Yeah. Love it. Cause someone just listened to this and they're like, okay, they're running, these guys are running these CPN eight and the empty long grassers taking five weeks, like peak dosage. They're having to assess like, it seems like, why don't we change that process? Why don't we run test prop mass prop? Uh, we'll find, we'll source some bold in on CPN eight instead of a desolate. Yeah. And we'll, we'll get up to this peak a little faster and be able to make like faster adjustments. Um, do you have a counterpoint to around that? It's almost like the frontload, my orals in conversation, right? Yeah. It's with the orals having more detriment potentially. IMean, if, if you have someone that's not, IMean, to play devil's advocate here, if you pin daily, you have someone who's not prone to side effects. So we're even with some of the serum volatility, you would see relative to longer esters. You're not experiencing issues. Arguably, could that be a way that someone went, I think you could make a case for it, but it's not how I would prefer from a management standpoint as the coach trying to manage someone's stack design. I like a little bit more steady serum levels and, and making sure that I'm managing it in that manner. Um, would you agree? Yeah. Yeah. IMean, to the point is like the escalation point is to try to, to literally like match kind of their need of growing, um, as we're moving into the offseason. So to just all of a sudden, Hey, I need some peak doses on week one is the same point of dropping in your full cycle in week one. Again, the other, I think counterpoint around that is typically your short esters are low milligram per mil as well, which at an earlier point might not be problematic, but very well could be once you're getting to higher, higher dose stuff, uh, when you're trying to fit that much in it, it kind of lends itself to needing to use the longer esters because it can be a higher milligram per mil. And, uh, and then you get into like pretty much having to shoot daily to have more stable serum levels, which is another problem for a lot of people, which the earlier on guys, I, I sometimes will leave guys on shots three days a week or every other day if I can, uh, just to meet in the middle of like creating serum stability, but also not turning into a pin cushion. So it could be done, but I think it's kind of missing the point of the big scope of like bringing someone up and not trying to dump the kitchen sink in week one, match their growth hormone hormone rates together and also managing shot volume and, uh, you know, painting soreness and stuff too. So, yeah, I am. I think from a coaching perspective, it just makes it so much easier to manage the athlete. Like you mentioned, there's not adherence. Uh, we talk about this in nutrition. I don't understand why we don't talk about it in PDs, like adherence and sustainability. And that adherence is a huge aspect. Like I've had people just miss shots trying to do daily with them. So just a thought. No, even, even compound selection comes into that play. Like you could have what's, what's optimal on paper. And there's, that's where I see people argue all day long. It's the same guys arguing probably about, um, biomechanics and optimizing like a lift. And they just haven't actually gone to the gym and tried it to quickly realize that is a less than ideal approach. Uh, yeah. Try, try actually pinning that over 20 weeks. Yeah. See if you can actually sustain that quickly. Like, Oh no. It's like, have you ever run 3000 milligrams per week of gear? No, you're just, you're talking about it. Like what you, like what you read and listen to someone else say, like try to do that. And it's going to quickly change the compounds you pick and why you're picking them. And that probably might be the reason why your syringe is filled up with what it's filled up with and not the ideal paper scenario. Yeah. Cause again, it comes down to what we'll, we'll wrap this up with here. Luke is assessing the need of the person in front of you. And what becomes optimal is based on what that client needs and around, whether it's nutrition trening or PD strategies, that's your start point is assessing what worked in the past, what didn't, and then personalize that along the way. So these like absolutes or black and white things, or what looks good on paper and the coaching world, it doesn't always plane out so clenly like that. And there's some good framework to work within, but in coaching, a lot of times you're kind of operating within this gray area, not gray area of doing sketchy things, but gray area that you're seeing a mixed approach and responses that you're having to adapt to. That's not always so clear cut for everyone, but anyway, we will wrap it up there next week. It's going to be one for the ladies. Yep. Female growth hormone hormone. This is why you are staying the same. Luke will dive and I will dive into that and give you some insights into the female offseason, which don't worry guys, it absolutely is still going to apply to you, but this it'll be for the ladies. So anyway, thank you all for tuning in and we will talk to you next week.

=== FILE: Optimized HGH in Bodybuilding with Kurt Havens - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.164 [HrJT58Pn3JA].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Optimizing growth hormone hormone hormone in bodybuilding. Today we have on Kurt Havens, who is a physique coach, also does a lot of research and also putting a lot of research. burning out a lot of information around androgen information around androgen information on growth hormone hormone hormone. because it delivers science and doesn't dilute it and is an understandable takeaway, which is a hard thing to convey. So Kurt, great to have you on. How are you doing? Excellent. Thanks for having me, guys. Yeah, IMean, that's kind of been my passion. I realized through both what was going on in social media and what was going on in modern medicine is just a serious lack of good information on PEDs, right? And just stigmas behind a lot of these things and just a lot of bro lore that's just been carried on and carried on and it's not necessarily the best way to go about doing these things, right? Because the goal is we want to be able to do this safely and do it long-term and maintain our health. Yeah, I think with growth hormone hormone hormone has always been so misunderstood. And when I was coming up in bodybuilding, it was like growth hormone hormone hormone was going to be the game changer. Like, don't use this earlier on. This is your ace card to play. Like you turn pro, use growth hormone hormone hormone like opens up the gates, right? I think insulin is probably being more misunderstood, which is a whole other podcast of itself. But, you know, growth hormone hormone hormone absolutely is misunderstood. So I would love, and a lot of our listeners, they have heard us speak to growth hormone hormone hormone, but just I want to get into like the depths of the conversation around some misapplications and understanding of problems that are coming up because that's where I think you really shine. I know we could go a whole podcast probably on just mechanistic action and pathways of this. But if you could just give like a fundamental breakdown of the role of growth hormone hormone hormone in the body with regard to bodybuilding, right? Like muscle growth hormone hormone, fat loss, like what is this stuff actually doing? And maybe what it's not doing, what people are or say it might be doing. Totally. So it's secreted naturally by your antuitary pituitary gland, usually in times of stress, hunger, right? It's considered a stress hormone. It's actually a cytokine. So we can get into that later because that plays into how you inject it and why we inject it certain ways versus other ways. And there are five unique genes in the human body for growth hormone hormone hormone. And they're all on chromosome 17. We are only really concerned with the first two that we see in adults. The other three are placental growth hormone hormone hormone that you see in pregnancy. And so that's a totally different thing. And that plays into some of the long acting growth hormone hormone hormones that have come on the market. I touched on that in some other podcasts. I don't, that's probably a whole nother topic in and of itself is why that's not necessarily the most ideal drug either. It's, so growth hormone hormone hormone is responsible for tons of stuff like total human body development, right? When you're growing. And for bodybuilders specifically, we're looking at it from a muscle building, fat loss, collagen, all tissue, basically bone, liver cells, immune system, sleep. I always joke that if growth hormone hormone hormone only improved my sleep as much as it did, I would still use it even if it had no other effects because to me, the sleep benefits are so profound, especially when you get like, I'm 50. So at this point in my life, sleep is not a great thing anymore. You know, I don't know if you guys get that yet, but when you, when you, when you get up there, it, it, it becomes really compromised and it becomes difficult to get through trening and recovery and manage all these things, you know, and keep making progress into our leader years. Cause that's the goal here, right? Like I want to be able to do this until I'm in my seventies, at least in some capacity. And that's, you know, and I think that's where using these things wisely and using things like growth hormone hormone hormone, I think can really aid in that, right? Like the two, say in my opinion, the two healthiest things people could use would probably be testosterone growth hormone hormone hormone. They're endogenous hormones and the body knows exactly what to do with them. They would produce in theory, the least amount of side effects, even though there's things like Primobal that are very refined, they're not natural hormones. So we don't really know long-term what those drugs actually do, especially in the doses that bodybuilders take. Um, would you say, Kurt, like going through this, cause we're talking about muscle building, talking about body composition and with growth hormone hormone hormone, there's, you know, everyone thinks about the growth hormone hormone aspect with its naming. Would you say there's a stronger role for growth hormone hormone hormone, a more like limiting body fat or reducing body fat over its muscle building capacity? Or is it vice versa? So that's, and I state that in my book in the beginning, it's kind of like a shocker is that growth hormone hormone hormone itself is not really building muscle directly, right there. It shows that it seems to prevent some level of protein breakdown through mTOR activation at a muscle cell, but it doesn't really increase muscle protein synthesis rates. Um, and it's most of the effects we see are through IGF one. So IGF one is really kind of the driving force between why most guys are using GH and not so much for the GH. GH itself is more of like a fat loss agent, right? And the other things like the sleep, um, and those sorts of effects of self, soft tissue, collagen, those kinds of things are more from growth hormone hormone hormone. The IGF plays a role there too. Um, but yes, it's, it's, it's growth hormone hormone hormone itself is not necessarily building muscle directly. That's not why you're using it. Yeah. So I guess that kind of gets into like next question I had, which some people, the, the access to growth hormone hormone hormone or it's, you know, still stated the cost limitations of accessing growth hormone hormone hormone might be what would cause someone to go down a different path, right? Like I started because when I was going to use, uh, peptides, right? These growth hormone hormone hormones, secreted gogs, because they were very accessible. This was back in like 2015, nearly 10 years ago. Um, but you're realizing like how I had to use these things and the amount that I needed to use. It's like, damn, IMight as well just buy growth hormone hormone hormone by this point. But, um, you brought up a couple of points when you were talking around differentiating effects between GH and IGF-1. And it sounds like we definitely want both to be occurring for the fat loss aspects, but also these muscle building effects, collagen building effects. And so you still see a lot of people asking about in case six, seven, seven, or, uh, ipamorelin and these other secretagogues. What, what might you be limiting factors in some of these and, uh, be whole, you be held back by trying to go this route? Like, what are you, what are your opinions and thoughts around those? So MK-677 is really interesting. So that as last I saw, it's in stage three of clinical trials to become a pharmaceutical drug. And the name is changing. It won't be called MK-677. That name signifies a joint venture between Merck and another peptide company. They joined to form a lot of these peptides years ago. And that's how they were all named with those numbers and those letters. Uh, those were like, uh, research. Same way, a lot of steroids actually have research numbers on them before they become like a chemical name. Um, I think MK-677 might be the most valuable of them, but not necessarily for our population. They're looking at children with delayed growth hormone hormone or growth hormone hormone hormone deficiency and elderly. So my father's in his seventies and he's had great luck with MK. The, the, the issue with MK and all of those secretagogues, especially the injectable ones is with the, with the injectable ones, like epimorrelin, you have to time your food and all these things around it, right? In order for it to even work. Um, the, the biggest limiting factor is it's basically like a test. It's going to work similar to a testosterone booster. It's limiting factors, your pituitary gland. So if your pituitary gland is not functioning ideally, or, or if you never had a huge amount, like if your body wasn't producing a ton of growth hormone hormone hormone to begin with, it's only going to take you to where you were naturally, right? So that's kind of the rate limit versus when you inject a hormone, you're bypassing that thing, right? The difference between injecting testosterone versus taking, you know, a pro hormone or, um, one of those over the counter test boosters, right? Like even if they increase your test by 40%, is that enough for us to see a result in the gym? Probably not, unless you're at the rock bottom of the, of the range. So that that's, I think for bodybuilders, most likely I would say the, the secretagogues are pretty useless. They don't really seem to do a ton. IMean, I guess it's better than nothing, but in the current environment, it seems that you can get underground lab, GH pretty reasonable now. It's changed a lot in the last 10 years, right? It's HCG is probably actually more expensive now than GH. Yeah. Probably so. The ways the laws have changed with the pharmaceutical companies making this stuff. Um, that's, IMean, that's, that's pretty much the, yeah. You know, Luke wrote a bit more on this, like in our JTU course, but looking around the research of the secretagogues, like, so, you know, it could get a guy maybe into, maybe into the 300s, like maybe high norm, but to get someone super physiological to where you really gain the benefits, it just seems like that's not the role. And then to, to your point as well, Kurt, it's like, what's your ability to produce growth hormone hormone hormone? And if you're a young guy in your twenties, you might already have a really good production. So you're like, just try taking this to probably maybe even produce the same amount. It's like using TRT when you're 20 years old. Like, why would you do that? Unless you're truly hypogonadal. Yeah. Which is rare. Right. Right. And you can cause that by poor diet, lifestyle, overtrening, those kinds of things. But like, which you see a lot of this TRT at these young ages, which is wild. Right. IMean, I didn't start TRT until I was 40, but I was truly hypogonadal and my body just wouldn't respond anymore. You know, and I, and I did beat the shit out of myself. So I, you know, I probably had lower test levels at a younger age, but did it really affect my trening? I'd say probably not. And that's kind of where, you know, using exogenous growth hormone hormone hormone would make a much bigger difference than using these other things. And the reason why I said before underground lab GH and not generic is just, I think we need to be careful with the term because the term generic in a pharmaceutical set basically means it's manufactured to the same specifications as the pharmaceutical. And unfortunately they're not made to the same specs. They're similar, right? The drug itself is the same, but what goes into it, the process to manufacture that and bottle it and stuff is, is vastly different. And that's what we tend to see the difference between pharma GH and the, the underground lab stuff. I don't know if you want me to go into what the difference is. And there's nothing wrong with underground lab stuff, especially affordability wise, accessibility abundance, right? Most, most people, especially in this country don't have access to pharmaceutical growth hormone hormone hormone. And even if they did, the cost is not something they can really take on, right? Cause you're looking at basically a Mercedes S class a month to run any good amount of pharma GH. I do want to hit that. And this is one of my next questions, but there, there's a last point about like access. And we talked about like a secretagogue, but also what's accessible. I see this promoted a lot because people can sell them. You can have a discount code and you can push it is IGF one DES, IGF one LR three. Like these are all really popular as, as well, which there's limiting aspects around this. And so I also wanted you to be able to, to touch on those as well. I, in, in my experience and in my knowledge, the, those variants of IGF are not going to be as effective in, in rodent studies, they seem to do much more than in humans in, in the practical realities. I don't know anyone that's used any of those IGF variants and really got much out of it. I would say, again, if you're going to go the, the pure IGF route, it seems that Incralux is kind of the way to go. But again, the cost, right? Abundance, especially in the United States is, it's really hard to come by. And it's probably more for a very advanced user. I would say in my mind, working with athletes at different levels, I'd say incorporating something like Incralux comes way at the later stages, like where you are, John, when you're looking at the difference in 1% is the difference in you winning the Olympia versus, you know, not winning the Olympia versus at a local show. I, I highly doubt that that's going to be the game changer there for most of those guys. Yeah. I'm just pounding down Incralux over here. Of course. I would say that's where you typically would see it, but it's more in the European guys. I think just more of them over there. Yeah. I've seen like some middle Eastern countries, like have access around these things, but even the guys that I personally have never used Incralux, but the guys that I have spoken to, it's kind of the same thing. It just doesn't have a real profound effect. I do think, I do think, and I think going back to our original thing where if you're just trying to take IGF one, who's talking about, Oh, this is what we're really after for bodybuilding. And I think that is not the only thing we are really after. Because I think the real benefit is growth hormone hormone hormone itself. Both. Right. To be able, because my, my experiences in the offseason, this is the leanest I've ever been able to stay. So the indirect effect to be able to partition more towards muscle is how I get the muscle building effects. Yes. IGF one has a role, right? But it's really, I think the growth hormone hormone hormone's indirect effects of partitioning ability that creates such a profound response. And you're missing out on that. I think we're just taking like something like Incralux and you've probably seen the studies on Incralux because what Incralux is actually utilized for like children deficient and growth hormone hormone hormone that are non-responsive. Like they have some type of defect or error to where they don't have IGF one occurring. And so they use Incralux. And the dosage of those studies, like man, to have replacement amount of IGF one, you wouldn't be able to afford it. And I see the protocols of what guys take. It's like, it's like a tense of what's even effective. So yeah, it's hugely expensive. And we try and in HIV, the same thing. We've, we've studied Incralux versus using Serestim and the outcome is just not as great. Like you're just getting so much more out of the GH, you know, in those people. And that's, that's on an extreme end. But if you look at that, if it can grow new cells and stop wasting in someone that's terminally ill like that, you have to figure for someone like us, who's clearly not, you know, you're not sitting in a bed, you're not wasting away. You're not expressing all these kind of genes. It's, it's going to have a, I just think an overall better effect than just using something like IGF. I think, I think one of the things on the anecdotal side of like growth hormone hormone hormone usage is like John, you mentioned like stringing like seasons together, like being able to manage body composition, kind of being like the primary input of where we see the applicable usage being extremely high. Like I've actually been using it pretty well though, and keeping people trening from an injury profile perspective on the collagen synthesis side of the equation. Actually pretty robustly getting people back to trening post injury with combination of like TV 500 BPC alongside growth hormone hormone hormone usage, kind of going down that collagen synthesis route. So I kind of wanted to let you touch on that real quick before we got into the access stuff, because like the secondary effects of growth hormone hormone hormone are where like, it's so robust as a coach, being able to manage someone that we talked about this in a previous podcast, like John's body composition comments about, I can take someone through an all season phase and longer. I can keep them exposed to physiological androgens longer because I'm managing body composition better. As a result, health metrics, I'm stringing along seasons better because I can keep them in a better body comp, but I can keep them trened more effectively too, because I'm getting them out of injury profiles or niggles a bit quicker because of the collagen synthesis side of the equation. So I just want to let you touch on that because I think that's a, I don't say underutilized, but maybe under discussed or under realized potential benefit of keeping that in play as well. Yeah. And having seen John in person in the middle of an offseason, like I saw you last year at the Arnold, your condition all year round was phenomenal. I don't even think the pictures do it that justice that you post on Instagram. IMean, you look like you're ready to get on stage all the time, which is quite a feat for someone your size and the sheer amount of food, you know, that you have to eat just to make, just to make progress at your, you know, it wasn't like that before I've gotten fat. So you're just leaning. I'm like, no, man, I'm not like doing stuff correctly. It's amazing. I think how you were able to move up weight classes so quickly and so smoothly, you know, year after year. Yeah. And, you know, I think Luke has a good thing to bring up around this. Cause we're talking about peptides, right. And like everyone jumping on like BPC or TB-500 to like, Oh, I had this injury. Let me throw this in. And I personally, I've just seen so much more response at growth hormone hormone hormone and BPC or TB-500. It just seems like it's all over the place. Like some people notice it. Some people don't, I think there's a lot of placebo maybe happening there, but yeah, I I've never personally seen a ton of, I think that there is some merit to using BPC and TB-500. TB-500. It's very like acute, like you literally just injured yourself. That's a great time for TB-500. BPC is probably more like a long, like a nagging thing that's been around for a while. It might aid in that recovery to some degree, right? How much is hard to say. And I think like you said, it probably depends on the person and the injury, right? If it's something's fully torn, it's not going to fix it. Yeah. But GH, I think GH, I think has a much more profound effect on recovery and healing. It just needs to be used long-term, right? It doesn't collagen synthesis doesn't really start to ramp up. It's kind of a biphasic response. It doesn't really start to ramp up. For about six months after use. And then again, at another big ramp up at a year. So if you're, if someone's using growth hormone hormone hormone for a prep or something, they're only going to use it for two or three months. They're probably not even getting anywhere near the full benefits of it. It's just starting to build at that point. But I think you could definitely use all three together. If you, if you actually have an injury or coming out of surgery or something. Yeah. You kind of weigh like, what is the risk of not using versus using them? Right. And like, you know, these aren't FDA approved drugs, but we do havEQuite a bit of research. Nonetheless, probably more than in the past of what is even an FDA approved drug. So people should keep that in mind when they're like, we only use human approved drugs. It's like, yeah, but even the current ones are probably even stricter to come to market. And for specific reasons that sometimes they don't pan out, but anyway. Yeah. I think those, those probably are like lower from growth hormone hormone hormone, probably like our, our next like tier of peptides that probably have some good, good efficacy. But the rest of that stuff is who knows hit or miss. Right. I've, I've never really seen many people have much luck with a lot of the other stuff that's out there probably makes it money. And if you're going to spend thousands of dollars on these random peptides, I would probably just invest in growth hormone hormone hormone at that point. Yeah. Now there, there was a study. I don't know if you recall. I'll have to send it to you. It was in young individuals dosing, I believe. And they actually showed like within a 14 day period, a ramp up of collagen synthesis with using growth hormone hormone hormone. Now this is just means like, Hey, some mRNA increases of collagen synthesis, but to pan out to an actual effect that you're noticing is going to be some time, right? Like you're saying, it's not going to be the next week. It's like I'm healed, right? It's a, it takes some time to actually come. That's the issue with mTOR and protein synthesis and nitrogen retention, all these things. These were metrics we used years ago to determine if a drug was efficient or not. And it turns out that just retaining nitrogen while it might prevent some catabolism or it's stimulating mTOR, like leucine, right? Stimulates mTOR. That doesn't mean you're growing muscle from being leucine, right? There's none. So just stimulate. And when they studied, it's really difficult to figure out if that's protein synthesis in a muscle or if that's whole body protein synthesis, right? That's a big determining factor too. So it's, it's not that you don't want to keep your protein synthesis elevated to some degree if you're trying to grow, but in and of itself, it's not going to be the stimulus for growth hormone hormone. There's only four pathways that we know of that cause growth hormone hormone of muscle in humans. And unfortunately mTOR is not directly one of them, right? It's, it's mechanotrensduction from exercise. It's the androden receptor, the IGF one receptor and P13 K, which is an energy sensor that insulin and IGF and all those things can interact with as well as food, but it's, it's downstream from mTOR, but mTOR itself is not going to cause, right? You can drink all the protein you want. You're not going to grow. So it's with all these studies, like we learn about how something works in a path. It's not the thing that we want to just put our, all of our programming into. Right? So it's like, yeah, like your, your PI 3K pathway, right? It does influence mTOR. Great. What does that actually mean for us to implement in our, our routines? But to, to, to, to bring this back of something that you were about to get into that. I just kept us in a rabbit hole of peptides was around growth hormone hormone hormone access. And thEQuestion we get a lot is how do I know my GH is real? Which is a, is a simple answer yet a challenging answer. Cause there's a lot of nuance there. I would say from, you could do a GH pulse, right? You could do, you could do lab work to see you could possibly test IGF again. IGF, we can touch on IGF and serum if you want later. And I can kind of explain kind of the misunderstanding there with that test. Um, I would say, IMean, really simple growth hormone hormone hormones, fairly dramatic when it's good. You, you would know that your growth hormone hormone hormone is good. I think the first sign is when the dose is adequate, that your sleep should start to become much deeper and you start to have really vivid dreams. And you see that even on things like MK six, seven, seven, they start to have really strenge dreams. Um, I think from a body composition point of view, when you use an adequate amount of growth hormone hormone hormone for your body and everyone just responds to different amounts, right? There are guys that can use, you know, or five units and get fantastic results or other guys that might use a bottle a day. Um, I, I would say it, it's, it's fairly apparent though when it's working, when you use the right amount, I'm sure you noticed, right? When you, when you started using it, it became obvious really quickly. Enough of it. And, but I also, but I guess the challenge around that is you have to be fairly, uh, you know, introspective and aware. And someone earlier on might not have that kind of awareness. Right. So like when I raised up my dosage, this is when I'm, I'm seeing things happen that wouldn't make sense before. Right. Like body weight's increasing. I'm not seeing fat gain. You're like, wow. Okay. I'm seeing this visually happen. You feel fuller. Yeah. You get a fuller. Veins, right. Increases nitric oxide. So you can have bigger, thicker veins on it. Yeah. I guess the thing that I would be careful with is that a lot of people see if drugs are working based on their, they're also there. We maybe, we say other effects because that just side effects or negative effects. They're just all effects. Right. That, Oh man, my hands are swollen or that my hands are tingling. Um, or man, my fasted blood glucose is sky high. It's like, those aren't ways that we want to chase down to make sure your growth hormone hormone hormone is real. Like you don't really want the other effects to be happening. Same with like tren balloon. Right. Oh man, my sleep's terrible. Like I got some, I got some good tren now. Like no, or you're just taking too much or you don't tolerate it. Right. I think that's, that's another thing that people have to understand is like, not everyone can take aspirin. Not everyone can take tren. Not everyone can take growth hormone hormone hormone. You might not tolerate it. It's, you know, just because you get a negative effect doesn't mean that it's working. Right. So if a guy and I'm not hard, but I'm micro dosing stuff, but if a guy's taking 10 milligrams of tren and he's feeling it, does that mean it's an effective dose because you get a side effect? No, you took right. Amoxicillin is dosed to 500 milligrams. You took half of an amoxicillin and you broke out in hives. Does that mean you're, you're the bacteria in your body's going away? No, it means you have side effect. You're allergic to the drug. So you shouldn't be using that drug. That's kind of the same experience. We shouldn't be chasing sides to figure out what efficiency is. Yeah. And that doesn't also mean you're going to have a great growth hormone hormone response to it. Right. You could just have a poor resilience to side effects. You get all, I have, I've had clients where they get like, take steroids, they take all the negative effects and they do not respond like from a muscle building standpoint. And when you looked at, if you went off side effects, you're like, man, this guy's going to have a great response. Like, nope, nope. That's not always the case at all. So. No, well, because with, especially with the steroids, you have multiple places for this androde receptor. So non-genomic stuff on the cell surface is going to cause most of the side effects. And those are located on organs in your brain. That's when guys take tren and they feel awful on it. It doesn't mean that it's actually causing any sort of gene trenscription. Right. You could be, you could have a polymorphism or be totally lacking in a classic AR and, and not get any response from tren, but you could really feel it. Right. It's even testosterone. It can make you a nervous wreck. It doesn't mean it's doing anything. Most likely the guys that seem to respond the best can, will grow on the smallest amounts, but they can also tolerate bigger amounts. Yes. Right. And I think that's why amongst pro bodybuilders, you see variations in amounts of drugs taken. Right. And it's because someone like yourself could probably grow on 400 milligrams, which you could also take 4,000 milligrams and be okay. Versus guys that have poor responses have it across the board, right. They have it at their first injection and they have it no matter what you do with their dose, it doesn't ever get me better. And the response doesn't change. You know, so with GH, like if your hands go numb at two units, most likely something is off, right. We've got to look at a couple of things, hydration, sodium intake, maybe bringing it back down in the triangle again, or maybe it's just not the right drug for you. Yeah. You could just have more robust that like sodium, potassium, ATPase, like influence that growth hormone hormone hormone has, or even all aldosterone, you retain more water. That can be problematic. But to, to go back around this testing piece, because I'm here, like you use, I used to read on the forums that was out of like, well, how do you test your growth hormone hormone hormone? Right. And like, it was out that you, you do 10 IU and intramuscular injection. And then, you know, the growth hormone hormone hormone peaks around three hours after this administration, you go pull your labs and you see what your serum, my GH level was. And if you had a baseline to compare off of, maybe you would just know like, all right, this is the response, but you can't really say the amount of growth hormone hormone hormone that was being present. But then also you later find out, well, these companies are like adding in peptides to their growth hormone hormone hormone to where maybe you're seeing a response. And it's not just from R HGH. Maybe it's like also added with some GH RP six or something in there. Or dads, or they could put like cheaper IGF dads or something in there. Right. Sure. Make them then growth hormone hormone hormone itself. Yeah. That's an serum. Do you want me to touch on serum? I do. I do. I think before, I guess the only real way that I would say would be an HPLC test, sending off a vial of growth hormone hormone hormone to be able to say like, this is the purity, the potency, the dimer, you know, all these aspects that would be there. And geez, if you get plugged into the right areas, you can find a lot of these testings that have, been already done for companies that have been out for a while, it's just be around the right people for long enough. And you start well finding these, these things out, but, but, but yes, the testing piece. So some people are also just looking at CRM IGF one. And so dive into this, because if you're taking exogenous hormone growth hormone hormone hormone, it's going to raise up your CRM IGF one. What does that mean for us with response or even growth hormone hormone hormonEQuality? Yeah. Well, I'll back up one second with the testing before we close that out. The, I think where the difficulty in understanding the difference between a pharma and a, and an underground lab GH2 is ideally you want it to be as, as pure as possible, right? You're really looking for 98% pure or better. Um, and you ideally want as low of the dimmer as possible. In this case, that word can mean a ton of things, depending on what science you're talking about. In this case, we're talking about like broken proteins, protein strens in there that are just not GH anymore. They've there's something else who knows what they are, um, where the trouble starts. Even if you had an underground lab GH, that's 98% pure, 99% pure, and it's just at the correct milligram amount. What happens is they add some binders and fillers to it that can affect the absorption and the rate limit for growth hormone hormone hormone. Like you said about testing your blood is how much you can absorb, right? So when you put things like Biloxone 188, which is a polymer into it, it slows down the absorption. So you're not getting the whole amount. It'll stay. A lot of times you could see it in cheaper GH when you inject it, it'll leave a lump that'll last for a while. Um, it's just not absorbing properly versus pharma GH. When you put it in, it'll leave a lump immediately and then it absorbs. A couple minutes. Um, the other thing is mannitol is typically added, uh, which is a diuretic. It's a non potassium sparing diuretic, and it's used to the freeze drying process. So when genotropin is made or serostim is made, it's freeze dried in very expensive equipment. Um, and in the underground labs, they don't have the access to that equipment. So what they do is they add mannitol to it to speed up the drying process. So they can make it into a little puck and put it in a bottle and get it out the door. And that mannitol screws with the sodium potassium ratio and can cause side effects to get worse. So sometimes you might see guys, we use three or four units of, of an underground GH and they'll get incredibly numb hands that you wouldn't see on a pharma one until you got to like eight or 10. Right. And it's not going to necessarily improve over time because the mannitol is in there. Um, cause normally what I'd recommend when guys get numb hands with using pharma GH is start reducing some of the sodium in your diet, or just be very mindful of what you're, of what you're taking in and increase your water intake. If you're not already someone like yourself, who's already very mindful of how many electrolytes you're taking in and how much fluid you're, that's the time to start paying attention to it. Um, and some of it will go away with time as your body gets used to filtering at a different rate. Um, okay. So with the IGF serum stuff, so the test was not designed for athletes. So it was never meant for us. It was meant for disease states. So when a doctor originally was looking at this, which would primarily be an endocrinologist, they were looking for acromegaly or giantism or growth hormone hormone hormone deficiency or a pituitary adenema, which is a non-cancerous tumor that's pressing on the pituitary. That's causing either, you know, like a hyper secretion. Um, that's really what they're looking for because there is no direct correlation between your serum IGF and what you're going to look like. Right. We, we see this all the time in athletes. Chase Irons is a great example of this because when he was doinGHis 18 units of serostim a day, his serum IGF was in the low hundreds. He was growing like a weed. Cause his butt, most of that, that IGF was going inside of his muscles. So he wasn't detectable in serum. And what really is going to determine that is your binding protein. So in response to GH, your liver secretes in humans, seven binding proteins. Number seven is debatable if it exists or not, or if that's actually what it is. But so there's, there's that's that we know of six for sure. Your, your liver will respond by producing these binding proteins. And each binding protein has a different function. They'll limit where it can go or what organ it goes to. So your body can regulate how it's going to grow. So there's just not this like free for all of growth hormone hormone. And certain things will increase or decrease them. And one of the common ones you see is in bodybuilding is as guys, estrogen rises, their IGF and serum rises. And they're like, well, this is why we run our estrogen high in the offseason, because look at my IGF. It's at an 800. And meanwhile, that doesn't mean it's actually entering the cell. It's completely bound. So that is an, that's nature's way of preventing IGF in pregnant women from going to the fetus. So you see during pregnancy, as a woman is, as her estrogen goes higher and higher, as she gets, as the pregnancy goes on in stages, the, it will bind up more of her natural IGF. And also her pituitary will produce less. So the placenta can start producing more because you don't want that IGF to cross over to the fetus. But you see that in bodybuilders as well. So they run huge amount of aromatizing drugs and they're letting their estrogen run wild. You'll see their IGF go up in serum, which is rendering most of it useless. So just seeing it in serum might show that you have injected growth hormone hormone hormone, but it's not showing that you're going to get any muscle growth hormone hormone out of it directly. So I don't, I don't really love to test. It's like most of the serum tests don't really show us anything. DHT in serum isn't really teaching us, anything technically estradiol in serum is not, is only telling us what's in the blood. It's not telling us what the cell is doing with the estrogen and how fast it's converting. So some of these tests are just misunderstood and they're, you know, and the TRT clinics are now using them as metrics to determine an outcome, but yet it's not even, it wasn't designed for that. I guess you have to kind of corroborate the story of if you have a serum marker, it's not the sole thing to go off of, but also what is the presentation and response that you're noticing. Then what other markers might be helping you to assess that is like you said, these intracellular conversion or expression of hormones is probably what's really deeming response. However, you know, however, there could be some association, right? We see this with, I was looking at some studies around bone growth hormone hormone and using growth hormone hormone hormone and also around estradiol and suppressing estradiol, lowering serum IGF-1, ALCO lowered localized IGF-1 in bone and didn't cause as much growth hormone hormone. Now, is that a one-to-one ratio? What is it? We don't know. Could there be some like, Hey, if you're a serum IGF-1 is higher, could you also get more local IGF-1? Possibly. Could it be completely unrelated for someone like say Chase? Sure. It might give you some, some marker of like, okay, you took this and it has a rise. What does this mean? It might not mean much. Um, so again, I don't think it, I have people ask me all the time of like, Hey, I'm taking this much growth hormone hormone hormone. Look at my serum IGF-1. Like, is that good? Is that bad? It's like, gosh, it's like, I wouldn't weigh much into it. And like we just spoke to earlier is that I really think still the big benefit here is, is growth hormone hormone hormone. Um, and that, that response and IGF-1 to a lesser degree, uh, because with Chase, right? Um, you can make the case like, is Chase getting more localized IGF-1 or is it just that he has a very great, robust growth hormone hormone hormone response? Yeah, probably both. It, it, maybe it's both, right? It's hard to pinpoint it down. So you're kind of looking at like, okay, what is just your response? And, and that's why you should be monitoring and tracking pretty, pretty effectively. So to just like give like, like specific recommendations around, like you mentioned, right? Run your estradiol as high as you can to have more a GHG, IGF-1. It's like, that's kind of misguided. Um, there's a lot more to that. And we probably do a whole podcast is pulling that whole conversation apart. Um, but yeah, I think with CRM IGF-1 testing, it's not going to be your best guide to your response. Right. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J3 university, our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J3 team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Shows us something, but what it's showing us it's, it's a part of a puzzle, right? IMean, like I said, initially, I think using the mirror is going to be your best guide, right? You know, my IGF. So I have, I have a kidney issue. I'm not going to go too much into it, but when I, so I have a prescription for growth hormone hormone hormone for that kidney issue. So it's not necessarily on label, but it can be used for chronic kidney disease. When initially I started using it, my eGFR was only a 40, which is pretty awful. Um, and the, my IGF serum was really high. It was like almost an 800. And part of that is with one kidney. You don't filter. I'm not breaking it down and excreting it as fast. So it's basically recirculating again. And then the body's trying to protect me from it by binding it more. And, and leaving it there. But what I wasn't large, I was 140 pounds at the time. So clearly having an 800 IGF wasn't causing any sort of growth hormone hormone expression there. GH has actually almost completely fixed my kidney. My eGFR non adjusted with cystatin C is now 108. Interesting. My one kidney functions better than most people's two kidneys, especially at my age. And that's not taking the 220 pounds that I weigh now into account either. Yeah. I can't even, it's probably too many variables for me to state along that lines, but I usually would always have elevated creatinine and we know that's not a great marker, but nonetheless it's been normal for the past like year and a half. And it could be completely unrelated. Possibly I have really good astragalus or something, but it very well, maybe there's something is around that. Nefrons increases filtration rate. IMean, that's one of the benefits of using growth hormone hormone hormone. An interesting thing I wanted to add on Kurt in is that during like my last two weeks for the Olympia prep, I pulled my labs and this was like, and I also pulled them like six weeks after the show, the same estradiol level, same growth hormone hormone hormone amount, but my serum IGF one was vastly different. Like I was in the 300s versus being in the 600s. And it just goes to show that you have multiple influencers that are going to probably affect this serum level. Like my cortisol was up pretty high. Like that could be an impactor or could have been like, I'm in a more dieted state. Potentially there's less like binding proteins and you're seeing less in the serum. But maybe again, like it's like, does that was like my, my had a poor batch of growth hormone hormone hormone. Like, no, that's not what that means either. So. No, it's, you know, and one of the main factors in IGF production is glucose, right? Glucose and protein are going to be the two biggest stimulators of IGF production. So if you're dieting, going to Olympia, most likely your carbohydrates were not at your normal amount. I'm assuming that you pull them down. So you're not going to see necessarily, you know, the same idea of response that you're going to see as you enter your offseason. But again, what is that? There's no reflection on what's in that bottle of growth hormone hormone at all. You know, it might not even affect the outcome of how you look. Yeah. Right. We don't know. And that's the thing when we, we all look at labs, right? We all, we all coach. We all look at these things. Labs are much morecomplicated than just looking at a number and a range, right? They're all of those things, especially in the endocrine system play off each other. And there's tons of ways that they all interact. And it's not sometimes as simple as just one number, right? Like what's causing something to be off. We could do, we could do a video one time on, on how to read all the endocrine markers. Oh my gosh. Right. People love going over lab work. I do want in this episode, cause I know I only have like 15 minutes with, with you is to give some people some real takeaway that are utilizing growth hormone hormone hormone that run into problems because they're there. It's real simple take growth hormone hormone. I want to have a great response, but a lot of times what you're doing in the coaching world is like, Hey, this happens. What do I do? Like, I can't tolerate this. And so that's a lot of like the coaching tricks that start coming into play, which there's, I think the biggest one you'll hear about. And I guess I didn't have this on our question list, but was a hand numbness and issues waking up, sleeping. And that seems like, I can't even tolerate this stuff. Do you have any suggestions around this aspect to maybe make from not happening to begin with, or once it is happening, what, what do you do from there? So I would say, you know, IMean, we can go over all the best practices as we know. Right. And again, there's no, like most things, there's no absolute, like the, the response I'm going to give doesn't mean that that's a hundred percent right. All the time. Medicine is based on averages. And I don't, I can't speak to every person watching this video, right. Because we're all unique. And even amongst the three of us, we might respond totally different to different things. I would say with the easiest way to just not even get the numb hands to begin with or prolong it as long as possible is to start really low. Right. Now I was just going to back up for a second. The majority of this conversation is geared toward men. So growth hormone hormone hormone, like other hormones is sexually dimorphic, meaning it responds differently in men versus women. Women's response to growth hormone hormone hormone is significantly different. And the, these dosing and the advice isn't necessarily the same for women. People can reach out to me if they havEQuestions for females, because the dosing is, and the, the utilization and the, you know, the tolerance, all these things are very different. Um, for, so for men, I would start low, start at two or three units, right. And stay there for a couple of weeks. It doesn't, if you don't feel anything, it's fine, stay there. And then go up and go by single units, right. Go up to, if you started three, try four, and then stay there for a couple of weeks and go up really slowly. If you reach a point where all of a sudden your hands start to go numb, the first thing I would do is back off to the previous dose for a couple of weeks. A lot of times, then when you go back up to that dose, it's gone, right? It's just, again, your kidneys are getting used to this new amount of sodium. So growth hormone hormone hormone causes sodium, phosphorus, nitrogen, potassium retention. Sodium is going to be outside of the cell. And that's, what's going to cause the hand numbness. It's going to compress the medial and the brachial nerve inside the wrist. It looks like an emergency break on a, on a car. Like if you've ever seen an emergency break, it's a cable inside of a sleeve. The sleeve is there to protect it. The nerves run through a sleeve. The sodium basically compresses the sleeve and pushes on the nerve and nerves taper as they get toward the ends of your hands. So they're, they're very tiny and they're going to be, sensitive to that stuff. It's not necessarily like a diabetic neuropathia that you, you know, if you read some of these set effects, those are, that's not exactly what that is. And nor is it technically carpal tunnel syndrome because it's not causing the straps to grow. It's just compression from sodium. So I'd start low and, and re, and like I said, previously revisit like the amount of sodium and potassium you're taking in your diet. A lot of guys, especially in the last five or 10 years have really increased their sodium intake, expecting something out of that, that sodium is probably not going to do. Just be cognizant of what you're taking in, the seasoning you're using and those sorts of things. You might need to significantly reduce that in order to not get those sides and potentially either add potassium rich food in your diet, or you can even use a supplement as long as you're very careful, right? You don't want to test things. One of those things you have to be very mindful of the dose and go by lab work, like get, get them both, you know, where they're in the proper range. We don't ever see anyone in the emergency room that comes in. Like you come into the emergency room, labs are wrong, right? I've never seen anyone sodium deficient unless there's something severely wrong. So it's in America, at least or first world countries, generally people are in sodium deficient. So most guys probably don't need to add a ton of salt to their diet, right? Unless you're sweating a ton or doing, you know, so that's another place I would start. Usually your serum sodium is more reflective of a fluid status over your actual sodium status, sodium intake status. Yeah. So if someone's super dehydrated, their sodium level might be super, but you do that in chloride as well too. That generally goes down as well. The fluid is off. But I think you give great insight here, Kurt, because if you know how something works, kind of know what to address. So what is the issue? It's like water retention. And so if you're retaining more water, this is why those aspects are occurring to address it. Well, yeah, lower your dose and hold it there. Cause I think with a lot of these issues around growth hormone hormone hormone, say with blood glucose rise, it's kind of trensient. Like it kind of comes up and then it stabilizes it and you restart, regulate it just like a new water, a balance in the body. Like you regulate it, you get used to it. Right. I think you bring up another great point around what a bodybuilders do in the offseason that might be altering their fluid balance is like, well, food gets higher. What do you drop out? No veggies. There's like no potassium. Uh, then also you're have more variations in your diet. Sodium fluxes that causes more, more shifts in, uh, your water balance too, and can, can lead to those problems. And I think the last thing that you brought up, what I hear guys that have that problem is that they just jump in and grow thromone with a high dose and guarantee you're going to have side effects. If you go right to it. And it's, um, and I did that myself. I went from three to six and nine within a month. I couldn't even feel my hands. I had to go back to six. I stayed at six for a little bit. And then I went back to nine. I have not had a problem since it just, you know, that was just dumb. I was trying to rush something and it wasn't working. Now this is a lot of people knows this around sleep. And so on the topic of sleep, we do usually see the growth hormone hormone hormone improve sleep. However, I have these individuals that have reached out and clients too, where they have like poor sleep on growth hormone hormone hormone. And it's, it seems rare, of course, and it seems counterintuitive, but nonetheless, like you have them not take growth hormone hormone hormone. They're like, yeah, I sleep better. And I don't know if you've encountered this because it's rare. And if, if there's an, I don't even know if we know the explanation around this, maybe it's around blood glucose regulation or something. So it's generally there were going to be blood glucose, right? Or they could be eating too late close to bed. It's usually going to be a blood sugar thing, or it's possible that the dose versus what the pituitary is putting out is not adequate. So I've seen in younger guys, if they take three units, for instance, even though it's a milligram, it's possible that by the time they absorb it and it gets in the system, that it's less than their brain was naturally producing. And it's going to actually cause worse sleep, right? In that case, if all the other things are addressed, something you could try is maybe try to take it in the afternoon, maybe try to take it in the morning then and see if that actually helps your sleep. I would say best practice though with growth hormone hormone hormone administration. And this is just from the last 50 years of studying the drug and how it's used medically. So you have risk versus reward with anything, right? Not to say that you couldn't use it other ways, but it seems the most practical, safest way to use it is to take your entire dose at night before bed, right? So you have no food. By the time it absorbs, your gut is clear. You have no food. In men specifically, that's your biggest bolus. It's going to be secreted. So it's, it's mimicking what your body would naturally be doing. Your IGF and stuff will still be elevated in the morning. So if you're doing fasted cardio, you're still in a great place versus if you take it during the day, you can run into blood sugar issues, right? Cause now you're blunting some of the, the ability to take in glucose into the cell, fatigue. I don't know if you ever got that. If you, I tried to split up 18 once I was taking 18 units and I wanted to split it up throughout the day just to see. And I literally couldn't, I couldn't stand for more than a couple of minutes without feeling tired. So I was sitting all day. So it's not a really practical use to do anything. If you can't actually get anything done versus when you take it at night, you typically don't experience those things. If you talking about blood sugar, I know you, you mentioned this before with the video blood sugar, like blood sugar verse, like is the blood sugar rise a concern? So it doesn't seem so. So we're taught that we generally don't even look at fasting glucose outside of someone who's diabetic, who has to figure out how to dose their insulin. A1c is a much better predictor of what's actually going on because you have tons of things that go on in the human body that can affect glucose from stress to sleep, the dawn effect. So it's not always the greatest thing. As long as your A1c is staying, you know, in the low fives, generally not a concern because sometimes the growth hormone hormone hormone, you will see your fasting glucose go up, but as a long-term tren, as long as it's not staying like that, it's not a concern, right? You get an average of 10 points up from fasting glucose from growth hormone hormone hormone in most people, but that doesn't mean it's going to increase. You take it at night, it's in your system for 10 to 12 hours. You're going to wake up maybe eight hours later, growth hormone hormone hormone still having action of raising, blood glucose and insulin higher. It's going to be there. You kind of almost want that to happen as that is part of its trensition to its anabolic role. The interesting thing around sleep is like I was talking to someone and they were having problems with growth hormone hormone, with feeling lethargic during the day and taking growth hormone hormone from at night, kind of went down this, you know, path of like timing, et cetera. And I think even with our last topic around hand swelling is we look straight to like the root issue of like, uh, at first is what it should be. But a lot of times we look at like the, kind of the superficial one, like, uh, growth hormone hormone hormone, what do I do with this? Well, what's also happening in the offseason, right? Uh, you're gaining body weight, you're retaining more water, sleep quality is probably going down potentially around sleep apnea. So talking with one individual, he had sleep apnea and he just wasn't wearinGHis mask. And as he's gained like 20 pounds, it's gotten worse. He's more lethargic during the day. It's like, eh, that's probably your issue over the growth hormone hormone hormone, which I think a lot of guys that could be the problem in the offseason and not your growth hormone hormone hormone making me feel lethargic all day. Um, it, it, I don't know if that is an application. We talk about someone with poor sleep potentially. And is it around blood glucose is, uh, maybe that is like a PM dosing of Lantis for a specific case. Um, I haven't played around with that enough because that situation is very rare, but, but it may be potentially. Um, also, uh, we've seen like split dosing of shifting a little bit to the AM doesn't have as much influence on blood glucose. And we'll just lower your total dose in the evening. I'm just saying like, if you, if you had to pick one simple way, yeah, I agree. One of the things I try to do with fitness is I try to make it as simple as possible, because if I'm going to tell people to inject something six times a day, who is doing that? Like you're really traveling with your GH everywhere you go, you're doing the work, you know, you're, you're like, I just to simplify it. I think it's easier just to take it at night. You're going to get the same effect as you would, you know, give or take by splitting it up and you're most likely less health problems, at least for the average person. That doesn't mean that that's always the answer for everyone though. So the last thing I was going to say about best practices is with, with all peptides, you know, and insulin included, you don't want to inject the intramuscular. So when you, you lose about 20%, when you put a peptide into a muscle, growth hormone hormone hormone specifically doesn't, the growth hormone hormone hormone receptor on muscle doesn't, it's not trenslocating in like, like an androgen receptor. It's a cell surface thing. And it's acting on downstream pathways like mTOR that are inside the cell. When you put growth hormone hormone hormone into a muscle cell, because growth hormone hormone hormone is related to, it's a cytokine, your body senses an immune response and it tries to kill the growth hormone hormone hormone. And you might end up with, so you see guys that get welts and, and all sorts of strenge side effects from growth hormone hormone hormone. So generally not the best idea to be sticking it in a muscle. It's, it's why you see across the board and all the pharmaceutical brands, it always is used subq. But again, it's, it's, you know, if people want to do what I am, then so be it, you can do what I am. You know, that just doesn't make a ton of sense. Cause that's not how the drug was signed. It's pretty similar to injecting testosterone subq. I'm not really a big fan of putting oil under my skin either, but again, if that's super low tolerance, like it'd have to be a very, very low amount. Um, is, is what I've, what I've found, but change, changes the pharmacokinetics as well a bit too. Uh, same with growth hormone hormone hormone. I, I know some people brought up the idea of like, if you use it, if you're going to do say a daytime dosing using intramuscular, cause you get a quicker rise, put it around trening, maybe less impact around blood glucose for the entire day. Like, is that like looking at the tree and missing kind of the forest aspect? Probably. I think. Like, unless you just have money, you know, coming out of your ass, it seems like kind of a waste to make any drug less efficient. And, and really like I've, I've done it. I've done it. Objectable. A quarantine, right. It's intramuscular. Yeah. Doing subq. Oh geez. Who can tolerate it? But what, what do you stop? I stop using it because I want one less damn intramuscular injection. So just do it subq. You're at your GH. Like it's, it's completely applicable. It could be anywhere doing that to be on the stomach. Yeah. Tricep, you do it. And I thought anywhere you can grab skin, you can put it. It doesn't matter. It's going to absorb, right? There's no, that's another bro. And there's not really like localized growth hormone hormone. That's inflammation that you see when you stick it in. When you stick a drug into a muscle, that's not necessarily causing some sort of cellular response at the muscle. That's going to, there might be some tiny little acute amount, but it's not over the course of your bodybuilding career. It's not going to net you any more growth hormone hormone. In fact, it might just put scar tissue somewhere. That's going to limit your growth hormone hormone or change the shape of that muscle. Right? Like you see guys with glutes that are really jacked up from too many injections or shoulders that are jacked up. Yeah. So I would just minimize as, like you said, as many things as you can inject into your muscle as possible. Yeah. No, these are, these, these last segment are all great, like takeaways for everyone, Kurt. And I, I know we're at time. So I want to just give you a moment because IMentioned about your growth hormone hormone from a book, but also for people that want more information about you, or if you do individualized coaching or anything that you'd like to speak to, please take the floor. Let us know where we can find more information on you and your, your business. Uh, I'm on Instagram at Kurt.Havens, uh, YouTube, Kurt.Havens. Unfortunately, I don't get a ton of time to make my own content anymore. I need to start doing that again. Um, I'm on a bunch of other people's podcasts, like figure Steve, you know, here, uh, Dr. Dean. Um, I have a forum. I, so I, I coach it's atomic life coaching.com. If people are looking for coaching or consultations and I have a form as well, uh, because I understand a lot of people can't afford to just hire a coach or pay for a consult, but they need some sort of help. And I'm trying to help as many people as I can. So form is like a low price price point entry so that you can, you know, I I'll still interact. I can answer simplEQuestions and stuff. Um, and it's a, it's a good community there. That's forum.atomaclife.coaching. Um, I think that's pretty much it. Most of my time on Instagram. That's a huge value. If you can get a forum with, with one of us to ask us questions. And Kurt is a, is a wealth of knowledge around these topics. It seems like an easy, no brainer thing that I would do. Like if I had that when I was younger, Hey, join this forum for a cheap price. And you could ask this guy that knows all the answers, um, and get yours and have good application. That would be. Uh, so valuable. So anyway, Kurt, appreciate everything you're doing and putting out information and just raising the bar for PD knowledge and, uh, just kind of just dismantling all the bro lore that's out there. Um, and then thank you for your time to come on the podcast. I know you're a busy guy, so we appreciate it. Thank you guys so much. All right, everybody. We'll talk to you next time. And thank you for tuning in.

=== FILE: PED Q & A： GH, Boldenone, Female TRT - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.167 [fM-Nq4ztjdY].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3. Welcome to the J3 university podcast. I'm your host John Jewett. I'm your host John Jewett. And I'm your co-host. Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Optimizing PED protocols. We take all of your questions that we got off Instagram and we're going to answer him. So I know PD is always a popular topic. And there's a lot of repeat offender questions. We won't call them offenders, but again, just a lot of questions that we do get repetitive over and over. And I think it's always a good thing to go back and just give clarity to those that might have missed maybe previous podcasts or even answering thesEQuestions and help you fill in those gaps. So that's what we're going to talk about today all around PDs. Luke, how are you doing today? Great, man. I think this is a great one to hit. There's a lot of similar questions kind of throughout all thEQuestions we collected. So by answering one, we'll be able to answer many. So it serves the betterment of a lot of our audience. So I'm excited for this episode. It's always good to know you're helping the audience that takes the time to listen to us in the first place. Well, we will just jump in, guys. So our first question, again, these arEQuestions off Instagram. I don't know. People want their names shared, so I just won't even share their names. But anyway, someone asked, dosage for growth hormone hormone, what's the minimum for muscle building? Do you want me to start? Do you want to go? Yeah, yeah. Go ahead. You can start us off. Yeah. So when we kind of look at this, we kind of have a range in J3U that we cite with a bunch of different papers kind of behind it. You know, for on the male side, kind of starting somewhere between two to three IUs, getting all the way up into like the eight, nine-ish IU range. But we've kind of talked about this on the podcast before because we've had questions in the past, especially on the female side, of like people coming in with one IU of growth hormone hormone, like in that athlete process. And like then the argument becomes, is that even beneficial for a female because of the potential lower needs on the female side, even though arguably females are a bit less efficient at GH to IGF one conversion. This is kind of the big thing where if you were to just pull a quick anecdotal answer, I think you would start most people around the three IU mark. I think for the female side, probably two is okay, but I'd probably set that bottom end range at around three IUs if we were just pulling quick without going through like all the papers in J3U and everything. Yeah. IMean, the thing of this also is like your, your testosterone dosing, right? Like if you had your natural hormone levels of your testosterone and if you dosed under what your natural level would be, it probably wouldn't be that effective for muscle building. You actually probably be looking like you actually had low testosterone. The same idea with growth hormone hormones. So if you're dosing growth hormone hormone to a lower degree than what you could endogenously produce, that's probably not as efficient for fat loss and muscle building, but reaching to at least optimize up to the high end of norm and then beyond. Beyond is kind of where you might see a classify a minimum type dosing being around and, you know, Luke gave those insights where, where at least some starting points would be. But, you know, definitely you can look at your baseline labs, how you implement your growth hormone hormone and then go from there. We're, we'll try to go a bit more rapid through our questions. Everyone, Luke and I can just answer something forever. We could do a whole podcast just on dosing with GH. Why, why we have whole lectures on these things. But I'll jump into a related question that we got was okay to inject all I use growth hormone. Talking about growth hormone hormone, six I use before bed. Hard to go three to four hours fasted during the day. So I think what this person's alluding to is that he's trying to take all his growth hormone hormone or some of it in the morning. And then growth hormone hormone usually has its peak action abouT3 to four, five hours after you have a subqtaneous injection. And I think trying to, the idea of like, he wants to make sure he's optimizing that for maybe a fatty acid mobilization point of view. And then, and that's hard to do if you're a bodybuilder when trying to eat frequently throughout the day. And so, cause it okay to do all at night. And what I would say is actually we have a bit more bias to starting someone off and doing most of their dosaging at nighttime. Because the thing is that yes, growth hormone hormone does peak in this three to five hour window. However, it also has a duration of action of like 10 to 12 hours. So if you, you know, do it before bed, you sleep for seven hours and you wake up, you're still in this great timeline where growth hormone hormone is taking a lot of his actions. And we look at the research around growth hormone hormone. A lot of people still wake up with high amounts of triglyceride, free fatty acids, ready to be utilized if you are doing some type of fasted cardio. The issue is like if you try to grow through in the morning and leverage fasted cardio is that a lot of times you're kind of missing that really window where you're lining up fatty acid mobilization. And when you're actually doing your cardio and then you'd have high growth hormone hormone the rest of the time when you're eating these meals. And so that's when the time when it could be a bit more insulin resistant. So growth hormone hormone at nighttime is a great application and you can do all of it at night. There's no problem around that would be actually a bit preferential. Yeah, I don't really have much to add. I think it's just it also makes the dosing process simpler, too. I know there's quite a few people that listen here in the bodybuilding that are running nine to five jobs and busy day schedules, especially if you have kids. And I really like the consistency of dosing it all before bed as well as like a secondary client adherence piece on top of like some of the actual mechanistic action based stuff, because it's super easy to remember to just take your full growth hormone hormone dose pre bed kind of aligns with the peaking growth hormone hormone anyways, as far as natural output peaking overnight. So I think it's a it's multiple benefits and just taking it all pre bed. I think it's just kind of bar none the way to go. My opinion. All right. Next question. The optimal test range for females using female TRT. Short answer. There's there's not one. It's very N equals one. So we'll start with like recommendations and guidelines and then kind of go into how we go about this process. So most females and I would say most because I've had a couple of cases that live outside of this range are going to be in thaT3 to 10 milligram mark. So that's a per week of test dosing of like a test step in eight. And that's going to be based off not just solely the lab work number. And so this is where I want to start to detach people from. lab work is almost like a way of telling you a suggestion of where things are at, but it has to be corroborated with the symptomology of the client. And so this is where we need to suggest like ideal ranges for females. It's going to largely be based on the symptomology of that female athlete. Are we getting reduction in the low T symptoms that we saw in the first place that sent us down this path of potentially plugging in the low testosterone? Are we seeing improvements on the in-between phases from a tissue retention perspective where someone's able to continue to make physique development progress? Are we avoiding the potential for side effects? Are we avoiding side effects with the testosterone play at the dosages it's at? And so that's kind of where you have to answer all of thesEQuestions as cooperation for the actual lab work that's there. Now, we can look at lab work and give like approximate ranges. Like I see a lot of females do really well anywhere from like that 50 to 100 or 110 nanograms per deciliter range. I do think a lot of females probably feel their best around that 65 to 75 where they're not getting side effects and they have a lot of energy throughout the day. They don't have any low T symptoms. They're helping their physique development process. But man, I just really hesitate to give a range on a lab work because lab work is such a tool that has to be corroborated across the symptomologies of the person that you're working with. And I just don't want people to use it as a rule of thumb. Yeah, I think just a slight add on there is consider where that female is coming from their baseline. Because you have a female that could be very feminine and low testosterone. And that's her starting baseline point. So consider if you now think, well, the optimal is 100 nanograms per deciliter. That's without consideration where that female is coming from because that would be multiplyinGHer test levels by five. So you actually might get that kind of female incurring side effects. And so you can always add more in as you're titrating someone up to their optimal spot. But consider where they're starting at because you have another female that's at 50 nanograms per deciliter. Where movinGHer to 100 is a lot different than a female from 20. So starting with like the lowest efficacious dose and then moving up. And for some females, if they were that low, three milligrams per week, five milligrams per week would just be a good start point. Measure the response and then move from there. Next question. How quickly would you titrate up every two weeks, month, starting at two IUs to mitigate side effects? And they didn't say titrating up what, but easily assumed they're talking about growth hormone hormone. And I had someone message me, a friend, that he's like, hey, my hands, man, they're super numb. I can't even tolerate this growth hormone hormone. Is this just what it's going to be like for me? I was like, well, what are you doing? He said, I'm taking six IUs. I was like, what'd you start at? And he said, six IUs. I'm like, oh, okay. So a lot of this is just compression of nerves from the fluid increase around growth hormone hormone causinGHand numbness. And when you stay in one position for a long time and you're gaining body weight and getting bigger, it's just morecompression on these nerves. Or you're sleeping. So some people wake up with numbness and tinglingness in their hands. So that's the common side effect I hear the biggest complaints on with growth hormone hormone. So to mitigate that, a lot of times fluid will regulate as you're on growth hormone hormone. A lot of things kind of regulate as you get on growth hormone hormone, like even blood glucose levels, thyroid levels. So it's just a matter of maintaining a dose at a steady state and then incrementally increasing. So at a minimum, I would say hold a dose for a week. But more so ideally, two weeks would be what I would say to hold a dose of JAT. That two to three IU mark is a pretty reasonable starting point, as we mentioned earlier. That's kind of like a baseline minimum dosing if you're a male. And then from there, I would say do half IU increments every two weeks up to the dosage that you're trying to reach for your peak. And that would be more of a strategic way to go about to try to manage side effects that could be incurring from what you've experienced. And then if you got to a dose where you saw a problem from, then you just move back to the previous dosage from there. It's really tough when you make too big of jumps because then you have to scale way back. And then you're kind of left shuffling between dosages and trying to then sort out where is your ideal spot versus just start low, slowly increment. And right when you feel a mild side effect coming on, it's a lot easier to scale back. And you can have a little bit of time trying to tolerate that side effect until it diminishes versus having like a full-blown issue with your hands tingling on an intolerable amount to where you just want to stop growth hormone from home. But anyway, that's how I would go about it. A secondary thing just to add on real quick before we move on to the next is smaller titrations up make the assessment process a bit easier on the coaching side as well as far as making accurate decision making about the changes that are occurring. For those of you who have ran out of growth hormone hormone and didn't have it in play for a week or you went on vacation, you didn't have it in play for a week or two weeks, and then you come back and you plug it back in. Some of you guys, what's the first thing that happens? Weight jumps up 5, 6, 7, 8 pounds if you just plug it in at the dose that you were at previously, right? So along a similar vein from a coaching process of like being able to accurately assess the direction that you're moving, whether it's up or down, those titrations will help you making sure that if you see shifts that they're a little bit more from a percentage basis plan related and not large jumps in GH related, if that makes sense. And next question, Luke, you want to touch on this one. Will it be better to inject more frequently to manage acne issues? Assuming we're shifting away from growth hormone hormone and we are talking about anabolic steroids. Yeah, yeah. Yes. I wanted to answer this question for a few reasons. One, just to set some realistic expectations for people with PD usage. I do think people come in with expecting to use PDs and have zero problems with acne. And I think we all we have to do is go to the side effect management lecture that I built. It is like freaking 85 slides long in level one. And in that in that lecture, I talk about all the potential inputs for acne. Androgens in and of itself are an input for increase in acne production or sebum production that causes acne or the inputs for acne to occur. So in and of itself, using PDs is an input for acne to happen. And so there should be an expectation or an understanding that some will occur. That being said, injecting more frequently will allow you to maintain more stable serum levels. As a result, with more stable serum levels, we're not getting peaks and valleys where potentially we're getting issues on large hormone fluctuations, which is another another input for acne to occur. And it is going to help with that process. So in short, yes, the more frequent the more frequent injection is going to be better for managing acne issues. Understand if you're beating down the path of super physiological PD usage. Anyways, you are plugging in an input that's going to increase acne in the first place. However, there's a bunch of different strategies to manage it with like skin products and taking care of your skin health and nutritionally and supplementally that we can implement here. But in the short, yes, ideally, your your injection frequency is daily or as frequent as possible, given your schedule. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Next question, more specific one is if estrogen slash estradiol levels are low and I'm using a gram, a primo 800 mast E testosterone E 900. These are all per week. dbol could help to rise, raise estrogen levels. And that's thEQuestion mark. And yes, but that wouldn't be the ideal way to go about it because dianabol, it is a testosterone derivative and it does aromatase. But it doesn't aromatase to like the bioidentical estradiol like testosterone does. It is this methyl estradiol which seems to be more potent than regular estradiol. So it very well might not have the same biological benefits that we see with normal estradiol. Also, it just is a – it's much more problematic because we see usually dbol you gain a lot of water weight off of, probably driven around that process. And then usually guys have issues with cardio work capacity, sustaining trening, and lower back pumps being pretty immense. And then you have to worry about blood pressure. Other issues with using an oral steroid is that it's very – looking at the short term of growth hormone when we're trying to string together in bodybuilding months to make tissue accrual. So we have just something that can be implemented for a very short time with a lot of organ stress that can't be sustained. So it doesn't really align with our goals best for bodybuilding. Now, if you're running into the issue of having low estrogen and this is your cycle design, I would simply just shift the cycle design and let that play out to where then you have appropriate amounts of estradiol level. So looking at the cycle design, and there's a lot of questions around primo, mast, EQ, and managing estrogen. So I think this will tackle a few that we have gotten. But comparatively, like primobolin and mastron, primobolin off lots of lab work that I've seen seems to actually lower estradiol much more to a greater degree than mastron. However, mastron has this kind of bantering effect with shifting your androgens to estrogen ratio. So you might just – even though your estradiol levels are the same, you might not be noticing as much side effects from those from it just being more of an androgenic stack design. So with that being said, if you're running this type of stack, it would be shifting down the primo, which would have more of the aromatase inhibition effect, and raising up testosterone, which this could be like 100 to 150 milligram shift. Might be just a good start point to then see how estradiol comes up from there. And just a side note, I would just make sure that you are measuring an ultra-sensitive estradiol for accuracy within this, and then also going off of symptomology as well for what you're able to maintain and manage with estrogen. Because a lot of guys are just jumping at a number and forgettinGHow they actually feel. So usually with low estrogen, it can feel like really dry joints. You can feel very low energy. You can also feel like connective tissue is problematic. And then you also could have low libido and trouble with ED. So those are kind of your – some other symptomology signs around low estrogen and dry skin can start being problematic too. Yeah. Luke, did you – there's like other questions around EQ, which we could hit because they're on this one too. Yeah. It's just like – How does EQ compare to primo in a gaining phase? Yeah. It's – a lot of thEQuestions around EQ are like anecdotal grabs. Like I think there's one somewhere in here. Yeah, it's right there. Like is EQ still widely used in bodybuilding? Because it seems like all of the big blokes are running it. And sorry for the U.S. pronunciation of blokes there. But look, it's – they're androgens, right? So like you have milligram per milligram comparisons of these androgens. They're going to elicit action at the AR. They're all going to be beneficial for protein accretion and building more tissue, right? Do I think that EQ is a preferential choice over a total stack design that meets the same milligram needs as like a test DHT derivative? I would argue no. I don't think that you are gaining any benefit by pulling in EQ because you have the estradiol input of the equation with the testosterone where you're able to pull that testosterone up to match estradiol to where you think you're having the best outcome. So like not too low, not too high. From an estrogen-based perspective, you can use DHT derivatives that aren't going to have off-site action to reach your total milligram needs. And you're not going to have issues with potentially managing that outside of just making sure that your test DHT derivative ratio is correct from a long-term trying to progress a physique over the duration of an off-season. However, if you don't have access to certain compounds, it doesn't rule out EQ as a possibility to be used because it will be productive in accruing tissue. It just would not be my first choice for a variety of different reasons. But that's kind of how I would go about that explanation from the coaching side. Now, we can dive into like why would you not see EQ being the primary suggestion? I kind of hinted at it with like managing a client from a side effect profile perspective. But in what all these compounds provide us from in-stack design value. But I just don't – I'm going to let you take it from here just because like I don't see it fitting a goal that we can't achieve with something else. Yeah, thEQuestion back is like, well, what's wrong with using it? And again, with – you have testosterone as a base and I would argue this is like your primary and most advantageous compound to utilize and maximize testosterone as much as you can. But for a secondary choice, we usually don't have a lot of compounds that we're looking through. There's Primo, Mast, Boldenone, and Angelone. It's really your four main ones that you're really seeing people use. EQ has been popular for a long period of time. There's a few pros around Equipoise being that it's pretty accessible. It's not faked very often. And a lot of times we see Primo, Boldenone, and that's actually Boldenone anyway because they're very similar in action with lowering estrogen. And you really be able to tell clearly differences. And the high milligram per mil is very favorable for those that have high shot volume requirements. So you might very well fit into that category. And really what it should come down to for a secondary compound choice is being able to sustain bodybuilding over courses of months and string those together. So if Nangelone, a lot of times guys have gyno issues pop up just running tests of Nangelone. Well, that a lot of times rolls that out or Primo Mast access could be problematic, especially Primo. Boldenone. With Boldenone, a lot of people get anxiety, high blood pressure, and just don't tolerate the compound. And so you're really looking for which one of these options is best suited for you. And so for either one of us to say, like, this is never to be used, is this not the truth? And we've just seen throughout time certain compounds have stuck around in bodybuilding for a long time until you still see them used. And access to different regions absolutely influences that. Who coaches in those regions will influence it too. So, you know, depending on what the current cultural influences are, which compounds you're going to see. But for you as a user, you need to find that individual response and what is in favor for you to be utilizing. And that's going to be your best avenue to be the most benign for your health. And then in turn, that's going to be able to sustain progress. So when you're making arguments about what's going to grow me more between Boldenone, Primo Mast, or Nangelone, you're looking at marginal differences here. What's going to be more limiting to your growing is running into side effects and that creating the bottleneck for you not to be able to sustain that progress. So I could sit here and say, yeah, more Nangelone is going to get you a bit more gains. But also, if you have to stop your cycle, you know, 10 weeks in because of problems and backpedal and add in AIs or CERMs to combat things, and that is not going to be creating the most growth hormone. So, again, lots of things to consider and a long-winded answer to questions that we're trying to blaze through. If you want more, just get level one. It breaks all this down in detail. Next question. We're actually going to take these threEQuestions and put them into one because there's tren and bulk phase have tolerated nicely. I guess that is thEQuestion. And it says, what about Anadrol? Is tren okay to take in the off-season? Another question was, any use for low-dose tren in the off-season for putting on size at the end of a push? And then there was one more of low-dose tren, 6,800 milligrams per week for fat loss. Worth it or not? So, low-dose tren in the off-season. We just have to keep in mind what is our main goal in the off-season, of course, add muscle, limit body fat. Then we also have to ask questions of what's going to limit us or the main big-ticket items that we need to be in place to grow. And that's going to be able to sustain a calorie surplus, right? So, we're going to need to be able to eat the amount of food we need and have proper digestion, no loss of appetite. We also need to have sleep to maximize recovery, and that's going to manage our ability to have higher stimulus and trening volume. And then also be able to tren, right? Not incur injuries and also have good work capacity and stamina to uphold this volume as we get stronger and we're not need a ventilator between our leg day sets. So, with that in mind, certain compounds in the off-season, we run into common issues around these. And one well-known is going to be Tremblone. Tremblone is well-known for causing problems with digestion. A lot of guys get reflux with using tren. And then also sleep issues are a big problem. And so, it's quickly to rise into these issues. But I guess the thinGHere is like, hey, it's well-tolerated, a low dose. I don't get any side effects from it. And somebody brought in like, hey, the tail end of a push. And so, you say like, hey, maybe this is more of a total dosing question than, you know, the tail end of the push. But also consider, you know, what are you trying to do long-term here? And it's stringed together these off-season periods. And if you're running up to the end of a push phase, you don't want to have to make up ground in your cruise phase for just taking like an extra four or five weeks just to, you know, deteriorate your health. It's the same concept goes with, he asked about Anadrol as well or adding an oral in, you know, the last few weeks. That's like, well, man, I have only four weeks of this push left. Might as well throw the gas can into the fire, right, and get some extra gains. And that's just, it's, again, getting a little short-sighted because you're going to have to pay back that organ stress debt into your cruise phase. And that's going to have just more of a pendulum swing to the other side of the equation, making it harder to sustain and maintain that progress that you created. And then that also might extend that cruise phase to make up for the organ stress that you incurred. And then that's now further pushing out your next push phase. So that's part of the problems around using Trimbalone. Trimbalone's actions really shine, creating like an anti-catabolic action. That's why it's really good in prep. But again, from a muscle accrual point of view, I don't see it being to a greater degree in the off-season than other compounds. I think you have to just remove some of the subjective areas where you feel like you're making more progress on tren because it can make you feel a little crazy in the head. And maybe make you tren like a maniac. Or you might leverage a bit more strength gain out of it, which strength doesn't necessarily mean that's trenslating to actual muscle gain. And so those are a few points. But Luke, I can let you take over and hit anything else you went to or about the fat loss aspect around using Trim in that type of phase for low dosages. Yeah, I think Trim obviously shines in contest prep for a variety of different reasons. You kind of cited the anti-catabolic ones, but you kind of beat me to one of the points with Trimbalone in the off-season that it's most of the time just a milligram need conversation, not a need to plug in Trimbalone. I've found that it's probably just more of a time that in this next push phase that you go through, I'd rather not use the Trimbalone on the back end of the push phase. Get someone rinsed back down to where I want them to be for the next push. Health metrics are going to come back down fast and then be able to progress the stack design to a higher total milligrams in the next push for the vision of being as efficient as possible across the entirety of the athlete's process between the last time they competed and whatever time you needed to improve before you competed again. And I think it's just, and I wanted to pull that out because I feel like all of these last minute additions are just people not realizing that it is time to progress the stack design in order for them to make the progress they need to make at the rate they're supposed to make it. So all of these D-ball and a draw additions at the back end of push phases, trying to pull in Trimbalone at the back end of push phases, it's all from the scope of a coaching process of like objectively looking at the athlete. I think these decisions are athletes emotionally involved in their process, not seeing a tree for a tree, like for what it actually is, right? It's wanting the shortcut to make the most progress in this push phase when in reality, if we zoomed out, it's more that the athlete process needs to progress to a higher level. And I think that's where the objectivity of a coach can be huge because we aren't going to make decisions that are potentially short-term beneficial, long-term detrimental. And that's kind of where I would place this category of Trimbalone usage in an off-season for the majority of people in regards to that. Well, well said, Luke. And that wraps us up, guys, on our time for PEDQ&A. Hope you all had some great takeaways. You can leave your questions down below if you're on YouTube watching. But we still have a bunch of questions that we had, so we might have to do a follow-up episode and hit some of the other questions that have been coming up. But thank you all for tuning in, and we will talk to you next time.

=== FILE: PEDs, Growth Hormone, and Smarter Cycle Design (ft. Dr. Todd Lee) ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 191 [qAjG1ODjUGw].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. All right. Today, we have a special guest, Dr. Todd Lee, which normally it's just Luke and I, but we're so intrigued in such a PED and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone mood mood mood that we wanted to bring someone on that's starting to just really lead the front on PED information, which, uh, IFPB Pro, Dr. Todd Lee is a 212 competitor, a medical doctor, and, uh, also at Anabolic University where he's, uh, leading a lot of great information on PEDs and, uh, is, uh, is been a member around J3 University for a long time too. So Dr. Todd Lee, welcome to our podcast. Great to have you on. Thanks, John. I want to, thanks for having me on as well, Luke. I wanted to say that, um, I think the biggest change for my approach came from J3 University that, uh, I would say that, and I often do this on my stories that J3 University is the best education you can get about your body, especially for coaches or competitors. And that I learned more with J3 University than I did in 15 years of higher education. It's, it's funny cause I, I, I, it's makes you take a step back. I've heard that feel like, man, I did my masters in exercise, whatever, and learn more at J3. And learn more at J3. It's like, you probably learn more about what you specifically want to know about. Yeah. But yeah, yeah, no, thank you. I'm glad that we have that influence and it's led people to just disseminate the information and make their clients better and make themselves better. And that's always the goal. And you're now spreading that message as well, which honored to have you on, on board doing so. And thank you. Thank you. You, uh, you definitely go on deep dive into PDs, which I've seen you like start popping up more and more in my YouTube feed or Instagram. And, uh, just highly going into that area, going to the, the chem chemical aspect around PDs and kind of create, you know, coming to your own conclusions about some other areas too. So yeah, we had a lot of questions pouring around people, what people wanted to know from you, but I thought it would be just a, probably a good start with just laying. And this should kind of cover a lot around anabolic steroids and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone because it was far reaching what people want to talk about. But I think starting around maybe the, the core framework of, you know, cycle design with what, what is this base kind of look like? And then how do we, how are we building into these other compound selections? Cause that was what a lot of people want to know is what do you do? So maybe take, take it off there, Todd, of like where, where you're at with like kind of a, a base framework. We have intermediate guy coming in, you're assessing and trying to see, is he meeting this framework of what you would do with him? It's very similar to what I learned through J3 university. I just almost standardized it because I found that people accused me of not using nuance. They accused me of not using nuance in a 60 second reel. Well, I don't have time to do nuance in a 60 second reel. The nuance comes from the personal consultation or the phone call with clients and stuff where I tailor it specifically to that person. But basically if you got 30,000 people watching a video, like you gotta be able to have some basic standard framework that people can use as a vanilla. And then they can add mix ins later. Right? So the vanilla approach is start with an HRT base, which I found if you use 20 milligrams of testis epionate and two, I use a GH every day. I often see patients having 1500 milligrams of nanograms per deciliter testosterone. They have under 100 DHT and they usually have around 40 estradiol. And that 40 estradiol with the two units of GH generally gets people above a 300 IGF one. And that to me is good enough for HRT. So basically you can shoot from the hip, go 20 and two and 90% of dudes. They don't ever have to fuck with it. After that, they can just use whatever they want or nothing. And that is their HRT base that you've graduated from kindergarten and you can choose to go to first grade or you can stay in kindergarten like Billy Madison. And so then from there, if we had Masteron available, Masteron E, I only like long acting drugs and there's a number of reasons for that. If we had Masteron E available, I would say Masteron is the next step. And that you could titrate up Masteron until you're growing muscle. How do you know if you're growing muscle? Your log books progress. If your log books not progressing, then you have to reevaluate. Do I need more sleep? Am I eating enough food? Is the trening good enough? And that's where you would look at something J3 university and watch the hypertrophy module or the trening videos or, you know, you would. I've got a sleep hygiene video on my YouTube channel. And if your sleep's perfect, your food's perfect, your trening's perfect. That's a big if. But if it is, then you're still not growing. You can use a little bit more Masteron. Even 20 milligrams a day is enough to push you over that limit because that's 140 a week. That's a pretty good amount. And that could probably help you grow. Because there's the shortage of Masteron, I had to do some creative stuff. So what I did is I did an experiment with DHB. Is DHB a good alternative to Masteron? Because I know Primo is different than Masteron. Primo is an aromatase inhibitor. As you add in Primo, your estrogen goes down. So which means your test has to go up. Which means your DHT is going to go up. Which then means you might start losing your hair, getting oily skin, getting prostate issues, etc. Whereas Masteron seems to be a competitive inhibitor or an allosteric inhibitor at estrogen receptor alpha, not beta. So it seems Masteron prevents the downsides of estrogen in men without preventing you from getting the IGF-1 conversion from the GH. So therefore, that's why I like Masteron more than Primo for that purpose. So DHB, I discovered, is not an AI. So DHB is neutral. It doesn't affect your estrogen. DHB is just like Masteron, except it seems to be a lot stronger. And in me, it caused some liver damage. So that's where it gets a little bit more nuanced. And so that's why it gets a little morecomplicated. So it was safer when we had Masteron-E available. Now that Masteron-E is not really available, now we get morecomplicated with using DHB or other drugs as the next step when you introduce mild anabolics to drive the equation. Okay. We went from zero to 100 pretty quick and there you covered a lot. No, that's good. Because it gives a lot of good overview of how the framework would escalate up from there. You have a testosterone base, which as we know, we want some physiological amount of estradiol as it has its neuroprotective, renal protective, cardioprotective, penal protective, you know, does a lot of aspects for growth hormone hormone hormone as well, right? And so then titrating in more non-aromatizing compounds per needs in the most benign way possible. But going back, like you have this HRT base, testosterone, and where I have people come in that, and I'd like to hear from you because you probably see the extremes of the equation because 140 milligram of test is a good general starting point. But some guys have a hard time even tolerating that. Right. That's an extreme. Then we also have guys that need more and have a greater metabolism of it or maybe it's just gene changes that cause that as well. So with those individuals, how do you manage them if you have the guy that is more prone to aromatization and still is TRT based? Do you have lower tests? Do you use AI? Do you bring in a mastron or another compound? And then flip it too. Rather than adding a mastron, do you just go higher on someone that would have a low aromatization with testosterone? So I'm going to start with the second one first because it's simpler. Yeah. So in someone like me, I have to use 70 to 80 tests a day to get the same amount of estrogen a normal guy does with 20. It could be because I'm lean. It could be because I have a certain amount of muscle mass. My theory, and I don't know if this has been proven, is the more muscle you have, the more receptors you're going to have for androgen receptors in the muscle because you have more muscle. So it means you can get away with more gear before it starts spilling over into other body parts like hair, skin, prostate, breast tissue. And so for me, I have to use 70 or 80 to get to my offseason ideal amount of estradiol, which if I was to push the IGF-1 conversion to the limit, that's so much estrogen for me that I would start having fat accumulations in certain locations that won't come off during contest prep in a timely fashion. That it'll distort my look on stage because it'll stretch up my skin around my nipples or my butt. So I pretty much have to stay around 50 is a good amount of estrogen for me offseason, not because it's the best estrogen conversion. I can get away with 80 to 100 without having any issues and having the best estrogen conversion from GH to IGF-1, but for the best stage look, I don't want to get a lot of feminine fat deposits. Now, with someone else, I have one guy in particular I'm thinking of, I won't say his name. He has very little muscle and had a lot of baby fat. And so even 20 milligrams of test put them up to 120 estradiol. So in him, I could lower his test and then add in something like DHB or Masteron. Or you could leave his testolone and add in something like Primo or EQ. I prefer EQ over Primo because you get more bang for your buck. With a lot of people, when they're paying for the blood work, they're paying for the GH, they're paying for their tests, they're paying for coaching, you know, then you can geT3 grams of EQ for the price. Or you get six grams of EQ for the price of one gram of Primo. When you like a whole bottle of Primo, you get two bottles of EQ at 300 milligrams per milliliter or one bottle of Primo at 100 milligrams per milliliter. So at that point, and you can get away with less, like 15 milligrams of EQ per day can cut your estrogen down from like 60 all the way to like 20 or 30. Whereas you might need to use 30 or 40 or 20 or 30 Primo to get the same results. So it's six times, it's six times the price and it's half as strong as an AI to use Primo, which means it's really 12 times the price if you're using Primo as an AI over using EQ. And then some people would say, well, the logic would be then why don't you just use arimidex? And it's like, because you can't really control it, you're taking a half a pill every other day, the blood valves are like this, you'd have to use liquid arimidex and then use an oral syringe to measure it. And then you could titrate it. But a lot of these people aren't great at math. So that's even more work for them. So I found that EQ has that anabolic component to it, whereas arimidex doesn't. But Primo is so expensive. And sometimes apparently it's fake. I've never really had to deal with fake gear, but some people say it's fake. So I've always leaned towards EQ and on somebody who is a high estrogen converter versus someone who's a low estrogen converter. You can just drive up the test, assuming that their DHT doesn't get so high that it's going to make their hair fall out. Well, that's another conversation too, right? Because we have these choices of compounds that to control estradiol, but they're also going to control DHT to agree. And we could definitely make a point that the least hair friendly compound is testosterone as it converts to DHT. And the DHT derivatives of themselves are more hair friendly than testosterone would be. Now, I think in this comparison that you made, like I want to use test and AI and control estradiol versus I want to use test and EQ to control or Primo. I want to use Primo. I think that would be a better one. Okay. And so, you know, one has some competitive, you know, inhibition with aromatase with Primo. And also you very well can make a case that it has competitive inhibition with 5-alpha reductase. And in turn would have a lower serum DHT versus just using test AI and driving more tests down the DHT pathway. I know you've spoken on this before, so maybe you'd want to elaborate a little bit around that. And because it gets in a bit more, I think people oversimplify some of this sometimes. Well, all right. So if we inhibit aromatase, then what's going to happen in the test? Well, there's still the 5-alpha reductase available. So it's going to upregulate the 5-alpha reductase activity to some degree. So the best way to look at it is, think of a freeway. And the freeway is pretty busy. And there's a hundred cars per hour that get off at the mile marker 23 and a hundred cars per hour get off at mile marker 24. Well, if you close mile marker 23, you're going to have 200 cars getting off per hour at mile marker 24. So I feel like if you're using an aromatase inhibitor, you're going to have more DHT conversion. Now I haven't heard about Primo being a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor before. Is it a subtype 1, 2, or 3 inhibitor? I couldn't say that. That was going to be a theoretical. So we'd have to look at some like actual. Yeah. I've never seen literature to say that, but I, that's coming from the idea of seeing people using like a 5-alpha reductase blocker, like a finasteride and seeing estradiol raise up and shift more that pathway. Right. And then you get into very genetic, unique individuals. So we're like, how much 5-alpha reductase do they have? And what is the saturation point? Right. And then also arguing, is it, do you have more of 5-alpha 1 or 5-alpha 2? And what effect that might be. And so I love for you to expand in those areas too, because people are going to want to know about their hair and test and Masteron or Primo or whatever they're using. Then they're like, all good, Todd. I'm just going to use the AI, but I'm going to use finasteride. And there's issues around these too. And also tying into your estradiol and GH. So, no, that's a lot, but you're kind of, you're going there. So let's, let's, let's start there about starting with DHT and how these other compounds might have some influence and what effects might be happening where the guys around some side effects they might not want. So the, the biggest problem I run into for the last, like, I want to say like 12 years is people misunderstanding finasteride. So I'm going to back it up. ProScar was developed as a prostate cancer medication. It is a 5-alpha reductase type 2 inhibitor. They found that a bit, that it also results in people not losing their hair. Now they started manufacturing it at one milligram for, and calling it finasteride. And I'm calling it a Propecia. And this does kind of work, but it'd be like blowing off someone's arm to trim their fingernails. That what you're doing is you're nuking all of the five, the DHT in the body at, because the 5-alpha sub reductase type 2 enzyme is located at the prostate, not at the hair. So what you're doing is you're wiping out the conversion, 70 to 80% of the body's conversion of testosterone to DHT. So you're going to bring down a DHT level, let's say from 80 down to let's say 16, right? That means there's going to be less passive diffusion of DHT into the hair follicle, less binding to the androgen receptor, and less miniaturization of the hair follicles. But that is what we really want to do. That the testosterone goes into the hair follicle and gets converted by 5-alpha reductase type 1 at the hair follicle. And that's where most of the actual hair loss is occurring. So the correct way to prevent hair loss would be to knock out 5-alpha reductase type 1. And that way, we're only preventing the hair loss. We're not stopping the other effects of DHT, which is balancing and feminizing effects by the DHV binding to the breast tissue. The DHT also binds to the penis and provides sensitivity. DHT also has some type of neuromuscular activity that I'm not sure on the exact binding site is, but it basically makes you stronger. And so that's why we don't want to just nuke all the DHT in your body. We want to take, we want to protect your hair. So that's why my protocol for hair is using a dermaroller, using topical dutesteride, which is not funesteride, dutesteride, and RU58841. Because the dutesteride stops the testosterone from getting DHT. The RU binds to the androdeceptor of the hair and stops anything from binding to it, whether it's Masteron, Tren, whatever. And you've got the dermaroller, which is irrigating it. You can also use minoxidil. You can also use isotretinoin. You can also use ketoconazole shampoo. But if you have a budget, then I would say number one is RU. And if you're running a lot of tests, that HRT test, you definitely want to use topical dutesteride, which is way more expensive than RU. So a lot of the times people hear a piece of the model and they don't see the whole model. And so it doesn't make as much sense. But when they know the whole model, they realize that there's other factors. It's kind of four dimensional. So the last thing I want to say is saturation point. I found in me, I never get over a 175 DHT. It doesn't matter if I'm using 350 tests a day, 100 tests a day, 150 tests a day, 200 tests a day. Once I get over about 100 tests a day, it doesn't matter. My body will not make more DHT. So if I'm going to run 100 a day, IMight as well run as more because I'm already at that saturation point for DHT. It's not the same thing for the estrogen. With estrogen, I'd have to control it with EQ or Primo. But there is a such thing as a saturation point for these enzymes. I think in your general population, anything over 600 milligrams of testosterone a week is not going to be more DHT or estrogen conversion. I think most people's saturation point is around that. That's why you hear a lot of people leaning on the 1000 test base or the 1200 test base or the 1500 test base. It's because if you're going to cross the 600 threshold, then test might as well be your primary anabolic agent because it's the cheapest. Yeah, I've noticed that even anecdotally for myself too. Like once I got above a gram of testosterone, whether I went to 1500 or more, like estradiol didn't change. The only thing that changed it was if I was swapping out another compound that would lower estradiol in turn. And I'm one that's not sensitive to estradiol. DHT is probably maxed out, but hey, I lost my hair like in my 20s. So I'm not concerned around that point. But yeah, I think those are some good points to make. And I think especially you see a lot of people said just throw in the finasteride and then systemically lower DHT. And would you say that at some point your total androgen load can serve all the functions that DHT would have around having an HRT base? You know, like, you know what IMean by that? Yeah, like, okay. Let's talk about the binding affinity of the androgen receptor. All right. So I would think that the DHT derivatives, the reason why they're not going to be as strong as DHT is I don't think they bind as strongly to the androgen receptor as DHT does. There's steric hindrance by the two prime methyl addition or the two prime addition. Basically on the A-ring, the molecular structure of the testosterone molecule, the primary binding site is a three prime carbon where there's a ketone group. And if there isn't a double bonded position for inside the cell, three alpha HSD D dissolves that molecule. That's why DHT isn't anabolic is because it gets chewed up by three alpha HSD. Putting a methyl group on position two, like with masteron or replacing them of the carbon position two with an oxygen like with an of our, this creates enough steric hindrance that it doesn't get chewed up by three alpha HSD. The downside of that is it doesn't bind as strongly to the androgen receptor as DHT does. So it's not going to be as androgenic. Now there's some molecules like Tren that have the triple conjugated double bond that provides so much stability and it's so resistant that even if it doesn't quite bind as strong or it might bind as strong, it never gets broken down. So the same Tren molecule can bind to the androgen receptor, go to the genome, initiate trenscription trenslation, bump off of the androgen receptor, and then bind to a different androgen receptor and go through it again. So you get multiple uses out of Tren because it just doesn't get broken down. So the only drugs that I think are going to be as strong as binding to the androgen receptor as actual DHT would be like Tren, maybe DHB, maybe MENT, you know, things that are just going to keep binding those receptors. Now there's genomic, which we just talked about non-genomic is stuff like in the hair follicle that we don't want. Very few things have more non-genomic function than genomic except for stuff like halo testin has a terrible ratio of androgenic to anabolic. It's like nine to one. It's where we want something like a one to a six where it's way more anabolic than it is androgenic like anivar, like the perfect drug almost. Then halo is like the polar opposite, whereas on paper is the worst drug. It's just going to do a ton of androgenic damage. It's not going to grow any tissue. Now, do the metabolites actually have a different effect? Maybe they didn't really study it. It's one of those drugs where it never really went to market, so they didn't really study it that much. But I get back to your point that if you just saturate a reaction with substrate, you're eventually going to get product. So if you put enough androgens in someone's bloodstream, even if they have a lower binding affinity for the androgen receptor, there's so many molecules. One of them is going to bind. One of them is going to cause the signal to be trensduced, whether it's non-genomic or not. So whereas people misunderstand me when I say stuff like Mastron isn't going to make you lose your hair. What IMean is Mastron isn't more likely to make you lose your hair than something else and less likely the testosterone. But if you're taking a thousand milligrams of Mastron, then yes, that's going to be about as much as if you had a 200 DHT or a 300 DHT in your bloodstream. Again, I also always advocate everybody should be using RU58841, which people don't hear that part because they're only watching the reels. They're not watching the YouTube videos, so they don't get the whole picture. So that's why they get so feisty in the comments section about this Mastron and hair loss thing. Because I guarantee you all those guys that lost their hair with using Mastron, they were not using RU before they started the Mastron. Yeah, they're usually I've done the hooks too, right? I want to catch someone's attention. Mastron won't make you lose your hair. You're like, what? And they just comment right away. Like, no, my hair fell off. Like they didn't even listen to this a reel or watching long form. Right. So you're very easily and this short form content, it's frustrating. So yes. Yeah. Luke, did you want to interject with it? Yeah, I think it's an interesting dynamic because people, people forget that androgens in and of itself is going to be a primary input for this, just like elevation and total milligram load. And like, there's ways to manage it. Like Todd mentioned with the RU and derma roller and everything along those lines. I think one of the primary clarifications that I think we should start to progress into is because I know, Todd, you spent a lot of time on the base, but we've got to progress into like competitive bodybuilding and like how we look into progressing this from a total androgen load perspective for the competitive bodybuilder. And then kind of starting to dive into that because the management of that does get a little bit. It's not hard. It's just, you need to understand what you're doing and the classifications of like how the the trening stimulus is going to be. And then kind of starting to kind of build that out because we are going to see. And then we're going to have to bring in secondary compounds in order to get total milligram progressive enough in order to see new limits from a total Tissue perspective. And then kind of starting to dive into that because the management of that does get a little bit. It's not hard. It's just need to understand what you're doing and the classifications of like how these interact with each other and these drugs and starting to kind of build that out because we are going to see. So many like you mentioned. It equals one cases where starting to kind of map out like the progressions of all the pathways that we're going to be using for this would be smart. All right. So I have a very unique take on this as well. I think that I have a controversial take that 10 milligrams of Treninathate is a very reasonable thing to use even in the offseason. And the reason why is because we're pretty much above the threshold for the anti glucocorticoid effect because 10 milligrams of Treninathate is about six milligrams of actual. Treninathate is about five to cut off for the Nandrolone class to get some anti glucocorticoid effect. But 10 is the upper limit for neurological damage or the minimum for neurological damage. So if we're able to ride in between five and 10 actual milligrams of Treninathate per day, in theory, we're in a safe zone. We're still in the green. We're not going to get brain damage, but we are going to prevent. We're going to take our foot off the brake while our foot's on the gas. Right. We're going to. Yeah. And then I interject around that. Are you pulling that dosing effect from the rodent model Trenin studies seeing, you know, beta amyloid deposition, neurological changes, or is that from another data set? Those, those numbers. Got it from J3 university originally. And then I went through it. Yeah. So I wrote it. And then I went through and I looked into it some more, you know, the beta amyloid deposition can be cleared up. Right. And that million. Yeah. Yeah. So we got some sleep going. We'll clear out those beta amyloids. But I was thinking of mostly the anti-glucocorticoid effect, but estrogen can also compensate for the lack of the glucocorticoid effect too, in that regard. So if your estrogen is high enough, it's okay to have more anti-glucocorticoid. But the point is, is with 10 milligrams a day of Tren, nobody's going to kick their dog. No one's going to tell their boss to go F himself. And they're going to get, take their foot off the brakes and they're going to get some of the theoretical IGF-1 conversion benefits through, I think the PK-1-3 pathway. There's some non-genomic pathway that I don't have memorized that Tren is supposed to work on. And I think that's an interesting thing to add in that can leverage some other non-genomic growth hormone hormone hormone. I think that you can tolerate DHB. DHB might be a good thing to use. If you can find Mastron and Athate, Mastron's a good thing to use. And you might find that you don't need the typical 1000 test 800 EQ. That's the happy meal that is the bodybuildinGHappy meal. You could probably get away with using enough test to get your astrodial where you want it for your GH to IGF-1 conversion. Leverage that GH up until the point where it's not giving you any more IGF-1. Introduce a baby dose of Tren of 10 milligrams a day. If it's an Athate, not acetate. And then you can leverage DHB or Mastron for additional growth hormone hormone hormone. If DHB is too harsh, you have to roll it back. I don't ever, I've never seen someone run into a brick wall with Mastron where it screws up their blood work so bad that they have to reduce the dose. It seems that there's a point where more doesn't do anything in theory, but I think that by that point, if you're not growing, it's not because of the drugs. It's because of the trening, the sleep, and the food. I think you made your biggest growth hormone hormone hormone progress. I think when you, IMean, can I talk about this? Okay. Your biggest growth hormone hormone hormone progress, I believe, was two years ago when you did 1000 tests, 2000 Mast. And then halfway through the cycle, there's all this peer pressure about test and Primo. So you went up to 1400 tests, 700 Primo when you filled in the rest with mass, but the total milligrams was the same. And I think you said you didn't grow any better with the test and the Primo versus the test and the mass, but your skin wasn't as dry. Yeah, that was basically the. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. The end outcome of that in to further on with that, having done more iterations of this, correlating my estradiol and serum IGF-1 as well. Bring in the Primo lowered serum estradiol over what I've seen in my serum IGF-1 in turn. So this last offseason, a bigger, so I wouldn't grow quite as much. However, my estradiol and IGF-1 were lower too. So now to go forward in the next cycle would be, well, let me bring tests back up less Primo and see the effect from there. Yeah. Anyway, not about me, but to this cycle design proposed here. Why does Todd, why does he only use Masteron? You're the Masteron guy. And I know like, you're like, damn it. That's not me. It's just like, it's a really good tool in the box as the first option because it doesn't influence estradiol much. So, right. So it's a clener, simpler way to start a cycle design, right? You have a test and estradiol set with your testosterone dosage. You bring in Masteron to fill in milligram total That you need without influence to estradiol. Cause that's when it gets messy, right? Todd is I'm going to bring in Primo or Boldenone. Well, then your EQ, your, your estradiol smashed down. And so now you have to adjust testosterone back up or lower your EQ and then bring in Mastron. And it's like, how do you manage that? So maybe you should touch on this because that's a point of contention that you get a lot. So I think analogies works the best to teach people things because it's abstraction. So everyone knows that you eat a fixed amount of protein. Basically, if you're 200 pounds, you eat about 300 grams of protein. And everyone knows you eat enough fat to digest your food, somewhere between five and 15 grams of fat per meal. Right. You don't need more than that. And maybe, maybe you do, maybe don't, but this is like a general rule that people get is like, you have about 300 grams of protein a day. You have maybe five, 10, 15 grams of fat per meal. And that doesn't change. What changes is your carbs. Right? So think of your GH like your protein. It's great up to a point. More doesn't hurt you, but it doesn't do anything anyway. And then think of your test like your fat. It's a necessary evil. You use enough of it to get you to digest the protein. Because the test is where the estradiol comes in. Test is a pro. If you think of test as only a pro hormone to estradiol, then you need the test to convert to estradiol to get anything out of the GH. Just like you need to add fat to every meal so you can actually digest the protein. Because if you don't have any fat, the pylorus doesn't close. There's not enough time in the stomach for the protein. Not enough acid gets to the protein to denitrate. So then when it gets into duodenum, the different enzymes don't cleave it and it doesn't get absorbed through the genome. Right? They'd be like, what the fuck did he just say? Just play it back. It'll make sense. And then when what you do is you titrate up on the carbs to increase your caloric load. And then when you're dieting, you decrease on the carbs. Kind of like Mastron. Mastron is like white rice. You can just add it. It doesn't have anything special. It's not like potatoes. It doesn't come with potassium. Mastron is just anabolic. It doesn't do shit other than that. And it just, you add it in to drive the equation. You add in white rice, you add in sets, and you add in Mastron. Those are your three tools to keep turning up the knobs to make the signal louder so that your body starts growing. And at some point, you blew your eardrums out. You got to back everything off. You turn the volume down. You turn the mass down. You turn the carbs down. And you do it, you know, a mini cut. Almost like a, I don't, I call it like a bulk break. Rather than, you know, you got diet breaks. Well, I, rather than doing a mini cut, sometimes all you need is a bulk break. And then it'll just let your body de-inflame from forcing food, forcing trening, forcing gear. Okay. I hope you'll follow along with that analogy or some analogy that helps them understand this, this breakdown. Right. I think where people might want to go from there with, all right, Mastron's a good, a decent choice to start as you're not having to adjust your estradiol component. But there are like pros and cons to each of these choices and cons with, with Mastron. Right now in the moment is, can you get it? And the shortage. Then another con that people don't consider is like, can you tolerate injections? This is kind of more of a con with Primo Bolin. But I see like, Hey, what do you want to choose? I'm not a Mastron guy. I'm just the pro and con list. And what do we end up for that person? So maybe we, we have this, just kind of a breakdown of your choices, Todd, from Mast, Primo, Boldenone. You can use DHB. Okay. And actually before, we should probably hit touch on this, the tren aspect in the off. I'm going to say that. Okay. Yeah. Before I just, cause I easily jump ahead. I just threw a lot in there. Yeah. I was going to ask you basically banking on the fact, like with that, as you go through this, that the 10 milligrams is not going to see like histamine elevation related issues because we're going to see like, not only issues from like sleep perspective, we can see breathing, net inflammation, but also like GI permeability, everything along those lines with tren inclusion that I can see be an issue. Um, but just touch on that tren fact on the back end, as you're working through these compounds. And maybe Todd too, like, are you seeing this like more of the advanced guy? Because it's complicating your framework right away. Right. If we have a test base, add in the simplest anabolic, then we roll. So yeah. Right. Go ahead. I would, the context was Luke wanted to say, what are we doing for actual competitive pro bodybuilders or people who want to be pros. And then I would be like, okay, well, if they're already a hundred pounds of muscle, I think they can absorb six milligrams of tren a day without it doing a whole bunch of damage. Um, it's better. I would rather see them using tren than nandrolone or NPP because it's less progesterone downsides, less prone for the guy. No. And as far as the histamine, I learned from J three university that a Dio inhibitor would probably knock that shit out or similar ad in or surdazine. So chances are people are going to be running either second generation antihistamines or even first generation antihistamines before bed, like Benadryl to help them sleep, especially if their sleep disturbance is coming from tren. And the antihistamine is the logical choice along with, uh, magnesium bisglycinate and melatonin before bed. And you can, you know, people are like, well, you're not supposed to use that much of this stuff. It's like, you're not supposed to use any of this shit. Like, so we gotta just, if you're gonna be using certain drugs that need rescue drugs, they use the right rescue drugs. Right? So, and I'd rather see someone if they're sophisticated enough to do a bodybuilding show, then they're sophisticated enough to use low dose of four different drugs to not get the side effects of any of them. We get all the benefits. So the downside to mast cholesterol hit that Anvar is even better than mast, but it's a bigger HDL hit. All right. But I see an upper limit on mastron. Like whether you're using A-50 a day, a hundred a day, a 200 day, 300 a day, it's the same cholesterol. Anavar, the more Anavar you use, the lower that HDL goes until it's single digits. So 25 milligrams of Anavar pre-trening would be a good thing in the offseason. I think, cause it's not too much, but you get the benefits of getting that pre-workout oral effect. So that for the context of a bodybuilder, right? So 25 milligrams of Anavar pre-trening, the 10 milligrams of atreninathate. The downside of the DHB is your liver may not be able to handle it. The downside of Nandrolone is there's a myriad of downsides, but the upside of Nandrolone is it's hair safe. So that's something I only see people come into problems, especially if they're not someone who's like 200 pounds of solid muscle. If they're not 200 pounds of solid muscle, any Nandrolone is more than an Nandrolone their body's going to be able to handle. They're going to get gyno. If I have an HRT guy and his HRT clinic gave him a hundred milligrams of test twice a week with a half of an arimidex and they put them on a hundred Nandrolone, dude's got gyno before I ever met him. You know, it's guaranteed. So as far as the Primo, I simply don't bother with Primo because of the price relative to the EQ. If I'm only going to use Primo as an AI and I can get EQ for basically 12th, 1 12th the cost, then why would anyone use the Primo rather than the EQ? And I could see someone say, well, I can use Primo as a primary anabolic, but then you've got to drive up the test so high that you're doing shot volume of Primo and of enormous amount of Primo shot volume and Primo is extremely painful shots. So no matter how you slice it, Primo never does stack up against EQ. The problem of course is EQ has limited human data, whereas Primo is an actual pharmaceutical drug made for humans. But if you'recomparing underground Primo to underground EQ, then it doesn't really matter because they didn't do these studies on underground gear. So the whole shield, the security people have from usinGhuman grade drugs, well, it's only human grade if it's pharma. So it's otherwise it's all underground. So it's all the same. Yeah. No, I think that is a great point because even in J3 right now, you can go look, we have our boldenone pros and cons. So it's a way out of using boldenone pro and con the studies around renal toxicity. They're all in surrogates models of rodents, rabbits, and a lot of them don't have, or they're sort of human study well, but they're also like retrospective studies on total gear use, or they don't have controls. And so it's really hard to pull away. Is it, it very well could just be, Hey, you took a certain amount of antibiotics steroids and either way messed up kidneys. Um, so I think other issues we see with boldenone that people might shy away is, uh, anxiety or some people want it because of hunger. And I would say both of these issues come from the mismanagement of estradiol. And cause if people aren't aware, like estradiol has a role in, uh, appetite suppression through hypothalamic regulation. And when ET drops too low, the brain sees less saddenity signal and hunger increases. So what do you have with boldenone is man, people slash the rest of dial pretty hard. And you might see a rise in hunger just from that. It's extra with estrell. It's like a U-shaped curve as well. That's how it gets too high. There could also be some dysregulation appetite too. So, so a hunger signaling could be a sign that estradiol is not in the sweet spot. If you're using boldenone, you know, it's like this, oh, my appetite tire. You might actually have estradiol too low and couple that with like my joints feel terrible. Um, or you have like high anxiety and, uh, that very well could be around the estradiol component too. So I think the problem with EQ is not looking at lab work and being able to adjust your, your dosage and utilize it. And that's also probably where you could have more risk for neurocognitive issues, renal issues, and cardio protective issues from low estradiol. Would you agree around those statements? Todd? Absolutely. I think that I'll even take it one step further. This is my pathophysiology model for why people think it hurts your kidneys. All right. So it drives down estrogen, which no one really seemed to know until a couple of years ago. So no one really approached this. They used EQ at 800 milligrams a week. They didn't even test your estrogen. Um, and so if you have a low estrogen, you're going to have dehydration because nobody was salting their water, right? And they were just drinking free water and pissing it right out because the estrogen works through aldosterone directly and indirectly to withhold sodium in the body. So if you're not replacing the sodium, you're losing from a low estrogen, you're going to pee it all out. And then you're going to have dehydration, which is going to put stress on the kidneys. The stress on the kidneys is going to cause EPO to be released. EPO is going to drive up red blood cell production. The decrease in the fluid volume and the increase of the red blood cell is going to drive up your hematocrit. Then they go to their doctor and the doctor says, you have to give blood and they get blood and they lose a bunch of blood. And so now their body makes more EPO to produce more red blood cells when really they just needed to be hydrated the whole time. All of this eventually results in glomerulonephritis because you've got increased blood pressure from a sympathetic tone from dehydration and thicker blood, which is then going to blow out the galmerioli. And so you're going to have damaged kidneys, which is going to exacerbate the high blood pressure and it's going to exacerbate the EPO. And so you've got this downward spiral effect. Whereas if they were simply high, they only used it as an AI, not as a primary anabolic. None of this would have happened. And again, this is why using a baby dose of four or five drugs can give you way better results than using a tsunami of one or two drugs. And you're going to have almost none of the side effects. Got you. So I guess this arrives at our current situation for some that pre-bone masteron just the access in there or they have access, but maybe don't quite trust their access. And so we're left with like, Hey, I have access to testosterone, boldenone. I guess they would have DHB, Nangelone, Trimbalone. Like you said, Nangelone is a real mess to manage. It's usually almost off the table for most of the guys. I can't even, I try to justify it. Then I'm like, I can't even justify it because it's now unjustifiable causing more problems to manage. So we're kind of left with just those few drugs. Trimbalone for many could be tougher to manage long-term. There could be a question mark of even, Hey, does a low dose accumulation over, we're going to do repetitive 20 week offseason phases. Is that worse or not as worse as doing maybe double the amount of whatever other compound. So I guess before we rabbit hole down any one of those past, Todd, back to my, my question of this, this individual that has tests, boldenone, DHB, Trimbalone, Nangelone available. Like since there's no mass primo, how do you build out the framework for someone from there? So in this case, we would use what Dave Palumbo did back in the day, which is we're going to rely on test and EQ, probably a five to four ratio. And we're going to have a little bit of tren in there to give it an edge and 25 milligrams of anivar pre lift. And once we hit that upper limit on tests where we can't handle any more tests, we probably can use DHB. But if you can't handle DHB, then we're going to have to use more tests in EQ. And we're just going to have to protect your hair through brute force approach. Like are you do test a ride, derma roller, minoxidil and save up for a trensplant? Yeah. Because IMean, I know there's the guys because I'm one of them that I can handle a lot of tests and a little bit of a compound that like prevents aromatization could crash my S-dowel. So it's like the guy that needs three grams, is he doing 2500 mgs of test and 500 mgs of EQ? And that's kind of the rarity out there. Right. But how do you build out someone on the pro that needs two and a half grams or something? Right. Well, okay. So let's say I was let's say I was your coach. All right. And I know what works for you because I've seen it work. And I would be like, all right, this worked. We're going to go 1000 tests, 2000 mast. And that worked last time. It'll work this time. And if we need to, we can use a little bit of EQ to mitigate some E2. We don't have to worry about DHT. We're good. Right. As long as your blood works good, we're good. And then, but let's say we don't have access to mast. In that case, you know, I was like, we don't have to worry about DHT because your hair is gone. So we'll just use more test and we'll use two grams of test. If your prostate can handle it, who cares? Like if it's, it works, it's cheap and there's no reason not to. And we can control that E2 with EQ. And IMean, once we're dealing with doses that high, it's risk mitigation, not risk elimination. You know, like at that point, I have to think. I once Luke said in an interview, it's like in the end, we're a coach and we're beinGHired to get a result. So it's, you got to weigh safety versus efficacy. And you have to say, you know, you have to have a very strong talk with this person is like, how much are you willing to risk for this show? You know what IMean? Is, is, and if they, it's the Olympia and they have no plan B that they burnt the boats, like they have to take at Technotillin that. So they have to take out Montezuma. There's no other option. Then you're like, we're going to hit it hard and fast. And then we're going to make sure that we're going to clear you after the show and make your blood work look as good as possible before we do it again. And that's why I think these Olympian guys, they only do one show a year because they probably stay off for it or close to off for as long as they can or HRT. They hit it pretty fuckinGHard for like 15 to 20 weeks. And then they hit it even harder for another 20 weeks. And then they cool for a few, like three, four months after that show. And that's the best they can hope for because they're going to try to rack up as much branding as possible in their five year run and the Olympia stage. Then pull out by the time that their blood works to distort, which isn't the way I like to do medicine. It isn't the like how I approach bodybuilding. I like rather let's run you up to the point where you're just above the point of perfect safety. We're at like the green, maybe like lime green, not into the yellow. We're in the lime green and we stay there all the fucking time and we put on muscle slowly. And then when it's time to cut, since you didn't bulk, you just lean mass build it. We can just put you in A-500 calorie deficit, ideally through cardio, and it'll just pull off the fat. And then when it comes time to like four weeks out, now we can get nutty if we have to go for a look and introduce more dangerous shit like windstraw or something to get a look. And then when it comes time to get a look at the cosmetic changes. Yeah, I just I think this is the conversations that are the most productive because it gets to asking the right questions. I think people a lot of times start at the wrong point like they're asking, is this safe to do where they're asking likEQuestions that aren't appropriate for what we're actually trying to accomplish like that. I think I know which interview you pulled that from where I said that and it's like thEQuestions you're asking are, is this appropriate for the goal set that we have? And then that's where you're kind of going through this thought process of like it's equal to one and we can talk like vanilla all day, but this is where we don't have ways of doing stuff. I used to hate like two years ago, two and a half years ago, we used to kind of get pinned with like this is the J3 way of doing PDs. Right. And it was horrible because it's like I've got people in my roster that are doing like the exact opposite of what they were promoting is like the J3 way. Right. Because from a logical like critical thinking perspective, this is what fits the profile of that athlete. Right. And so this is where like listening to stuff like this and like doing your research and taking the coursework of like knowing when you plug something in what all it does, we can actually start to iterate on these processes. And then you look at all these points across the board and it's like, it's like, what is going on? Like I remember the longest time people would tell me you don't use EQ. It's like, no, it fits in certain situations. And it's like I had, I had a guy winning Olympia qualification with it. It's not that it can't be used. Like there's, there's depth to the conversation. And I think when you start to pull this out, this is kind of where the best coachinGHappens because we can work in, in perfect situations and still create a result. Well, IMean, people, they're not getting enough credit and they're not being like, they don't look at it from your point of view. You're making a documented video course that ideally is going to build your brand as educators. So you have to disclose that this drug is a veterinary drug and it's never been tested on humans and that it's not the safest option for you to use this drug. Because I don't want to see you have to cover your ass because you do care about people and you want them to be safe and you want to be honest with the material. But you also have to understand that not everyone is going to be at your level. Some people are going to think they are and they're not. And so you give them a, you give a little kid a knife and tell them to go run around the block with it. At least 10% of those kids are going to have it sticking out of their side by the time they come back to you. So, IMean, therefore they have to look at it like this is a packaged publicized document that you're legally kind of can be held accountable for if someone gets hurt. So you have to be as clear as possible when something isn't medical, it isn't medicine, it's veterinary medicine. And therefore it wouldn't fit in your perfect model to use it because it simply isn't as safe as something that's been tested on humans. That doesn't mean you wouldn't do it on the person if it was the right tool. And that I don't want to say it's not intended for, but the J3 university is for coaches and athletes, in my opinion, that seem to be at the upper level of the amateur circuit. It isn't designed for Olympians, although John is an Olympian and it works on John what he does and he might coach Olympians or you coach Olympians. Luke, the level one is called level one for a reason. It's not called level infinity. Yeah. And since you've gone through, Todd, we've actually brought more of some of the advanced stuff in to kind of back off some of the stamps that we've gotten around your low dose safety guys and I won't get the result. So that's kind of been built more in. So people have that, that understanding now, but you're, but you're in all the things you've stated, you're absolutely right. Uh, people need to understand the decision process that leads them there. And through that of like, Hey, as the goal raises, so does the risk. And in turn, you make more aggressive choices. Like that's, that's really the model. And so how far does that model go? Well, as far as you need it to, to get to within that goal set. Like for me, I want to be like open Olympian. Olympian, that's a lot different framework than being the two 12 Olympian that I needed. And so, you know, we, we showcase that and, uh, they're, they're all tools along the way of what you need to do to, to get there. But again, it's a, it's a decision process that we teach, not protocols. Everyone wants the protocol. Right. Um, and that's why we have to be careful. Cause if I, we say, like you just said, Todd, yeah, trim below an anivar in the offseason, we're going to have the new guy like, yeah, I'm going to turn in anivar all offseason. It's like, no, we don't really want everyone to probably needing to even be doing that. But there's a decision process of when someone might want to explore and do that. And the context was Luke said, okay, enough with the stuff. What about a actual bodybuilder? It's like, this is what I'm going to do. And then everyone's like, I don't want to hear about safety. I want to do what Todd Lee does. But then I want to say, I don't want to be a bodybuilder. I just want to look like one. Oh, cause we work this hard for no reason. We just work hard cause we hate ourselves. We really could do it easily and get the same results. We choose not to, we choose to do it the hardest way possible. No, the reason why pro bodybuilders look that way is because they're doing the hard stuff, not because they're doing it the easy way. And so one could go one step further. And like, if you can't say out of one side of your mouth, all I care about is beinGHealthy. And then on the other side of your mouth is like, when can I use more drugs? You know, it's like, they're contradictory statements. It's like, if you want to be the healthiest possible, then you run HRT, hormone replacement therapy, testosterone is a hormone, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone is a hormone. Anolvar is not a hormone. If you're using Anolvar, you're not on HRT. You're using steroids. It's okay. It's no judgment. It's just at least be honest with yourself about what you are. You are now a steroid user. You're in that box. So you might as well compete because you're already in lumped in with the rest of us. You know, everyone's, we get constant questions in the forum of like, Hey, I'm running one and a half grams of gear, but I want to have a baby. I want to keep my hair and I want to have perfect libido and I don't want acne and great erections. You're like, okay, well, you're going to have some issues in those at some point. If you keep bodybuilding, it's just going to be a trade-off. So everyone wants their cake and frosting and eat it too. And that's just not how it's going to be if you're going to explore beyond the HRT means. But we are, we're at time here, Todd, and we didn't even get into like, there was a whole thing on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. And I wanted to, I wanted to hit with you. Definitely. Like I really liked the conversation around me inching estradiol, estradiol's effects around serum versus localized and liver conversion, GHIGF1. And what is the serum IGF-1 versus localized? So we might have to just do another episode just so we could check in too. Like I don't think enough people consider like E1, E2, E3 crossing, checking for that. If you're getting issues as well, like we could check that into that conversation as well. Right. IMean, my understanding is E1 is 130th as strong of a signal trensducer is E2. So it's almost irrelevant. But IMean, if you're sitting in an ocean of it, it's going to gum up that receptor. It's going to do something. We'll save it for another day. But anyway, I know IMentioned some of your, where to reach you in the beginning of the episode and we'll leave it in the description below too. But anything that I didn't mention that for people that want to learn more from what you're teaching or from coaching, where can they reach and find you? All right. Anything Todd Lee MD. So at Todd Lee MD on TikTok, Todd Lee MD on Instagram, not YouTube that got banned. So the current channel is Dr. Todd Lee's Anabolic University on YouTube, but everything else is at Todd Lee MD. Also Todd Lee MD.com. If you want to talk to me, get a consult, you want me to read your blood work, or if you want me to coach you, or if you want me to do your HRT for you, because I am a doctor. So just reach out and I'll be there. All right. Well, thank you everyone for tuning in and Todd truly appreciate you taking the time. I know you're a busy coach and educator like us. So we do very much appreciate it and look forward to the next episode. Thank you.

=== FILE: Pro Cards, PED's, & Prep Fails - J3U Coaching Podcast Ep.06 [WYcfpim_b7c].txt ===

 The time is now to step into changing the industry worldwide. Welcome to the J3 coaching podcast. Welcome back to the J3 coaching podcast. Super excited for today's episode. We got some interesting case study work that we're going to walk through with you guys. I think one of the things with this podcast that I really wanted to make sure we did a really good job of is showinGHow we can handle different coaching situations and client situations and how we can handle different coaching situations and client situations and how we can handle different coaching situations and client situations. See, geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez geez- geez geez- geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez So I head out to the Detroit program next week with Callie, one of my wellness girls. I'm looking for – I won the overall there last year with Law, so looking for a repeat this year. And I've got two studs, Tyler Neely that's super heavy, and then a classic physique amateur doing the Branch Warren in Denver in May. Then I have a first-timer doing the Sidney Gillen in Georgia, and then we crank it up for a Pro Card run here in the Junior Nats coming up. Man, love it. Pro Card season, when that starts, is a lot of fun, because especially when you've got athletes at the level, some of the ones you're putting on stage, it's like – We've got 22 to break from last year, so it's going to be a feat, but I think we can do it. Dude, I've got to go. So I've got Junior Nats, Universe, Masters Nats, and USAs. Like, we're running – You can do it right off June and July. Yeah. There – You've got – you've got Whitey competing soon. I know you're – Yeah. You're doing that. All-time pressure clients. Yeah. And that's my – kick off the season with no pressure. My wife's doing the bigger Pro in Pittsburgh, and then straight on to New York. So that's where the season's starting for me. And then a couple of guys now just getting ready to start sort of preps for their sort of national qualifiers and stuff. I think in terms of national competitions, the first one we have been in is at the end of August. Okay. Yeah. And 27th, 30th of August. I've got a couple of guys going to be in that one as well. It's – Masters, one going for heavyweights. Yeah. So we've got a – got a few. It's always a fun time now. The fun starts now with the season kicking off. Yeah. It's like you're starting to see everybody kind of gear up. And it's so funny as coaches. You have, like, weird years where, like, you don't have much in the spring, but then your fall will be slammed, or you'll have, like, a hellacious spring and summer, and then your fall is kind of slow. And it's just all dependent on where people compete from a roster perspective. And I think the fact that happens shows that we're 100% invested in making sure the best version is going on stage, right, because you're not just picking people's shows based off where you're going to be that year. You're actually making sure that people are taking their best to the stage. So I really want to just kind of dive into the case studies. I'm really excited to go through an episode like this. I think there's a lot of value in being able to kind of see what the process looks like. And we're going to start with Abby, one of Alex's bikini girls, just missed out on her pro card by one spot this past year, right, back in August. One point in one spot. Point. Yeah. Okay. So kind of the epitome of someone that has had a pretty quick meteoric rise, you know, to being competitive at a national level. So I just want you to set the stage for that because, like, correct me if I'm wrong, but you guys weren't even thinking about doing a pro qualifier last year, right? No, no. So we made a deal. So the goal was to do, so Abby's won like three or four overalls. Like, she's just the overall girl, but she had taken a year off. And so coming back to this, I set the goal for the National Fit Show. And for those listening, the National Fit Show, to me, is like the biggest bikini wellness show you could do in the Southeast for sure. Yeah. And so IMade a deal with her because her mom, who turned pro at North Americans, like two weeks after, her mom was already going. And so I said, hey, look, if you win the overall, they're paying your entry anyway. We'll do it. So glad I did, right? Because it's one of those, like, I almost put too much respect on nationals that I almost need to send, like, one of my best bikini girls there. But when you see her on stage, it just, she fit right in. Yeah. And so I do want to kind of pull out a few things about this process because the interesting piece about it is just kind of the amount of progress that happens with these photos. Like the left being the start of prep, right? That left photo being the start of prep. And then that middle photo being kind of the package that she put on stage. Man, it looks not only like she got leaner, but that she actually progressed her physique from a perspective of, like, skeletal muscle tissue. So kind of walk us through, like, the big ticket items that, because I know you spend a lot of time on the trening side with her. She's pretty close to you, so you're able to do that kind of stuff. But what were, like, the big ticket items you felt led to such a change like this? So a lot of it was coming off of her time off. I feel like her body, because, again, we had, you know, won three overalls, like, three years in a row. And so she never really took a break. So coming off that break, not only were we able to get, like, a whole new trening block put in and, like, proper movement patterns for her physique, really bringing up her, like, weak points, which was her glutes and her hamstrings. But we were able to, you know, and IMentioned, like, I talk about the cycle duration. And, you know, it was something that you might not see it in the level one coursework, but you'll probably see something somewhere in the level two coursework of, you know, we ran Primo for, like, 14 weeks, you know, and I got it up to 25 milligrams a week. But I didn't start it there. You know, I started at 12, and I titrated up, titrated up. But the look just kept improving, and it was something that I couldn't pull it away with the amount of tissue she was gaining. And then, you know, the duration just comes about, like, she could have been ready to compete three weeks sooner, but it just allowed me to feed her more and really, you know, keep her, you know, fueled properly throughout the prep. I think that was another thing, is I was able to really diGHer out early and then feed her up into the show. I was able to let her rest, you know, as she needed to. And the way it worked out was, okay, yeah, you know, you're 14 weeks, you know, taking Primo or whatever, but it was only 25 milligrams. She never saw any, you know, side effects, anything like that. And the reason I kept it at 25 milligrams, the only thing she noticed was, like, her voice cracked once. And I was like, okay. I was like, well, let me, I was like, you're really close to, like, looking good. Can we just keep it here? She said, yeah, sure, that's fine. I was like, but just let me know if it gets any worse. You know, obviously, we'll bring it back down. So that was kind of my limit for, hey, that's the amount we're going to use. But the duration just kept going because that's what we needed to do to get that quality physique. But yeah, I think, you know, the gear duration, the trening, and being able to feed her. Now, I dieted her very hard, like 80, 80 minutes of cardio and two rice cakes was a lot of her days. On the flip side, I was able to feed her for two, three days, fill her back out, you know, high carb meals on top of sushi. Like, I was able to really, you know, push and pull with her, which really helped that long duration of her prep, for sure. Yeah. And I think, and we'll cut some of this on some of Darren's stuff, too. Like, PD exposure is so relative to needs of the athlete. Like, so in reality, like 25 milligrams a week of Primo is still extremely low total milligram exposure, right? Like, you have girls on 10 milligrams of Anabar a day that are going to be over double what that 25 milligrams a week of Primo is. So, like, we're still on the really early side. And the point to kind of pull out here is habits go a long ways. And you're going to see this in some of Darren's case studies, too. And Darren, feel free To hop in and comment here because, like, I know this is something you spend a lot of time on, Alex. I know you do this a lot with your athletes as well. The ability to perfect your process of sleep, trening, nutrition, your schedule, how you execute everything, like, up to a higher level allows for this PD use to maybe not get quite as extreme. And the other thing, too, with bikini, and this is, Alex, something that you kind of noted, the femininity aspect of it. Like, we have a role of maintaining femininity with these classes because it's part of the judging criteria. Like, some of that is part of the judging criteria. If you go into the IFBB rules or you've taken the female module, I've detailed out what the criteria is for each class. And presentation and the visuals are part of the criteria for bikini. So we need to be able to keep that femininity, limit compound exposure, pull as much progress out of these habits-based things because it's so impactful. Like, and you can see it here in this change. Like, there might be some genetic predisposition for bodybuilding. But with her mom turning pro and, you know, there's obviously some genetic predisposition. But it's unreal what these habits can do with just limited compound exposure because I would call that limited in my opinion. Yeah. It really breaks that stigma. So for me, man, like, you see bikini and everyone wants to do six weeks of anivar, six weeks of this. And it's like, well, you have to break that stigma that sometimes you just need more than six weeks of use to get something out of it, right? But like you said, the overall milligram exposure is less than someone who would run somethinGHigh for six weeks. So I think hopefully this helps break that stigma that, like, cycles don't have to be just six weeks. Um, but the, the biggest thing I really wanted to focus in on was from the show to her offseason look now. And that was really, you know, it's been, I knew we were going back to USAs. So I knew we had, you know, what, like 10 months between stage time. Um, and so that to me was where, okay, what do I need to focus on? Well, I don't need to, we just did had 14 weeks of gear exposure. So I don't really need to like push any of that right now. And I pushed her so hard with high cardio and low food. I really need her body to rest. And so how I set up her offseason was, you know, upper lower sessions, um, you know, four days a week. We eventually got it to five. The only PD she's ran is three I use of GH at that tone. Um, and that's been, and she's literally now 13 pounds heavier than her first offseason. Um, knowing that she was going right back into prep here in March. Another thing was I, I wanted to get new foods into her, like lettinGHer do yogurt, to let her do cereals, something to where she's not like mentally burned out because I knew that first one. IMean, that's a lot like you diet for 16 weeks and, oh, coach wants me to do another one. And then I was lettinGHer have like a clen free meal with her family and then a dirty free meal. So like, I was really like letting the reins loose a little bit in terms of like nutrition or treninGHas been flawless. Um, correct me if I'm wrong, but she nailed that post show phase, right? Like there wasn't a fast accumulation of body fat. Like these are habits slowly pulling in across that offseason phase, right? Yeah. Yeah. She dominates. Yeah. Yeah. So, and this is like a point, and this is where like, I love conversations with you guys because you get the developed athlete to be an athlete, right? Like these are intangible stuff as coaches that she's now mentally so ready to execute on this prep. She's maintained her femininity with limited compound exposure. She's made progress. She's psychologically in a better spot to prep again. She's already at that standard where she's competing at a national level. These decisions you make in the offseason are, are massive for, for doing that. For those of you guys watching like that progression from prep into all season is the middle picture to the right photo. Uh, so it's literally just like a timeline on those and thaT3 photo thing. But, um, it's, it's unreal to see like how much progress can be made and like sticking to non-androgenics like GH or L-carnitine or things that would just be beneficial without androgen influence. Restore the health metrics, restore menstrual cycles as best as possible, and then crack on. And I'm excited to see y'all's prep this year. I think it's going to be really cool. Yeah. It's a really good case. Shout out to Abby. She actually had her period going to North Americans. So, hey, nothing like making a P card. Oh man, it's so funny when you see that. It's just like, you're just trying to, um, and then the deload fatigue drop with food availability coming back and it just comes back and it's, it's just so funny. But, um, all right, let's pivot. Let's pivot a bit. Cause this, this is Darren, this is wild. Um, this is an unbelievable change. I'm looking at this side. We're looking at the side by side here with her and her house on the left and then her on the stage on the right. And this is just correct me if I'm wrong. A 10 week change. Is that a 10 week prep? Yeah. So Amy came to me, we had something. She was like, I want to do this show 10 weeks. So, um, huge amount of about the background, which isn't exactly ideal. Like you always, the ideal scenario with the client is to have a work with them for a previous month, you know, a minimum of like 16 weeks to take your time. But listen, not everything is going to be perfect. So it meant a lot of communication from the, um, in terms of just checking the communication every day as we set things up, because our biggest issue previously that she had been working with the coach was, you didn't have structure and in place. There was a lot of macro tracking and not day to day, nothing the same. Our structure with trening was just bringing in trenings. But the first of all, the first thing we wanted to do was look at her trening structure and put things in place based off of what I saw from her physique that we needed. And primarily sort of a lower, lower body focus split on the upper glutes. She had a very well developed like delt back region, which we didn't really want to push any further. So it meant just like touch up on delt work, no back trening, and then, um, a lot of lower work with a glute focus, uh, primarily on that sort of upper glute area. Um, but it was, it was very apparent pretty quickly that Amy is a very hard worker. Um, you know, from, you can see, if you look at like the stock points where a picture from left to right, it's very hard to believe that there's only a 10 pound difference there. You know, she actually, in my opinion, grew somewhat into that show in terms of muscle tissue, you know, uh, in the 10 weeks, she went from 140 pounds to 129 at the lowest. I think by the time we got on stage, I think it was 130, 1.5 ish. It was 130.5 in the morning, couple of meals in, um, during the prep, like we pushed it. We're from a point with pretty aggressive from the start, um, with output, you know, a tactic it was cardio stuff and everything straight away. Um, however, like after a couple of weeks, things were coming together very quickly. Um, and from four weeks out, I was like, okay, this look has materialized to something I'm very happy with. And from like four weeks out, it was actually pulling back. But her cardio, I think only went to, or did, I'm sorry, I didn't do nothing, only went to 45 maximum a day. Um, and we had to regularly feed from about six weeks out because she was having some large drops. So we sort of pulled the, pulled the deficit back up a little bit. We never went crazy. No, she's just someone who, I won't say she's genetically gifted. She trens really hard. You saw the videos of her trening. It was incredible. Like she puts in work like, like an open body builder on the leg breast and stuff like that. So, um, yeah, but it meant a side of it that I wasn't expecting, um, from that two week out, it was, oh, we gotta, we gotta stop this look from getting too hard. Um, so it meant an increase of sort of food, particularly true, like fats, um, making sure of finding sort of a look that was nice because there was times we checked in and I'm like, okay, these boots are like better. We need to, to pull this back, um, and get less separation, which I think is like, play in with. If you get a bikini athlete really, really in shape, you can just, you peak for the look, um, other than trying to peak for fullness, still have a condition. So, um, things were from that side were very, very good for her. Um, and the look, the look she brought to stage was a few things. Sorry. I don't, don't want to, I just want to keep going too far. There's a few things I want to pull out here because I don't want to go over the fact that you completely restructured the trening. Like, and people, people like ask me all the time. Cause like being with J3 university, like we teach on PDs, nutrition, all that kind of stuff. Right. And it's pretty easy to kind of go down the rabbit hole of just only doing is sharing information on PDs. It's sensationalized. People want to learn about it. Right. But in this case, like full overview of video analysis on trening, right. A full restructure of the trening plan to match the needs of the client, creating a response that is more efficient, that almost rewards her work ethic. Right. Because she's applying it to things that need to be happening. It's like the value in that piece of the puzzle, which is crazy, right. It's so crazy that the one thing that drives hypertrophy trening could potentially be the most valuable piece of the puzzle. Like it just drives me nuts that people don't think of this. Like the one thing that we're supposed to do to drive that adaptation, like led to a 10 week change. That was almost like a recon. If we're honest. Yeah, absolutely. I like I was I was looking at this one as an example. I used to some of the younger bikini girls I work with or have worked with in the past when it comes to PD use. You know, they're getting told things about how much they need to use and what they need to do. I always use Amy as an example in terms of, you know. PD use with her might have actually been a negative effect. You look at the outcome from her physique on stage that, you know, her feedback from unfortunately the particular set of judges she was in front of in Europe. They didn't reward her look. They wanted a softer bikini look. And just to put things in perspective, the girl who placed behind her actually won the show the week later. She went and did another pro show at that show. And her and Amy were identical in terms of conditioning. And from that, I had from America comment and message me privately about the should come over and America wouldn't do well. So that was something there. So that particular show she did, you know, if you think if there was PD use in play and she was fuller and she was harder looking, it would have been a negative for her. So something girls need to take in care is look at your physique. And it's like if you're a bikini athlete from the side of PD exposure, do you need to be bigger or do you need more? You know, often that can be damaging. If that's where you want to stay or you potentially are pushing yourself into the realms of the next category. Yeah. And it's the dichotomy you'll see with bikini, right? It's like one physique look is recorded one week and then it's not the next, right? So it's the tough dichotomy with bikini to run, but it is something that's important because there are cases in bikini that compound exposure is absolutely needed to elevate that physique to the level of development that's needed, especially with kind of one of the things I'm wondering with the introduction of fit model is, is bikini going to become slightly bigger, slightly harder relative to fit model, right? So because we see that every time, right? Like every time a class is introduced in between the relativeness of those to the other classes changes what that ideal look is, right? So it's, it's interesting. It's an interesting dynamic. And I want to save a lot of peak week stuff for Joey because Joey's going to be the fun one here. So we're going to, we're going to pivot over into, into Tyler here for a second. So Tyler Neely, my boy, who is just an ogre and had a lot of fun doing some stuff at Evagen with him and Alex, when he came in town for nationals. And you guys can check that out. It's on the YouTube. If you guys want to see what all we did, but man, this side-by-side 308 to 276 is, uh, is, is pretty wild. So set stage for us, like kind of describe Tyler and kind of what went into this beginning portion. So the biggest thing I wanted to talk on, you know, Tyler is he's, you know, this is so ever, um, I think it's his fourth cycle ever. Um, you know, so he's very new to all of this, right? You know, like people weren't believing like his milligram dosage on John's post about him. They were like, yeah, he's lying. Like, you know, but it's, it's genuine. Um, that being said, obviously he's never been this big. So like, you know, his first prep, we started at 268, 265 this time. You know, so we're 40 pounds bigger, right? So it's, but at the same time, a lot of that, as you know, as you get the heavier, bigger guys, they're offseason, they drop fast. Like they, I call it, you know, just to be put it bluntly, I call it the bullshit weight on my head. Like we're just going to get the bullshit weight off the body fountain water that we don't need. That just kind of lingers in the offseason. That's what's going to fall first. Let's not paint. So that was a lot of his first initial part of the prep. Then we started getting into the low two 90s. So you drop 17 pounds pretty fast, but then it comes into like, okay, well, how do I, you know, cause we prepped for 20 weeks. It's like, how do I fill this guy up? Like, how do I keep them going? I need to start using this process now of like how his body responds to food and rest and all that. I'm so against the, a mock peak, right? Like to a, to an extent, because it's like, that's what your whole data is. Your whole prep. Like I should know the peak week, what, how this guy responds to like low food, low food, low rest, high rest. Like, yes, I need to try it, but that's what this part's for. So the first time feedinGHim again, we dropped, you know, pretty fast. And I was like, Hey, you know what, man, like we're still 17 weeks out. Like, I just want you to just eat, like, just go eat a big free meal, dessert, whatever. But it was just one, one big dinner dessert type thing. And he woke up the next day, look great. He's like, bro, I've never had veins like this in my life. Like, you know, he was so, you know, write that down. All right. Looks good. You know, next, next time it comes, you know, we're down in like the low two eighties, I believe. Um, so again, another six, seven pound drop over a couple of weeks and like, all right, like he could handle junk food. So let's hand, like, let's see, like, I feel like I can feed, you know, so I fed him three days, you know, I believe it was around 550, 600 grams of carbs, somewhere like that. Nothing crazy. Day two, after day two, he looked great. By day three, he was a wreck, like stomach distension, digestion issues, gained nine pounds, like water buffalo look terrible. So write that down. Not doing that. The next time I found him using like this in the 276 range and I was like, okay, let's pull the high days down from like the 550, 600 to about like 354. And I started it with a dirty meal. So I did three days, but it was like, you know, Friday night I did his little dirty meal that we did first. And then we went into two days and the goal is like, yes, I am going to spill him because it's not just the look I'm looking for. I need to fill him back up and fuel him for the next push of digging. But what happened was, is he looked great. His pumps were better. His digestion wasn't his fault. So I was like, okay, obviously I'm not going to go feed him, you know, a dirty meal into a peak, but it's something that I know I have that somewhere in the back corner if I need it, because when you're dealing with these big guys, it's a very, I like painting this analogy. It's like landing a big, you know, 747 jet, right? It takes a while to like, you got to start further out preparing to land. Whereas a big girl, we can keep up, up, down pretty fast. So with him, like I needed all this data to know going into peak week. Okay. I have that emergency free meal because that's what it's been every time. If for some reason, you know, he needs to fill out or whatever, but I know moderate amounts of carbs and rest is his best. Um, but had I not done all this prior and I was just like, Hey man, yeah, like let's get high days, let's get refeed days. And like, I didn't pay attention to it. I would be going into, into peak week. Yeah. And you're essentially like mock frontloading them with that meal on the front end. And then kind of the lower days, right? You're like purposely pushing them over the edge and then bringing them back down. And I like that Boeing 747 analogy. Cause I've had some of my larger guys start loading for show 14 days out. Like that's when the process starts. Right. So when, with these larger, and Darren, you're, IMean, you've done this in the past, like with like the way that you respond to food. Like if it's not stabilized out and like coming into a shallow landing on show day, you are done for it. Like, it's just so hard to pull it up without GI issue. When you have these larger guys, it's a big aspect of, like you said, paying attention while you're prepping someone to the things that drive issues. And you're not doing mock peak weeks this far out, but it's going to guide your decision making when you do tests, like how many days is this going to take? And how many days is this going to be to be able to get them back up to where I need them? So it's, it's cool, man, because coaching guys like this are a lot of fun. Things change so quickly. They can move really fast either direction. Um, but it also takes a lot to land a peak and really consistency and variables makes this as easy as possible. And so like a lot of these cases work really well with linear loading pretty far out and or frontloading, like getting full, getting them high and then coasting them back down. Um, and so it's, it's an interesting dichotomy, but the final product's not done. We'll have to do another one when you get on stage of like that prep progression. Right. But IMean, this side-by-side photo correct. What was the time duration between these photos? Just a few, I don't remember. I believe it was, what was that? It was like, you know, 20 weeks out to eight weeks out or something like that. Or 10 weeks out. It's just a wild change. Like the left is kind of where I saw him at Evagen almost. And, uh, just like, and there was a lot of trening stuff that went into that too, which you guys can watch that Evagen video to catch all that. But, um, such an interesting case. Like, is there anything else that you would kind of point out with Tyler before we pivot into this last one? Yeah. And so Tyler and big guys in general is, is a lot of times like you can't, while the scale is very important, him gaining three to five pounds is like a bikini girl gaining a pound. Like, so you, you can't get, like, he can't get emotionally carried away that his weight goes up after we eat or drops, you know, like the numbers are going to be so much bigger than a normal person because they're just so much bigger. So you can't let that scare you as a, as a prep coach. You can't let that scare you into, oh gosh, IMessed up. Like, you just have to understand it's because this surface area of human is so much bigger. Like that's the response. And so that's kind of why I frontload him a little bit is because I don't want this. Like, I don't have enough time in his prep to feed him for seven days. Like his body probably could use. So it's like, okay, how can I get more calories in a short period of time and not have to worry about that water retention when I want to look at his look again. And so that's kind of where the frontload kind of came about. Love it. It's just classic example of how the art of coaching can change person to person, man. I just, cause I'm like, like the majority of the people that work with me, I'm like not using free meals and stuff like that as part of that loading process most of the time. But, you know, every once in a while you come across that case where it fits and this is one of those cases, right? So pretty cool. Some guys have to because you can't, they just can't get the calories in or calories to stick without something like that. I've had a client too in the past where, you know, I could go twice the amount of food with clen, like from clen. And it just doesn't sit like if you give them a burger and fries with a moderate amount and it just looks a lot better. The important thinGHere that I think is proximity to checking the visual. Like you're not doing this in close proximity to this is the best visual. You're doing this in the sense of like front end, get them back up. Like you said there and help make it stick and then letting them coast back down where hydration status, sodium fluid, all that is kind of back to baseline. And what we would call like baseline normal. And they're able to present that physique on stage, just a fuller version of it. So a lot of it has to do like when you do use this proximity of time for general, you know, retentive response is going to be the big thing. Yeah, it's a very, and for me, and he does the same meal every time. To me, it's just a, it's that if I have to hit that emergency button, like you don't want to do it. I feel like if I have to do something like that before a show, I'm, I did something wrong along the way, but it's like, Hey, you know, it's, I wish everyone could be John. I wish everyone could be John. I do. IMean, I tell, I tell my clients that. John, we love you. But like, it's just, there's just times where you just have to hit the, the NOS button that you're like, man. And that's just what it comes for. Oh goodness. All right. Well, let's, let's dive into this last one. This one's a fun one. IMean, I think, you know, there's, and Darren, I'm gonna let you set the stage more, but being semi-involved with this kind of on that front end, especially it's cool to see someone who could have easily exited and lost the love for what we do, be able to do it in a way that presents themselves on stage and, and wins. Right. And so, um, I've got, I've got a side-by-side of, of Joey that I believe is where he started with you on the left and then kind of fairly close proximity to stage on the right, both gym photos and, um, that we're looking at. So walk us through this case, man, because like you see that left to right photo and you're thinking like a year and a half and a lot of exogenous PD exposure and all these types of things. Right. But this, uh, this case doesn't warrant that. No, Joey, Joey is like, honestly, I'd say in all my, like what, 12 years of coaching, probably one of the most rewarding clients I've worked with for a number of reasons. Like when Luke says about someone who could have fallen away from the sport, that is the position Joey was in when he came to me. When I initially spoke to him, it wasn't like as a client or anything else. I just met, met him at an event. Um, I've known Joey for years when I first started out, um, bumped into an event, which was just like, how's things going? And he was just like, not good at all. He's like, I've been told I can't bodybuild again. You know, he had got back some very serious, like reports from him regardinGHis health in terms of blood work was absolutely terrible. Like you looked at this as well. It's probably one of the worst I've seen anyway. Uh, blood work was bad. Blood pressure was bad. Cardiac MRI, which showed like, I think it was a 37% function of like his right ventricle just in a terrible place. And from, from my side of things, I just, I just didn't want to leave him still like that. I was like, right, listen, it's not the end of the world. You may not compete competitively bodybuilding again, but we can certainly get you back to a place where you can enjoy your trening and you don't have to worry about this as like, it's like dying, which is where he was thinkinGHe was going. So the initial start point with us was never about stage. It was just getting Joey back in a healthy position. And I knew from talking to him, going over everything and then receivinGHis blood work and getting everything in play, that there was a number of avenues we could come from in terms of to improve things. Did I, did I know it would improve to the level we got it to? No, that's just amazing. And like, nobody can guarantee that sort of things. And I'm not saying I'm an expert on taking someone from where he was to there. It's just, there was stuff we could do to help him and it worked out. So initially it was like hugely amount, like around his lifestyle, you know, to put things into context, Joey previously, like in the previous few years have been working towards being like a super heavyweight bodybuilder and had been pushing the boat in terms of, you know, total milligram usage was very high for a long period of time. You know, food was very high and not in the best place in terms of lots of, you know, dirty bulking. And so there was a lot of things weren't leading to a healthy, healthy lifestyle. So initially he was looking at his, his, his lifestyle and food choices. So we looked at bringinGHis protein content down to like 230 to 250 grams per day, introducinGHigh intensity cardio or minimum of three times a week. We just put it in three times a week and then with Joey, he's a very active guy in terms of walking, which we'll get to a little bit later. We had to take that away while we got to prep because he was doing like 18 to 20,000 steps per day on average because he likes to walk. He loves the fresh air. So we had three HIIT sessions of cardio per week, pull protein down to 250 grams a day, introduce a very micronutrient dense diet, like fruit with every meal, loads of fiber with every meal, like fruit, veg, where the like scope of things, even like bringing in yogurt and things into his diet, all to just make a morecomplete nutrition profile for him. And then from a simple and sided thing, you know, ancillaries, glutathione and Cialis were used to sort of attack things. And I believe it was like a four month process of doing this and got back to a place where we, his right ventricle function was back to normal. His blood work was really good. His blood pressure, which we monitored daily was back in range, like complete turnaround, you know, complete like 180 on it, which was amazing. And that led to the conversation of getting on stage again, which from my side was like, okay, he wants to get on stage again. This does have to be approached with, you know, a very cautious, listen, I said to him straight up, you're never going to be the bodybuilder you were before in terms of the way you approach things. That's just not going to be the case. You have to be a lot more cautious, even like you can do his prep, but even your lifestyle has to change that you can't be that guy who's, you know, after prep, you're going to go and have pizzas, you're going to have this thing. You have to be healthy and responsible year round. And with prep, that's also going to mean, you know, being very responsible with what we look to use. So it's like, even when I see the visuals from where we started to, to where we ended, and I look at things, I'm like, I don't know how, because the majority of prep was done on TRT, 175 milligram of tests per week. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. Yeah. 170 milligram of tests per week. We did introduce 200 milligram of Mastron at the back end of prep, which I'll get into the timeline of that. But as we initially went into it with, we were like going to do a regional show because his goal was classic, which he thought based on his height was going to be 92 kilo limit. So I was like, from where we were to the regional, I was like, okay, that level of weight loss in that timeframe I don't think is going to be the most productive for you from both a physique standpoint and a health standpoint, because we have to control things. So I was like, but there's no rule says you have to do the regional in the class. You're going to compete for a qualifier. So I was like, we'll do the regional as a heavyweight bodybuilder because I know we can get you to around 94, 95 kilo without having to do any drastic measures or push too hard. And then we're going to have a further six, seven weeks to the pro qualifier because he hadn't actually picked the exact pro qualifier. But I was always, while he was going up, he wasn't too sure of his height. So I was like, we need you to clarify this height and weight when you do this regional. So go there. I want you to get them to officially measure you in your heights. We have an official measurement, not just you checking it at home because that mightn't be right. Get an official measurement so we know what your weight limit is for the pro qualifier. So we did the regional. He won his class and missed out on the overall there to the super at 95.2 kilo on stage. But the caveat to this was he's shorter than he thinks and his weight limit for classic was going to be 88 kilo. And listen, you guys can see these visuals there. This guy is not an 88 kilo bodybuilder. At this point, I was like, mate, I think you can do well as a heavyweight bodybuilder. And I think you're going to look. Can we get you to that 88 kilo limit? Yeah. Potentially. Will you look good at it? Absolutely not. Absolutely not. So at this point, we pivoted from a weight loss goal of getting to a weight to just a visual goal. What's going to make you look the best? And because we've done this regional and we had six weeks to the pro qualifier, it was like, all right, we're in a nice spot here. Your condition is pretty much there. Could be a little bit better. But I also feel by just, you know, doing things right in this time frame, we can just get better. We don't necessarily have to focus on weight loss. So we actually pulled his cardio right there. And he was doing very, very little cardio in this time frame. And also in this prep, we had to get him to go and get himself a car so he wasn't walking to the gym because the step count was just through the roof. And his food just went up and up and up. You know, we were controlling every variable. I was having to regularly give him like deloads from output, pull him back from trening, not tren a couple of days, just feed up, rest, ease, relax, focus on all that. And the result was at the end of it, you know, he stepped on stage at a pro qualifier at 98 and a half kilo and won the overall with a much better like visuals. And again, to emphasize the total milligram usage was less than 400 milligrams. Yeah. There's guys doing prep right there. Like doing their first show using that a day. He was doing that a week. Yeah. Yeah. And look, he's earned that right to do that. Right. Like we're not saying you can do this and get to the highest levels with 400 milligrams of usage. It's just this is a byproduct of the health management piece of the equation. And this is kind of what I want to pull out here is bodybuilders love to think that they're immune to health complications and or needing to be aware of like what goes into their body from like a micronutrient density perspective, a supplementation perspective, all of these type of things that if you look at it from like the nutritional density and likEQuality of the nutrition perspective, like we're seen as healthy in the public view because people get shredded. But like there is a large differential between like shredded for a bodybuilding show and actually truly healthy. And in that first portion of the phase, like the whole focus being let's get you back to a health metric that is going to allow you to sustain, you know, a healthy, long lifestyle. And then if competing comes back on the conversation, we'll have it. But it doesn't surprise me that going through that process and fixing all that and having better nutrition metrics, gettinGHeart rate elevation high with the hit cardiovascular activity, improving these, doing on things we did supplementally as well in order to kind of help this. Set him up for a prep that was super easy and smooth. Like it's not a coincidence that a body and a physique that is in a better place from a health perspective is going to respond better to a contest prep. And it's you can look at this photo with him standing with the pro card like he just casually standing there flexing next to the pro card and like just dug out like absolutely dug out. Yeah. It's a thing. People are surprised to see the result relative to the compound usage. And I know a lot of people won't believe it, but listen, it's out there. It's the truth. This guy couldn't use more than this. Like if there was no health issues, is this what I would have done? No, but listen, look at it. It's there. And you must remember is through having the health issues and everything we did, Joey locked in a routine and consistency with all variables that was like flawless, like absolutely flawless. So when you do that, like when we got to the point when I think it was from the five week out from the pro qualifier, when we added in 200 milligram of Mastron, that is going to make a huge difference. Most guys could add that in and it's not going to make any difference because the variables that they don't have consistent are going to negate that amount of PE usage. But with Joey, when everything's perfect and you add in 200 milligrams of Mastron, it's going to have a big change. Yeah. And I just panned over to these photos in the garden, I think probably right before he headed to the show. Just unbelievable. Yeah, it was the peak week. Yeah. And again, going back to what we discussed about loading and stuff, we were like, you know, not having a weight cap anymore and knowing we were comfortably within the heavyweight cap. It meant for just like a little, like from my side of things, a really easy job. Because we had time, Joey was in condition. We were linearly loading it. We were gradually just from about two and a half weeks out. We were just steadily increasinGHis food to a point where it was at 550 gram of carbs a day. And we were just holding there. Went up a little bit higher from like seven days out. We went to sort of 700, 800 at the front of the week. And then just tapered it back to baseline of like 500. We knew exactly where fluid needed to be. Joey's actually from doing, from the peak week, we did visuals every second meal. And across the day, post-workout, everywhere in the same lighting, different lighting, everything. And one thing that was really apparent with Joey was he needed a lot of fluid in his body. So he wasn't someone that we restricted fluid on the day of show. We kept it exactly normal. By the time he was on stage, which was 6 p.m., 6 or 7 p.m., he had had his normal five, five and a half liters of fluid in by that time, his normal meals. He had had five meals, his normal amount in, like a regular trening day. Yeah. Okay. And that's kind of where, again, larger athlete, easy to keep it steady throughout like the entire process. And honestly, predictable is always best, right? And so like you have that information kind of coming in because he was ready to head. So guys, I really appreciate this podcast because I think this is like the peak behind the curtain of like non-ideal situations, right? And I think this is exactly why we coach, why we have a job. It's like people don't pay us for when things are going 100% smoothly and the check-in update is like no change or you don't have a problem to solve or whatever, right? Like we're paid for when shit hits the ceiling fan and we're trying to step in and solve it. So if any of you guys are interested in working with either, you know, Alex or Darren, you guys can just inquire at the J2 Coaching Link. We've got it on the social medias, Instagram. We've got it in the comments below, in the description below the video. So you guys can just use that and sign up and we'll get you a free console call, kind of go over everything, kind of what that process looks like. But a lot of attention to detail has to happen to be able to coach like this because it's not ideal. It's not scripted. It's very pivot-based. And I think this is – when we have conversations like this, it's one of the reasons I love both of your coaching styles is you understand the coursework. You understand the ideal. You understand the tracking of the metrics and the processes that would look like, the John cases where everything's perfect. It just kind of goes smooth and you just kind of dot your eyes across your teeth, right? But where we earn our keep is in these situations where things are not ideal, right? And we create an outcome in a 10-week prep for Darren or, you know, in Tyler's situation, unconventional loading metrics to test some like peak week looks that we could potentially use later in prep or whatever that might be, right? So thank you, boys, so much for this episode. I'm really excited to get this one up. And if you guys have any questions, put them in the comments below. I'll be down there answering them. I'm sure Alex and Darren would be happy to be in there and answer them. Make sure you guys click that link so that you guys can get set up with either Alex or Darren and we will talk to you next time.

=== FILE: Q and A： SLU-PP-332, T3, Pull Day, Essential Bodybuilding Supplements - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.168 [Z3UrnyRNCu8].txt ===

 You ask, we ask, we answer, we answer, we are doing another Q&A, as everyone enjoyed the last one, more specifically around PDs, so we had some other questions come in that of course there's PD questions, but also a variety of topics around programming pool for instance, and even using some nutrition aspects, and then again, PDs, like we all love to talk about. Luke and I, we just want to dive in, we enjoy doing like thEQuick firEQuestions, and try to try to give you a lot of questions, and try to give you a lot of questions, and try to give you a lot of questions, and try to give you a lot of value back, so that's what we're gonna dive in today, guys. Luke, how are you doing? Yeah. I'm great, man. Life's good, works good, we've got so much positive going on with the courses, and the coaches are just killing it, show season's about to get started, and we got a ton of athletes on the team that are going, so momentum's high, I'm just loving every second of it, man, it's a lot of fun to do my job, so just, you wake up every day looking forward to what crazy physique you're gonna get sent to from the team, you know, whether it's, you know, Darren, Alex, Neto, Colton, whoever's sending it, it's, it's really awesome to see, so it makes for a lot of fun on the day-to-day solving all these different problems with these coaches, and putting some killer athletes on stage, so I think, I think that's part of the reason I like thesEQuick fires, because it's like solving people's problems in the here and now, so let's just dive in, man, let's just, let's hit this first question, you know, do you think there's a place for T3 in the off-season? Yeah, and so, around thyroid hormone use, and really, in prep or off-season, it comes down to just basically looking at your lab to begin with, and that kind of decides on the need relative to where your labs are, usually I hear people ask about T4 in the off-season, that are using growth hormone hormone, there is an idea a long time ago that, you know, growth hormone hormone lowers T4 levels, but growth hormone hormone increases peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, so in turn, you might see a little bit lower free T4 in the serum, but you'll actually have increased T3 levels, and you might see an acute rise in TSH, also, you're just using growth hormone hormone, if you had like a pre-existing thyroid issue, it might bring it about, and just more expose it, rather than create it, so if you already had a predisposition to beinGHypothyroidism, you might see that if you're using growth hormone hormone, but back on thEQuestion of like using T3 or not, still like monotherapy T4 of levothyroxine is still like the first-line therapy for hormone replacement, as we have to consider like in the endocrine world, in the western medicine world, that you try to get people to just be adherent, so if you have something you only take once a day versus multiple times a day, it's a lot better route, T4 has a relatively very lonGHalf-life, nearly a week, so you can get steady levels easily within a week's time, and once a day dosing can work really well, the issue kind of comes about if you have someone with that could have limitations within T4 to T3 conversion, or maybe someone that actually has a little bit higher needs than what T4 could provide solely, and that's where the conversation around adding in a little bit of T3 might come about, and if you go into like beyond, if you're meeting with your like general physician, or your endocrinologist and looking at someone in the anti-aging world, or the wellness clinics, a lot of times they're using desiccated thyroid like armor or NP thyroid, which is a combo of T4, T3, or they might be using something that has been actually compounded with adjusted amounts of T4 to T3, and in result-wise, you really could get the same lab effects using either one, however, some people just subjectively feel better using the combo therapy, so that's kind of where it differentiates. Now, I like combo therapy going into prep because you see a lower T4 to T3 conversion as you're dieting, or even if you had like a monotherapy, being able to bring in a little extra T3, if you see that conversion starts to get limited, and you're trying to uphold physiological amounts of T3, but long story, not short, is it purely depends on your lab work. Go off that. Don't make assumptions and just use T3. It's not necessarily going to like keep you lean or something in the off-season. You're looking for like a normal physiological amount. Yeah, I think the mistake with this that you often see is people expect that, you know, for people that do use it in the off-season, they expect that that replacement therapy will sustain them throughout the entirety of the contest prep with no expectations to have to increase any variable of it, which is not going to be the case. There's certainly going to still be adaptations that occur that might require you to increase your dosing or add in T3 or whatever that might be. Multiple ways to go about it. That'd be kind of like the last little caveat is, if you do have the need for replacement therapy based on symptomology and labs in an off-season setting, be aware that that doesn't mean you won't see adaptations across a contest prep. All right. Next question. Thoughts. I lovEQuestions that start about thoughts. So thoughts on everyone taking all the new peptides. And there's a few questions kind of lumped within this around other peptides that are out there, right? So IGF-1, LR3, they brought up SLU-PP332, which it's actually not a – it's a molecule. I don't know if you really want to classify it as like a peptide hormone, but it's just like this synthetic molecule. But I guess people are probably bringing up like MOTC as well within the conversation. But again, some of these are peptides. Some of them are not peptides. However, there's a huge exploration right now of all these different compounds. Is it fair to answer that I don't have thoughts on it yet? Like I just – man, I keep up with it. And the reason I keep up with it is in case there's something intriguing enough that I could see the value in it. But I've yet to see something that doesn't feel like chasing polypharm. And polypharm in the bodybuilding world is something that allows for people to get the most out of the process when it's like deployed correctly and we understand these off-site actions of some of these compounds. But I do think we start to get into the peptide world and we're chasing so many off-site mechanistic actions and lower efficacy versions of that for the majority of them that in the realm of the majority of physique-based processes for competitive bodybuilders, I don't see a lot of utility. Now, some of these like certainly I could see outside of that realm potentially having some fits. But big needle movers for me, not yet. But it intrigues me. I keep up with it because I want to be aware if something comes to market that does feel like a game changer. But I don't know that I have thoughts on it because nothinGHas changed the game for me, in my opinion. Yeah, a lot of them have been kind of sensationalized as being with the novelty of them and the excitement around research and mechanisms of action and potential. And so like for instance SLU PP332 is, we'll call it SLU for a simple sake. We basically just have rodent data on it. So there's not even human data to be able to trenslate that into what should a dosing protocol even be? What does safety long-term even look like? What does it look like when it's combined with other drugs like we're using in bodybuilding? And you could very well have just because it's not a human-approved, you know, an FDA-trialed drug, right, gone through all the clinical rigors of testing. That it's not safe, but there's kind of a question mark there. And then around actually trenslating it to the effects in humans, like is it that large of an effect or not? With SLU kind of being this exercise memetic, so it increases for one mitochondrial efficiency. A lot of people get improved endurance capacity and increased fatty acid oxidation with it, improved insulin sensitivity. And I've heard people speak to it like it is a game changer. Some insights is that I've known some people that actually use this that are very, very close to me that I have eyes over. And at least in my experiences thus far, I have seen it to be very lackluster. Lackluster. And I would have multiple other things that I would deploy way before this. And thinking back on these people calling it a game changer, what I would look for, especially with peptides, is if there is a motivation behind pushing something like this. So if there's someone that is connected to a peptide site and they say use code JOHN20 for discounts under SLU, maybe there's another motive there of trying to really sell these because someone's making money off of them. Or there's just, hey, I need to sell the excitement of new things coming out because I can only talk about test primo GH for so long. I need some new things, right? And that's not to diminish any information that's out there around it. Like, you know, we should discuss these compounds because they're of interest. But, you know, like Luke said, I would want a lot more information out on them before I decide to implement them already amongst a list of polypharmacy that we're already utilizing within bodybuilding. And, again, what I said in my experience is that SLU so far looks to be very overrated in my opinion. Again, I'm not the only opinion. That's just opinion. And same with a lot of the other compounds like IGF-1, LR3. IGF-1 is fairly overrated for its effects. I think a lot of the main effects you're going to get with using growth hormone hormone is direct from growth hormone hormone. And with the idea around IGF-1, LR3, it doesn't have a strong binding affinity. The idea of one binding proteins. So you kind of have the problem is like you have a compound that can just have a more of a systemic effect versus localized effect, which I find that scary for around organ size increases. And, again, this is another compound with just a ton of lack of human research around it. And still GH trumps all of these. I think the ones that have the best data around are maybe MK-677. The ones with the most interest would be BPC or TB-500 as far as these healing-type peptides. But, again, even those like GH trumps them. It's like these are just, you know, the B team coming in because they're more accessible for some people. But, anyway, that's at least some initial thoughts around these. Could those thoughts change in the future as more data comes out? Sure. But at least as of right now, these are not things that I would put weight into and also things that I would not be interested in like trialing myself. Yeah. One last thing. It's like you see this with like the methylene blue stuff too. But you know what else improves mitochondrial efficiency? Exercise. Exercise and sleep. Your big ticket items. Yeah. Like, Jesus, guys. Like, can we not forget that these things improve that? Like, let's just focus on like what we can actually show large improvements in efficacy. I just. Yeah. That's where my head goes with it currently. Like, if there's something that comes out that does game change, I'll detail it out and go into it and see utility in it. But just not there yet. All right. Next question. How much fruit and veggies should we be eating no matter the phase? Yeah. That's a tough question. I tend to set like minimums at around 200 grams of each. Um, the veggie piece is a little bit fluctuating based on like phasic because you get in prep and like I'll allow that to kind of creep up quite a bit. You know, 300, 400 grams kind of throughout the day with food coming down for satiety purposes and keeping fiber intact and micronutrients intact. Um, but minimums that I put for most people that are on the macro side of the equation with coaching is 200 grams of each. Yeah, that for sure would be a minimum. I like if you looked at like current U.S. like health recommendations, it's like three to five sources of fruit and veggies per day. Yeah. Just serving a fruit or veggies is around 100 grams depending on the fruit or veggie. Um, so you're looking aT3 to 500 grams ish. Um, so the, so definitely like at the minimum gear, dear Lord, just hit these right. Hit those at the bottom end. Uh, but if you could hit a gram total of all of them together for the day, that would be pretty ideal to not have enough, uh, fruit, veggie diversity to cover a lot of your micronutrient needs to get a diverse amount of fiber. So yes, total fiber is very important. Also soluble and insoluble, but there's also different types of fibers within soluble and insoluble fibers that do a lot for, uh, gut health. Um, and so that's what we absolutely would want a variety of those items. Um, all your different type of strens of gut bugs that are really healthy use different types of fibers. So if you want a really healthy microbiome community, eat a lot of a variety of fiber sources. Um, now where this kind of can, can flux a bit is, you know, are the goal is the goal, right? And if we're bodybuilding, trying to put on a lot of size in the offseason is kind of the main goal there. So if you're running into limitations around food volumes from high amounts of voluminous veggies, it's a time of, of, Hey, we might need to lower these down for a bit of time and kind of accept that. But just moving to more like dense condensed or higher starch veggies. Um, and even maybe moving to like dried fruits, which a third, the weight of, uh, a whole fruit would be accounted as still a veggies, a fruit serving. So like 30 grams of raisins would count as doing like a hundred grams of grapes. So we might have times where that number, those numbers kind of shift. Uh, then like you said in, in prep, Luke, um, those veggies might creep up some. I try to maintain the fruit amount and lower the other starchy components in the diet as we go through. And then you were going to have some times where, Hey, a lot of this might get pulled out just at the end of prep, just to control like bloating distinction before going onto stage. And I don't mean bloating distinction. Like you have some weird GI problem that you need a gut health specialist that you just like these foods just cause volume expansion. And we've got to lower it. Right. And then on that point around gut issues, we have the rare individuals that might need a bit more modulation of these items or from some that are just very intolerant to them where there might be some restrictions in place. But as a, as a generality, um, I think we, we cover that. Yeah. On to the next. Yeah. Okay. What are the basic vitamin Supplements for bodybuilding? Ah, there's so many ways to go about this. Like the, the interesting part about there's a lot of companies that make some great, like mixed products. And so like, I'll use those depending on where someone's located and if they have access to it. Um, just so like, I have no brand affiliation, so I'll just, uh, spit these out. Um, trened by JP, make some great ones. I love love heart with vital support. Um, I do tend to go the route with morphogen. Morphogen has some great products as well. Um, prime and there's another one they have that's really good. Their kidney products really good. Um, but as far as like the minimums, basic vitamin Supplements, like I wouldn't even classify way in that category. Um, I, my head goes to health supplementation, but creatine, um, make sure that you've got a multi on board. More than likely a vitamin D three is going to be needed because most people are going to be deficient in that. And then health supplementation based off the things that you struggle with on lab work. And then there's like a whole gamut list of that, that we could go through. And then the more budget you have available, the more of those things that you're going to take for precautionary purposes. Remember supplementation is not as efficacious as medication, but it can be helpful. Yeah, I think, right. Some of the, some of the like combo products are very convenient for a lot of people. Yeah. Some people might want to be more specific with their dosing or the product that they take then. Cause sometimes you find a blend, you're like, ah, it's not quite right on that dose. Yeah. I don't need that necessarily. Yeah. So again, like with supplements, they are meant to supplement the diet. So if you're not, you know, log into chronometer, see what you're hitting for your micronutrients and then fill in the gaps from there. But common gaps that need to be filled. Cause that's what I think of like the basics. If we're not covering these by the diet, these are probably the first things that we should be going in place, which you absolutely could do a multi kind of just does a shock on blast of all, all your micronutrients, vitamins and minerals to cover those needs. Um, but from there, I would say in omega three as that one could just be a hard one to get for everyone daily. Yeah. You know, and then like you mentioned, vitamin D three, which I would pair that with, uh, K two as well. Magnesium can be a struggle for a lot of people and it shows even in athletic populations. We do have a higher magnesium needs, which I would do something like a magnesium three or eight around bedtime, especially if you have issues with sleeping or even, um, magnesium glycinate would be a viable option from there to, uh, creating monohydrate just because like, geez, it does so much. It's so evidence-based around muscle, but also even for brain health too. And then I, I really like curcumin as well. Um, that's kind of starting to jump into the realm of yeah, maybe, but, uh, the expansive effects were like an anti inflammatory aspect for the whole body. Um, a lot of health benefits around it. I think it's a one to have in outside from there. I think that's when you jump into like the real little bit more nuanced to the enhanced bodybuilder realm of supplements that would need to be in place. Yeah. I would agree with that. 100%. Okay. Next question. When should I take glutamine before or after trening, John? Or at all? Yeah, you should take it, uh, at either time. So glutamine for a while was really popular. Yeah. And it was, uh, the, the thing to be taking, um, all around trening, which, uh, with glutamine, IMean, the thing about it is that we get a ton of it out of, if you're on a high protein diet, uh, most of your glutamine is utilized by the enterocytes, uh, as a fuel source. And so a lot of that does go to the gut. That's why a lot of people now take it actually for gut health. It's around 15 grams per day is utilized by the gut and has a big component around, uh, the immune system. So, um, some people are just saying, oh, for gut health, I take 15 grams of gluten first thing in the morning. Uh, but where this glutamine research really comes from is from the clinical side of issues with inflammatory bowel diseases like ulcerative colitis or Crohn's or other GI issues. And in this inflammatory state, glutamine has a huge role as its needs increase, but also has some components around, um, just improving like the tight gap junctions in the gut and, uh, preventing like you quote unquote leaky gut. Some people hate saying that term, but anyway, in those conditions, it has great roles for GI health and, uh, inflammation. But if you don't have those issues, well, there's no increased need for that. And then around as far as building muscle, you're going to have plenty of adequate amount of amino acids if you're just following a high protein diet. So do you really need to be taking glutamine is the thing. And around trening, it doesn't make a lot of sense. If you don't have some type of inflammatory gut issue, it also doesn't make a lot of sense. So it's one of those supplements, what I would say to save your money and just get some whey protein and just utilize your way. Preach. Ditto. Retweet. Move on. Okay. Uh, pharma versus generic GH on quality and insulin resistance. Oh, Lord. Um, I just use. It used to be a big deal, right? Yeah. I just, I kind of want to just send them to the Kurt Havens podcast that we did that kind of goes into that in depth about all the potential issues. But, um, a lot of this has to do with getting your GH tested and making sure that, um, it's actually the right amino acid sequence, all of these kinds of things. IMean, there's a lot of great generics on the market. I think you can see some pretty efficacious usage from generic GH. Um, you've even seen like probably the prices dropped over time. I think arguably pharma is probably going to be your best bet if we don't dive into the weeds of just like the full conversation we had on, on the podcast with Kurt. But, um, man, I just want to direct in there. It's like probably the best thing to do because we build the whole conversation out about the positives, negatives, what you should expect. Can you test for it? All that. Like there's like full depth there. Yeah. I think thEQuick takeaway is like, Hey, if, if your GH is a hundred percent GH, then it's going to have the same effects relatively as pharma GH without much differentiation, just from the anecdotal of using all of these things too. Yeah. That man, it doesn't really differentiate. So, um, it used to be that generics are real hit or miss. Um, who knows? Like, and now it's come so far that we have much better ways to test availability to test and just availability, a better product that's cheaper too. So back, you know, when I was kind of getting into the pro ranks, it's like you just bought pharma to make sure you had quality GH and it was so expensive. Generics were like, I don't know, but now it's like, you know, you can get like a tested generic. That's a really good quality. That's like a sixth of the cost of pharma. So that's at least kind of where that, that all stands. But please check out the podcast with Kurt. Yeah. Go pretty heavy on the GH side there. Yeah. Especially like the testing. Like I've had so many generics with clients that have tested so unbelievably. Like I hate the argument. It's just like, make sure it's quality and tested and move on. Um, all right. Struggling with how to program pull days, please help. Oh, wow. This person's struggling with their back development exercise for lower lats too. Yeah. There was actually two questions in this Q and a about just specific to lower, lower lats. So, um, well with, with pull days, just a generalized structure is like, I would just always start with a lat movement first. And if this person's more of talking around the lower lat, you're talking more about the vertical fibers of the lat, which are going to work good, more pulling from an overhead position and keeping the arm tight to the body. So you're going to look for some type of pattern that can keep you in that position. That could be a bilateral pull down, uh, with like more of a shoulder with grip. It could be aromasingle arm pull down of some variation. Um, so that would be your first movement to have like vertical lat fibers and prioritize that body part. You could then move to, IMean, you could go to an upper back from there. If you, if you need like some general balance and back development, which that's how I like to structure mine. IMoved to like an upper back based row. That could be a T bar row, could be a prime extreme row, uh, could be a chest supported incline row. But again, the idea is the elbows a bit more flared out from the body. Uh, then you could do something for lats again, uh, doing something for like the horizontal fibers, which would still elbow close to the body. Um, doing aromasingle arm row or a horizontal row. And then lastly, you might have something for even upper, upper back. So you might've done something that was kind of a horizontal row with the elbows flared out a bit, but you could do something with the elbows flared out, low and really low towards like bottom sternum, belly button area, which kind of hits towards that scapula retraction, upward rotation of more or nearly like a shrug pattern. So this might be looking at like, um, could do a seated cable row where your torso is lean back, um, more like the 120 degree angle. So not upright or even a hammer strength, isolateral low row. Uh, just something. The idea is the elbow path is moving back and upward and the grip is not quite as narrow. Um, but that would fully cover like all the angles of, of trening back, uh, for lats. Do you have something overhead vertical for upper back? You have something with, um, horizontal and then even a high steeper angle as well. Um, and then it just shift that order around, around priority. But Luke, right. It's not often we see guys with like huge lats and no traps. A lot of times it's a lot of trap and no lat. So programming lats first kind of makes a lot of sense. And it's also what's going to improve more of your stage shots than programming upper back first. Yeah. And a little bit equipment specific to not a lot of lap patterns load, very lengthened unless you have like, uh, like in the horizontal plane, unless you have like a Nautilus row or gym shop row, um, or unless you have like a prime pull down for that, that lap prime pull down that I covered in a YouTube video. Um, so I do like it earlier in the session because of that. Um, just a lot of mid shortened work for a lot of patterns. So would you say in that case, like if you don't have those pieces that when you get to towards the end of your failure point in full range to hit a few lengthened partials, is that the application there of lengthened partials now? Um, I would, I would get as much out of the full range as you could because you're going to be able to initiate that rep and get it probably halfway or threEQuarters of the way. And that shortened end range is just going to fatigue and it's going to be the heaviest where I would, this would be a place where I would implement that. The caveat here is you're just not changing the rep. Like people think this is an opportunity to add a rep to the log book and change form or change position or use momentum. Like it should initiate the same way your first rep did. Just, it's not going to get all the way there. Yep. Gotcha. Gotcha. Um, yeah, I think that would be very balanced in programming to how you can start with the pull day. So, um, anyway, uh, next question trening at 5am, should I split an of our AM and PM? So, um, to add on, let's for just some context, let's say this person's taking 10 milligrams of an of our would be taking five milligrams in the morning, five milligrams at night, or what would be the application? Yeah, I'm splitting it with the tren AM PM midday, whatever, uh, very short half-life. Um, usually splitting that dose AM PM. I do like one of the doses to be pre-trening. So that would be like the one caveat. Um, and so I do like in this scenario, five milligrams pre-trening in the morning, five milligrams later in the afternoon or at night. Um, and just kind of have that a little bit more coverage with that short half-life. Yeah. Yeah. The idea with bodybuilding and hypertrophy is for, to take advantage of all the pathways you're stimulating for hypertrophy is more of this long-term thing that needs to take place or rather just acute flood of androgens around the trening window to leverage some strength. So ideally, yes, splitting it and keeping your levels more stable would be again, big picture. This is getting nuanced, but yeah, get your total anivar dosing for the day and you're probably doing everything you need to, but I would say splitting it. If you're getting into like strength sport, that might change a bit with dosing a lot of it pre-trening only. Um, but again, that's a different application from bodybuilding. Yep. One hundred percent. Well, man, we've been 40 minutes. Do you want to hit these last few or do you want to? No, I think we'll stop there. That just, uh, these fly by when we're talking about them. Yeah. They're so good. I love it. Well, anyway, we appreciate everyone asking thEQuestions and hope you got some value from it. If you have other questions, you're welcome to leave them down below and look, and I can tackle those on another Q and a until next time we will talk to you then.

=== FILE: Rep Ranges are Pointless - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.173 [WELu-1MfqDU].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, Jon Jewett. I'm your host, Jon Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Jon Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Repring dues are pointless. Are they though? So I know there's been a lot of conversation around you should only be doing low reps or less than five reps or anything beyond that. The previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously equation of where do we get someone psychologically from a focus standpoint pulling the most out of their trening we'll probably touch on that at some point today but i think really the biggest point to kind of start with is that rep ranges aren't magic and we can look at kind of how muscle growth hormone hormone occurs from the trening stimulus and then the adaptation that's a response to that and we can see that muscle growth hormone hormone happens across a variety spectrum of reps and we're going to kind of dive into like how effort and proximity to failure plays into that but i think the detachment of rep ranges is huge and i know it for program nerds out there it's hard because you're wanting to write programs that are like the perfect program design or the perfect amount of reps or stimulus or whatever it might be and it's it's important to kind of contextualize but we gotta understand that when we look at hypertrophy and that adaptation it's so forgiving there's so many different ways to drive it and it could vary depending on the athlete's makeup so we're going to touch on that today but rep ranges aren't magic man right yeah it's uh you know there's tenets of hypertrophy that need to occur and part of them is like a rep like within this rep scheme however there needs to be some context to uh the the set quality and what did that what does those reps look like as you're approaching you know proximity to failure but i always still have always scaled this back into knowinGHow does something work and if i know how something works and not to like a insane uh biochemical level but within a context so you as a lifter know what you should be really monitoring when you're trening and there was actually a pretty recent review paper that looked through mechanisms of hypertrophy with uh light load high load trening and it all still is coming back to mechanical tension being the primary driver for muscle hypertrophy and there's still somEQuestion marks out there about some other aspects like inflammatory cascade processes that might have some other contribution but still that the running theme across whatever rep range you're doing is still like tension within the muscle is what's actually causing all the signal trensduction to occur that then turns on protein synthesis and allows the hypertrophy adaptations to then occur and there there was a paper a long time ago not too long ago by brad schoenfeld uh kind of explaining that there's these three mechanisms of hypertrophy mechanical tension muscle damage and then cell swelling pump whatever metabolic stress whatever you would like to call it and so off this paper you saw all types of things start coming out of like there was then a trening programs that would have like you know your loading day and then like a pump day or um you know with even within your own trening session you'd have like your heavy load like tension work then like pump work and trying to separate out the mechanisms hypertrophy into applying them into you know trening programming and what's kind of becoming now more of a thing of what of our understanding is that like the pump or even muscle damage are more just side effects of tension and some rep ranges causes more of an effect along like muscle damage or or even pump then maybe light load trening i think where it can get kind of an issue is if you're chasing the wrong thing in your workouts because uh we've spoken this before like renee and i get in the car and we say you know hey did you have a good workout today and what's your answer to that and you as a listener like what would you say what's your first answer usually when you have a good workout and some people say well i got a good pump right because that makes a fun workout for for sure uh but that doesn't always mean it's going to be a good workout and we're we're learninGHow the whys of what causes a muscle to grow we know now that the primary thing is mechanical tension what should really define if you had a good workout or not and it should be were you able to improve your trening performance because if you're going to increase load or reps or maybe it was even a form improvement under the same load and reps that is allowing you to then ability to you know trenslate those adaptations from the last session into your current trening session and improve performance and in turn improve tension on the muscle and that's key that's the big check mark of like are you creating good stimulus to grow and so that should be defining if you're having a good workout then kind of the next conversation from there is well within these rep ranges is there one that's maybe more efficient for getting tension or why even use higher or lower rep ranges like how how did these apply and i even touch on the aspect around uh proximity to failure as well man it's it's so funny how nuanced trening can be when you come from like the broad spectrum of what drives the adaptation of hypertrophy and then you start to kind of apply to different people and for those of you that follow my content across like multiple different platforms you guys know that i love to obsess over the little things that make people better with whether it's you know the access activate integrate with prep work or whether it's matching someone's movement capacity to the uh pattern that i'm choosing and all of this comes from the desire to maximize mechanical tension for that athlete because what fits one athlete is not going to fit another and it all just comes back to the understanding that the broad spectrum of progressinGHypertrophy is that mechanical tension stimulus and now this does kind of dive into kind of the effort intensity piece like going alongside that obviously there's a lot of evidence for close proximity to failure most people kind of living in that one to three reps from failure as like promotinGHypertrophy but there is a bit more of a nuanced conversation i would say in regards to like the highest levels of bodybuilding and experience because you're going to see that the further that you get into progression in the sport the narrower that window is going to become and we have to look at how do we consistently progress on a week-to-week basis for that athlete i think john this is kind of where sharing your kind of touch points on from an anecdote side of like what you've experienced across your career helps as well um so that people can see that yeah with you know with with that being said like maybe i'm not the best with antidote as far as uh proximity to failure because uh coming from coming from my background i uh was probably on the other end of the spectrum with trening past to failure or beyond with sacrifice of uh you know moving tension off the target muscle and so i think over time there's been more of a precision in execution and also being able to buffer you know when the target muscle is failing and moving away from you know just actual mechanical failure like i'm unable to move anymore versus a technical failure like hey form's about to break down to a point where i'm going to be loading maybe uh passive tissues or it's other muscle groups i don't want to be bringing in but i think that's even more an advanced thing too as you do need a bit more of like a sniper rifle approach to certain muscle groups over just a broad spectrum of of stimulus for maybe a big compound movement in a beginner but with with that too like if you get to the point of like where will proximity to failure you can tren pretty far away from failure and still grow and i absolutely think that can apply to someone earlier on however i would still lean into trening closer to failure in in those instances because the the ability to gauge failure is pretty poor unless you're able to really take someone there yourself right and show them what that's like and i think even for a beginner like starting machine work is great because it's more controlled quicker learning and you can take someone to a failure point a lot quicker that you could say with like a barbell squat so they can learn what that effort should really be like but yeah as you progress up um i see it mixed like some guys aren't really trening that high effort but some guys are just way beyond too and so it's just trying to refine the approach and see make sure for one like execution's nailed the exercises are accommodating to like their mechanics and then within that those confines being able to take them to a level of failure that is allow them to maximize the stimulus but also repeat that bout within a reasonable time frame again and and those are some some components to consider so with uh and i i'm all about like i i don't want like the pacification of trening of like we should not tren to failure because i'm i'm about that life right um but you do realize how limiting it can be if that is your only mindset and failure is yeah it is a place to be at but at the same time like as i've gotten older too i'm not that old but still 10 years in bodybuilding is like feels like 50 years trening because like you have to like get protective of your connective tissue like that becomes such the limiting factor in sustaining progress and trening like all out to failure and and beyond like partials and extending the sets like that like man connective tissue takes a real toll for just an eke out of a bit more stimulus which if you're then not able to keep sustaining that trening block it becomes the bottleneck for you where you're not able to then progress you have to deal bad dial back or you even get get injured so uh yeah there's a real balance to to find but i would definitely lean harder into trening close proximity of failure and i i pretty much do that year round within within confines of like technical failure right yeah i think that's where and we should have maybe chatted about this before the podcast but i i thought your anecdote would be helpful because a lot of the crowd you know in just with the reputation that's kind of surrounded like high effort all-out failure is kind of the reputation people see but it has to have the context of matching it to the the goal of the exercise and what's going to keep the athletes safe and more so your experience around kind of the technical failure being where we see the maximal progress so that we get the most mechanical tension out of the target tissues is is kind of the point that i was trying to pull out with what is defining failure because i don't want defining failure to be the instagram highlight reel of screaming yelling you know changing form in order to be that and i think that's the point that i always want to get across to athletes is that high effort and intensity comes with a high level of focus and requires a high level of focus and that's why when we write the program design kind of pushing us into our third point of like trying to match reps to the exercise i'm not putting rep ranges in there because of willy-nilly like knowing that we have hypertrophy across multiple variety of rep ranges but the rep ranges are suggestions based on what the setup is for that pattern whether it's a compound pattern that's externally stabilized where you're extremely stable and we can safely take that to failure or whether it's an internally stabilized pattern we might need to leave that one rep in the tank so that we're not pulling ourselves out of the bottom of a squat rack right because we can do the in-centric but can't do the concentric that's the kind of stuff that i think when we start like combining the role of effort and intensity with matching program design from a reps perspective we have to understand that technical failure is what we're talking about yeah and within the same thread of that around effort and loading and proximity failure would say that higher loads and lower reps is the context where you can stay a little farther from failure and still create a good stimulus because pretty much right off the bat you're getting full motor unit recruitment and then even if you're a little farther from failure you've still accomplished that goal of like high amounts of tension exposure for that muscle now within the higher rep ranges why they can't be as effective as high load low rep trening is basically the accumulation of fatigue then causing those higher level motor unit recruitment and then high tension exposure across all muscle fibers uh the argument that i've seen in social media around this is that high rep trening is kind of inefficient right it takes a lot of reps to get to those last stimulating reps and so that creates a lot of fatigue so they can be a lot more fatiguing to a degree but however um we can't just apply that across like the broad spectrum like a 20 rep set on a back squat it's going to feel a lot different than a 20 rep set on like a bicep curl and like oh fatigue everyone's so scary oh that's not efficient it's like oh gosh 20 reps on a bicep curl you're not going to be laying on the floor afterwards gasping for air like you would like a barbell squat so this kind of defines of like well is there times when we might want to be usinGHigh reps for maybe muscle groups that uh in isolation pattern maybe it's have a higher susceptibility to injury or um maybe even emphasis for the day if you've done a lot of high load work and you're trying to manage connective tissue stress to then get to like say your your bicep trening or even for those that maybe struggle with body part um connection that high reps and that metabolic stress and cell swelling maybe helps them then connect with that muscle group a bit better uh then we even think about managing loading across the week in this point we got back to being able to sustain your trening over weeks if the if you're only doinGHeavy loads a lot of people don't have connective tissue made of steel and that stuff really really accumulates over time where you can buffer some of that and keep up trening volume with some higher uh rep work so yes it causes more fatigue and it's not efficient to get to stimulating reps and i think this you're getting into just like trying to build program design purely off of research and not what's actually happening in the trenches and when you get to that understanding through experience you're going to realize like man there's a lot of benefit to utilize very varying rep ranges and that's where we get into our our application here like the exercise and the ability of that individual the age of that individual is going to dictate the rep that we're going to pick for particular lifts um luke how do you go about selecting rep ranges for different movement patterns across like your your athletes thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with j3 university our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our j3u team to answer any questions you have and livEQ a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top ifbb pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at j3 university let's get back to today's podcast yeah there's there's a few different things that i'm looking for um oddly enough i think one of the most important ones is the ability of an athlete to be proprioceptively aware um and kind of their skills as an athlete so you can call it coordination you could call it you know body with spatial awareness or whatever it might be but um this is where you see like a lot of times previous athletes can trensition into bodybuilding program a little bit easier because they have like a lot of self-awareness as far as like where their body moves in space um and so small cues put them in the right positions a lot quicker i feel much more comfortable moving that person into some higher exposure loading than someone who doesn't have that background right because um when you don't have that background and this is part of the reason why i do the movement analysis so the movement analysis serves a couple different goals it serves the goal of like movement discrepancy uh so like where potentially from a movement perspective does someone lack um but it also gives me a really good perspective of someone's ability to have that spatial awareness with kind of how they coordinate themselves and move themselves through space and uh that is a skill that is unbelievably underrated when it comes to managing load um because it it can be a rate limiter in a lot of these large compounds so um i'd say that's probably point number one point number two um is going to be based off exercise selection and this is kind of where we start to get into i'm probably picking like obviously lower rep ranges for some compound based patterns slightly higher for uh unilateral based patterns external versus internal stability will guide my decision making a little bit as well um and previous injury profiles but those would be the first two things i look at straight out the gate and i cannot emphasize the ability to appropriate staff as like something that's extremely important because you just you see it in like the younger athletes like trying to move themselves through a squat and he takes like six or seven weeks of different stops a queue just to get him in the right position it's like yeah that's kind of where you know we can't load that individual maximally from a percentage of loading perspective versus someone who has that ability to do that um just to give some some understanding for people that might be wondering because you brought up like your movement analysis and then spatial awareness could you give an example of that of just say let's for like lower body um just just to briefly like what like one movement assessment might kind of look like yeah what might that look like with spatial awareness and then for that context what does it mean for someone picking the lift yeah no that's a great question so part of my movement analysis is always going to be letting them independently move on their own so i'm not going to give any guidance to some of the patterns that are chosen um very commonly i'll use a walking lunge with a front view camera i'm very commonly i will also use a squat pattern so like maybe an empty bar squat or some sort of squat that i'm watching them from a side view front view and a rear view okay so this is like one component of that movement analysis i'll do with people and you can see someone's ability to appropriate step in that walking lunge like how consistent are their steps step to step is their foot struggling with stability when they go from one foot to the next are they having lateral knee travel that's excessive um this is like really kind of big signs that they might have issues secondarily with the barbell squat consistency rep to rep especially from like a side view or a front view um is huge uh you'll see people who don't do this well um torso lean will shift from one rep to another their eccentric speed will change one rep to another um they'll get to a couple where they dive on them just to try to get to full depth from a front view you'll see some like lateral shifting rep to rep um so that ability to be aware of kind of how their body's moving in space a lot of times has to do with the consistency of how they execute those reps rep after rep so what this doesn't mean is if they consistently execute their reps almost identical every single time but there's one thing wrong with that pattern like i see a little bit too much torso lean in the squat or um maybe there's some lateral foot pressure in that squat pattern but they do it every single time that's the person that's going to be able to take a cue fix it and apply it very well and then be able to be massively loaded very easily that's what you're looking for when you look for that in my opinion gotcha so there is differentiation between someone that's really inconsistent in movement where they're trying to like find their path every rep's kind of an adjustment versus someone that moves consistently but just maybe uh we could say in incorrectly or maybe suboptimally to be set up for that that type of movement so this might mean assuming if someone is inconsistent in a walking lunge and squat that starting off with a squat might not be best for them maybe it's something more braced and then but then then the teaching component um would be then progressing them back into that squat from there exactly and so you know within that getting back to like your your rep targets um you know where where does that apply because you're going to have someone that maybe they don't move great does that mean higher reps would be better for that individual or lower reps and a brace pattern would be acceptable yeah so lower reps and a brace pattern is probably acceptable um IMight like in week one and two uh keep them pretty far away from failure just until i see them a couple video footage of like correcting them uh but i'd be okay with like something a little bit lower but their program design in general is going to have a lower load exposure because what i'm concerned with is with inconsistency and movement that they're going to get into a position because they don't get into the same position every single time where load exceeds tissue tolerance so their ability to resist load is not very high in that position that they don't visit very often and that's what leads to injury so that's the person that i will actually bias programming a little bit more towards higher reps um and externally based patterns as you mentioned and then over time progress them to a little bit more loading as they improve that proprioceptive awareness uh component now there are things in prep work that you can do to fast track that and that's kind of where the stability work comes into play and you use that in order to create better spatial awareness um but that's the person that even in the brace pattern i'm probably not letting them go below 10 reps to be honest just from a load exposure standpoint i brought up someone that maybe they would challenge some of this in a way not challenge it but there's another like we don't have every situation here right but you had someone earlier on in their lifting career uh maybe they just don't have experience with the pattern at all to where they're a bit clumsy with it uh but also are they potentially just if they're earlier on not even strong enough to get injured to begin with and that like because i remember like starting off in like middle school lifting right like i was like unbreakable like i i was you know could be inconsistent and flimsy but either way uh you could go max out every day you just don't break so you're just not at a point where uh you're even like strong enough to get injured to a degree that's fair does that does that change at all like i know that's not our typical client that comes through but right for those that just are kind of earlier on the lifting they're seeing someone oh yeah like i can't do this movement at all like maybe they just haven't done the movement and just need some practice with that assessment but yeah a little different situation yeah i think that's more the context of the population deal with because like if i'm dealing with someone who still can't be perceptively aware they've probably been trening already for a period of time where it's not just the initial exposure conversation right it's the their skills as an athlete to be able to do that yeah i think another area that i want to bring up in is just different phases of rep ranges and uh consideration of fatigue around these different rep ranges because a lot of people are like about you know high high load uh with low reps being pretty efficient and i would have to agree with that i think there's still you have your sweet spot for hypertrophy that we've always heard about being like this is kind of like usually see eight to 12 reps is where a lot of people live for maybe 75 of their work and then maybe a little bit gets up to 15 maybe 20 reps for a few things but i know we had research saying like up to 30 reps can be you know effective for hypertrophy that doesn't mean we necessarily take it there because if you're in a contest prep and you know try doing 30 reps on everything like you would be so fatigued and also the ability to just sustain that workload it would be so challenging so i think as you're going through a contest prep if you had any of that really high rep work it would be shifting it back down to like an efficiency point of rep range that somewhere lives a lot of times in that eight to 12 reps now the same thing goes with like really uh high load trening in a contest prep where your ability to brace is limited and also your ability to recover is limited especially from connective tissue stress which if you're doing cardio you're adding in more volume of trening with that you might be setting yourself up for potential injuries or just limiting recovery from the loads just being too high so i would still say like living within the probably the most effective rep range in hypertrophy being in this kind of eight to twelve six to fifteen if you want to even expand it to that would be ideal kind of in the contest prep and then when recovery allows and you're trying to to increase volume that's where you're going to have to kind of bring in the higher rep trening more as a strategic way to manage connective tissue stress um across your entire uh weekly spectrum um i wanted to mention that i don't know if you have anything to add uh two different phase trening in rep range selection loop yeah i think i think there's context needs to be given for some of my comments that um when i'm talking about not bringing someone into lower rep ranges like i'm still not pushing them probably above 15 at any any point really right like the person who doesn't appropriate as well and is squatting that that squat rep range is 10 to 12 right it's just the upper end of that range where we're we're we're talking about right um and i i would pull out your point of 75 of work that you do should probably be 8 to 12 is like so accurate um and basically what ends up happening is the high rep work titrates down as you go into a contest prep and potentially titrates up as you go into all season and the only other caveat that i would add is that when you're in those trensition phases where you're kind of pivoting between you're just massaging the program design in order to set up for the changes that are to come so that would be like if you're in that trensition from all season into prep we're probably going to remove we're going to remove all like set extenders but we're also going to dial back some of the high rep and the specialty work and potentially like uh like the specialization like i'll use hamstrings on the front of the push session for people who need more hamstring work like i'll be pulling that out like that's things like that are what end up getting moved out um where you're kind of moving back to a large percentage of program design being eight in that eight to 12 kind of range yeah no no great point i think the the wrap-up here is that don't get overly focused on a rep target number as there's just still a pretty big spectrum that this can work within but it's almost arbitrary if you don't have effort there and getting close proximity to failure and also that you're also nailing your execution and you have in consideration your ability to recover within these rep ranges and those three areas are really what dictate the rep range you should be working within and you shouldn't put your rep ranges first so hope this gives everyone some clarity and look forward to any feedback comments questions below and we will talk to you all next time

=== FILE: Solving Fat Loss Stalls - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.171 [ktesEpJ8BlU].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Solving stubborn fat loss. Many of us have faced this problem in contest prep or just a fat loss phase in general, where things start slowing down or stopping at all. Or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, you start even gaining weight, and you're like, what in the world's going on? And are you really hitting a fat loss stall? How do you know that you are? And what should you do about it? And that's what Luke and I are going to address in today's podcast. It's a, it can be one of the most mind-boggling things when a prep is, like, stalling, and you're, like, trying to figure out why, and everything on paper looks like it's supposed to be moving the client in the right direction, and then, you know, you have to trenslate the paper to the actions, and then, you know, you have to trenslate the paper to the actions, and then, you know, you have to be able to do that. I think that's kind of some of what we're going to touch on today, because there can bEQuite an emotional attachment to kind of the rate of loss on the client side, wouldn't you say? Yeah, definitely, if you get a little scale-focused, and rightfully so, like, for the most part, the scale is going to need to go down for almost everyone in prep. IMean, I know using PEDs could maybe create some, like, re-compinGHappen, but these are relatively rare situations, and maybe that's more on the front part of our prep, but at some point, it usually trenslates to scale weight going down. The PED piece is probably the hardest part of coaching to see if you really are stalling or just, you know, mutating. But within the context for everyone else that is not in that situation, yeah, you do need to have, like, kind of this rate of loss, and for the most part, it should be on par with a good estimation of what a stage weight might be. And I think just starting to map that out for someone could be a good start point of where you should be tracking along to make sure you are on track. But, you know, definitely, if you're not seeing progress, the emotional side can get weighed in pretty heavy. It could cause you to make some rash decisions, right? And not only the rash decisions, but on the emotional side of the equation, it can lead to stress and anxiety buildup, which, if you combine that with any life variables that are potentially contributing to that as well, like extremely busy work schedule, or you're working with someone who's like a night shift worker, or even like relationship-based issues, you can see all of this start to compound and create issues within the contest prep. And it's pretty important to understand because there is certainly a human element to prepping people. It's kind of a big place of where the art of coaching takes place because we have, like, all the education and the textbook stuff that is physiological-based that we have to understand. But psychology can trump physiology in some cases. And so it makes the dynamic of, like, figuring out weight loss stalls sometimes pretty tough. Yeah, and even then, like, the emotional state plays into the physiological state. Like, they are 100% tied. Like, you could create an emotional state that absolutely does create a physiological response and cause you to stall out because of that. So all of those aspects really need to be managed. And I think the first thing to look at here is the basic of, are you truly stalled? And you have to define, like, what really is a stall out? And in a contest prep, we have a, you know, a finite timeline that we're working within. And usually this is going to be, when you're starting to see, like, that 10 to 14-day mark of just a body weight just maintaining and the visuals also maintaining. And there's a difference there between, like, stall and just slow fat loss. Because someone might still be moving along. It's just slower because of maybe several reasons that we could go into. But when someone's just not moving at all and you even, and if you're a coach out there, you probably have lowered someone's food or raised up their cardio and just nothing still happens. And they still don't move. And you're like, well, that mathematically doesn't make sense, right? So, the first step in this is trying to confirm the deficit. So, make sure just errors aren't happening within all your variables that you have set for someone. Yeah. And you'll see this happen a lot with, like, especially the calories just sneaking into the diet. So, there's a bunch of different ways this can happen. But big ones that you'll see would be, like, excessive sauce use. You'll even see people starting to do this with, like, trying to feel full. So, they'll start adding things that, one, jack their sodium up pretty quick. But, two, also potentially bring in some untracked caloric intake. You'll see the veggie intake go up. You'll see, like, all these additional things being added to the meals. And it's pretty easy to add up, you know, over time. You start doing this across the board with multiple things. This could be drink flavorings. This could be gums, like, excessive chewing gum, things along those lines. It really can start to add up in a bunch of different places. Because it's super easy for someone who, especially the people who are in their earlier years of prepping, to start to introduce these things. And it can be pretty, pretty. I have a funny story that I have to share. Neto had a client, and I'll leave their name out of it. But, you know, the, if it's not, you can't believe it's not butter spray? They were opening the, if you can't believe it's not butter spray, and pouring it on their meals. Because it says zero calories on the back of the bottle. Yeah. That poor, poor person. And then when you do have that, like, teaching moment, you're like, oh, it's such a letdown. Yeah, it is. But I think that's an important point, is just to take an inventory of all the nutritional inputs. So everything that goes in your mouth, if you can track it, then you should be. Now, this is in the situation of a prep, right, when we are trying to get to these, you know, lower ends of body fat. For, like, a lifestyle client, there could be some air there, and maybe that is enough to get them to their goal. But when you're really having to get and address these issues where someone's stalling, you really have to take a pretty hard inventory. So I would recommend, like, tracking all your food with chronometer. And some people are following a strict plan, but, and I've done this with plans of, like, where you give them, you know, your set foods, and maybe you have some, like, general guidelines around, all right, only calorie-free sauces. It's like, well, what does that mean for someone? Like, let me see all the sauces that you are using. And maybe some of these are just low calorie, and how much are you using? And can we track these things? Other things that, you know, you need to realize about food labels is that some things don't need to be counted as calories. One that I've come across is, like, amino acids. Amino acids don't count as a protein under FDA labeling, so they don't have to contribute to calorie counting either. So a lot of times you'll see in your EAAs or BCAs or whatever, your glutamine, that it's zero calorie. That doesn't mean it's a freebie calorie. So I've seen people add up to an extra 100 grams of protein, all from amino acids, which, regardless, you know, some of these amino acids vary. They're not actually four calories per gram. They're very close. But it could be easily another 400 calories from protein. Now, given that protein is very hard to store as body fat, and also it has a greater thermic effect of food. So, you know, you could have a higher protein intake and have it, like, stall you necessarily because it's not a great fuel source. But nonetheless, it's still calories. And correcting those issues and bringing that amount down could get someone moving again. But that's just another area where it might be a calorie that's not being tracked that you wouldn't know otherwise. Same thing goes for, you know, low calorie, non-nutritive sweeteners. Every packet of, you know, Sweet Low or, you know, Splenda, they have dextrose or maltodextrin added to it. Now, it's such a small amount. It's like 0.7 gram of carbohydrate. But I had a client one time putting 20 packets in oatmeal. Now, do the math on that. That's 14 grams of carbohydrate from dextrose. When someone's on maybe only 100 grams of carbs, you just made a 15% increase in your carbohydrate intake. So all these things are needing to add up, and that's when we have to get really get the microscope out and look over everything that could be calorie contributing. And maybe it's not a stall. It's more just an inaccuracy of the calorie deficit. But I don't know if you have anything else to add around that, Luke, but otherwise shifting over to overestimations of output. Yeah, I think it's the last thing I would say is the more you can keep the stuff consistent from the beginning of prep to the end of prep is where you kind of avoid some of this stuff. Like I know people want to, you know, deal with cravings or whatever it might be. And there's, I guess, ways to do that as long as you're tracking it. But when in doubt, like that consistency is always going to be king. I think the energy expenditure one is one that's not discussed very often because this can come from a couple of different places. But the biggest place that I see this is effort. Motivation at the beginning of prep is high. Go in for your, you know, 10,000 steps in your maybe 20-minute cardio session or whatever. And that 20-minute cardio session is like efficient. You're like looking at, you're like on a high. You're like, we're starting prep. I'm about to get shredded, whatever. And you get like 10 weeks into prep. And that saying, cardiovascular activity is like much slower. There's not as much effort put into it. You've already started adapting to cardiovascular activity. So you're not getting the heart rate elevations that you were seeing. And so this is kind of like one of the places you can easily overestimate the energy expenditure that's going in. It's just straight from like an effort portion of the equation. Yeah. You'll have someone that's, for one, getting lighter in body weight. Also, they're getting cardiovascular adapted. So you're getting more efficient with utilizing calories for cardio. And all that can lead to just burning less calories. So let's see, at least on the cardio side, have a way we can track effort level. And not just effort, but more so heart rate, I think, is a relatively good tool because you're more somewhat tracking the adaptation and making sure you can keep heart rate up at a range. The issue around that too is going to be that at some point to keep that heart rate up, fatigue might become a real problem. And that's when you kind of need to balance some fatigue metrics, which we'll talk about here in a bit. But, you know, from that point of view, I need to also be checking, you know, what modality you're doing for your cardio. What does that even look like? Because I know we've used the step mill a lot in bodybuilding. But then you see how someone does the step mill and they're like draped over it, right? And I've watched my heart rate doing the step mill. And, like, when I hold on, my heart rate will drop, like, 10 beats per minute compared to when I'm not. But if I was just told, like, hey, step mill, level eight, it's like, okay, there's going to be a whole lot of difference in calorie burn with how I implement that cardio. Same thing goes with incline treadmill walking. Like, holding on and not holding on is a big difference. Because when you're leaning back so far that it no longer looks like an incline, you know, you're more like now a flat walk. So those are things to think about. Like, hey, no holding on. Like, you might need to leave notes on your clients for what that might look like. And then some way to be tracking just daily activity. Because I used to do the prep where I didn't track activity at all, no steps. And you just preserve your energy. So you, like, I work at the hospital. I have a wheelie chair. I used to get up and, like, walk over to get, like, you know, whatever paper for the printer or whatever I needed. Instead, I just kind of, like, push back and, like, roll each air back over to the other room, this side of the room where I need things. So you just get super lazy. And you end up decreasing your output, whether it's just how you sit, your posture, all the way to, like, creating the most efficient routes for you to take to preserve that energy. So things to start thinking about. And, like, that's why we track steps as kind of an indirect measure of NEAT. But, again, some things that you just need to standardize and make sure and be conscious of. Because before, just being, like, conscious of that piece, you'll start catching it more often of how you might be getting a little lazier on prep and making up that deficit through just outputting less. Yeah, 100%. There's also the component of fluid retention, which I think can be a couple different inputs. Fatigue is kind of typically the first one that comes to mind. But that kind of goes with, like, the energy expenditure, in my opinion. Like, how you see someone not only executing that energy expenditure, but, like, the effect that it's having and making sure that, you know, kind of pushing into point number two of checking trening. Like, fatigue management is a part of prep. It doesn't mean that it's not going to be challenging. But we need to be aware of that component of the fat loss process. Yeah, with fatigue, and I know we've seen, like, the Minnesota starvation study where they take people to dieting extremes. And basically, it's showing, like, everyone will keep losing at a certain number. That it may get really slow. But even through, like, you know, adaptive processes, if you keep getting someone lower in food and higher in output, they will keep moving. So it doesn't seem like there's as much of a true stall. However, we do see it happen in practice. So I know some people like to quote that study, and those were males in the military that were in that study. However, we definitely see, like, some people that are just more resistant to weight loss. And with fatigue and high cortisol levels, you know, again, we're not just working within this math model of calories in, calories out. Within a person and all the physiological processes, you've seen some wild stuff happen to where you absolutely can create a negative hormonal state that can just be so resistant to losing body fat. Because we're not just talking about weight loss at this point. Like, we have an aesthetic that we're looking for of low body fat and high muscularity. So if this hormonal state through dieting extremes is swaying into the negative realm, it absolutely doesn't lend to our goal and could cause someone to have a true stall out. And it does happen. But one thing to hopefully look over that I like to review when someone is stalling is that fatigue metric. And look into that one pretty hard because a lot of times it's someone that likely has been getting pushed enough. And if you have all the signs of high fatigue, like, hey, you know, I have zero energy during the day. Maybe there's a decline in sleep. What's trening performance doing? Is it on the decline? Yes. Yes. Okay. So fatigue could be a problem. What areas can we drop off fatigue? And which one area to look at is trening? So I've seen programs that have insanity volume in contest prep with set extenders, short rest periods, almost creating like a cardio metabolic type of workout out of their weight trening. This goes for guys. I'm not just talking about females as well. But just the volume levels that just extend way beyond what's needed and is a very fatiguing way to create for your weight trening. And then in turn, you're on a per set basis. Your effort's just not there to create a good stimulus to retain tissue. And that just causes you. And that just causes you to just turn into a smaller version of yourself. So maybe this evening, the person that's like dropping some, but they're not gettinGHard and leaner. And that's usually a trening effort piece or trening effort plus too much volume. So those are things to address around the trening side and kind of look through and sort like what exercises could be driving like excessive fatigue, where volume might be too high, then also setting of like, hey, we want straight sets. We want adequate rest times. And then really trying to increase thEQuality of that volume and do less of it. Yeah, and I think it's just even to like a point of understanding it's okay to deload during a prep and you should plan for that within mapping your timelines out. I actually gave – we did an education – I did an education session with the coaches like a couple weeks ago, kind of showing what the stereotypical prep looks like and kind of where you see a lot of deloads fall. If it's like the ideal scenario of a client, kind of where you'll commonly see like volume drops where potentially a deload comes in. And building that into your timeline is huge because it allows you to hit the reset button a bit in case you don't get it exactly right as far as when to pull volume back and like keeping that recovery capacity kind of right at above where you're capable of recovering from. And it can really save contest perhaps if it's pulled at the right time. And so I think that's kind of the last piece that I would say with the trening status is giving yourself time on the timeline side to have that deload at some point so that you don't get into the mistake of having to push so aggressively that you just accumulate fatigue more because you are behind. And I think that's – it's so, so overlooked of like picking your timeline for prep plays a huge role in how well you manage the trening side of keeping fat loss rolling. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the off-season? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from off-season to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, and with deloading, like the idea here is just take the shortest amount of time needed to get back into a productive fat loss and trening state. So, you know, the real truth here is like likely you're not going to have like a, you know, 7, 10-day deload in your contest prep, and there might be a degree of fatigue that's just going to be staying there. But we are looking for like, hey, the nexT3 days we're taking off from trening low steps with maintenance food, see what that does impact-wise. We keep going, and then we kind of adjust as we need around that. But it's not typical that we're running a traditional, whatever a traditional is for, usually you hear a 7-day deload is kind of the norm, right? We like everything mapped out in weeks. That's just not the case. A lot of times it can be just a couple days off from trening and pushing, and that gets someone enough back on track and drops off fatigue. But the problem is is when you get that person that's been going nonstop for weeks on end, it can take a while to really bring someone back and drop off enough fatigue that they are able to keep the dieting process going. And a lot of times that's the person that's way better for their second show because usually they go into peak week, they drop off fatigue, they have some more food, and then finally towards like the next week they start moving again, and they're dieting and more food. You're like, what? It was this magic that's happening. And usually it was just such a fatigue drop that their output increases that much. And now that the deficit is far greater than when they even had lower food because of that increase in need, increase in trening output. So that might be the case for a lot of people that have been strening together a lot of cumulatural weeks of fatigue that they need a really big drop back to keep that moving. And one other thing to address here too when you're getting into this is the adaptive component for individuals. So you're going to see that there's people that are more metabolically flexible and unflexible, and we could even call these like a conservative versus more of a liberal dieter. With that conservative person being like a little food decrease goes really far. So those are your clients that likely are not seeing fat loss stalls. You lower food a little bit, and they just keep moving all prep long. But then you have more of the liberal dieter where they will keep adapting as you lower food. And that's the person that likely can run into stalls pretty quickly. It's the person that usually might get up to really high food offseason, but also gets really low food in contest prep. But regardless, with either person, you should be checking lab work before prep begins. To make sure they're in a hormonal state that will be positive and help them carry out the process. Nothing that needs to be addressed like thyroid hormone before. And then always try to play in labs like mid-prep when you're kind of getting into that digging phase of prep to confirm if we've already made some type of thyroid implementation or maybe other hormone areas that could be addressed. And then from there, we can adjust it. Or if that's something that has not been implemented yet, maybe it very well could be time to be implemented. And I will say like the reality of coaching is a lot of times this stuff is going in more on the biofeedback basis with thyroid hormone for the enhanced competitor that a lot of times on the front of prep, we're just already putting thyroid in to account for the inevitable decline in thyroid that's taking place. Then when you're really that mid-prep lab pull, you can adjust dosaging from there. Versus, oh, I think someone's stalling out. Then you waste two weeks. Then you pull labs. Then it takes another week to get labs back. Then it takes another week for this competitor to get in the right thing that you want them to be running. And then here we go. We're four weeks down the road of like suboptimal thyroid and also taken away from the timeline. So the reality is you're not going to see like thEQuote-unquote right approach to addressing thyroid by, oh, yeah, we're seeing maybe a thyroid decline, pull labs, and then dress it. We kind of have to really stick to our timeline, and that's how it kind of works in the coaching world and in reality. Yeah, and I don't really want to – I'm going to do it anyways. Kind of skipping to like a later point that we were going to make is we don't want to use that, oh, I'm just plugging this in kind of excuse so that I don't waste time into being – using PDs as a crutch. Because I do think that we do kind of potentially have some people that will use that as a lean-to to say, cling goes in at this point in prep or T3 goes in at this point in prep without actually seeing the biofeedback there. I think it's pretty important to understand when we talk about bringing the best physiques to stage that we're really in tune with the biofeedback for each athlete. Like I just had an athlete who won a classic as you can bodybuilding overall at a regional show in Canada, Alex, and he is – I think it was like seven or eight weeks out from the pro qualifier that he was doing, and he was pretty much – he was like a pound away, maybe two pounds away from fully stage ready that we're planning for the pro qualifier with no T3 usage whatsoever, just like a conservative-type dieter where you make one change and he just keeps moving. It's like you're not really seeing any presentation of adaptations in the hypothyroid-based portion of the spectrum. And so there was no need to plug it in, and he's still moving, so I still haven't plugged it in like for the pro qualifier. It's like not everyone sees the adaptive response to the level that intervention is needed, and I think that's where being a coach and having good tracking metrics and understanding the biofeedback response that you would see for someone hypothyroid, like what are those biofeedback metrics that you need to be asking questions or looking for in your tracker in order to see that it is time to plug these in is huge because it's like there's two sides of the aisle, right? Like we can't waste time always because the reality of coaching is, like John pointed out, the lab work thing can take forever. It needs to be a part of the preps, but we also need to be making decisions based off accurate biofeedback the client's giving us and not just using it as this is the time point in which XYZ goes in. I didn't even plug in Trinblone for the regional yet. He was like the hardest on stage. Like it's just you don't have to use everything on the table for every show. Like it's just so important. Yeah, I have one client right now, very conservative diet, right? Make a couple changes, he just will move and he's like, man, I haven't even used Trin or Clin yet. It's like, yeah, like honestly, we probably won't need to. Like it's just how your response is to fat loss and importantly, managing all these things that we're talking about on the front end to where you don't, you try not to run into these problems, which for everyone, I'm going to just quickly kind of hit a few bullet point list items of where you can prevent yourself from shooting yourself in the foot on a planning perspective. For one, just dieting too aggressively increases fatigue and poor trening, right? And so that usually we see happen on the back end of prep when you're trying to catch up. The other issue is on the front end of prep, dieting too slow, which can lead someone like just mentally burnout. Maybe no visual changes are really happening. And then you go back to point number one, dieting too aggressively. So there needs to be a balance here of, and usually what we aim for is a little bit more aggressive out the gate dieting. It's motivating, see somEQuick changes. You have higher body fat and able to retain tissue really easily. And then you slow it down as someone's getting leaner. How you run into not having to go back into aggressive, aggressive dieting is you just allocated plenty of prep timeline. Luke and I keep harping on prep timelines because it is that important. It's the number one reason people do not get stage lean is they run out of time to diet. So have enough time that can solve a lot of your problems that you run into with someone stalling out from fatigue or overaggressive dieting and then making up the deficit by other means. Another one too is mismanaged refeeds, cheat meals used in prep. These things are highly items that you likely won't need until you're really stage lean. We've well established here that they're not going to be metabolism boosters. They absolutely will bring you a little bit out of a state to where you can keep trening performance up, and that's how they should be intended. We're not on the early end of prep trying to look at how refeeds are going to be utilized to like peak for a show yet, that you're not there yet. So you're better off on the front end of prep using more de-output days, lowering fatigue through less cardiovascular activity, or taking off from trening versus having more food going in and then making up your deficit for the week and in turn taking away weeks of dieting in your process. And then the other last point I want to give you too is not setting up your program to have like overly aggressive output structure, which this is the person just doing like hard style cardio and not tracking steps at all. So people doing it on the step mill, high level for long durations at a time, easily accumulate a ton of fatigue, and then that same person might not be moving for the rest of the day. So these are some few items I'm planning that can prevent a lot of the stall stuff from happening to begin with. But I'll throw this back to you, Luke, now of like you have done all this or maybe not, and you still have someone that's stalled out. We get to now like the what to do. What do you do once you are in that situation? We talked a lot about kind of why it happens, how to prevent yourself from getting there. But if you are there, what do we do at that point? Yeah, it's kind of variable depending on the client. And I know some of my clients, like I sometimes I'll respond to a check-in, like initially asking some like pointed questions. Like I'll have like a bullet point list of pointed questions based off what I've read on there, check-in response, and I wait for them to respond to that before I kind of go in and make a decision. It's because I'm looking at these what to do aspects of kind of like how do I either improve their variables, like I'm asking about how are they executing their cardio, what does their everyday process look like, kind of what does their day-to-day schedule look like if I haven't already covered that with them, ensuring that sleep is intact, doing all the like foundational variable stuff, and then kind of looking for anything else that could address to any of the other things we covered as a root issue in order to try and address it. Now the one that I do think is overlooked sometimes is, especially on the female side, if you haven't been on top of potentially addressinGHormone profiles or potentially it's an early competitor who hasn't ran into hormone profile issues, this can be something you want to make sure that you check as well. And this just comes with some pre-planning on the lab work side from a prep perspective. But once you cover all of these things, we really have to start asking thEQuestions of, is it, does the timeline make sense? And I think that that's kind of the hardest question to ask is, as a coach, if you go through on the what to do and you check all the foundational variables, you double check that the deficit's actually the deficit, you're looking at fatigue and already manage that aspect of it, and you're still not seeing that person move, it might be the call that the best package or the best physique that gets put on stage is not within the confines of this contest prep. Yeah, I've had some females where, gosh, we're moving like half a pound a week, if that, some weeks not, and we still have weeks left of dieting. And you see it in like, the math is like, they're not going to get down to the estimated stage weight of what they need. So we're looking at like, well, we could extend this out. And there's just nothing left to play. Like, they're already high cardio, they're already with low food, and fatigue is also a problem. You've done everything, and it still accumulates over a few days where they kind of hit the wall, you need to pull back, and there's just nothing really much left to do. So the only thing that you do have left is more time to get them down. And when you're looking at someone that's like seven plus weeks to continue that, and they still won't make it, it's like, man, maybe we should reconsider here, and that this prep needs to get pulled back some, bring up food, kind of run the longer diet break period, and then maybe go back to a fat loss phase from there. You know, there's situations where like, again, it's the female side, it's just more detrimental on the hormonal piece. But you have a female, and say this isn't you prepping them, but they've dieted pretty hard, and they got conditioned for their first show. Maybe they were able to do that a second time as well. But eventually they might come to you when things stop working, and you're left in the position to diet them for this next show, and they just don't respond. And we see this, like when you keep dieting people really, really hard, and not doing the off-season work that needs to happen, to not just get them to a point of improvement for stage, but metabolically to a place to be able to repeat the diet process, that eventually they just will stop responding over time to prep. It's not the new coach that you worked with, it's just the accumulation over years of what you've been doing. And so that is time to like, hey, do you need to take a step back from prepping, and actually have a duration sitting with a higher calorie surplus, probably a higher body fat level as well, before continuing this prep. And that's a lot of times we run into those type of clients that, yeah, they hope it will come to us with all the tricks to be able to utilize, and it's like just everything's already been played. And it is time to like back off from competing for a bit to be able to repeat that again. So, and that goes into the thing about, you know, addressinGHormones just like we talked about. Now there is the more the short term, as like I have some clients now that they are slow to drop body fat, and I had someone just recently look like it's a stall. They work hard during the week, but then they have the weekends off. So usually you might see you kind of weight climb during the week, then it drops off on the weekends, which that's kind of that client you see where like fatigue management is going to be a real challenge for them. And then when you do see them kind of stall out, you're left with some options here of like testing out, dropping output, maybe a little more food, see if that gives them moving. Then off that, you know, okay, this is someone that's just having more of a fatigue masking the deficit. But then if that's not the case, if I challenge them with that and nothinGHappens, I don't see them drop. It's like, all right, I'm dropping food pretty aggressively. And through that is usually when someone will keep moving, when they just need more deficit present. And that is that type of liberal dieter where you just get to keep pushing them, keep pushing them. And there's going to be a point maybe where you'll run out of tools left to play. But that was kind of the first area that I look at when I do have some variables left to play. Like let me create the deficit with the least fatiguing means possible. So for like the client that I have in mind, hunger is not a big issue. It's a busy individual. So doing extra activity is kind of a problem. So if you're not hungry, hey, let's lower the deficit and leverage that part of the diet. And usually that can keep someone moving. So I'm always looking at where can I create deficit with the least fatigue possible as that type of dieter usually is going to be very problematic with fatigue. 100%. And I think that's kind of where the decision-making process can leave someone in a better spot at the end of prep too. Like there are some of those preps with liberal dieters that it just sucks. Like you cringe at some of the decisions you have to make to get them all the way there because of how quick they are to adapt to changes that you make. But those decisions, eight weeks, 10 weeks, 12 weeks out that kind of bias it towards the lifestyle that they have or what can a lot of times get them over the finish line, in my opinion. Yeah. Yeah. It's a lot of times it's what's needed and you know, you shouldn't see a program and criticize a coach of like other, it seems like we're a little sensitive now to seeing someone like a, you know, a female on a thousand calories in two hours of cardio. Like if this is the tail end of prep, that very well can be reasonable for certain people that have that genetic proclivity. Um, but the problem is more so if they're like 20 weeks out and that's the start of their plan. So, you know, always have context when you're looking at what someone's doing, but all that matters is what do you need to be doing? Because you're going to see people that are dieting on 4,000 calories and it's disgusting than other people that are extremely low and is one doing a secret that you need to know about and is another one doing something wrong that you definitely don't want to be doing. And that might not just be the case, just the genetic variance that we see within the process. So, you know, again, compare it to yourself and just to keep improving your own process, be analytical, dive in through your variables and see where you can leverage and create more efficiency and make your dieting process run smoother. And that's what we're always aiming to do. And after years and years of doing this, still trying to find areas to improve. That's part of the fun in bodybuilding. So, hope you all enjoyed this one. Hope you don't run into a fat loss stall and you just keep getting shredded. Anyway, thank you everyone for tuning in and we'll talk to you next time.

=== FILE: Stop Ruining Your Peak in 2025 - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.166 [QkKrAUuY1rE].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Stop ruining your peak week 2025 edition, which is probably the same as the 2024 edition, as we still see common mistakes being made on peak week, but we're going to hit some of the top ones. And hopefully this season, and hopefully this season, and hopefully this season, and hopefully this season can make a lot of corrections for yourself or for athletes that you're coaching. And let's dive in. Luke, how are you doing? You want to kick us off with number one? Yeah, I think it's almost a testament to number one when you say it's almost the same as the 2024 top five edition, right? Because it's kind of a lean into the least variables you have to change, the easier it is going to be to nail a look. And I, know in the social media age. But then when we kind of see how that trenslates into actual showings and winning consistently and bringing the best physique to the stage consistently. It just doesn't always pan out as a better anecdotal look on stage. And so this is kind of where with this conversation we can have like conversations from both sides of the aisle but it always comes down to simplification of the process and i think the least variables you have and the more variables you have tracked coming in to make it less variables that are changing is a big aspect of nailing peaks i think it's the most important too to be honest yeah it used to be kind of working backwards on peak week of thEQuestions were like when should i cut water when should i carb up when do i take this diuretic it's very like looking far into peak week when you should say you know should i be cutting water or should i be using a diuretic and do i even need a carb up and how do i know if i need to do those things and i think once you're starting to ask thesEQuestions you start to see the bigger picture and see the entire forest and being able to scale back like all right going into peak week i need to be able to have a really good assessment of if i should be doing these things or not and with variable locking these in i'm trying to approach peak week for one have all the body fat off that's one one variable that kind of must must be uh accomplished and then from there like what are we usually seeing that trying to get manipulated and why it's like usually someone's holding water or something for some reason it's like well why is this so before we even enter in a peak week like what variables can we already adjust to not have to do that like the day before and i think that's where we see a lot of guys are messing up of like well once we pull water like we'll see you get like suck dry you're gonna look hard as nails and a lot of the times that wasn't the the actual issue and maybe there's still body fat there or the way they're manipulating water wasn't addressing the root issue of the why they were holding water begin with it doesn't make the fix and we see a lot of guys just end up still soft or flat so before you even enter in a peak week like what variables can we adjust right like we should already have our pd stack design adjusted so that's already adjusted for water and this starts happening like four to six weeks out from the show to where we're not needing the last minute diuretic because we didn't adjust the stack design other other variables to lock in would be being able to have consistent routine right like you're waking up the same time your meals at the same time check-in picks at the same time just to standardize that process uh standardize also um the fatigue management piece so going into this peak week hopefully you're ready ahead and you can drop off fatigue and that already makes someone look like damn near stage ready which if you already have done that part of it you've done a lot of big piece of your your peak week already um having a standardized maintenance calories that you're on standardized sodium potassium water intake like you have all these variables locked in start a peak week you have a pretty accurate look at where you should be walking on stage and we've kind of said this before luke that some point of peak week you should be able to see a stage look and if you don't likely you weren't ready to begin with and this is just comes down to the process of setting up your peak week locking in these variables and then once you see that happen you'll realize that you're not going to have to pull every variable lever to peak someone for a show the the funny thing about all this is like a lot of these variables we're talking about managing and getting consistent are things that like could honestly help your prep at the start if you just did it at the start like the schedule one is the one that jumps out at me like not to i don't want to get too far off peak week but like if you just standardize your schedule in the way that you run it and get it sorted in the first few weeks it's going to be so automatic by the time you get to peak week not only is that automatic consistent schedule going to help you with recovery capacity and getting the fat off in the first place and being able to adapt to the stimulus as you're providing but it's not going to throw any like random wrenches in there of like oh i went and did this thing that was uh two hours of extra activity right just thrown into the middle of it or um oh i slept for four hours three nights three nights this week it's like that schedule consistency helps with the prep process too and i think it's just things that should roll into uh the peak week and i think it also points to we talk about whether if it fits your macros fits within a contest prep having those variables on the micronutrient side um stay consistent is a reason why we tend to have to standardize foods and keep things consistent so that it can stay that consistent heading into peak week um because if if those of you have not taken the time to look at it like changing foods even just changing where you get like a frozen uh fish or a shrimp from a grocery store can change like sodium levels massively so it's it's such small things that you just need to be able to pay attention to kind of before we even start to talk about you know point number two john uh that that could even make lack of consistency in those variables even morecomplicated in my opinion no i completely completely agree it's uh areas too where people don't realize tracking needs to take place and utilizing a good tool to track like i do like chronometer if you're going to be having any type of food rotations but i think even then like i've had people where they are not necessarily rotating foods um just trying different condiments and even you think like you mentioned like the shrimp piece like at our grocery store like i've looked at our frozen shrimp before and there's one that's real low sodium and the other one's like man it's like five times the amount of sodium if you weren't mindful and you just grab the other one you're thinking it's the same you drastically jump up your sodium intake and then maybe you check in that day and your weight's up and you look softer and that coach makes the call based on those photos so yeah standardizing all those variables is extremely important and you know beginning of prep maybe there can be some leniency there but it does help you ultimately if you can keep it as standard as possible now point number two go for harm depleting uh can create morecomplication and you know with this is just the idea that you need to deplete someone down to then be able to load them super compensate get them crazy full and uh then adjustment day or dry out day and pull some water off of them so the idea is you know deplete fill you know spill them then dry them back out which that is a roller coaster ride of a lot of times getting back to a very similar look and uh for where i remember dorian yates he prepped himself and something that stood out what he said which i love dorian he's just like it's so just to the point and like it's hard to argue with the logic sometimes what he says um kind of ahead of his time but anyway the the the idea is like you've been dieting for like 16 weeks you're already depleted so that's the idea is like man why you deplete more when you've already been in this depletion phase already and then if you look to like even the a lot of the glycogen super compensation research is in endurance athletes and that's even progressed to where you don't need depletion days to super compensate glycogen so just having like you're already you know lower levels of glycogen and being depleted insulin sensitive is enough from a bodybuilding perspective to fill out enough and something you need to consider is that no one's going to be able to walk on stage as full as what you could actually super compensate glycogen because there's a an aesthetic piece to this that yes you could get more glycogen and water in the muscle but you're going to end up holding a little bit more outside of it too so there's a balance to strike in the aesthetic aspect and what we just see in practice is that really just get like someone like 80 full is maybe all that it really takes before that look starts diminishing so the issue here with you know and Luke maybe i'll let you have the talking piece here of of digging the hole deeper before you fill it in what's the problem with that yeah it's just it's it's a it's such a zigzag move target and um you already have enough variables come show weekend that are potentially going to make the zigzag from like registration to travel to all these other things um i just think from a predictability standpoint it's it's a pretty low predictability scale the other thing that i think this could potentially cause problems too is i love bodybuilding bodybuilding shows are never on time and like trying to keep a look consistent throughout a day when you're planning to get on stage at 10 o'clock and you don't go until one like doing these massive fluctuations makes this moving target change rapidly where when you have these consistent variables coming in and you've already found the look kind of heading into show day and you know what food and fluid amounts hold your look push your look up or pull your look down it makes it so easy to manage like time changes or schedule changes IMean i've been at a show where my competitor was lining up to get ready to start pumping up to go on stage then they paused it did the pros for the show and then went back to doing the amateurs and it's like you just like done everything to like get them ready to go on stage and then you're not going on stage for another hour and that's like massive hey can you go yeah it's uh an issue too like this with already being depleted i'm sorry no it's i we'll just cut it all right go um issue two with already being depleted is that you're you're fatigued yeah and to fatigue yourself more uh you might not have the time at the end of peak week to remove that fatigue that's where you're not not be as fresh now our weight class divisions like classic 212 even amateur bodybuilding you might have to keep food pretty low and very well might have to have some depletion but again these are situations we have to realize there is a limitation to doing stuff like that but in the ideal scenario it's nothing that's we're going to overly deplete someone and then we have to also consider too like when we bring back food or some guys that they rapidly speed up and require more and more food and you're just not able to keep up with them and then you need someone that also can control their waste on stage so you might not have run just run out of simply the time to fill someone out so again lots of limitations within just doing the carb depletion i i definitely don't think that this is a necessary thing for the majority people especially uh you know not considering the weight class type of athletes but um you brought you hint it at another thing luke and so this is our another point number three is uh use your data monitor your look meal by meal find that look take it to stage right thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with j3 university our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our j3u team to answer any questions you have and livEQ a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top ifbb pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at j3 university let's get back to today's podcast yeah it's uh i love talking to people about peaking because people are like the j3u way of peaking right i'm like i didn't know there was a j3u way of peaking i'm just trying to peak the athlete the best i can with the variables and present in front of me um but i think a lot of times what they're referring to is that visual level one that makes it clear as day about how potentially you could dose food fluid sodium to move someone up and down that linear scale and it's it's such a great visual in my opinion because it's the epitome of needing that consistency during the peak week in order to make this happen and have this much control and that data that you collect in the peak week leading in is so massive and that's why like i know for pros that listen to this like you're often traveling to shows it's a big advantage if possible to travel and get your daily schedule set up a few days ahead of time like john i know you do this when you compete it just makes those variables so consistent and the data that you're gathering on those days consistent to what the environment is that you're in so that comes show day you're you're you've got it nailed down like i do think three days is plenty like to have that set up but man like you need to be tracking this and i have i have a peak week chart i use that's like it goes across all these different variables about what plugs in what's plugged in like macros body weight weights at different times of the day what was in for those weights and i'm like tracking the visuals for all these numbers and then i typically on my end highlight the one that's my favorite during that week so that i know those variables that led up to that and then you can go into the actual show uh knowing everything that that that led you to that favorite look yeah those easily have been my my best peaks and also uh psychologically the most confident peaks when i did toronto last year i tried a pretty a harder carb load and it just uh led to me not waking up how i wanted to on show day and then with time scheduled like you said the show got pushed back and i probably wasn't quite as sharp as what i want to be at least at that show next show no load just let me literally increase my food as i need to to maintain this kind of look and weight and found it you know like after x amount of meals and fluid i was like i could walk on stage like this and that's what i did and i i knew the body way i knew the visuals to just get there on show day and just hold that throughout the show and it works well and it makes it restores your confidence and predictability and what you're trying to do which there's so many athletes to coach that they just feel so much more ease and confidence that they're going to be able to nail it on show day versus like in the past i was just didn't have clear expectations on what peak week was to be and i always thought like hey one day out you should look harder and harder day by meal by meal as you're going to go to bed at night and then you do something magical and you're going to wake up even better and a lot sometimes that pans out sometimes it doesn't a lot more than more than not it didn't so you know the the idea here is that if you know you're like bedtime look you've seen this over and over and over you're going to be a really good spot to know how you're going to wake up on show day because you've seen it over and over and over and you'll know what to do so and that's how it should be this should all be data driven and not just guesswork when you work so hard for weeks on in to just not throw it away just a few hours before your show yeah it's uh no yeah go ahead no i just the last anecdotal piece i would take before we head into poinT4 is man think about how long you were on stage for that show like comparisons for like the pro ranks like your ability to hold that visual when things have been consistent and you've been holding that well like complete anecdotal observation but if someone's moving fast on you and you're having to like give them more food and catch up to them and you haven't gotten that consistency steady throughout the week they spend a long time on stage that visual is going to change a bit more rapidly in my opinion um IMean you were on stage for almost an hour in vancouver it's like yeah you have that visual yeah you just you have that visual so easy but you'd been there for days yeah and i almost want to change our point number four because it because we kind of hit it yeah with consistent variables because i think there is a more important one if you're cool with us changing this on the fly which you um you know hinted towards it but i think uh just peak week just preparation and travel with routine and i like we talked about it and it's part of like nailing your variables but i think it's just a um one that's left kind of just vague for a lot of individuals of like getting to your show early and having that time to like kind of set up camp and get consistent and then bringing all the right things with you to make sure you're consistent and i think this is just the people drop the ball here i've dropped the ball here too is like well what do i need when i'm out at this show to make sure i can accurately assess myself and my athletes and for one that's going to be you know lack of just uh understanding of your schedule right so you have that kind of mapped out and you don't plan crazy shit right like you you're gonna fly at a normal time of day when it's possible like to get up like gosh for even an hour two hours before my normal wake time man that's more taxing and just being in peak week is taxing in itself and then like having like oh this is a cheaper flight so there's not longer delays to get there or you're getting there really late at night now your gi tracks off then you need like one more day to get normal from that and if you planned it like well i don't want to spend another night you know some hotel money so i'm going to do this like two days out and travel now you're just you're you missed out on having at least one set day of being back in routine to like standardize all these variables so just like having a you're trying to stick to your schedule as as most as you best possible way that you can then to add on to this the assessment piece is like you've been looking at the same lighting and pics like get your check-in for a while then you travel and lighting varies big time yeah i always get the front of the window hotel shots you're like cool all right throw a tan on now it's nighttime where do you take your pictures at now it's like now i'm in the bathroom with the like half yellow lighting and like you can't even see them what's going on it's like how do i even compare how this person even changed so it's like bring a setup with you like you should be bringing like you can get a collapsible backdrop you can get um i was just in a podcast with mcgaria steve and he's like he brought the little roll of like led lights he like would string up in a square well that's a pretty good idea or just bring like a a tripod light that your phone can go on like something like that so you can create an artificial lighting setup because you want something standardized out there um and and i take i'll take both you know like i use a variety of different picks when i go to shows to have those overhead lightinGHave some natural lighting just so i can get a good gauge of where things are are at but but you for sure want to be prepared to be able to standardize your lighting setup um and then bring your scale bring your body weight scale because if you follow the j3u stuff like we're big on tracking body weights and correlating those to looks so i think the the preparation side in travel and preparing to be able to assess is uh extremely underutilized and should be put in place more yeah and i think um something just along those lines before we get to point five is posing consistency too like people tend to want to like overpose and try to fix posing when they get there as a part of that daily routine like i don't want posing frequency to go up a ton if i can help it like just enough to get your check-ins done and let's let's move on because like man that's added activity that makes it so much harder to keep someone moving in the right direction if they're like doing freestyle posing and building your routine and doing all this extra like posing work they haven't been doing for the last weeks so yeah my legs feel so heavy usually until i can stop posing and it's like that's what i i look forward to in peak week like finally i can stop doing all this posing practice and just do my check-ins right and then keep my feet up trying to de-output and that's when i can really have some like fresh legs so yeah don't don't book your posing coach for an hour one day out like you you don't need that if you're needing that one day out you've already messed up so you're better off just not even doing it so um okay uh point point five um diuretics usually backfire while water manipulation very well could be enough and with a diuretic it is just kind of a wild card in the mix a lot of times you're just following what your coach tells you but it's something that you probably have never utilized before and all of a sudden we're going to utilize this like one day out how do you know what the response is going to be the effect you've never even done it it's like oh well it's a trial with my coach like you'll hit this first show then we're gonna dial in the protocol it's like again reverting back to point number one build your peak week with the least variables you need to nail a look then from there as you need to build in complexity only if you need to with a diuretic being really more of a a triage type of problem when you when you have tried to do all the things you needed to and somethinGHappens and you need to get some water off someone that's kind of like a last resort option but when it's the the first variable that you're planning to put in a lot of times it just overshoots the water loss for a lot of people and so this goes back to our assessment pieces a lot of people on when you're in this peak week scenario you're already waking up dehydrated and flat and if you're finding your better look is like yeah you put a little bit of fluid in i start looking better why would you take a diuretic the night before to get even more dehydrated to then have to put even more fluid back in the next day it gets back to the carb depletion topic right it's like you're you're digging a bigger hole for yourself to just fill in with more dirt like just don't dig the hole to begin with and and that's where for if you're lean you shouldn't really have much water outside the muscle anyway uh you should have a little bit potentially that easily can be done with just some slight water manipulation but you're you're going to need water to have that muscle look full and push against the skin and give the detail that you need to yeah and it's typically like a slight taper into showtime right just to make sure gi doesn't have too much fluid in the stomach but you should like be fairly hydrated by the time you're on stage if you did the prep right and the peak week right the triaging situations like just to give an example of a triage situation like i had a client who this was years ago traveled a bit too close to the show and they drove overnight for like a 10 hour drive he got to the show place like where he was supposed to be like 11 pounds up from where he left from fluid retention like that's a triage situation two days out where you're like okay IMight have to plug this in to pull him back down but otherwise like there's not really many cases that it's warranted if you do your job on the front end i'm calling it that they stopped at bucky's and load it up well speaking of bucky's apparently now they're all over the southeast and like georgia alabama and stuff so you can like make a stop in each state at a bucky's so you probably really load it up if you're not in the southern state bucky's is like the uh how do you would even compare it to i don't even know it's like a theme park gas station basically um with all types of good eats and fun things to see and do so anyway um if you're a prep don't stop there for gas it's not a good idea but uh yeah with uh with diuretics like i've done all kinds of different protocols IMean oh yeah and you've seen even uh you've seen competitors now complaining about diuretic protocols that have been put out with some guys starting like spironolactone a week out or i see guys even two weeks out are starting something like this and then using diazide on top of it um one day out two days out it's just way overkill and once you put those things in place it's really hard to catch back up once they are moving so creates a lot of variables to then try to account for and something that uh you don't want to have to mess with and it also is probably the probably the most dangerous aspect in bodybuilding where you could have some acute deaths that have happened from like just vast electrolyte manipulations and then people not understandinGHow these things work and taking a you know potassium sparing diuretic but then adding in a potassium supplement on top of it then to like rehydrate they're using something that also has like a gatorade and potassium added to it and then quickly run into like arrhythmias electrolyte imbalances and uh you know leading to some people passing away from it so just uh you don't need it to peak someone you truly don't i haven't used a diuretic in so long but again like luke said it's maybe like a triage type situation should you have these things on hand it's like you usually kind of judge the client and see if we should or we shouldn't most time i don't even have them bother with it because if it's something that that off um i usually don't worry about trying to try to triage to using the diuretic um in place just do as much as i can with like having a pump up um restricting fluids and going about it that way just like for the earlier on competitor that didn't have the experience to execute like the pro level competitor it's likely not something on the line to like have them take that risk um so yeah i agree anyway that uh i guess this wraps up over points unless you have something else to add luke no i think it's um i think it's just it peak week boils down to doing the prep process appropriately and if you set the timeline appropriately and actually run a prep the way it's supposed to all of these points become extremely obvious like these points get passed around as like must do during prep or during peak week because the preps weren't ran the way they were supposed to so that'd be just kind of where i would put the focus so that you make the peak week as easy as possible yeah so like just keep your the takeaway is like you know keep your injectable lasix and anadrol loading at home because you won't need it for your shows uh like there is no unicorns that exist at least to our knowledge and so in turn unfortunately magic doesn't exist for your peak week if you can harness the unicorn horn and grind it up and inject it maybe you'll have your magical peak week but i i don't think that it will happen so until then stick to just assessing locking in your variables and then making decisions on your data and doing a few variable manipulations if possible and mastering understanding carbohydrate and fluids and you'll be on your way for 2025 to have a great prep in peak week experience if you want to learn more about this and how to run this prep and exactly how to do this luke and i we recreated our entire prep module in j3u level one with case study examples pictures comparisons to help you tren the eye and understand the decisions and calls that you should make to be able to assess and know what variables to start changing so check that out everyone thank you for tuning in and we will see you next time that's such a good episode you

=== FILE: Strong ≠ Big — The trap of performance chasing in hypertrophy blocks ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 199 [eXRLgtIWdk8].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Stronger do not always mean bigger. And we all love chasing PRs in a hyper-achity block and you can make a lot of progress and have the numbers moving up, but there are times I think that can lead us to making program changes that can easily turn your hypertrophy, because we turn your hypertrophy, because we turn your hypertrophy, because we turn your hypertrophy, because we turn your hypertrophy program into a strength program, because we might be making the actual size gains you think you might be. So today, we're gonna help just kind of break down the logbook, progressive overload, like what that should look like for hypertrophy trening, and making sure you don't fall in the trap of just chasing loads and lead to maybe less progress and just more beat up joints. Yeah, and I think, I think, one of the things that I, I think is really, a part of this is i think there's a pretty big misunderstanding of what progressive overload should look like within hypertrophy circles and i think that's kind of a lot of where this starts to get misconstrued to the point that things start like chasing stronger in pursuit of bigger and i think it's kind of where if you define that well of how we drive progressive stimulus over time like it really kind of starts to set the framework of how do we stay away from the trap of performance in these you know blocks that are focused around hypertrophy which for a bodybuilder is just all the time and so that's kind of where i think you in my opinion i think that's where you start like i think people will just have this idea of progressive overload that it's like adding a 10 every week to the to the load or whatever it might be and it's like just every single week is some large progression and load and or reps and it's like so much more acute um like the acute is so much less exciting and it's more like the overview that you have to start taking a bigger look at so what what does like progressive overload actually mean how do you how do you define it yeah i actually it's so i've i've described this different ways to people on the roster based on kind of like where i think they're uh what limits them i always tend to go like tren wise so i tend to describe this like if you see the tren over a four to six week time period and more overall stimulus being driven whether that's more reps at a total load or matching reps at a at a increased load we're going to see that progressive stimulus with the caveat that form maintenance occurs across the entirety of the block and what ends up getting discouraging is the people that learn to adapt or adopt really accurate execution end up finding that it really slows down the progressive like nature of adding load to the bar relative to how they may have done it in the past where they allowed for momentum to kind of finish the last rep or two and then that last rep or two turned into the lasT3 or four and like i say this from a place that this used to be me like it's so easy even if you're disciplined and staying on top of everything to get into this place of the only way IMake progress is for this log book to move up this week relative to last week and then the only way that i'm making progress is if that moves and then it just leads to some of these things breaking down which in my opinion ultimately drive the actual stimulus we're trying to achieve in hypertrophy and so that kind of brings us back to i try to look at progressive overload of as progressive stimulus over a four to six week block rather than just this like acute week to week i think that's where most people start to get it really wrong i i think just the the verbiage of it too yeah of progressive overload and you think of like oh load i need to be adding load every single week and this needs to be progressing progressive like i and now it takes it to where it's it's on you that every week i should be doing this thing of adding load or challenge to the to the workout which really it's you get to look at a different sense right because it's you tren and you have this adaptation that happens if you did the same weight the same amount of reps it should be easier the next workout and if you did that again it would keep getting easier so you're having to progress the load to keep up with the adaptation it's really more like you're trying to if we change progressive overload to just upholding the challenge of the workout is kind of really what this says and if you kept adding load and reps to keep up with that challenge of the workout it would be this progressive stimulus to where you can keep adapting and keep improving so it's more so you're keeping up with the adaptation over trying to force it to happen by adding load because just adding load to the bar doesn't mean you're going to have a greater stimulus it just is a more more load that just takes place there you really need to be you know in that to that sense like you could absolutely add more stimulus in but i think that's where we could just still i don't think you need that much stimulus to be changing over acute blocks right like you could have it over like several weeks doing the same type of workout same volume same effort and then maybe you make some increase from there but i think just the terminology of progressive overload is where a lot of people get get it mixed and then once you define it like that i think that's where you have so many bodybuilders start to equate progress which is adding weight to reps yep like oh i was able to do it this week and it leads people astray right because we see it all the time where we see the the the visuals change in the workout of they're moving faster or sloppier or shorting the range of motion whatever it may be to move more load reps but that doesn't mean better stimulus yeah and it's a it's a hard one to teach like i find it really easy to teach in person because you can get like those light bulb moments right like they're in person it's like ah this is what this should look like and this is what this should feel like and this is how it should feel almost every week and then if it doesn't we might need to look at how we try to take a progression and see like what happened if that drove us into positions that we're not supposed to be in but man i think or i know one of the things i know is that the people who learn to be kind of like less emotional attachment around that progressive overload piece and really kind of keep the baseline of execution and then let the kind of like the adaptations come to them they're the ones that maximize that progression piece i was trening with xavier yesterday and he was like you know sometimes i was watching my physique morph because he's like changing like crazy right now but then i look at my log book and i'm like over the last two to three weeks like i haven't taken massive jumps in the numbers that i'm putting up right and it's like if you added up the total stimulus across the week it's a lot of extra stimulus because he might take like one extra rep on two of the three sets and one and then one extra rep on two of the three sets and movement two and it's like acutely that can kind of feel like you're struggling to progress but then if you zoomed out and like you did that for four weeks like it's a lot of stimulus that's being added to the total Trening session and so it's it's kind of that example of understanding that what might feel like stagnation in the acute is actually still probably a significant amount of progress long term and you too like if you're really focusing on execution you could just be increasing stimulus or it's progressive overload just through improved execution like if you're able to be more focused tension in the muscle you're targeting than you were over the last week even with the same like the excel sheet on paper it looks like it's the same volume same effort everything but if you execute that lift more effectively you could absolutely get more out of a set and i have had a lot of guys where that's all the progressive is progression is it's like even sometimes we're dropping back load and reps to improve execution and they're growing more effectively so it then you would say like well that's not progressive overload right you have to keep load adding load it's like well no that just goes to the point of like we're uh misconstruing that definition and looking at the words wrong and that you absolutely can drive more stimulus just through improving execution that should be really i think a huge focal point for people that are focusing on hypertrophy and anyone that comes to us typically they're trening plenty hard usually and with a lot of volume it usually comes down to the the execution what is what really needs to improve another area i see it can really improve in too is if you do have some type of movement dysfunction injuries in the past and doing the right prehab work getting in the right positions and cueing that you need man that can massively increase the stimulus on a per set basis to where you could have someone even use less volume or hold that volume for the same for a long period of time yeah it's crazy is there is there anything like metric tracking wise that you currently use to try to be more objective about this other than just the logbook yes i guess i still look at the logbook different like in the gym it's just more of a reminder of what i did last time so i can know to put put that on the right yeah and then then from there it's more the the logbook is the tool to say if like if i'm recovering from the last session yeah and if i have or you know if if i'm not and what should what should IMean what does that mean and i should be looking at like trens over my logbook but not going in with looking at it as here's the number to beat because i don't beat it every time or if i know i need to improve execution or whatever it may be um other other metrics though uh IMean that's that's a tougher one it is a tougher one because it's just like it can be subjective i i get i get where it's a trap right because what are you really going off of it's like well the logbook it's like but the logbook you can't just chase it down so you know what does that even really mean and you can't look at visuals like on an acute basis because you're not adding muscle tissue that quickly so it it still does kind of really come down to the logbook and making sure like the trens over weeks are in that direction so we should see you know over a block of trening like at whatever a 10-week block that all the lifts should be moving up to some some degree but do you have a different metric that you use i've got two so like subjective stimulus i think is one i'll have reporting on like for and and i'll get to give an example i'm sure she'll be fine with this um jasmine like one of the biggest things about her process and like bringinGHer to back to an olympia stage is looking at how she executes all of her movement patterns for lower body because in the past it's driven a lot of lower back pain what she thought was like glute stimulus wasn't actually the greatest stimulus she had a week last week where she was like squatting the stimulus did not feel the same as weeks prior and it almost felt more unstable but because that's a pattern that i keep a very close eye on for her like it's a problematic pattern the video comparison of that week previous week showed that setup was slightly skewed relative to previous week and so then we fix those things and then now the stimulus comes back and so um it's trening footage review slash comparison week to week on problematic body parts or movements and then subjective reporting on quality of stimulus that can that can then drive investigation further if we haven't taken that footage already like those are the other two that i add to it now yeah that was the one i was blanking on because i had that in my mind before it was like yeah video analysis but really like while while i'm trening and if you're working out with anyone you're like it's all about feel which is is is i know you asked for objective things but it's not it's very subjective and it's hard to recall even but i know like say for like chest trening for me it's like yeah i'm i'm connecting better with my chest i feel pump or stimulus whatever you want to term it right in the body part more with this type of setup and like that kind of is an indicator that my my set quality is in a good spot and i got a lot out of that session but then at the same time i'm like cooperating that with the logbook too so it's kind of like both like all right the lifts didn't move up but subjectively there's like a better connection and more pump in this muscle group than i recall but that's the problem why is like it could change just based on hydration or sleep and then like what do you recall like how it was but i feel like if you're getting some type of distortion and pump and every time you are trening that target muscle like that's a good spot to be at and then off the video analysis it makes sense of like taking that muscle through the full range and you're controlling throughout the entire entirety of that rep then as the third point that you're looking at hey loads and reps are progressing over time i think if you have those three things going on you're probably in a good spot yeah 100 and just like before we get foreign police tier full range is context to the movement like full range at that pattern sure yeah just so we look at it that way but um i think something that would be interesting is like if you feel like if you have enough remembrance to share this is how often rep progressions happen for someone like you because i think people think it's like every week every set moves up like this in like a linear fashion right and i the thing that's hard to explain to people because it's so like case by case specific it's like it's not a straight line i guess it's not like a you look at six weeks and it looks like this for every single set or for every single movement it's kind of like a zigzag right of like some sets progress some weeks some sets don't um is there any cases in particular that come to mind when you think of it as far as like how that looks like in an actual logbook thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with j3 university our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our four rooms with our j3u team to answer any questions you have and livEQ a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top ifbb pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at j3 university let's get back to today's podcast yeah sure like i i focus a lot on my pressing yeah for my for my chest so it might for at least for that because like the the rep ranges are lower in compound movements so a rep progression is a pretty large jump yeah IMean you're talking like if i'm doing a 10 rep set a one rep increase that's a that's a 10 increase in like volume load like that's that's huge so that might happen like every three or four weeks maybe um what i'll notice it more is like if i have like some back offsets like IMight take the rep progression therEQuicker than i would off of a top set but i i usually could add some like slight load increment maybe every week to every other week a lot of times i just keep it the same IMake the set hard and then that just checks the block if i could get the extra rep i'd go for it but a lot of times i'm a little slower just to add on like every bit every week just like a two and a half pound chip or something i don't tend to do that a lot um i'll usually wait like every two weeks to do something like that um and so across like eight weeks like yeah it doesn't really move that much even when like pushing gear up now it does it's not like it used to be where like there's this big like performance jump it's i feel like a lot of that's probably like some type of neurological drive and maybe that's just already fully adapted out to where i don't pull that out anymore um but it just starts to like more steadily increase like the rep progressions and uh i guess what i noticed is that i can i can handle more volume and recover better and and so there's like maybe more stimulus in that sense but as far as like load rep progressions go is is pretty damn slow there's faster rep progressions on isolation exercises uh where i'm usinGHigher rep ranges but that would kind of make sense because those percentage jumps are not as much as if i was trying to add load to an isolation exercise but man no it really does slow down and it makes you it does make you wonder like am IMaking am IMaking progress here um because man it's slow moving do you ever find yourself like conflating the time to pull back for deloads because of that dynamic like this seeing that slowing of that rate of progress i think that's something that i've got someone in mind on my roster in particular that like i think the change in the rates of progression has been a little bit i don't want to say hard to accept but just different and it's like when someone has experience and they've they've kind of seen that rep progression slow as a result of quality being so high it's it's kind of like am i building fatigue so fast that this needs a deload but like all of my subjective metrics that i know should be skewed for deload aren't skewed like do you ever find yourself kind of in that dynamic because i know some of my clients get there pretty quick they're like like they're starting to look they don't fully understand that the progression rate should be a little bit more i don't say stagnant but it's a lot slower than than maybe previously what they're used to and it kind of starts raising that deload question a little bit more often absolutely in their asian emotional drive yeah that's that can blur that a bit because i i love to tren and go to the gym and so to have decide a day to not do that it it just takes away some enjoyment out of that day like i came back from italy right and i had some extra days off because of travel and despite sleep off during those days like my first push session back was actually really good yeah like load was up rep was up like oh hey all right then the next one i had yesterday it just was kind of lackluster it's like things didn't feel quite as good right i just had i was like back in my normal like uh frequency that was there it's like okay so then it makes you it makes you wonder it's like man is it too much volume in that session yeah and i think this is this is the tricky part because this is where you can turn your hypertrophy trening into a strength trening block so quick this is the point that i wanted to pull out so i'm glad you're going down this go keep going and you're like well performance is in the high so maybe volume's you know too high in turn and so i'll pull back volume and so you have volume so low that you are able to like fully recover 100 percent uh to have to perform the next session and you know where where i think it's research is beneficial here is that we've had research come out to where now we know like volume is a key thinGHere because it's not just adding more load and reps and if that was the case we would want a strength trening block but in like that brad schoenfeld study where they had three groups of different volume tiers like the highest volume tier had the most growth hormone hormone significantly but across all the volume levels they had the same strength gains and so you get to be at a very low volume and have great strength gains but not make the hypertrophy gains that you want and so if you're chasing the logbook based on just increasing performance in your workouts you could move volume down so low that it's not enough i'll say like time under tension right like amount of high effort sets on a per set basis to give you the adaptation need for growth hormone hormone so you do have to accept i think a baseline level of fatigue present to where we'll see the slower increments in in uh in load and rep progressions but that's a trap that i've been really easy to fall into but there is a sweet spot right of being able to recover still and repeat like hard trening oh yeah because i think uh this is a frustrating thing so like i i've got a new i've got a new way to communicate this with clients is that volume is a multiplier of quality it's not a replacement for it and it's like nice it's just the only way i've found to communicate it because man you can just like go to that other side of the spectrum so quick where you're driving so much volume that it just starts chipping away at the sessions and thEQuality of that work being done and then you just you just start to see like the session those the the adaptation slow and you start to see those videos coming in you're like this is not the same athlete that was trening like three weeks ago when the volume was a bit lower and like i'm all for testing volume ceilings like i'm the first one like with my athletes like i'll push it up kind of find where they can't tolerate it and then rip it back so that i can find that progressive place but man it's just it's it's just so not a replacement for quality work and i just it's found it's the only way i've found to communicate it it's like volume's a multiplier that quality work not a replacement for it what you just said there look like when you do push it up and you need to pull it back like what do you see in your athlete like for someone that's listening of what they might want to be looking for for when volume is getting too high the biggest one that comes to me the most often and the most consistently is that the time to deload drastically reduces so like if i have an athlete that i'm always trying to kind of keep someone within the 8 to 12 week time time mark of like okay we've accumulated a lot of stimulus over 8 to 12 weeks like we should probably pull back and if they're feeling extremely fresh at that time point it's like okay i haven't pushed the volume up enough but if it's like we get in week five and it's like you're already seeing some of that subjective metric skewing it's like okay you found your you you're beyond your ceiling that's the first one i look at for sure excitement to tren the second one i think that's a big one like when you start seeing people saying they're like struggling getting to the gym like it might be a sign that it might be a smidge too high if that's happening quicker than you expect those are the two primary ones um that i'm looking for um i think it's also kind of relative to the time frame of i think it's a moving target um in my opinion because the time frame of what uh portion of the season you're in it it dictates how full you can fill that cup if that makes sense and so like your volume ceiling you know 12 weeks post show versus your volume ceiling 35 weeks post show is like two different two different volume points right and so i think that's kind of where i tend to lean more on like duration to deload as my primary and then motivation to tren as a secondary i think for a lot of guys too i think if you're if you get to that eight to 12 week mark and you're newer and trying to figure all this out just take the deload anyway and see how you feel the next week versus like just keep going i feel like that's the lesser evil there of like yeah you you could then really see like oh yeah i was carrying a lot of fatigue and that in turn lets you know like volume was probably at a good point because you could easily just keep bumping volume up to get to that point of no return where lifts just barely moving your joints hurt you're trying to work around things and you don't want to always be chasing that every block and i feel like that's a trap a lot of us fall into especially even myself right like i'm gonna take effort and volume until i'm breaking then i'll know like oh okay but then i do that every time it's like no just i shouldn't take it that far so i think just take the deload and if you're feeling like way better and fresher then you'll know like okay volume's in a good spot yep um i think this is the problem too with like trying to rapidly accumulate volume across eight to ten weeks is that i can quickly like bite you in the ass then it's hard to go back and say like when where was the tipping point i think it was like going out for a night of drinking you're like tonight i'm gonna have two drinks and you have two drinks then you can the next day you can assess like what that did versus going out for the night you're like i'm gonna have one drink every hour and then at some at some point you just are fucked and you're like when was the point of being like totally screwed like was that hour three it's like this accumulation effect like i don't know what should i do next week yeah or next day uh for my alcoholism it's like okay well the other way it's like all right well now i'll have three drinks tomorrow and we'll see how that goes and uh so anyway it's i've been doing a lot of drinking uh analogies for my volume and effort with have you we need to like we need to have a conversation john my my improving the stimulus is like moving from moving from vodka to everclear so you only need one shot now you don't need two shots of vodka one shot everclear is like gonna get it that's uh yeah anyway oh lordy it's so accurate though like it's so funny like the way that you describe it so yeah so i would hold hold your volume steady for a block so we can have a less variables moving to have a good good assessment than that next block after you deload you can move up some volume markers where you think you might be able to handle it and rinse and repeat that process uh let me ask you how do you identify when a movement is no longer driving progress do you think that's a thing in that or it's just it's just now you're more advanced it's just moving slow you just need to stick it out if it's a good movement or is there any merit to switching it i don't think people are gonna like my answer here i'm uh i'm gonna present this in a in a way that i think will be easily digestible all right case study emily king the all season between turning pro where we turn pro in australia and then got top five in new york we did all that one season to this where she got first call out at six shows straight and just went up a tier and like being able to compete in more higher level competitive shows the differential in that visual was massive i've put it on my social media before i'll put it up again if you guys want to see it that trening block kept smith squatting for 10 and a half months that's my opinion well i like it because it makes it really simple it's like it's so easy to get good at driving a stimulus with a pattern that you've learned and perfected that i really have a hard time switching now there are some client cases where psychologically i think some change is good like boredom in sessions that drives less output because of the less effort because they are bored i think that's a different conversation that's like an athlete management conversation which is why i said i want to make it a little bit more clear cut rather than like kind of muddy the water but unless there's an injury profile from repeated movement patterns or there's a psychological reason from pure client boredom that you're managing it i think people can run movements into the ground longer than they think yeah i'm i'm on similar thought as that and i came up with i didn't come up with it i i got into bodybuilding with dc trening yeah to where there was a rotation of lifts and more so i think it's spread out to where you could see progression taking place easier um but the idea of like a different exercise in the novelty creating more stimulus i think it's the opposite a lot of times the more advanced you get and the more braced the movement is the the less that really is but if you're moving from like i'm going to do a back squat that i'm going to do a front squat like the learning dynamics there could be pretty vast if you haven't been doing a front squat at all so the time it takes to learn the movement and get up to enough direct attention in that muscle to drive some stimulus and adaptations it it could be a gap there so i think that's when novelty and change isn't really a good thing i think you make a great point that we're really i see it come about is like when you're losing connection in that movement or it's like beating you up yeah and we see that see that a lot which if it is beating you up it brings thEQuestions like was that the best movement to begin with or was there an execution cueing issue that was not right anyway so if you move to a different lift and the same thing kind of happens i think that's more of your problem to go with over just an extra exercise swap but i think that's where it really is and i really think you could just run the same movement over because like yeah you will improve like neuromuscular efficiency and coordinating a movement pattern but the main thing that muscle recognizes here for growth hormone hormone is mechanical tension so how you produce that tension i can know if you're curling a dumbbell or curling a cable like it just knows tension expressed in that muscle right so you can absolutely do the same thing and still get adequate growth hormone hormone for years on end doing the same movements like the stuff we do isn't that different so i align with you like i think i like having great movements that i connect with that i can sustain and not get beat up from and i just ride those out for i've done some things for years so yeah yeah that's like the overhand prime extreme row like i don't think that'll ever not be a part of a program design if you have access to it like from a back development piece or like a nautilus pull down variation of sorts but yeah it's it's interesting like one last piece to add is i do think that sometimes the beating up of a movement pattern is forgetting execution cues like i think just that slide like it really slides someone into a bad placEQuickly like a movement could stay in a lot longer if someone was more diligent about the weak tweak rep looking exactly the same yeah it's when you do move to the new exercise you're like oh wow like yeah this is the one it's like i connect so well with it because usually you get in something new and you move slower you're more intentional so you you just went back to what you were doing with that first movement and if you kept doing that it likely would have been the same and just speaking this out loud i'm like thinking of movements where i'm starting to feel that same thing so and that's where it's okay it happens to to reset yeah you know and it's okay if you're loading reps go back down if your your quality of movement does improve yeah it's it's such a funny i love trening it is such a like as as objective as we try to make it it's such an art it's such an art and it just reminds us of that so often it's funny because it's like it's the definition of insanity right like you keep doing the the same mistakes over with different expecting different outcomes right so every day like i was just talking with a guy in the gym yesterday we were trening chest and had a had a movement where like all of a sudden the chest like connects big time you're like what have i been doing this whole time i've been trening it's like you're back to day one there's so many moments like that right where and that's what makes it fun too is that we're always remembering things that we forgot or learning new things i think trening is the piece that you you're you'll always be able to keep improving upon and what what makes it fun yeah 100 um i think that covers it for today do you know what are we talking next week do you have a idea of what's coming next week i do next week will be when health talks back addressing off-season red flags and health markers and and what to do about them yeah so anyway everybody don't turn your hypertrophy blocks into strength blocks prioritize execution that is the art of bodybuilding and trening and if you havEQuestions comments leave them down below if you're watching on youtube and we will talk to you next week

=== FILE: The Coach’s Corner： Prep mistakes we still make ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 184 [xILrCM03ddU].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. The coach's corner, the prep mistakes that we still make. The coach's corner, the prep mistakes that we still make. And honestly, some of the worst showings probably happened when I thought I had a lot of! I have a lot of realization moments of that when I thought earlier on I knew quite a bit and then just get humbled. So Luke and I today are going to go through all the coaching mistakes that we still make along the way and what we can do to make less of them. How's it going, Luke? Good, man. It's prep season. It's show season. It's every weekend. It's like one peak after the next. So it's really moving. But I love this time of year. It's like it moves so fast. But at the same time, it's like everybody's so excited and enjoying themselves. And like we've been lucky to win quite a bit so far this year. So that's been a lot of fun. And I love this topic because I think there's so many ways to skin a cat. And there's a lot of lessons I've learned over the years of doing this. And they're fun to share. Like we get to share it a lot with the J3 coaches and our coaching calls. And I think there's a lot to pull from this because how you pick up signs and signals from different types of athletes can vary based on like their presentation of the type of athlete they are. So we have to be aware of kind of some of how some of these present and potentially catch it before the prep even starts so that you can avoid bad preps in the first place. Yeah, I being in the contest prep season now and especially I have like a bunch of peak weeks that I'm doing now, which I love peak week. And it is the most fun that I have in prepping the athletes any part of the year is it just gets so meticulous with all the data. And I love I love it because it's almost like it gets very predictable and exciting to see someone finally come on stage and not miss the mark, which, of course, I've had my times of missing the mark. Yeah, and the first time almost shouldn't say the first time because I felt like earlier on I was doing myself coaching and like you keep progressing in different ways and that's OK. But I think the time that really hit me harder was when I was doing the 2018 New York Pro and I was a pro already like I turned pro I had a pro debut. This is going to be my second pro show. You feel like you know something right. I was prepping along the way and man like I could grind like just from my background and even my likes my psychology of what I enjoy like I love to grind hard. And to my own like dismantling I'll keep just grinding away until there's nothing left. And this was that prep and it was so important and also going back to leaving with with athletes to have a good assessment of are you even ready for prep. And these are mistakes that you just might not catch from something convey conveying it in your athlete. Right. So for this prep I came back from Dominican Republic and I had like this crazy like parasite or virus or something that was kept me sick for like five weeks. This GI issue it lost like 20 pounds. I was good for like about a month and then I started prep which red flag. I probably shouldn't have started prep right then. But anyway it made a very very challenging prep to where I was doing the Stairmaster like two hours a day level 10 like it was going to battle on this thing. Drenched in sweat like towel in my head just listening to like motivation music the whole time like it was intense man like going through that I'm like I could do any prep. Yeah. I felt like but along the way it was like you know I was coaching with Matt at the time and just the weekly emails that I give back to him like all right man just pushing it like I felt like I was a killer in prep whatever needs to be done. And in retrospect like I didn't have a right gauge my own hedonic scale of like effort of like man I'm at 10 but also that's not right. Harder wasn't better to improve a prep. I needed a balance there and I didn't know how to convey that accurately. And then on the coaching side you just needed more conversations to really happen to be able to get a gauge of when someone's not reporting as much effort as there are putting in. So those are just like what all led to be being in a very very fatigued state and not coming in conditioned. And it was just really disappointing to be on stage. So you know a few takeaways from that is just suffering quote unquote suffering right and grinding and just putting in the work just don't question anything. I'm a machine. Those are actually some of the hardest people that I've prepped before and I think that made my my own prep very hard for someone else to coach it. Uh huh. Because I think the some of the the better people that I've had coaching experiences with or where we built in communication to where I can get the right feedback of like knowing when someone's crossing the edge or not and knowing when to pull them back and when to keep pushing. And with like the John in that prep there was just all gas pedal and no break. So it made it it made its own challenges. But nonetheless those were mistakes of my own personal journey and ones that I've even seen in the in the in athletes that I've coached certain situations where you have those athletes are similar mindset. Right. And you've probably crossed paths with plenty of those the machine. Oh man the machines are fun but dangerous. They're like the double-edged sword. Right. They're like because you can get them to do almost anything but then they can also go to a place that's borderline unfixable. Um I think what's what's interesting and like from a prep insight perspective of those type of clients that I think helps them a lot is doing the work before the prep so that it makes the prep like easier than they even expected. Like I'm not going to talk about this much but you're prepping Colton right now and like we just trened together yesterday and he was like he's like it almost feels too easy. It's like it's like I don't feel like I should feel like this. He's like it makes me feel like I'm not ready but then I look in the mirror and I'm like okay I'm ready. Like it's like this combination of that feeling and I feel like that's where you get these people that have them that have this like machine mindset into a place. And I think one of the biggest preps that I learned from was a prep that I did a few years ago. This girl was a workhorse and I'll leave her name out of it just because just for clarity's sake or for her sake. But it was one of the hardest preps I've ever pushed someone in my life. And I look back on that prep and the body composition that I let her start that prep at as far as like how I sequenced the phases beforehand into the contest prep. I left myself with a timeline that the rate of loss had to be perfect to make it. And she's one of those that you did a lot of fixing in the offseason from a hormonal standpoint. Pretty adaptive in regards to the food response. Adaptive doesn't always lead the perfect contest preps because the changes don't push peoplEQuite as far. And so we ended up in this prep like it was it was four or five weeks of like 840 calories and two hours of cardio. And it put her in a place where she got so much relief from winning the overall at this show. And she actually beat a girl that was like the favorite going in that was supposed to win the show that she just stepped away from bodybuilding at that point. And was like I'm happy. Like I did what I wanted to do. She was supposed to do nationals a few weeks later. Where she won the overall that weekend with her boyfriend at the time. So it was like a good memory. And it was one of those situations I was like man like she's got the shape. She's got the skill. She's got the talent. On stage she was probably 90% there for the regional. It's like if I would have like been a little bit more resistant on either starting that prep that year or just held back on the phase before. Would she have continued through competing? Because she wouldn't have gone through a prep that was so brutal. And that's kind of where I was already using timelines at that point. But man I started the timelines even earlier than I was when I was then. So that I never really ran into that situation again. I've had some similar cases too. Especially like you said. The females that. Gosh you feel like you overestimate the timeline. And underestimate the response to where it should give you extra weeks. But it still isn't enough. And you like have even a week where you have like a hopeful I'm not going to make a change. And that's when the body is going to respond. And it still doesn't. You're like oh no. Like I needed that week to happen. Yeah. And then you're like are still accumulating the more cardio, the less food, the fat burners. Until we're like man we're like seven weeks out. I have all the levers pulled. And the rate of loss is just not there. What do we do? And I still come across some situations of clients that are that hard to prep. And with this one case that I have in mind like we end up pushing back the show. And it was okay to do that. We had the timeline for it. But man it was that same situation Luke where those extra weeks of dieting and just miniscule changes along the way. So brutal. She ended up not competing for another two years. Yeah. And switched divisions because which was a positive and we talked about that. But to get to like the really low body fats and to have the very adaptive metabolism and just a low baseline of energy expenditure. Not energy expenditure but just metabolic rate. It just was the right call for her to switch to some other division. But man like every prep I think would have been like that. Like it's not like there was some secret to pull. And I've had other clients too where there are always preps like that. We make them better. Absolutely. Like you can make a prep that eases the burden of what it feels like. But you're not completely revamping someone totally. Yeah. At least from what I've seen it's rare. Especially in divisions where you're not going from like bikini to bodybuilding. Right. Like you added 40 pounds of muscle tissue on someone. It's like you're not seeing that vast difference in a body. So those people are just still always very challenging to prep. And it takes the ones where you've had success. Now it's just having to be so on them and let them understand the post show is so key to set them up for offseason time. And then to make the next prep better. And those are the ones that are still just takes a lot of communication and proper planning to nail that type of client. And that's always been a struggle. So that client is like I don't want to say the bane of my existence. But the reality of that situation is that they're probably coming to you where they had that prep that was brutal. And they didn't get in true contest shape. And if you get them early enough to manage the post show phase well. Like you get them to a way better spot body comp to food. But that next prep a lot of times is it's still just as brutal or pretty close to it. It's just they actually get to stage condition that next time. Right? It's like they actually get all the way there. And it's like you can't build an expectation that it's going to be easier because you're still going to have that still adaptive athlete. But for these athletes the margins become a lot bigger. Like when I say the margins. Like the small habits that add up in that post show and offseason that lead into what starts the prep. I think that's where you kind of gain that margin of making it all the way there. And then that's kind of where you build that prep cushion. And those are the hardest lessons to learn because you know you get to a point like you said where it's like I know fatigue is high. Girl or guy or whatever. But like I don't have the time to pull back. I just need you to like strap up your boots and just pick them up no matter how much lead it feels like that's in them. Oh man that that brings up another type of client situation which. Yeah. Though it's a similar like with persons the machine but mistake that IMade. Yeah. Is just letting letting someone go too far with pulling down. And I I'll reference Renee in this. And I think it's more so with the division of like someone that doesn't need to be like bodybuilding level stage ready. But I'll take it I'll take that back actually because we're I was talking to Colton about this too. That leaner is not always better. Right. If you lose so much of your physique. And I'm talking minuscule detail here like a line of a glute line is what we're arguing over. But it looks like five pounds of loss of fullness. Yeah. Like that's that's that type of difference. But anyway with with Renee the idea was like well. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum. You'll also get access to our forums with our J3 team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. If I can get her a little extra extra pull down then we'll have more freedom to feed her up and fill her out. Right. And so I she could be three meals in and a gallon of fluid. Right. And she would still could walk on stage like that versus I get her just there in body fat and I have to keep her pretty close to her her fasted look. Well she was too lean. And then when I started bringing in food and fluid it just made her stupid vascular on stage. And it made her look even harder on stage. And then for finals I knew she was like too hard so I tried to do that even more. And it just made her look even fuller and more muscular. Which don't be wrong like this was Renee's last show. She got second place. It was just great. She looked phenomenal. But the division was starting to shift a little bit softer too then. And Tyler gave her the critique. Right. Like hey it looked like you you tried to soften her up and she got really vascular. Like yep that's exactly what happened. And so that that was a you know a mistake on my end that you know chasing the extra condition. It's I love it. You know I love condition. It's extremely impressive but we're not just placed off of condition. It's off of meeting your division requirements. And in that situation you have to really you know be balanced across the line there with it. And to tie it back to a similar point of recognizing fatigue is still one that can be challenging. Because especially coaching from afar of like gauging someone that just hasn't experienced that level of hard that needs to take it there. Versus someone that truly you know is giving you feedback that needs to get pulled back. Especially from the more maybe emotionally reserved person. You might not get an accurate gauge. Like in that same prep with Renee like mid prep she had said something just it was kind of just vaguely stated like hey I'm really feeling like high fatigue. And I'm feeling like I'm feeling like I'm on the verge of having some issues. And I think I pulled back just slightly but not enough. It wasn't enough done. And with her stating that for her to state that because she's she's a machine too was a big deal. And IMissed it. And she ended up like tweakinGHer back that week. And man I I won't live that one down. I heard about it several times. So yeah just have to really be able to have the coaching process to to get pull that out of your athletes and have the right lines of communication. And I think whether it's from that type of athlete written text might not convey it at all. Like you might really need to see them in a loom video saying that like reading like hey fatigue is really high. Like versus like seeing someone saying like fatigue is like really high. And you just see in their body language like they're just done. And then watching them tren and all the other aspects. So with Renee I live with her. So that was a huge mistake. Like I see her all the time. But I think that was that can still be a harder one to gauge in the coaching sector of like gauging fatigue and making sure you're getting someone there with upholding tissue and trening performance. And then to tie it back into my mistake with Renee. Also knowing when to cut it off and not keep pushing them down. I think it's it can be something that contributes to them actually adhering as well because like for some people that pushing them across the edge is what ends up happening is they get pushed into cheating or eating off plan. Right. Have you seen that happen Luke? It happened to me a few weeks ago. I feel like I had a string of weeks where it's like every week was like oh man you won't believe what happened. Yeah so it's tough though because like the condition standards that are required from some of these classes are. I'm recording. Sorry. Where was I? It's tough because some of the condition standards for these classes. Right. It's tough because some of the condition standards for these classes are getting wild. So like WPD and even figure like the size conditioning combo and like figure you can get away with a little bit of softness especially like lower body. But it's the standard just keeps elevating and you have to get to places that you got these pros that turned pro years ago. Right. They turned pro in 2016, 2017, 2018 when these classes were just different than what they are now and they expect to be competitive at the same level that they were. And while they've progressed and gotten a lot better like you could get away with some things in 2016 WPD that you just is not going to play game or play ball nowadays. Right. And so you you reach new levels of conditioning. When you reach new levels of conditioning, what ends up happening is you're feeling emotions and you're feeling things that you've never felt before. And it just kind of pushes people across the edge sometimes. And you have to be aware of it. It's really good to have a really good history with these clients to understand like this might be where they fall off plan. But that's the that's the tough one to pick up on because a lot of times you're picking up on it after the mistake happens. Then you are going to manage it from there. I still learn sometimes on clients surprising me with how I write a plan and how it's interpreted. This was a few years ago, but I didn't think it would be a problem. I would have this was back when I was using Excel and I would write for like for meal one. Let's say I had a carbohydrate in there. It was like whatever. It could be 100 grams of rice or half a bagel or whatever. Banana. Let's say 100 grams of banana. Not the same, but get the point. You know, get the idea. I give three options across the board. Whatever. It could be rice, potato. And so you assume, you know, your client picks an option, then goes to their next food item for the meal, whatever. I have eggs. Then I have peanut butter or something, whatever. And man, I was struggling with one of these clients to get him lean. I'm like, man, the calories don't make sense for what I'm seeing with changes in body fat. So I just keep asking, asking things. And I'm like, I end up going to be changing one thing in that meal that had the option. And I was like, hey, are you still eating this bagel or can I just remove that and just adjust just the rice? Or I said something like that. And he's like, well, I've been eating all three of those. Yeah, exactly. You're like, but it says or. So I don't know. I thought that seemed very clear for like these are the options, but I think it needed to be stated differently or not at all. At least for this type of client. So clients can still surprise you with how they interpret the plan. And if you're assuming that every client is going to read the plan like all the other clients or even a high level client that's been very familiar with your process versus someone new coming in, I think we can we can easily just start assuming that everyone's going to get your process the same way. So I've had to still go through and troubleshoot with things that could seem obvious that just get missed because, you know, when you write a plan, there's a lot in there about condiments and drinks and things that can easily go missed by a client or just assumed. And you see stuff get added in that it shouldn't be happening and you have extra calories there or you're missing something and how they're performing their cardio potentially. So, yeah, I've had to do a lot of troubleshooting like that. But that one that one killed me. A similar case was like, I've had this one happen a few times, which I wouldn't think I would need it stated somewhere. That if you woke up hungry at night, it's not okay to have a protein shake. That liquid calories still count. Count its calories. I remember my dad, my dad, he he'd ice cream it at night. I'm like, dad, you know, like that's a lot of calories to eat at night and just in general. He's like, but it turns a liquid and it like runs through you like water. It's just joking, right? It's like the same thing. Okay, your protein shake still counts. You can't just have protein because protein has a more thermic effect of food. It's hard to store his body fat, whatever the justification is. I didn't think I would need to state that in plan. But this was like weeks later I hear about it. Like, yeah, I just have a protein shake when I wake up and I'm hungry. Like all nonchalant, just like that was okay. It wasn't a big deal. It was not like I was cheating on my diet. So, yeah, sometimes you need stuff really spelt out for your clients and surprises happen. I've got one more and then we're going to move on. I was peeking someone and it was one of those early in my career. They were staying at my house, right? And God bless this human. It was also the week Emily was competing. So, they were staying at my house. Emily was competing and they werecompeting. So, I give them like 200 grams rice. And we had talked like earlier in the week about, you know, can we do cream of rice and rice as like the two carb sources. Those are the carb sources we're going to eat during the peak because they sit the best, right? So, I give them a meal and I go to do something. I'm like, you know, whatever it is plus 200 grams of rice, right? So, we leave, come back. He's like making this massive bowl of cream of rice. He's like sitting there like starting to eat it in like our biggest bowl that we own in the entirety of the house. And I'm like, what you eating, buddy? And he's like, oh, yeah, you said 200 grams rice, but I figured, you know, cream of rice is the same. So, I just made 200 grams of cream of rice. And I was like, oh, my gosh, they're not the same in like peak week, mind you. So, I'm like – So, this was a dry measure cream of rice versus like a cooked measure. Hey, prep brain, like bless you, you know. Dry measure cream of rice. So, this went from like what, just shy of 60 carbs to like whatever 200 times 0.8 is. That's like – what is that? Two, 160. 160 grams of carbs. Yeah, so an extra 100 grams. I was like, oh, gosh, bless. And so like luckily I caught him before he really got into eating most of it. But it was like one of those like, oh, my gosh, like I should never allow someone to just understand that like we can make these subs. And so like from that point on, this was like 2021 whenever Emily competed. Like peak week is like a non-negotiable like no subs. Like what I put on the plan is what I put on the plan. And so it's funny because you just learn from these mistakes. But a lot of this kind of drives the way you push systems and like how you keep your systems and your structure of how you communicate back and forth with your client. And making those really clear and objective and trying to remove emotion from things is huge to allow for yourself to make better decisions. Like we even talked about this on the coaches weekend. Like doing small things like if you're a coach at someone's show and you need to like take photos when someone poses for you and like, okay, great, love it. Like I'm going to go look at these photos outside the room and then decide on what you want to eat and I'll text you so that it's not that like feeling of they're watching you waiting for their next meal. Right. And it's like some of these small things that you do in your systems can keep those details like of tracking much easier for the client. But it also keeps that communication clear and open as well. Yeah, I think a lot of this too is like over time you'll build better systems and better ways of conveying your programs to clients. You pick up all this stuff along the way of like ways you didn't think clients would misinterpret aspects of it. Yeah. Even, you know, where I've seen a lot of issues even for myself. I want to know a lot and be feel like I'm well informed, especially going into a peak week. Yeah. Because it's just you don't know what you don't know. And to lower stress in that situation is huge. So with a lot of clients now, like at least I'll lay out clearly like what I'm going to be doing next. So a lot of times changes are made on the fly. But I know being in the client's shoes, like wake up in the morning, you send your coach your pics, and you're like waiting for a diet change. And you're like, man, I hope he gets it on time because I need to go tan by this time and I need to pack. And if your coach isn't there, he doesn't know like what exactly the schedule needs to be, right? Like how far your Airbnb is or whatever, whatever, stuff like that, which can drive a lot of stress. And coaches sleep in sometimes. Coaches miss things. Or technology fails you and you have poor Wi-Fi signal and you can't get your stuff to your coach and you think it's sent. So even through all that, like I do a lot of pre-planning to where the night before, like they're going to see the tentative plan. And they know like along the way, like, hey, if something for any reason, like you don't hear from me, still start this plan. That way there's an ease there. There's planning already in place and they know what to expect. And I always tell them like on these times, like you're going to check in at this time and I'll respond at this time. And then this is your meal time, right? So check in is at 2.30. I'll respond by 2.45. Meal, whatever, starts at 3 p.m. So where it's like very clearly expectations are there. They're not like it's been five minutes and I haven't heard from my coach. But anyway, those are things that I've learned along the way. It sounds overly anal, but I'd rather overly inform someone than leave it vague and have them stress about it. But going back to what you said, Luke, yeah, it's a lot about just having a really good system that makes it very seamless for a client to understand. And also to be able to communicate and build the coach-athlete relationship that can ultimately allow you to collaborate really well to advance someone up. And the past systems that have failed have been ones that have neglected that, that had vagueness, that lacked the ability to communicate clearly as an athlete or as a coach. And with modern-day technology and what we have now, there's really not any excuse for it not to be there. And that's everything we teach in J3 University is to help you build, of course, the base foundation of all the nuts and bolts of coaching. But then actually be implementing the systems and why we now have J3U coaching. Because we've seen too many systems fail, too many clients failed, and we want to raise the standard and improve the process. So maybe you don't want to learn all the nuts and bolts of coaching. You just want to be told how to be better as your own athlete. That's why we have our J3U coaches, which are excellent at what they do. And we are just leveling up everyone that comes to us and giving great client experiences and not letting people down like I've been let down in the past of my own doing. I don't want to put on coaches, but we're all humans and make our mistakes. So our goal here is just to put a lot of care into everyone that we do coach. And make you improve on stage, which ultimately leads to winning. Like Luke said, we've done a lot of winning. We've done a lot of that. So I love my team. They're so great. Just like working with them every week is unbelievable. And just like the clients are putting on stage is unreal. So if you guys are interested, check it out. We've got the link everywhere. It's in my bio. It's in John's. It's in all the coaches. So get yourself a J3 coach. But what we got next week? What are we doing next week? What's the. Yeah. Next week, I'll be coming close to my own peak week. So we'll dive into it's probably more like the pre peak week. Like what sets that up and we'll dive into it. Love it. Anyway. Thank you all for tuning in. We will talk to you next week. Thank you.

=== FILE: The Offseason “Look” — How lean is too lean？ ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 198 [pcf2C_ufRWI].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. The off-season look. The off-season look. The off-season look. How lean is too lean. The off-season look. How lean is too lean.! The goal is to add muscle, bring a different stage.! If you are trying to stay too lean, you might be leaving gains on the table. However, if you do the dirty bulk and just get too fat, you might have a really, really long prep ahead. So we're going to break this down today and try to meet in the middle of what we really need to accomplish here in the off-season with managing body fat. And not overshooting, not underdoing it. And let's dive in for today, Luke. Off-season. We're right around the off-season time. At least when we're shooting this, it's like just getting into fall here in Texas, which is still 90 degree weather. So it doesn't feel like fall. I was about to say, yesterday's fall afternoon was like 85 degrees. But either way, we're closing in on the Olympia. This is coming out after the Olympia now and it's the off-season. But if you, whatever, maybe you're listening to this, you're in the future three years from now in your off-season. So either way, you know, what is the idea, I guess, Luke, of like you want to have like lean gains in the off-season. Maybe let's set the framework of what should we really be achieving with body fat in the off-season at a macro level? I look in order for like management across the macro. I think it starts with where we start. And I really like looking at it from a rate of gain perspective. So if I was to run a rate of gain between 0.25 to 0.5% for the entirety of the off-season that I have planned, will I end up at a body fat percentage that is too high where I'm not making progress? Or will it be just at the point where it's time to switch phases again? That's thEQuestion I'm always trying to answer. And it's why we do so much on post-show because like obviously not all your off-seasons are going to be from a post-show phase into it. But we talk about managing body composition in the post-show phase where psychological and some of the physiological adaptations have started to come down. But we're not losing a lot of food sensitivity and things that are positive things of being lean kind of heading into that off-season phase. And so that's what I'm looking for is if I can take a timeline, I can build a phase that's 18 to 24 weeks long and run that rate of gain throughout the entirety of the off-season and not end up in a bad spot. Then I know I've done my homework on the front end. And then we can start to look at like what does that look like from a body fat percentage standpoint. But I want to be comfortable in knowing that I can drive performance up each week by improving the recovery capacity with food, progressively progressing PDs, but also allowing some of that body fat accumulation to happen to help with the ability to drive mechanical tension. And it is done in a way that's not putting us in a bad spot by the end. Yeah, I think to be able to be in a position for string together that many weeks, you have to start from position where you have that many weeks to give. And a lot of times I think that is looking at someone's probably eight to 10 week outlook because usually how fast you can rip off body fat, divide that by two. And that's probably maybe about the fat gain you could accept in most cases in the off-season. And so if you think about this math, all right, if you had a 20-week prep, you diet someone down for 10 weeks, they're 10 weeks out, that would be the start of where we'd want them to have a lean gain phase. So 10 weeks to drop off the fat, we could allow 20 weeks to put that same amount of fat back on to where then now we're back at our 20-week out spot to pull it back down. Now, say someone's dropping one and a half pounds per week, maybe that is 0.75 pounds of body fat gain on a weekly basis. Maybe a third of that's muscle, maybe 0.4, 0.3 pounds. So that could be muscle, maybe, depending on where they're at. That could significantly add up to a lot of stage weight. But as you quickly see, it's like, hey, well, I did that math and 0.3 pounds over 20 weeks. Like, that's quite a bit of stage weight. And you're right, that's going to slow down for a lot of people, which means you probably need a slower rate of gain. But that at least gives you some idea of, like, mapping out the overall timeline and the body fat leanness that you probably want to look at. So when you're looking at your off-season, you probably see, okay, how do I look when I'm 10 weeks out from my show? And how do I look when I'm 20 weeks out? There you go. There's your visuals for your start and the end of your off-season when you probably need to start pulling back down. You got too fat. And also to give you some guidance if you should do a mini cut or not. And then also if you're in a good position to start your off-season or not, as some people might need to pull down a little bit before they do. Now, I've had the preps, right, where you're like, man, that prep sucked. I had to pull 50 pounds off. And I don't ever want to do that again. And there was one off-season where I did that, and I was like, you know what? I'm lean gaining. So I ended up – it was really sad. I ended up coming back down to my, like, exact same stage weight. I was a little leaner. Maybe IMade a little progress, but still, like, man, it was not a productive year. And I just really tried to stay lean. I was really worried about the scale increasing. I had lots of weeks where it wouldn't increase because my calorie intake was so tight. And it just left me without making a lot of progress. But if you then go to the other end of the spectrum, like, well, I'm going to just let the fat gain happen. And I chased the scale, too. It just led to really hard dieting and long preps where eventually if your prep timeline is not long enough, you get too aggressive, you're actually going to pull a lot of that tissue off that you probably had gained. So that's where, like, that happy medium really does need to happen. And I know people out there – I posted this on, like, how many calories does it take to really grow on my YouTube? And there's lots of comments like, you know, people – everyone should have a dirty bulk. I don't – if you can avoid having a dirty bulk, I would because dirty bulking at this level, you don't see anyone do it. And why is that? Because it's not productive becausEQuickly, like, apt-type digestion goes to crap. You're choking down food. And I think that is one of the biggest contributors to, like, increasing your waist size is forcing food and not being able to pull your gut in all off-season long. Then also with high body fats, especially if you're using PDs, health metrics go to shit so quickly. So then you're going to have longer on the back end of your off-season to clen those up. So sleep, the extra 10 pounds of, like, fat and water is just worse for, like, your sleep. And then it trenslates into trening. So if your sleep's crap, your recovery's not as good. But then also if you're gassed, like, between your trening sets and it's taking away your ability for total work, less work being done potentially is going to mean less growth hormone hormone. And I know a lot of guys, like, we start, like, doing a mini cut, like, five, six weeks in or five, six weeks in to prep. And, like, lifts are now progressing back up. Like, they feel good. They have energy come back. So doing the dirty bulk and getting, like, too fat, like, yes, you can not leave gains on the table that way. However, on the back end is where you're going to see the problems arise. Or it's going to shortchange your off-season by, like, we're like, yeah, I'm going to have to have a 30-week prep now. It's like, yeah, we only got 14 weeks into your off-season. So you had more to give still. So I think there is the medium to strike there for sure. 100%. I think it's an interesting dynamic. And as a former member of the I Was Fat Club, it was something that I think I could have done better in my time competing and pursuing competing. Like, I already naturally maybe have a body fat set point, which I think we should touch on here, that's slightly higher than normal. Like, average where I feel my best at least, right? Like, I think part of that from a visual perspective is my lower body used to stay so lean relative to my upper. But it's something that can derail your ability to progress long term. And what IMean by this is, like, this is why I would agree with you being away from the dirty bulk. It's like, you know the person that struggles to lose body fat? Like, really adaptive to diet changes. Like, it's really a grind to get into shape. That trenslates into all of these other phases. So when you take someone too far in an off-season and then you go to mini-cut them, it's like that mini-cut turns into a diet phase. So it's like with that person, it might – you might, like, end up wasting a lot of time. So when we look at, like, body fat management, a lot of it has to do with keeping off-season links for that person relative to where I can run a rate of gain that's perspective or productive, I should say. But not take them past that point where you're now, like, trying to reverse in, like, sixth gear. And so that's where, like, the thought then comes for people of, like, oh, well, I should just stay leaner. It's like, no, you still have to have the phase where you run rates of gain that are appropriate for making maximal progress. Because thEQuestions you need to answer is how long is that for? Are you running them for too short? Are you running them for too long relative to what you had? And it's just like that's thEQuestions you need to start answering. Like, if I look back, I wish I would have done shorter pushes, stopping when I saw body composition skewing my health metrics, and then reeled it back in because that was my predisposition. If you're on the flip side of the coin where it's like you stay lean pretty much year-round, it's like you can maybe run these longer phases and take more progress. This is how I view it. It's like it's always relative to what is the person's problem. Is it getting in shape or is it adding tissue? And then that's kind of how we run the phase. Yeah. And if I had to make a generality, like most people are going to be on the average spectrum of like, hey, if they eat too much, they're going to gain body fat. And the rate of muscle gain was going to be relatively not too quick but also not going to be a freak out there. You'll know. If you're a freak, you know. And you're probably already a pro in not listening to us talk or something. But what I see a lot of times is like many people can string a good 16, 20-week growth hormone hormone phase, and it's likely time to either run into a prep from there or do a mini cut. And I know people want to do an extended growth hormone hormone phase where you need to have a lot of time to grow. And to string together 40 weeks of growing, usually there's a fat loss phase that has to happen in that. It's just I don't think I've rarely ever seen it happen where we could string one together unless you're counting like your post-show period within that or something. But usually it's like, hey, you have a growth hormone hormone phase. Then there's like maybe a fat loss phase. Then there's another growth hormone hormone phase that happens. And if you really manage the first growth hormone hormone phase well, that fat loss phase truly is a shorter one. And then off the back of that second growth hormone hormone phase, you run that into your prep. So to have like that extended growth hormone hormone phase, just be prepared. You're probably going to need a fat loss phase in there as well. And, you know, back on to the, you know, how lean is too lean. And when these things are like really holding you back is when, you know, when sleep is taking detriments because you are still too lean. And I think it's easy in the post-show phase to feel like you're normal, but you're not still. So if you're still waking up with like sleep disturbances or still having to fight hunger signaling. The caveat on that one is like some, if you're a female out there, some hunger is probably happening in the offseason. It could be, but I think those are at least some of the few that stand out around that. IMean, what you have other ones are like, Hey, when someone's just staying too lean in the offseason. Yeah. I think it's the rate of gain and performance metrics probably just are not moving. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, the performance one is where my head goes. All the ones you listed plus you don't feel strong under weights. Strength progressions are really hard to come by. You notice that even if you try to take volume progressions, you're tolerant, so that's pretty rough. People forget too that if we look at workload in general, it's like taking strength progressions is overall net stimulus progressions and the total volume that you're trening. And so we have to improve our ability to tolerate that performance level over time. So I think that's kind of a part of it as well where those trening metrics, for a lot of people, like they're the last ones to kind of kick in. But, man, you can get stuck into a phase where it's like you're struggling way too early to progress things if you're staying too lean. Like I've seen some of the ones that like stay too lean like six, seven weeks in. They're like, it's already heavy. Like, Jesus, you should just be picking up momentum right now. Yeah, I think thEQuick takeaway is like am I too lean? It's like here's what should happen. You should be able to wake up in the morning and feel rested and recovered. So that's your checkbox of like sleep is going well. Throughout the day before meals, you might have some slight hunger signaling that happens before your meal. Or you might not have a lot. You just like know it's time to eat and that's okay. You're not overly stuffed or bloated after your meals either. And then also throughout the day, you're not dwelling on what the next meal is going to be and having like all these cravings float around your head and scrolling IG. That's probably also another sign that you're a little bit too lean. Also, if you are only focused on food, likely you're not focused on your significant other. So we should have some libido coming back as well to a degree in the offseason for males and females. So that should be another good sign that you could be recovered. We have hunger, libido, sleep. The last one, are you able to progress to the gym? Like performance is there. You get great pumps as that could be a sign just of having enough food present. Not that there's all this thing around like pumps don't grow muscle or pumps do grow muscle or whatever. Anyway, so it's a marker. But I think, hey, go through thosEQuestions. If those things are not all happening, you might be too lean. And if they are all happening and they're in the positive, then you likely could be in a good place. But Luke, maybe we should trensition into the really good takeaways of how to execute the balance of offseason lean and productive muscle growth hormone hormone as well. So like. We have these checkboxes in place. Yeah. What would be some things that you see keep people productive? Yeah. This could be, you name it, cardio, monitoring labs. Yeah. Drugs, whatever. Yeah. So one of the biggest checkboxes is going to sound really odd is like the advanced dieting skills of being able to handle offseason. Things for lack of a better word, like part of the offseason is being able to give back to friends and family and managing the social environments and the skills of adjusting plans and being able to estimate food. I think is one of the most underrated skills in an offseason. Like, oh, I have seen so many offseasons derailed by this. Like you have the two weeks of like one's vacation and then one's these like family outing things. And it's like you've just lost six weeks of progress. Like it's just, it's traveling is such a. Man, it's, it's so tough. Bodybuilding. I'll be honest. Like I was, I traveled to see Sean Clarita like this week and tren with him. Right. Like no big deal. Like for me, like food, I had a kitchen or whatever. And talking with him, like we were, we have all these, these big shows planned like out of the country. And then I'm going out of the country and we're sitting there like thinking on how are you packing our chicken to here? And it's just, it's so easy to get off plan for a week. And even when you are well planned from higher outputs and then less food in turn, or you're having to change your diet and you don't account for things. It just makes it really hard to string together progress. But when you are a skilled dieter, you understand how to build that in. And also if you are at home and you can be consistent, but you want to live life, you need to be able to have a flexible dieting skill and know how to pull things in, pull things out. That doesn't detract from your goal. And that's truly is like a productive offseason rate of gain is where you can just hit your, your, your weekly caloric marker and not overshoot it or undershoot it. So that is a huge piece to it. And right. Sustainable dining. Yeah. Something that's enjoyable and fun. That doesn't lead to a burnout. I think that's a huge piece in the offseason, just the psychological burnout of feeling like you're on prep year round. I know for my machines out there that are listening, you're like, yeah, no problem. It's like, but the reality is like that becomes a problem for a lot of people and why a lot of people don't make progress. So yeah, you could say, Hey, toughen up out there. Just do it. You want your goal? Like motivation's bullshit. Just be disciplined. It's like, you know, I'm on board with that message. All good. But also if we can ease the burden of offseason and prep and just make it sustainable and enjoyable, it, it, why not? Like your partner's going to appreciate it. I'll tell you that. They got to think about other people too. So yeah, man. If anybody's waving the flag of that, it's me. I think it's just so massive. I think like of all the things you could go through of like what makes for productive offseasons, like obviously managing your hormones and, or not hormones, your lab work and your health metrics. And like, that's a big one to write, of course, and staying on top of your lifestyle metrics. So consistency and sleep and consistent meal times for digestion. And, and, you know, those types of things. I think like stacking food at the end of the day is like another horrible mistake people do when food gets high. It's like you miss one meal time kind of off. And then it's like hour and a half meals for the lasT3 meals of the day. It's like, I think that's a big one that can, but if I had to choose one thing, it's that advanced dieting skill set of like being able to manage. Like I would, I wouldn't take that 10 times out of 10. Yeah, that, that's a huge one. I, I am getting more leaning towards like cardio should happen. Uh, especially if you're an enhanced bodybuilder. Yeah. I think that keeps people really productive as well from, uh, keepinGHunger up. But I think from health is a priority there. And with the metabolic profile, being in a good position to switch between burning fat, burning glucose, uh, and also keeping work capacity up. I, I, you can absolutely gain a lot of that from weight trening alone. I know people say that, uh, but also depends on the type of weight trening that you're doing and how you structure that. Um, I don't think your weight trening should be structured to where it's a cardio circuit. And so I think that's where you need to bring a heart rate up to like some max levels, at least for moments of a day, like some hit cardio, or at least to a good range where you can get some cardiovascular positive adaptations. I think there's a lot of merit to that in keeping a productive offseason and trensitioning between, between phases. And I've been leaning more and more into that. I've been on the offseason with no cardio. And I find for all my athletes and myself, it's more productive with cardio being, being present. And on the cardio side, uh, steps, it's pretty easy for people to stop moving in the offseason. I think having walks and movement, uh, following meals, uh, keeps digestion moving along. And, uh, as a positive aspect for, for that piece as well. And if you are a low food dieter or surpluser or whatever, uh, can also keep a high energy flux to where you can handle more food in the offseason. And, uh, the caloric expenditure of just a little bit of walking is very, very low. So I think there's a, there is some positives to, to those things too, of having in place. Uh, one last thing that I will step touch on too is, uh, anyone resist out there to getting a sleep study done? Oh, highly, a big one that should take place. Uh, cause that's going to be a, uh, just a ceiling to how much recovery capacity you have tren all day, but you can't recover. You won't have the adaptations happen. So get a sleep study done. It's so easy. Now there's online tests that will mail to your house and you can check it out. So, uh, that would be another one. And just addressing your total sleep setup mechanics. Like you're cool while you sleep. Do you have good pillow positions? Like, uh, everything that would contribute to like improve sleep. I would be, uh, aiming towards and consistent sleep schedule. You go to bed at the same time you wake at the same time. Uh, when you are traveling, traveling, so it doesn't screw that up would be huge. Cause you know, if you go travel and listening right now, if you're someone that traveled somewhere and you had to get up extra early and travel, or, uh, it's took you, you know, stay up later because you got somewhere late, you know, that throws you off for a few days, add those days up and it does make a difference. So at least those are some of the bigger ticket items. I think really stand out to me for improving your ability to, to manage staying lean and be productive is a sleep. Is that, is that big one? Yeah. I think it's worth its weight in gold. To be honest, I think it's extremely undervalued. The amount of people that come in that are like 245 or 250 and then like, yeah, I've just never thought about it. It's like, dude, like, okay. Or like how good you think you sleep? Like, let's just make sure this is cause like, you don't some, IMean, sometimes like John, you can, I know I can attest to this. Sometimes you don't realize how bad you're actually sleeping. Like it's like, until you experience what truly sleeping with a CPAP machine is, if you have sleep apnea, like, woof, it makes such a difference. Yeah. Yeah. You know, for like tracking that, I know there's like whoop or or ring or Apple watches. And I really think just the subjective of like getting up and like, do you feel rested when you wake up in the morning and energetic throughout the day? And if not, like that's still, I think one of the best metrics to go off of as we get better, I'm sure we'll have some amazing sleep data to work around and not to dismiss things like that either. But I think just asking thosEQuestions are some good metrics to start with beyond just, you know, offseason productivity with scale weight and visuals and things. But with the last, let me, the last thing that we can touch on here is like monitoring the progress. Cause we talked a bit about scale weight and what that just said was visuals. So kind of my, my rule that I like to go off of is on a week to week basis. When I compare pictures, I should not be able to see fat gain. Uh, because if you're gaining fat, you can see it off one week, man, that's fast. It's really fast. Um, what I usually see if I compare back to maybe, maybe a three week apart or four week apart comparison, I could see someone soften slightly. That's, that's acceptable. And then I should be able to see like maybe that rate of gain falls within our, what we just mentioned for our target, the 0.25 to 0.5%. And if they're there, that's a great place to be at. But if on a week to week basis, I'm seeing them like visually getting softer, then also likely their rate of gain is maybe at that 0.5 or slightly above. It's probably a good sign. You need to slow that down. Uh, on the other side is like your rate of gain is less than that. The less than the 0.25 or some weeks are maintaining. And then you just visually week to week are always seeing them look very, very lean. You likely need to push them farther along. Uh, then if you're like, Hey man, I, I'm just, uh, only seeing fat gain. I'm within that target range, you will, you know, uh, congratulations and not congratulations. You're rightly just more advanced. And so you're just probably gonna have to move along at a slower rate now, especially if you're natural, that's going to be much slower. Um, or if you're, you know, if you're dabbling in the hand side and you checked all your boxes, everything's perfect trening, everything, you milked everything out of all those aspects. It might be time to escalate the usage of PDs. And I will just take a mention on PDs. IMentioned is that you can create a hormonal environment that gives you a lot of leverage to be able to stay a lot leaner in the offseason than what your natural counterpart could be. And so I would put more pressure on someone that is enhanced, that you have a greater, uh, reason to be able to stay leaner in your offseasons. And if you're getting fat in your offseasons, you're doing probably a piss poor job of managing your variables. And so that's to, to call you out up there that you are to operate a higher standard than what your lower PED natty scatter point was doing in the past. Um, but you will, you will see more progress. So don't let your PDs be masking your, your, uh, ability of what you're executing your variables at. Yeah. I think, um, before we kind of leave out, like all that stuff's in J3U, like all these things. Yeah. We, we change everything from how to manage your offseason, actually look at this stuff. We teach you how to, uh, learn the skillset of the eye of monitoring your progress. So check out our level one course. If you really want to learn about offseason, that's where we really have the, the guts of where we talked about today. So, but still, we're going to stay on our topic of get big for next week's podcast. We're going to talk about strong does not always equal big in the trap of just performance chasing and your hypertrophy blocks and where that can lead to some roadblocks. And what does it actually mean to being strong when you're a bodybuilder? So thank you all for tuning in. We will talk to you next week. We'll talk to you next week.

=== FILE: The Post-Show Phase： Where Champions Are Made or Broken - J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Eps.174 [FCrh7cVfJbw].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, Jon Jewett. I'm your host, Jon Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Jon Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Post-show where champions are made or they are broken. And in our current contest prep season of the year, there's a lot of post-show periods happening. And so I thought we were very appropriate. See that previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously to make it more productive. Yeah, and I think it's truly kind of the phase that you would honestly call it dangerous in some senses of the way that you kind of verbalize this to clients because there is a pretty big loss of an external goal once the context prep is finished. So it can be a slippery slope, especially when we talk about in the fat accumulation side of the equation. We have plenty of data plus anecdotal experience that shows how quick that fat accumulation can occur. And honestly, I do think that it sets the stage for the next arguably 24 to 30 weeks of progress kind of in that post-show phase. And I think that the dangerous aspect of it is we can see two extremes. We can see the extreme of fat accumulation happening too fast and or pushing up too fast in regards to trying to take advantage of the post-show rebound. But I think it's just as much of an issue to stay on the too-shredded side where we're three, four weeks into the post-show phase and we're not even seeing really much improvement from a gym perspective or we're not kind of seeing ourselves set up for what the off-season to come to be. I think some context around that would be pretty huge to kind of start with, don't you think? Yeah. Yeah. IMean, with I've even personally, I've I haven't weighed too far into like totally blowing it post-show, like personally. I've had some rapid push-ups, but I think I probably lean more so into like staying lean for too long. And I think there you've been in the contest prep for so long that you forget what normal really is in the off-season to where you're like six weeks down the road, you're like still pretty lean. We're like, but yeah, no, I'm fully recovered. But you still have like some sleep derangement, but it feels a bit normal. Like, hey, this is already better than prep. But is it normal? Like for your off-season best. And I think that's when you kind of forget what it really should be like. And then you get deeper in your off-season like, oh, no, actually now I feel really good. So and what is the detriment in that? It's like, oh, yeah, poor sleep is not going to be an optimal environment to be able to actually truly grow. As you get to more of the enhanced side, which is kind of our audience, there is a bit more of a shift down to where you could very well stay leaner because we're not relying on endogenous hormone production to have to get back to normalize, to truly be optimized. We can make this happen even with lower body fat. However, even despite like replacement of hormones, you still can't get around when like sleep is having derangements or the psychology is all the same for all of us. So if you're not able to like maintain a body weight and stay on a regimented plan, you're still going to have to do some legwork here to get back to a normal. So where you can even be productive in the off-season. So this phase truly can make or break a lot of people and for newer competitors or even ones that just haven't had that regiment of putting in practice, like trensitioning your prep routine into an off-season routine. They end up like six weeks down the road ready to start their off-season. And it looks like they're already 18, 20 weeks out from a show again. It's like, where do we go from here? Because we could start an off-season, but then what does that look like in 16, 20 weeks? Well, then you're going to be 30, 35 weeks out from a show. Like for a lot of people, that timeline just doesn't make sense. And that body fat level from 20 to 30 weeks out, I find it's just far inferior for making progress with just being able to partition food towards muscle, even staying lean or even keeping your health metrics in a better place. So it's almost best in the situation that you move. Once someone's stable and able to maintain their body weight and not having this lack of routine, then you do a fat loss phase and then you get them back into off-season. But I think for what probably more so, some people just are staying lean because of the social pressures around having a social media presence and marketing. I hear a lot of people speak to this as well too. But you need to put your competitive goals in the forefront and make sure that is the priority because end of day, what are you really doing this for? But I think the mind shift from an earlier competitor to that of what a champion really entails is what we are trying to strive for everyone to move towards. Yeah, and I think the big thinGHere is just making sure that you kind of have those deliverables mapped out. So one of the things I've done from a schedule perspective is the first thing when I wake up in the morning is IMap out the three most important items to deliver on every day as far as work goes. You can use that framework within being a competitor in this post-show phase. I think it still gives you process-oriented goals to kind of keep you minded on what can I do in the now in order to create the outcome for what's next. And those three most important things would be based on what people struggle with, but the tendency tends to be towards execute on the nutrition aspect, execute on trening requirements, and execute on the sleep routine. I tend to find focusing on those three as process-oriented goals really starts to shift that mindset towards kind of what improvement needs to look like in the off-season. And we can take that hyper-focus that prep gives us of an end date and a stage date and what that looks like and put that into those daily deliverables and making sure that we execute on those. Yeah, I do like that. IMean, if you're checking off those three areas, that's going to get you a lot of the way there. I also think there is a shift towards trening performance goals. Not that it's not there in contest prep, but at least for me what's gotten me the most excited coming off of prep is being able to improve my physique. And people are starting to map out, like, you know, what does that look like for them and what trening might need to be. And that's where I start to get excited. I think others should shift towards that too because what is going to change your physique? And that is trening. So looking at, you know, what exercises are going to be the most key ones to be able to move up these body parts that I need. And so on a week-to-week basis, my goal is trying to execute these better and better every week and then increase load reps across the board on every set for those lifts. And so now we can move to having this, like, weekly target that you can actually move the needle on because in prep you can't really do that. We're very focused on visuals or scale weight and losing body fat. So a quicker short-term to look at is trening performance and keeping in mind that the more on point you are with what Luke mentioned, your nutrition and your sleep, the greater you're going to be able to drive up these lifts. So that acute change in the short-term goals of, like, what you're doing in trening week-to-week and then having the long-term goal of the show, the physique, is a good trensition shift of where you can see that kind of champion mindset come about. Yeah. There's probably also data, too, like, for others to be able to stay accountable as well. Yeah, so I tend to try to remove scale focus. I know a lot of people in prep like rate of loss charts. I tend to stay away from rate of gain charts because you get quite a bit of instability on the first week or two. You don't really know kind of how someone's going to respond the first two weeks. More so from a data perspective, the things that I'm looking for are performance metrics and then watching some of the health metrics, watching, making sure that we're not getting large fluctuations in, like, blood pressure or anything along those lines. But I am watching that rate of change on the weight accumulation because you can see it, like, and you've seen this before, John, I know you have, where it's like that week-to-week visual side-by-side is just incrementally softer week-to-week than what you saw the improvement in the body fat on the way down. And it's like this rate of jumping up is just way too rapid, no matter what that kind of weight data says. That's where I'm using that art of coaching eye a bit more to confirm the data in that post-show phase because I do think that rate of change in the visual week-to-week is pretty important to track in this phase in particular. Yeah. And maybe just to have some insight out there for everyone is that, I would say in a general sense, if you wanted to look back on your contest prep photos, roughly maybe your eight-week outlook would be a look to strive for by the end of your post-show phase. Like that could be an acceptable body fat range because if you dieted for whatever, 10, 12 weeks, pulling down body fat off across that, you shouldn't be gaining body fat nearly at the rate that you're able to lose it in prep. So that should extend you out. If we said, hey, 10 weeks, 12 weeks of that dieting body fat, that should get you like 24 weeks of off-season body fat accrual. And then you wind up back at that contest prep start point. So that's just a rough idea of like looking at those visuals and whatever, print them out, whatever you need to do. And like here's the end point that will be acceptable. And again, everyone, this is like a, maybe a rough tool to be able to utilize because for some eight weeks out and you're going to be peeled out of your mind, bodybuilder, and also you have a high body fat set point, that eight weeks out body fat is going to feel a little too rough for an off-season. Maybe opposed to the bikini competitor that has a very low body fat set point and doesn't take as much to get down to like an eight-week outlook, that might be even leaner for her to be able to have her off-season start point. So again, lots of variation, but it gives you some rough idea of like where you're kind of aiming for at the end of this phase. But I usually say as lean as you can be without any negatives from contest prep. And over time, I think you learn to keep refining what that means. And you're going to mess it up because I've messed up numerous times and just starting to get it down. And you'll also elude yourself that you're there and you're not. So again, like that's what we strive for. The nutrition piece kind of pivotinGHere a bit is where I think we see the most variability. And I'm actually interested to hear your thoughts on this because I've got a pretty variable approach to how I go about like caloric increases and reintroducing some flexibility person to person. And I think psychology matters quite a bit here. So I'm going to kind of let you tee this off because this and how you manage this, I think is a large part of the success of an athlete in the post-show phase. And I tend to change this quite a bit depending on the psychology of the athlete. Gosh, with the increase in food and rate of gain for that initial, like if you have that, and I guess let me say what would be ideal here and then we can kind of like work backwards from there, would be the athlete that, you know, the day after the show or night of the show, they can go out and have a reasonable meal, something they enjoy and not let you to be overeating. The next day, they could be fully back on a bodybuilding looking plan. Maybe that night they have another meal out of something they like. Monday, if this was a Saturday show, they're 100% on the new diet plan. And they can execute that out throughout the entire week without little snack foods coming in, keeping a regulated water, sodium intake, so we drop off any water from the show. And then by that Saturday, they could do a reasonable meal out again. And what I would guide people to do is, again, this is saying I don't know the person, is that you're not going to be able to go out and have pizza burgers every week post-show, at least initially, okay? For the most part, nobody can do that. And this would be a meal out that's something close within the realm of bodybuilding, right? So steak, potato, fajitas, Greek food or something, right? Something where you get meat, veggies, et cetera. So then from there, if we see body weight stability, we start moving up food and their daily calorie intake could increase to where also they begin to have more flexibility and a greater caloric allowance for that meal on the weekend. And then if it's not of detriment, what I also like to say, hey, make macro meals during the week whenever you want. So I don't have people, I start to trensition people from a strict meal plan to be able to macro match and have something they enjoy. And that can do that anytime, as long as that's not detracting from the ultimate physique goal here and keeping them on track. And that rate of gain kind of is where I have to judge how flexible do I need to be with someone's untracked meal or not. So I start with have something you enjoy, just regulate yourself. If I notice like, hey, that's the only weight gain they get is that one, two days after that meal and the rest of the time maintaining weight, it's like, okay, we need to scale that back and we have to put a little bit of restrictors around that meal, whether it be a calorie allowance or we just pick foods that would be okay to go out and have. And then we just go from there. That's kind of ideal. Now, not everyone can execute like that. And you have some people that are going to be, need more of the big push. And look, maybe I'll let you speak to that because there's a vast variability there and where you might need to take a newer competitor that's really struggling to like stay on it. And they just feel like they're failing, failing, failing every week. It's an interesting dynamic because the structure should provide success. But if we can't follow the structure, then it, like you said, it leads to these feelings of failure. Something I'll use to try to get the point across to people is like how this should scale up over time is looking at it mathematically. So like if you eat 500 calories over your meal plan when you're eating 2,000 calories a day versus eating 5,000 calories a day, that's the difference between about a 25% increase in caloric intake total and a 10% increase in caloric intake total. And so then I try to trenslate that into kind of like off-season eating. So when we look at flexibility around like meals off plan, we need to kind of have an idea of how do we keep it within this 5% to 10% range of caloric intake relative to the meal plan that we're having. And I'll tend to use that as my flexible rule in regards to educating them on looking things up, caloric intakes, giving them the autonomy to adjust food through the day in order to make that work. And I'll actually give them sometimes, depending on how new the competitor, like examples of how this might look so they can take it and use it and go do it in success. So like if they have a restaurant that's like their favorite, like pulling a meal off that restaurant's list, here's what a day of eating may look like. And then they can kind of learn to go execute that and then see off the back end what that data looks like from a weight tren perspective. And it teaches them and reinforce them what normal looks like. And that's kind of where we can build some excess with more structure on people that might not be used to kind of this phase. But it is kind of dependent upon the person because you do have some people on the emotional regularity side who just can't handle eating off plan because they get caught up in the moment and then the emotions kind of drive their eatinGHabits and then that eatinGHabits lead to excessive eating, which is pushing kind of into the realm of eating disorder. And that's where potentially the skills aspect of through the week needs to be developed a little bit more to handle those off plan eating days or kind of how we treat the flexibility. A little bit more structure lead it into flexibility later in the offseason. Yeah, I've worked with some people that they are would-be classified like eating disorders or struggle with that in their past and how to under control and post-show just kind of reignites some of those feelings. And you do have to scale that person back to what's going to be a successful diet day. You know, it's like most people will stick to measuring protein or even eyeballing protein. Like, hey, eat protein and veggies first. Then it's okay with the other stuff that you do eat. And at least we have some fill in there. And then as they feel like, you know, I feel a little bit regulated, I'm ready to get back to like measuring a carb or something like this. And then also like, hey, other stuff that snack foods around the house, like just don't have those. Have healthier snack foods. And it's okay if you snack on these foods just to build successful days and then lead them back to that structure that they had in the past. But anyway, there's a large range. And so I think if you're new to coaching, a lot of times you want that instruction manual of here's the perfect post-show phase and this is what everyone gets. And it is just so variable and you're going to have to be very flexible as a coach and realize that many people aren't going to be ready for the optimal execution of a post-show. Now, to segue that into trening because there's other issues that crop up with trening too. And there's also this kind of false sense, I think, of recovery because you feel like a superhero post-show with this influx of food coming in. You probably had like, you finally had eight hours of solid sleep through the night and you woke up feeling like, what have I been doing all prep? I wasn't even sleeping. And then you have massive pumps in the gym. You're like, I am a trening god right now. But it's still this like a little bit of false there because you're still coming from a state where you're not optimally recovered and you've been beating up yourself and accumulating this total stress load, fatigue load on connective tissue. And so we also need to consider like, where are you going to take this in the offseason? So if you go all out in the post-show phase, what are you going to do in the next eight weeks and then the next 20 weeks? Can you sustain that? And this can quickly catch up to people. I've done this myself. Like post-show feel great. Go tren the legs like the couple days after the show and just blast them. And then fatigue. I was knocked out for the week with fatigue. And this is how some guys have gotten rhabdo post-show is doing stuff like this. So with trening, it needs to scale back to allow recovery to happen. And then as nutrition scales up, they'll start crossing lines where they start to line up where that recovery is matching the stimulus. And until then, you have to keep that stimulus pretty low. So ideally here, reduce your volume or it's going to be that volume that you had one week prior to peak week is probably what you can start your trening phase with. And just to air a little more on the side of caution here, I usually say add in an extra rest day. There's a lot of people on contest prep, they could be up with a higher frequency of trening. So just to spread out that trening frequency, I find is what can really aid a lot of people's connected tissue recovery. The thing is the mental side of someone trying to stay out of the gym and almost a bit obsessed with trening and not being able to put those days in or even their trening day diet is a lot more fun than their non-trening day diet. So they really just tren every day. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. So trening like in this post-show phase is probably one of my favorite things to cover because it's almost a tinkering phase for me in regards to, I love this phase for reorganizing what we need to be competitive in the class. And so I rip volume down pretty aggressively. I'll even go sub sometimes what I finish the prep at because I'm doing some like new movement introduction in order to kind of match the new goal sets of like what did we see on stage? Where did we win? Where did we lose? That might not match the same characteristics of the physique that we started with at the beginning of our process together where we've kind of ran this structure into a physique that we presented on stage. We've improved a lot and maybe now the detriments from what actually won and where this physique is at might be differential. So I'll at minimum hold volume from like a post-show phase from the pre-contest. Sometimes I drop it a smidge because of the new movement introduction. And then for some of the auxiliary patterns, I'll actually let my more advanced clients tinker some. So I'll give them like goals within a movement and I'll have them the first two to three weeks kind of test some of their auxiliary patterns that go after the primary patterns. And then we start to learn what that program design is going to look like from a movement selection. And then I go into kind of progressing volume from there. And what I do this for is a dual reason. One, my more advanced athletes provide better feedback in order to be able to pick patterns on their own. And then secondarily, they're also going to be able to understand what it looks like to tren the first week and two weeks of maybe not blasting themselves to all out failure the first week to two weeks back and being able to trensition into program design a bit smoother. So it's definitely something I love to do because it gives them some autonomy back. They've spent 18, 20, 24 weeks, maybe like everything to a T. So the trening side allows them to have some fun and get back into some of the creative autonomy that they might want and allow it to happen on that side than rather feeling like it has to happen on the nutrition side for some of the athletes. Yeah, and even that varies too, right? It's almost like matching your macros, but matching your equipment to your trening program. But I think some people just want the plan and execute it, right? Like, hey, Luke, you know better. Like, just give me what is going to be the best thing for me. But I think to that point that those type of athletes do need to realize that they need to be a little introspective to be able to say like the things that you would need back, Luke, to be able to even say that might be the best exercise. Because it can, I've seen videos trening where I'm like, hey, man, this looks perfect. They're like, but I don't feel anything where I should be feeling it. It's like, okay. So we should pivot that. And feel isn't everything. But just to give you an example of that, like with, I'm doing like Sean Corita's trening now and he's just an executor, man. And what's helpful with him is like, for one, he'll like send me his whole, a video tour of his gym, which this is what we do in J3U coaching. Like, this is how custom the trening would be when we program it. Like, I want to see the equipment you use. And then we start seeing you in those pieces of equipment and then changing the plan based on how you execute those. So Sean is like, he'll send me like his chest personal gym. It's like, dude, you have like eight different pressing machines. He's like, so I'll write out a plan with like three options. And then we kind of move through. He's like, hey, I really connect well on this one. Like, all right, that's the one we're going to run. Then we write that in the program. And then I can put some cues within that. So as we progress week to week, that program has gone from a little more bare bones with flexibility into something that he's had the autonomy to select. And also I built in thEQueuing that he knows to remember to execute on that movement that we picked. So that's just a way that you can have flexibility built into structure where like more experienced athletes are kind of leading that way. And I think as you're a beginner on in your career, you're trying to aim to get to that. So don't ever think like just follow the plan, bro. Like you need to be introspective to be able to get to that point, to be this educated lifter and provide coach with the right feedback. And just to make sure that we pivot here because trening is an extensive piece that Luke and I both love to speak to. But I know what everyone's probably waiting for is the PEDs, the fun stuff, right? Everyone loves this piece. And it's so funny because in the post-show phase, it's so simple. Like we can take so much progress without this taking away from the health side of the equation. And like general rules of thumb go a long ways. And it's kind of funny because we can use previous data in off-season baseline phases to help guide this post-show phase. Because in general, like things that are going to be happening from a PED side of the equation is we're going to be looking at tapering back in GH. What compound load is going to be good for this level of physique development from a baseline perspective? And there's a lot of conflating issues with the thought process of going into post-show pushing. So immediately getting back into super physiological exposure, immediately post-show. And I was kind of going to let you kind of start that conversation because I think that's the biggest like fallacy to debunk is this post-show time is not about maximizing rebound. Like you've got to prepare yourself. I almost think about it like a pre-prep phase. Like you do a pre-prep phase in order to prepare yourself for the contest prep. You do a pre-off-season phase in order to prepare yourself for the off-season phase to come. I like that term. We've shifted this term a lot around. It's like potentiation phase, right? Like, or yeah, pre-off-season phase. Wherever you need psychology-wise to call it so you can stay locked in. But, you know, if you had that post-show experience and you had those first few workouts with food back in place and trening performance is like an immediate jump up for most of us, it's like, gosh, that's what PD is like low. You know, you have some like tapering from what you were doing on prep. But for the most part, like you can have amazing workouts and make progress before you've even really brought a lot of gear back in. And then you also have this potential rapid increase in body weight and then add that along with someone that has a variability in their structure or their ability to even continue executing the plan. Bring a lot of PDs back in with that. You'rEQuickly going to see body weight skyrocket. And for the better and for the worse, like, yeah, you can make progress that way. And I have done it. But you'll quickly find yourself where this leads to if you're the one that's not able to execute tightly. Is that six, eight weeks later, you've had gear high. You've rapidly increased body weight. And now what? Is your offseason going to start now? No. You have to lower your gear because you can't stay on cycle for 30, 40 plus weeks of a prep into a post-show into offseason. You can. It's definitely a terrible idea. And then also with all this body weight accrual, man, I've seen guys needing blood pressure medications now. And health markers have not been addressed since coming off of prep because gear stayed high. And then with that being said, you have an artificial look of fullness with a lot of water that's there. When you pull that away, you're going to realize that you have a lot more body fat gaining in that phase than you really wanted to. And I found myself there is by the end, you're like kind of deflated. You're fatter. And the rest of offseason, like once you try to bring gear back up after you had a break, like, man, progress is just very subpar. And that post-show, you never get back that excitement from it. Now, if you're that person that can execute tightly, you're like, well, I'll maximize that phase. But my point to that is that if you are able to execute that tightly, you're going to get a lot more out of a little bit of gear. Find yourself eight weeks later without all the variability of more water increase and skewing your visuals to where now when progress is starting slow in your post-show period, now you're starting to increase gear and you just keep that momentum moving. You don't ever have the drop-off. And you're going to have a lot more runway being leaner. So that's where you can really line up having the post-show period, low PDs where food and increasing recovery is vastly going to be driving trening performance up. And in turn, your ability to accrue some tissue without a doubt during that phase and then carry that into your off-season from that point on. And as far as, well, is there a time to keep gear up? And it's really the only place where I see that being a thing is when this is not a post-show leading to an off-season. This is a post-show that might be actually doing more multiple shows. And that's going to have to be kept up because you're going to be having to stay relatively lean. So that's kind of the only caveat that I would put around that. I don't know if you have anything else to add on that. Yeah, career bodybuilders are the exception to the rule. Because of the way your competitive year falls sometimes, you have to kind of run the borderline of higher gear for a longer period of time. You might not run like full compound levels, that entire bridge of that off-season, but it might be higher than what you ran a post-show phase because you're, you got this like short, like this odd 12-week gap between shows. And then you've got this, so you got this like four to five or four to six week like break. And then you're kind of back into the depth of it, right? So that's kind of like the one exception to the rule, but it's still, unless it's like stringing back-to-back shows very closely together, I still do think there's a temporary drop before you go back into kind of escalating it. Yeah, and it's like you're going to need to pay that back at some point. So, IMean, like, hey, if you're going to extend this prep out and do multiple shows, like at some point you're going to have to have a longer phase on the tail end of that to bring just total stress load back down. And, you know, that's part of the game, but don't do that when you're just earlier on. And as far as like set up, what we speak to like baseline is like truly this could be like your lowest anabolic usage of the total whole year because your ability to drive performance with just nutrition alone is going to be pretty vast without it to hold that tissue even compared to like even your hold phases or your pre-prep phases where you brought gear down. So you can even look at those phases that you did in the offseason of like, yeah, I could easily hold tissue and performance on whatever, 300 milligrams of total anabolics per week. Very easily you could go back to a TRT level of likEQuote-unquote TRT at 200 mg per week and ride that out. But leverage growth hormone hormone hormone hormone, that's what I do with a lot of clients is like I bring that back in or up higher and that will vastly aid the ability to partition towards muscle and limit body fat. So just part of the stuff that we teach like within level one, and again, you're probably listening to Luke and I, you're like you're not nailing us down on like the protocol because there's not the protocol. It's a decision process based on assessing where the athlete is and on that structuring the program for their needs, but trying to move them towards what an optimal setup would be and maximize the progress. And so there's a pretty large spectrum of what it's going to have to work within this phase for all the different competitors. But if you want to learn more on this, we have an entire module in J3 level one just dedicated to handling post-show period. Luke has even handling in there multiple shows, has case studies to show this applied into the real world setting where it's not clen and cut and it's not just throw in the protocol and it's going to work the same for everybody because it doesn't. So thank you everyone for tuning in. That's our post-show wrap-up. Questions, comments, leave them down below and we will talk to you next week. We'll see you next week.

=== FILE: The coaching mistakes you don’t know you’re making ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 194 [DVRp1f-MYUk].txt ===

 Welcome, the J3, the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your cohost, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. The coaching mistakes you don't know that you're making. And sometimes these can just be misreads. And just lead you to misreading and making the wrong call and putting up a sequence stage that ends up being worse for kind of reading in the wrong direction. So Luke and I want to go through kind of the big piece on, on peak week of the coaching eye and gauging someone from flat all the way up to spilled and what you need to know and do about it. Yeah, it's a, it's, it's really kind of a testament to how you run your prep process as well. I think that's kind of where all of this starts is like, what, what led into the peak? How did that data collection happen across the peak week? And how early were you ready? So that the peak weeks not, it doesn't have to be as drastic as it could potentially could be. And I think that's kind of like the first, first place to start, because in my opinion, your assessments become more accurate of what's flat, what's full, what's nailed. So when you have that prep dynamic that leads into a pullback two to four weeks out, do some testing, and then you actually run the peak week. Because they're not changing in one direction or the other really fast, and you're not chasing them or watching them plummet really fast either. You kind of get past that in the prep portion of the scenario. So going into peak week, it's a lot more stability to be able to kind of create an assessment profile that's easier to assess. Yeah, I think you're right. Having an assessment is key. And IMean, I had an awesome moment on Instagram, because I put up on a reel about waking up on Shodan and not knowing what you're looking at. And I don't know if you saw this comment by Bill Sylvia. He's one of the head IFBB judges. And he's basically was saying like, when we see someone on stage, we have no way to say that they're flat or they're spilled. Like we can't tell that. We just know you're soft. So like you need to be able to like discern that. Which was a really cool insight from like a high level judge, because I can tell you how many judges I've heard tell athletes you're flat or you're full. But truthfully, just one visual is really hard to tell. Maybe unless you're like a very trened eye or so, you know that person a little bit. But again, if you're the coach and you're just having a one visual, like at some random times a day and you don't have any other data you're using. And you haven't been that meticulous with it. It could be very hard to say like, where are they? Like, I just know they're softer, but I don't know what to do about it. And that's just like these judges that can see it too. Like you're soft. You just need to not be soft. Like, is that is that you're flat? Is that you're spilled? Is that you need a loose body fat? Not quite sure to say, just go fix it. But that's where the data kicks in, right? Yeah. Yeah. And I think that's I think what that allows us to do is create. We talked about matrix multiple times in the past. I think those matrixes will help you start to be able to understand why someone's going flat or where you're getting close to flat versus full as you build that. And I think kind of thEQuestion that I would want to ask is like, what are you solving for when you're trying to set a client up? And I think if we answer that question of like, what are we? What is the problem we're trying to solve? It kind of leads us into what does that assessment process need to look like? And I like to see this on the extreme end ranges. So the problem we're solving is what's the tipping point? What's the tipping point of the visuals on the low end or the high end or both? And so you'll see me like a lot of times when I know the dieting portions done with people get pretty aggressive on ripping back fatigue and then loading them. As long as I feel like they're not an athlete that's going to get pretty sticky on me. So like I'm going to put food in, they're going to stay up there because I want to see like, where do I start seeing those visuals start to skew? So I start to create what I'm thinking the top portion of my matrix is and that comes with photos kind of throughout the day. So a lot of times my athletes will chuckle when they hear this, like it might be three days of loading and it's like facet visuals, post-workout slash midday visuals and then pre bed visuals. And then that'll be done across all three days of loading. And what I'm doinGHere is like finding the tipping points through the day, but also finding the tipping points from a weight perspective. And seeing like if it's truly full or if it's truly flat, because you might see like, let's say a 200 pound bodybuilder fasted upon wake on day one might hit 207 by bed. And then by day three might be 207 fasted and that 207 fasted might look way sharper than a 207 bed because of the dynamic of like fluid and sodium and food that's gone in throughout the day. And so then you're starting to get really accurate information of like, where is that tipping point for that person and different portions of the day kind of creating that dynamic. And so that's where I start. I don't know if that's where you start of like finishing the job on the prep and then finding the extremes. That's a lot of times where I try to start with people. Yeah. IMean, that's where we start monitoring people and I do it too. Yeah. Not just on peak week, but the week before, even the week a little earlier, if they're already earlier, a few different points of the day to start seeing where those visuals will move to and then correlating it to body, body weights. And I think to make it a bit more elemental to on reading this, because I think flat to full or flat to even spilled. You know, it's weird. I feel like some people had asked me a question around like, what do you do when you're spilled? Because I used to think spilled as well was kind of like this permanent state. Like you're kind of screwed once you got there. But flat doesn't have that perception though. It's like, oh yeah, you see E and have some fluids and like, you'll like come back. But it always felt like spilled was like, you just dive off this cliff and all of a sudden you're spilled and you're like, oh, that's it. I spilled. But it's like, I want everyone that's listening to understand, like all these are very easily shifted, relatively easily shifted, depending on what you did. But it's a spectrum that you're working within. So have someone waking up. Usually you didn't have fluids and you're going to be flatter, which we should just define, you know, what, you know, that is flat to begin with, which typically someone's going to be more dehydrated, maybe went through some glycogen. So the muscles not as full, but usually that means they're going to be lighter in body weight as well. And usually that person will visually look smaller and they might not look as hard because of that. Then from the subjective, how the person might feel, they like flex their bicep or their quad might be hard to feel those contractions. Like they can't really feel themselves posing. So this is like the start of that, that flat look. But then as they eat and as they have fluids, they store glycogen. They rehydrate the muscle. They start to get fuller. And then you start to see the visual of this balance of where the muscle pusher gets the skin right. Now you see more detail. They still haven't had like any condition loss. And you have that strike of like full and hard and body weight is going to be higher because if you stored water and glycogen, it's going to be weight on the scale. That's why scale weight is pertinent here. So we keep going throughout our day, right? And we get to the evening, had a lot of food, a lot of fluid. You're fully loaded in glycogen, but also that you're starting to see some shift of fluid into around body parts that are starting to lack condition now. Technically, this would be like you're starting to be spilled is how we term it, right? And so you go to sleep, you wake back up and look, you're not that spilled to look anymore here, like back to being tighter. And at night, you're going to be heavier. It just makes quite clear sense. Now there's going to be some shifts, right? Across like if you ate different foods or cut out fiber, like that weight range might shift around a bit. But another thing that I should bring up, this isn't body parts specific, right? Maybe you want to address that, like just being like, so I said, so I forgot what question it came from. But basically, it's not a, it's not a, even though you're on a spectrum, it's also not a systemic flat or a systemic full necessarily, right? That's going to dictate like, well, you're a little flat in your chest. Oh, don't go on stage like that. It actually might be better to go on stage like that for a reason. For a reason. It might be full everywhere else, right? Like it's, it's like the dynamic of strong body parts or sweet body parts. We talked about this, talking about your peak week, like the assessment process when you get really good at it. It's like, and you know a client. It's like, I really just need two poses from you, buddy. Like we talked about this, like trying to make check-ins easier throughout peak week so that they're not doing their full rounds of posing every time they check in with you. Like, it's like, there's telltale body parts of like, man, when someone starts going flat, this really starts to kind of look really skinny and really like stringy and just not pop and not have the separation. And then on the, on the flip side, like there's those body parts that it's like, as you start to get into the fuller side of the metrics, it's like, it really starts to get like a little fluidy and it's becoming a problem. Like, like trying to be able to see the detail that that athletes actually dieted down for. Um, and those body parts are like really important to pick out in my opinion, because I'm running five peaks this week. And so, um, one of the athletes, um, Jared, it's like pretty telltale sign of like, if he's flat from the front, it's like chest shoulders. It's like not the best look because it's, it's always going to be too flat systemically. Because if I look at just the back shot, he's a men's physique guy. It's like flat versus full from the rear is like, eh, it's a little different, but it's really not that big of a difference. Cause it's such a strong body part. It's like, you could go on stage, like his weight range is like a, it's like a three and a half pound weight range. He'd go on stage one 90 to one 94 and the back shot would look almost identical, but the front shot would be drastically different. And so this is where, when you get in your assessment process, like you gotta be very aware that maybe not every pose looks drastically different, but some absolutely will. Do you think it changes by the type of physique as well? IMean, like I think of like Sean Clarita, right? Like I, he sends me his, his fasted shots and Sean's flat looks blowing full, right? Uh, so like for that type of person, I know like, man, he needs just a little bit of food and that's it. Or he's also the guy that would just could get really spilled because of that too. Um, or you have the guy that's, you know, doesn't have the round full muscles and probably needs a lot more load to like get that shape back because it's just flat is quickly seen in that type of, uh, you know, you know, how the muscles lay, um, 100%. Uh, a question to, um, you know, how does inflammation or stress like masquerade as spilled or fat? Do you think people make a mistake around that? Yes. 100%. Um, I think this is where, all right, this is actually a great example. One of my peaks this week is Charbel. Um, he's on week four of competing. So we've goT4 weeks in a row of competing, right? tren legs on Monday. He told me, he was like, I told him I wanted him to tren like on Sunday. He was meeting up with people on Monday and he was like, can I just tren it Monday? I was like, sure, but don't go too far. Don't go too hard. Don't go too hard. Now he's really good at not doing that. But I think just the combination of like four countries in four weeks with the travel, a leg session on a day later than we would usually do. It's like, he's looking at his visuals like one day ago. Uh, so two days out, he's like, this looks nothing like last week. Like I look like a water buffalo, like stressing them out at leg inflammations. There has legs still feel heavy. We're trying to make weight. Sure enough. Like we wake up this morning, we hit a new low in order to make weight. And then I plug in fluids and sodium and food back in to brinGHim back up after we make weigh-ins. And it's like sharp Charbel is, is back to life. And like, really the only difference here is a massive drop in inflammation that could have really skewed my assessment process. If he wouldn't have had that leg day be far enough away to drop the inflammation. Now this inflammation stuck around longer than it had in previous weeks, which is where then the athlete management side becomes important. Um, because you need to communicate that like, Hey, not every week's going to be the same if some variables are different. And so for me, it's like, that's kind of where you have to be. You talk about this, like tracking your leg visuals post leg day so that you know where the leg inflammation drop off happens, but you can then plan the last leg day. Like that's the inflammation portion of it that I see like get done. I think it's good. I think it's good. That's why we do track daily weights and then some fatigue markers. Mm-hmm. And because, you know, remember this, like water moves fast, fat moves slow. Mm-hmm. So when you have like a quick jump in weight or a quick drop in weight, these are usually water fluctuations, right? And if you have just someone that's slowly trening down, usually this is going to be more fat related. So if we're able to look back of like someone checks in their weights way up, you're like, Oh, dang, what happened? We look back on a particular day where we see like maybe they tren legs. And over the next two days, you see like weight kind of quickly spike and then it, then it drops. Uh, that can be some indications around what type of weight you're looking at. And then it might give you better insight into the visuals that you are looking at if say they're checking and did come around, you know, leg daytime. Um, it also like, I just like to ask clients too, like when you're notice a change in weight, that's kind of the anomaly, like have some like introspection and try to think on where do you feel the weight? You know, like, I don't know when I'm wake up and I'm heavier, I'm like, is it in my legs? Do my legs feel heavier? Like walking through sand concrete? Uh, do I feel more bloated? Like GI or my hands and feet kind of tight? Like I'm holding water or sodium. Like, did I sleep crappy last night? So I can give some idea of like where that weight is kind of, uh, being contributed from. And then that's what you can report to coach. Hey coach, my legs feel like super heavy day. Uh, that maybe that's it. But just so you can kind of disseminate where this might, might be the issue. But if you're the coach that's just, you know, taking the visuals every so often fasted and you come into peak week and you know, they look softer and you're like, Oh, damn weights up. Like, I think I need to like dig them down, but what if they just need a rest instead? Like it's, it's quite easy to make that misread and, and make the wrong call. Uh, maybe another misread is assuming your client always does what you want them to. So, uh, this could probably go either way, right? Like flat or full or flat or spilled, wake up and check in and it just doesn't add up. You're like, what are you, what's going on here? Um, sure. You that's happened to you, Luke. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with J three university? Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Oh yeah. It's it's for the sake of the clients that it's happened with. We're going to not share any stories or names, but, um, it certainly has, like, I can think of a few where it's like, uh, you find out after the fact that things got dropped in and it explains like a large drop overnight. It's like, Oh, okay. That makes sense. It's like, IMean, at this point when you're tracking, it's like clockwork. Like the overnight drops between let's say five and six pounds for this person. Very rarely does it get outside five to six pounds. Like it's maybe in that like super bad night sleep. It's like kind of sticky and doesn't drop or it drops a little more, but it's not that far gone. And when you have someone that's like, does that six days in a row. And then on the seventh drops 10, it's like, okay, like this, this doesn't add up. And then if you combine that with the visuals looking flatter and not as sharp. So it's certainly something that you would hope that the client would be honest in the forefront. Unfortunately, due to the nature of contest prep and psychological state that people are in, it's not kind of the honesty that you always get. And really the system that has to be accounted for is on the back end when you do the peak review. Because that's a lot of times where you'll get told and then you'll understand how that metric didn't add up. And then you go from there. I will say not being quick to play the blame games an important part of coaching. So just because something doesn't make a hundred percent sense, doesn't mean that it's necessarily your client's fault. That's the caveat I would make with this area. Yeah. There's just a right way to go about speaking to a client and with, with humility. And from a place of just wanting to make everyone better without just trying to just throw it on them. Just assume, assume they followed it, but also be open always to anything that might have gone in that you didn't want to. So I've seen it all. I've seen, yeah, extra food go in, higher output put in just because they're emotionally driven by not wanting weight to go up and chasing condition. I've seen like diuretics have gone in. Mm-hmm . So you name it, it can happen. So that's why if you're tight with your, your data tracking, you can catch some of that stuff. I think the minor ones are the ones that kind of slip through where you're like, it could just be the normal fluctuations that we see. And, but it happened. Yeah. Which those, those are the, the frustrating ones. I will say from being on the coaching side, when you find out something like that happens, like it really dampens your trust in someone to like what, what else is happening? Like, gosh, I don't know. And that's when I, I'm quicker to like, let a client go for it. But from the client aspect, just, just come out and be honest and just be apologetic if it is happening, but it's what you're doing this to get better and your coach to help you. So just come be forthcoming with it. And if you've got a good coach, they won't judge you because they've been there and probably done it themselves too at some point. Where they've had so many people do it to them. They're like, yep, par for the course. Let's just fix it moving forward. You know, like it's just, I'm at that point where it's just like, all right, cool. Let's learn from it. This is why we don't do it. This is, allows me to do my job. If we do X, Y, Z, just focus on doing that on the next steps forward. You know, it's just that kind of short form version of that conversation. I did want to ask though, like we're getting into the assessment process and we're getting into all this. Like, is there one portion of your assessment process for peaking, whether it's yourself or your clients, that is a non-negotiable? Like it's one of those, it's like clients want to leave out or they forget and it drives you nuts. And it's like, this is what my whole process hinges on primarily. I need you to just stay on top of this. Like, what is that thing for gone? It's funny to say it. The basics, just sending, sending a picture on time when I need it. Like there's all the data to track alone, right? Like, Hey, I want, I want body weight and whatever. Um, but just to not even get a picture or a check in at a time when I could use it was also kind of the non-negotiable. I really need, need to make sure it happens, which seems like that would be something different. But, um, I've, I've had all of a sudden clients like kind of ghost you during their peak week. Cause they're just busy running around getting tan or whatever. And then they just don't check in. And they're like, what, what'd you do? Well, it was like, I just followed the plan you laid out. I was like, well, that's kind of a tentative plan I have. Um, so I guess, yeah, I guess that, that, that was definitely one of them. Um, I'm, I have definitely off that changed a lot of things to where I have like mealtimes listed. Like it's very, it's all very specific, right? Like I, I have a tentative plan now cause I used to not even do that. Cause it stresses clients out if they're like, they're out technology issues and they can't get to me or, um, then there's assumptions made. Well, I'll follow what was from yesterday. It's like, I really have like a laid out plan. Everything's there. Like water with meals between meals, sodium, the time you should be eating at the times they should be checking in. Cause that's another one too is, uh, maybe these are more pet peeves than non-negotiables. We're talking about John's soapbox at the moment. Yeah. Like, Hey, if I have a, I put it like 30 minutes for a meal. I want, I want pictures and check-in. And so meals at 12 PM, like 1130, I should be getting pics. So I have that like listed out. So, um, especially with my like overseas clients where I wake up, I'm like, I, uh, like your meals at 3 AM. It's like, all right, send it at two 30. I tell them two 30 AM and you will hear from me by two 45. I like that way. I have this window. I have this window. I think I'm so deeply because this is me this week. I have Australia two in Germany, two in Canada. So I'm on like just the worst times on rotation I could possibly be on. And like, I'm on two hours of sleep right now because of a make weight situation that was a lot tighter than I wanted it to be. But man, it's just like, you're just sitting there waiting for that check-in and you're just like staring at your phone. You're like, where is it? Where is it? Like, I want to go take a nap, but I need to make sure that you're where you need to be. It happens so often. Have you ever met? Like, have you ever missed one? Just like fell back to sleep? Yeah, I have. It's okay. I've done it too. I've done it. It's so hard. It's the worst. It's like the worst one that happened was I had my alarm set and my alarm was going off next to me while I was still sleeping through it. How you, man, you must've been so tired. It was, it was bad, but no, we're good this week. And I haven't done that in a long time, but I'm better at managing it now because like, um, a lot of the athletes I've worked with, I've worked with for a long time. So they're very predictable. It's like, it's a lot harder to do those peaks with newer athletes where you're like, you're not exactly sure how this peak is going to go. Even if you have the data collection, like you don't know, like how anxious they get at shows. Do they pace? Like, do they, you know, those, those things. So, um, yeah, this year it's been like a breeze because all of my internationals have just been so easy to manage that. It's hasn't been hard at all. One thing on misreads and I, I know mine that used to be more of a problem, but when you open a check in, check in, check in, do you have anything you go to first to not like make any confirmation bias sink in? Or, uh, have you noticed that's ever been present for you? Um, the guys, I'm a little bit, I can definitely say wellness and bikini, uh, let's say wellness, bikini, more bikini. It's definitely a little bit more of a harder one for me to be objectivEQuick like that because I'm like, in, in the bikini class, the visuals are a lot harder to discern. I like to remove myself from it and get in front of a laptop or a desktop and just assess where like with the guys, like most of them, it's really easy to tell where, like where their details are going out or where they're coming in, like where the fullness is dropping off. Wellness becomes a little bit easier to assess. The hard part with wellness is matching them to the class standard. It's like those ones that are like, you don't just rip them all the way and then bring them back to life. Those are the classes that are the hardest to like do off the cuff. I like, like to remove myself because as a bodybuilder, my bias is always like, let's get fucking shredded and then let's just like ring, ring it back up. Um, I'd say like, and I'm hoping that's what you're asking for, but that's definitely my pre-bias is like in those classes where the criteria for conditioning is not ripped like all the way down. Like arguably even figure is this too. Now it's like, you gotta be really careful with how you go through your assessment process because you could do everything right and put the physique you want on stage. But your confirmation bias of what you're looking at in the picture doesn't match the class criteria. No. Okay. No, that's good. You took that a different way than how, than my issue that I've run into. Okay. And so, but that's, uh, that's good too. Cause it's, it's also, I think, uh, an emotional bias around what you like on stage versus what the division actually requires. Right. So yeah, you're probably already goes in quicker to want to push someone. Then like hold, hold them or be a little bit more reserved with fat loss. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's, um, I think it's something, I think it's why I lean so heavily on the timelines and the preps because I know I'm going to get the job done. And I know I'm going to make the look fresher and I know I'm going to make the volatility less by running preps that way. And it makes it super predictable. The, the way I was thinking about it was, um, trusting feedback too much sometimes. And so I've learned that the hard way. God, that is such a hard bias gets created from the client. And so I open up the check-in and I read through their feedback and then I look to their visuals and now I'm searching for that in the visual. And it's going to bEQuicker to probably find that. And it can lead you to, to do, make the wrong calls. Like, or, or the client, like if you're the client, you're like, man, coach just really feelinGHammered today. Like my legs are heavy. I couldn't get a pump at all in the gym. Um, and it's like, all right, let me, let me refeed you for three days. It's like, that's what you want. Right. Cheat meal. It's like, yeah, I don't, I don't think so, buddy. But that, yeah. I think even as a client, you probably know when you're trying to likEQueue up your coach to like give you some extra food or do whatever it is. Like, yeah, coach, I'm this prep's easy. I'm ready to smash and go harder up the cardio, whatever it may be. Like, so you're looking at reasons why in the visuals like, oh yeah, no, they are more conditioned. Yeah. We, we should, maybe we should pull them back and refeed or whatever it may be. So, or even looking at a body weight first. I think that could be a lot for certain people, like whatever direction heads, like body weight takes too big of a jump. If it's like offseason or even in prep, too small of a drop. And you're like, oh man, all right. They're not, they're not gonna look that different. We're gonna need to push them. Step on it. And then you're already have that in your mind when it might be just something we just talked about. Like just the anomaly of weight shifting up from a leg trening session and they're still trening. Right. Or I know we're talking about peak week, but offseason, I have like, like Colton, right. Taking big post-show jumps that are like, whoa, this is faster than we normally would go to gain weight. But then you look at visuals, you're like, oh, well, okay, keep doing it. So I think you really have to like just remove yourself. And if you're trying to make thEQuick call and you feel like some bias coming in, look through all the data and then through everything, then make your decision of which route you want to go. If you want to try to avoid that feedback loop is remove yourself from the client dynamic. What IMean by this is like, if you're one of those coaches that likes to be at shows, just take yourself out of meeting with the client. Like meet with the client, get the visuals, have that in-person interaction, but don't sit there and do the meals while you're in the room. Like get out of that environment and then go do it elsewhere where you can be more objective. I think to just throw one morEQuestion at you and we'll wrap it up, Luke. Yes. How do you develop the eye to read photos more accurately? Why did you give me like the most broad question you could ask? Like, I don't know, go to as many shows as you possibly can and different stage lightings and have to assess people in like the worst backstage lighting you've ever seen in your life. A lot of it has to do with correlating lighting with your photos. And that's a very convoluted way of understanding that. All four facet photos need to be the same every week. That is a staple. However, I think as a coach, you're missing out on part of the assessment process if you don't ask someone to take photos in different spots throughout the later portions of prep. And like especially kind of leading into peak week when you're trying to do ideal visuals from afar. And the reason being is because if the camera is too far, they can look harder than they actually are. If it's down lighting, they can look harder than they actually are. If it's an extremely pale individual in sunlight with a close camera, they can look softer than they actually are. It's like those variables matter, right? And so trening your eye, there's an in-person component that I think that's hard to replace. But I do think like having the multiple lightings while the facet stays the standard is like a great way to try to start to pick up on like a trened eye skill of the variations in the look throughout the day, but also the variations in the look in different lightings and settings. Yeah, I think that's great. I think seeing stuff in person makes a huge difference. Yeah. To really be able to tren the eye because if you're only doing this online, that's all you've ever experienced. It can make it pretty tough. But if you are doing online, like you said, being able to see them in different lighting because we'll all have the client that sends the gym photos. They're like, man, I look amazing in the gym. Sometimes I've had clients that that is where they check in, right? For whatever reason, that's like they have access to that, right? Fast in the morning. And you're like, all right, this looks really good. But then, you know, like that might be a bit harder than what they're actually are. So this in Tampa, I was like, okay, I got to capture this because it's going to be a great teaching tool. And I put just so you all know, like in level one, like Luke and I have a lot of visuals resources to understand changes in lighting and tanning and everything. So we show you these. But I took one in Tampa, like in front of my bathroom lighting, like yellow lighting that I was standardizing. Then I went to the window, natural lighting on me, same shot. Then I stood next to the window with half natural light and put all three together. And it looks like completely different physiques, relatively, right? Like half natty light, I looked hard as nails. Direct natural light, like I looked pretty smoothed out. Then my other normal check-in light, it's kind of a balance of the two, but not nearly anything like that half natty light. But literally the same time component. So if that's your check-in, you could think someone's really on or really off. Only post the half natty light, but assess with all three. What do you want to end up? You're either going to be missed your peak if you post the good one, which that's what happened when I post that shit. And then the other one is that, yeah, you're not going to get any traction on Instagram because you just have shitty photos. But then you looked amazing. Whatever you did, your peak worked out. The social dynamic of bodybuilding. Man, we went through a lot today. Is that pretty much it? I think that kind of covers everything from a takeaway perspective. Yeah, there's with judging the look, it does take a trened eye. And it's something to develop over time. And just trying to not misread as a coach comes a lot down to putting time into your athletes. And I think that's a lot what is missing nowadays in coaching. That we're not giving each athlete all the trekking time that they need prior to their peak week. And then peak week, you try to go all in or not. But ends up, you just don't have anything to go off of to make the right calls. So that's why modern day bodybuilding coaching, it is extremely involved and time consuming. And you should feel nearly like you're your coach's only athlete at times during those final weeks. Because it does take that much attention. But anyway, we'll end it here. We're like skipping out of this contest prep peak week for next week. And we're going to talk about scaling off-season PEDs. Drugs. So it should be a popular one. Drugs. Thank you all for tuning in. We will talk to you next time.

=== FILE: Training Tricks of the Trade - J3U Coaching Podcast Ep.05 [H0LgjUru5qM].txt ===

 The wildlife, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez, geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez to share in regards to trening and a lot that we get to do here in person now that everyone's in in dallas and get to go over some like trening stuff kind of pretty consistently so i'm pretty excited to uh to dive in today um you guys got anything going on special netto over there coming up over the next couple weeks or what do you guys got trening the the shows are about to start right so starting in april it'll be like a lot of shows so right now my mind is just like the eight weeks out yeah right yeah just trying to focus on on my athlete so i'm pretty excited watching those timelines making sure those rates of loss are matching that show date like all that kind of stuff right yeah what about you you're just getting settled i know you're just like yeah still just trying to get settled moving to a different country and at least i don't have to deal with winter anymore i know everyone it's hilarious because everyone's like walking around in parkas and i'm in shorts and people are staring at me don't act like this is not cold this is not winter this is not minus 30 like it is in canada right now so and then i have a new baby puppy so now i'm raising a a baby and uh settling into a new apartment and whatnot but it's good i look forward to it well like netta mentioned um i don't know when you guys are listening to this but shows are right around the corner and i think a lot of trening stuff is is pretty important for those of you guys starting prep uh those of you guys that are in the midst of prep or even if you're about to go into like a post show phase as you'recompeting in the early portion of the year um some trening tricks of the trade i think a lot of this has to do with the start of like where we always start to start conversations is communication between coach and client because i think that's where you actually upskill a client and being able to take trening footage and getting feedback back and forth from coach to athlete um jamie i know you had a few things in regards to like taking the trening footage that you kind of wanted to touch on um i think it's a it's a big thing right like we even have like for those of you that have taken level one IMade a pdf for everybody that's going through level one and for the g3 coaches um that goes over how to take trening footage from different angles for different movements and why um because it's it's really important but i think jamie like a couple things around that we kind of get us off well i think it's it's IMean it's having the right angle so that we can see what their setup and execution is and i think that it's just something that needs to be communicated because well one a lot of people come from a place of not filming their trening so they might have had a previous coach where it just you know they would be given trening and they would look at the progressions like the numbers on a on a piece of paper or like you know spreadsheet but but there wasn't actually any physical sending trening to see if it was it was being executed properly in it not only just the movement pattern um but also the intensity so because we ask for them to send a um their their top working set right and so if we aren't seeing intensity you know in in that in that top working set then that's where we go to our athlete and say hey you know is this something that's happening across the board with all of all of your trening and is this a tren that we're seeing in all the videos that they're sending to you and then just something that needs to be addressed because i don't know that you know there are a lot of people too who don't understand that you know um trening it within the proximity of failure maybe guys women we tend to have to nurture them a little bit more to to understand that yeah i think it's um it's an interesting dynamic to manage and i think that's why you get top sets in right i think it's where you're going to see form breakdown it's where you're going to see like what type of athlete they are if they're the person that because there's spectrums to this right there's the spectrum of the person that puts the headphones in gets amped up form starts to slip but they take those logbook progressions using anger all the way to like doesn't even get close to failure but you know every rep looks pretty good and there's problems with both of those right so um as per usual the best things are kind of in the middle ground um neto i know you're kind of like me you love it when you get people in person and you spend a lot of time doing something yeah something that i really like the video uh sometimes they they'll tell us uh what's happening we uh in the exercise but if you watch the videos let's say that they say like at the hack squat they cannot get more range of motion then you watch the video and you see that the machine maybe doesn't have the adjustments but maybe you can get like a yoga block input like under their shoulders and they gain this range of motion but they don't they don't know uh like this trick yeah that's something that i really like to watch the videos to give more options or to maybe see so this machine is not good for you let's switch for another one and just find the best pattern for for them yeah 100 not to make this into a foot podcast but feet and footwear and foot position and all this right it's like how many how many hack squat videos in that have you gotten it's like direct side view and have no footage of like where foot placement is on that platform or um you know being able to tell kind of how they're pushing their foot pressures and like on a hack squat that's huge that's massive i need to be able to see that and depending on the hack a lot of times you can see if like their foot's coming up or they're gettinGHeel elevation where you would need to account for that but um man it's it's how we trensfer force into the floor the footwear that you use and the positions that you set yourself up in are what going to tell you whether you get the most mechanical tension out of that movement or not like get recordings where i can see what your foot stance is like for the love of all that is good and maximizinGHypertrophy which is what this podcast is about and that coaching client dynamic please get video footage of your feet because i don't really care about actually seeing your feet in regards to like making this a foot podcast but i need to make sure that you're trensferring force into the floor the way that we need to and um footwear is something that we get a lot of questions about and i'm pretty picky about that but do you guys have like footwear that and it changes client to client right but like depending on kind of the needs of the client but you guys have a couple different pieces of footwear that you guys like to suggest for people uh well netto how often do you see girls sending videos doing deadlifts with those hoka runners on that have the heat like giant pillow soles that are like this they're just completely dumping them into their toes or the new balances the 96 or they which is comfortable i like them but however i do not wear them for like trening day for posterior so um i well IMean when it comes to any like squat pattern and if we're seeing that you know they might have a little bit of limited ankle mobility um or if you see them like they're putting plates under their heels but they're wearing you know like say chucks or they're wearing um a different type of like flat shoe yeah and that's when i'll suggest you know like a a lifting shoe like a weight lifting shoe like a tear or even like IMean reebok makes good ones nike makes good ones right um so a lifting shoe that has a bit of a heel elevation has a hard sole and where where is it gonna where it's gonna send the force when you have a when you have a hard sole it's you know it's as opposed to using like AAShoe that's like a pillow when you're when you're trening legs right you just you just don't want that hip trust is another big one sometimes i see they pressing with their like ankles instead of like pressing with the whole feet because i don't know i guess i saw like on instagram a few years ago people saying that if you press with your ankles it's better for glutes and hamstrings so we have this wrong idea yeah this dynamic and yeah you bring up something that's actually really important is not just plugging in things you see from instagram i think that's huge right like you see the the favorite competitor that you like to follow or the favorite individual doing something on instagram it's like there's probably a why as to what they're doing or maybe it's not what actually got them to that high level have a conversation with the coach before you just go plugging in like new things or just like ask what they think about this uh because when we write sessions we're thinking on uh how do i sequence these movements together and i'm just i'm gonna kick this to netto quick because netto you got like 90 females on your roster and this is the population you tend to see it a little bit more in it's like just plugging in the the latest booty craze or the latest craze from a trening perspective yeah i guess especially uh wellness i don't see much but uh for bikinis i guess they see like the top olympias doing like some exercise that they because usually the olympias they don't need to grow more they already have the size it's just like fixing some details here and there uh they don't need to build anymore uh that's why they have like this more fun uh workouts and they just uh try to follow the decline reverse frog set up the camera angle like directly under the butthole so that you're getting nice so you look pretty good a lot of legs yeah it's the infamous birth canal shot yeah the birth canal shot but IMean all in good fun right like it's it's totally cool to i understand like maintaining a social media following that's like how you make it right but like when we talk about actually changing physiques right like it's it's huge like to understand that we've got to be able to get really good at doing the things that drive the most mechanical tension towards um towards that and i think kind of within session structure i think is a part of getting the most out of an athlete and um jamie i know this is like a little bit of a soapbox that you might want to get on is we don't just write sessions to randomly put sessions together right like moving days and things like that just it just it could really put someone in potential for getting injured well i yeah and and i think unless we um articulate that to to the people that we're working with they maybe not don't have an understanding of why we put certain days where we do and why it isn't great to tren you know three leg sessions in a row or even like say you have someone IMean not just talking about women um or if you look at like higher muscularity classes for women which the trening is going to be pretty similar to a male bodybuilder just with less pressing right but you know if you have a really hot heavy output like pull day back day you're not going to be wanting to do posterior the next day or vice versa right and so people might not they just might not understand that because it's like you get the person who's just like i want it now and i'm like 110 in let's give her i'm going to tren every single day because i'm going to improve i'm going to be the best thing that's ever hit the stage right but they just don't understand that you know what what can compound from from doing that so um IMean i think we've all had that been in that place where we're just like oh i feel fantastic i'm i'm going to tren again tomorrow yeah yeah it's my rest day and my coach said i should take a rest day that's something that's something that i like uh to have like the daily habits the daily check-ins because we have a question there like uh did you tren today and sometimes i see yes yes yes yes he's not dressing i actually get my athletes too to put what they trened so it's not just yes and so i'll see like there's been times where i'm like there's six days in a row and it's like legs pull legs legs push and i'm just like what is happening like did you actually like mean to say that you trened six days in a row or did you accidentally forget to put uh-huh yeah i think it's i give clients a general rule of thumb of never going more than three days in a row like if you have to pivot a schedule because somethinGHappens and and they're just like managing on their own that's like a general rule of thumb that i'll i'll write for most people the only cases in which it it might change is like highly specialized programs but those athletes you're writinGHighly specialized programs for are going to know how to manage that anyways and probably don't need that guidance so um that's really kind of like the cases and or like the general rule of thumb i try to give but man it just kind of points to like the daily habits and the daily check-in like portion of like the whole check-in process right being extremely important on the trening side because if we're running into issues of fatigue accumulating faster than we expect or we're running into like injury profile issues or anything along those lines um it's something that we have to make sure that we manage yeah and if you see the tren of someone who's not taking rest days but they have chronic injury happening yeah it's yeah it's not unusual but when it comes to like building that like relationship between clients like trening footage and how how you send trening footage and how consistently you send trening footage i think is kind of the last piece of this maybe not the last but one of the last few pieces of the tricks of the trade right like consistency is king and i do think that some people think that once they send it once and then maybe they send it the second time like just for the implementation of whatever you changed they don't ever have to take it again and it's like that's not what we're doing trening footage for like yes the first month to two months there's a bit more like back and forth on the trening than there potentially is as you get into working with someone long term but we still should be sending trening footage of the body parts that we have the most trouble progressing in my opinion because that's where we start to get into old habits really quickly right um it's it's something that you can really start to you get into the flow of offseason load is going up and up and up you want to see that tren going up and up and up and we start to kind of get into those bad habits on like the weak body parts and i think it's where we as coaches like we're we're not paid to be intervening in times where things go are going right like we're paid to notice when things are going wrong before they go wrong or to fix the things that have gone wrong and be able to get them back to being regret productive and i think that point right there is a place where you can catch things before they become a problem and especially in clients that have like higher leg volumes just because a lot of that work is compound work and it can be add up over time very quickly so is there like any rules of thumbs you guys use for consistently sending trening footage like an amount per week or anything along those lines something that i like to do like uh as soon as the athlete starts with me uh i give it uh i give them like two weeks to record all of them because like at first i want to see all of the exercise so i give two weeks because uh it's hard to start like a new diet plan a new trening plan and have to record like everything at the first week i know that can be like annoying for them uh so i give like two weeks to to get all those videos and then uh here and there IMake a list of some videos because if uh sometimes i realize that if i ask to record videos maybe uh they don't record what i want to see like or what i want to like the most so IMake a list of the trening one i want to see this this and that trening two this this and that so from week to week i have in my timeline to ask them to to record that list disease of course they can record all of them but uh at least a few uh there's something really important for me to to keep watching yeah yeah and i just get them to break it down so that it's like the first two exercises of each trening day making our way through them right um and then of course if we're if i'm seeing any issues with those movements with those first videos then you know giving feedback and sometimes it's it's hard to give verbal feedback for it and so i'll have to film myself doing it just send it to them so that and it's breaking it down for them to actually show them like how to set the machine up what we're looking like let's just say with like pole and we have a you know a lot of people who just make it bicep or you know or their arm wrestling and so to sometimes to articulate that to people they don't understand it and so then i have to send a video and break it down about why we want the wrist here and why we want the elbow here and this is where we want the humerus and we want the movement to start with you know traction of scapula whatever right as opposed to just saying oh um saying you know well you need to move your elbow or you need to you know things like that so yeah i think there's two ways to give feedback on trening footage i think if you're pointing out something specific it's good to do it within the confines of the loom video so that they can actually visually see kind of what's going on or where the problem is i do think there's a lot of value in leaving a commentary list or comments on the footage so like for you guys like using kahuna's a list of like the bullet points because then they can open it up and take it in the gym and look at the things they're trying to work on because that session that they have to fix something in might be three four or five days after their check-in and they might not fully remember unless they go and check that list right so i do think it's something that there's multiple ways to give feedback on trening footage jamie i do the footage of me doing something random all the time like now that we've got the gym in the back here at the house too like it's even worse like i'll go in there and like with the cables like show them like what i would want them to do and whatever setup they have or do mobility work in there or whatever it might be um so all this like random footage of us like just doing exercises to be able to uh like trenslate it to the client but it's funny right because you know in in our coaching app we have footage of all the the trening that we like typically put into trening plans right there to show them how to do it and everything so um it's like double feedback but it's it's because it's that important like it's what drives the adaptation of hypertrophy and i know netta you've seen this with some of like your clients like people who never took care of it before and were struggling with progress and then they switch and there's such a big focus on it that you see their progress start to skyrocket and i think it's just like it's intangible evidence that we need to be so good at this skill because this is the skill of our sport and i don't understand why it's not talked as if that is the case yeah yeah i guess having like the key exercise for them make sure that they are trening really heavy into doing the exercise like a hundred percent correct it's the key especially for IMean i would say for females but for everyone like but something that i noticed like especially uh on my wellness clients who cannot gain like glutes once you uh so you know like let's say the bulgarian split squat the hip trust this will be like the main ones for her so let's make sure that they are doing like a hundred percent correct and then i keep like trying and trying and trying uh maybe switch from bar to machines to glue drive machine and find the best one for them and once you fix that it's just like weeks yeah four to eight weeks it's a new it's a new body yeah and i think the other thing too that we have to watch for or that i watch for too is if you look at like their their progressions with their exercises and it's you know if they're if they're progressing with everything except for a couple of movements yeah and then it's that's where i'm like hey you know like i've noticed that this one specific exercise we're not really seeing much of a progression um can you send me a video of can you and this might be like you know three or four months down the road right can you send me a video of you doing your top working set just so i can see like maybe it's just not working for you maybe we need to find something else that's better or like are you having any issues with it like um like because you guys often get you from people too they're like oh well you know i don't i don't feel it yeah especially females like with the glute trening like lengthen glute trening is not the most field-based stuff right when you get into the lengthen position yeah it's funny because you have like two two things that drive that typically i find like lack of progression in one area versus the rest progressing one is like local fatigue so if it's like a body part that's extremely specialized in program design and volume's really high like that could be one of the problems the other one and the one that i think is more common is instability in the pattern or inability to get in the right positions for the pattern actually driving the lack of progress because they're not being able to express fully the adaptations that they've gained across the trening block and a lot of times that's either fixing the form within that pattern or just choosing any movement overall that achieves the same goal so it's it's interesting because it's like you don't pick up on that unless someone's consistently sending trening footage again it all comes back to consistently sending trening footage it is so important and i cannot stress it enough but as we kind of like start to wrap this conversation up is there any like things that you would want to leave with the audience that you tell your clients about the trening piece or like tricks that you guys have like i know we've all got our little things like the blocks under a peg to make setup easy or whatever those might be right but more so just like general tricks of the trade or things that you guys want to leave with the audience in regards to making most of the trening go ahead jimmy pressure no pressure um i i honestly i think that if so IMean you just have to look at if you're starting with a new coach just keep the the lines of communication open yeah right so don't feel like if you're asking questions that they're stupid i think that's the biggest thing and it's like if if you if you aren't understanding the like the pro like the programming or if something doesn't make sense to you or something doesn't feel right or the machine doesn't don't just like suffer through it have a conversation with your coach and just let them know um i think that's the biggest thing is especially when you're first starting to work with someone it's like opening the lines of communication learninGHow to communicate with one another right um and so also if you're not and letting your coach know that if you're not the best person at typing things out to give details then send a voice memo yeah yeah if you communicate better verbally then then tell them that because that's just going to make the the relationship with your coach even better for progression yeah and something that i i always ask my clients it's uh put me to work because sometimes they they think that they are like bothering us sending a lot of videos and they're not bothering us actually we love to watch the videos it's it's like our netflix right yeah i get that a lot like oh you're so busy it's like yeah i'm busy because i choose to be like i still want to do my job i go on like it's like if i don't i don't like that's i don't want them to think that they're bothering me it's um if we want to coach effectively and coach at a high level and get them the progress that they that they're here for then they it's like then don't think that you're bothering us this this is what this is what we're here for like we are your coach so make a lot of questions send a lot of videos and put us to work that's that's the main thing all right guys well i think that that kind of wraps us up for the day so thank you guys again and if you guys have any questions put them in the comments below i'll be down there answering any questions you guys have but until next time take no i'll switch in the pursuit of results and we'll see you guys on stage this year

=== FILE: What it Takes to Turn Pro - J3U Coaching Podcast Eps. 04 [bDyvomZ-5Uw].txt ===

 You guys. You guys want the pro card but you have the execution level of a novice competitor. You have two of the execution level of a novice competitor. Today on the J3 coaching podcast. We're going to be talking about having those pro card expectations but only executing to the level of these novice classes. And we have two of the J3 coaches with us today and Alex and Darren. I'm super excited to dive in. appropriate that you two are joining the podcast today for this conversation with Darren, you being an Olympian, Alex, you coaching at a really high level with pro caliber athletes, you know, winning NPC nationals a few years back and kind of both of you guys knowing what that standard is. And I guess I'll just like kind of open the floor to any like initial opening comments of like, what do you guys see onboarding that kind of gives you the red flags that this might be coming as coaches when you kind of start to pick up athletes? You want to take it away? So initial sort of red flags, I think because the sort of pro cards, I'm going to say it seems more accessible rather than is more accessible. It's seen more now with social media, there is more shows around, but I don't think that makes it any easier to get. But people are seeing more and more people getting it and they're thinking, oh, I'm just going to start going to the gym and, you know, two years later get a pro card. For me, the big red flag is like people talking about pro card, they haven't even competed or gone through a practice to go and like, it's a lot harder than social media makes it look. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know a lot of times too, you'll see like people promote that getting a pro card here in the States is a lot easier than getting it in like Europe or some of these international shows, which I don't think is fully the case. I think a lot of that comes down to like how many people actually show up. Like Darren, you were making this point earlier. Like you look at NPC nationals, I get two cards per class. Some of those classes have morecompetitors than the entire show has in some of the international. Yeah. I think if you're looking across 12 months, I reckon they might have pro cards given it per class. Pretty similar in Europe, but there's less opportunity in terms of shows in the States, but those shows give more. Oh, like I'm saying this for a very unbiased place. So I looking at it, I would say the American shows the standard to me looks higher across most of it. Yeah. And it's a lot of, it's just like the pool that you're pulling from. Right. But either way, I think the point here that we kind of need to dive into is the daily habits that it looks like to execute it like a pro. And I think this is not something that's talked about. I think a lot of coaches assume that people just do this automatically, or maybe they don't even like assume that, or they don't even realize the impact that these little daily habits have in regards to keeping someone on track. And I think a great place to start with this is sleep habits. Alex, I'm going to kick this to you because with like the clientele that you coach, like you coach a fair bit of the younger crowd and coach like some of those more experienced bodybuilders. So like, you've got a little bit of array of, of all the different types. And I know from a coaching side, like the sleep is is so impactful. I joke with Alex, I wear a boot band and I share my boot band status with Alex every once in a while, because my sleep habits up until like the last couple of weeks have not been great, making sure that all the businesses run smooth. And it's, it's, you know, you laugh about it, but in reality, like if, if bodybuilding was my biggest priority, or I had this big athletic endeavor, that was my biggest priority. Sleep is the biggest, one of the biggest recovery capacity tools that we have that just gets so overlooked. So like kind of diving into the coaching side, Alex, like what are some of the red flags you start seeing if this starts to get skewed? And like, how are you addressing this with clients to make them realize how important this is? Alex Blanche Yeah. So a lot of what's very common is just the inconsistency on like the, what time they go to bed. And a lot of it is, you know, it's not even like, you know, the majority of the ones who lack that consistency are the ones who don't have the schedule. So like a lot of the ones who even work, you know, nights or, you know, they work from 7pm to 7am, their sleep schedule is actually better than some of my people who aren't like in a rhythm or routine with a job. And so that's what I see a lot of is they'll just sporadically go to bed, they'll sporadically sleep late, and then they'll sporadically wake up early. And there's just no consistency. And each week they're checking in, like, I'm a little fatigued, I'm tired, and that I'm having trouble going to bed. And so a lot of what I look at first is just like, Hey, what are you, what are you doing before you go to sleep? Like, most of the people were on their phones, we're, you know, watching TV, we're in all these different forms of like being stimulated before bed. So what I'm big on first is just like, Hey, let's, you know, if you are a TV watcher, just get some blue light glasses, try to put your phone down near the last 45 minutes before bed, be in a cold, dark room, just little things that they might not think about. I actually am big on like, meditation. And I don't say I try not to like, pitch them on meditation, because they, you know, they start thinking I'm like, you know, like some weirdo. But I'm just like, Hey, why don't you like close your eyes and just start picturing things that make you happy for three minutes. And that that goes a long way. And some of my people who can like, they can understand that I'll even open up to some things that like, Hey, you know, you've got this stressing you out this week. Well, look, this is what I've got going on. This is what I use to help and just giving them some, Hey, this is normal, really helps them a lot, understand it and get back on track. The meditation piece is like, sounds so crunchy granola about the awesome avocado toast and go sit on a California beach. But it's, it's so important. Like I, I found the power of meditation in one of my first few contest preps, not pre bed, but during cardio sessions, like literally just, I would almost have love dog myself. I play the same playlist of songs, every single cardio session, and it would get me into this flow. And I would just close my eyes and picture myself like on stage or doing my posing routine or in comparisons or whatever. And it's like, it's such a powerful thing to be able to visualize yourself doing these things, or even just like different types of meditation as well. Like you guys could use any one of the apps that are out there and there's like a mindfulness app or a couple others, but it's like, so underrated. And I think it can integrate well into a sleep routine. I think some of the things like from a habits perspective to get lost is we can do things like hot shower, about 45 minutes prior to bed to kind of cool that core body temperature. Setting alarms, I think is a massive one for like when to start the bed routine. So not just like go to bed, but like when to turn off the TV, because Netflix does a great job from a brainy perspective of like keeping you in it. Like they had that little next episode button, right? Like what is the biggest thing Netflix is fighting? It's time, right? And if they can take more of your time, they're going to keep you on the platform longer. So having that alarm, like, Hey, it's time to start your bedtime routine, having a bedtime routine. Um, and then having those consistent wait times is huge. Um, but I think one of the big things too, is like the PD input, right? We know that like the PD input can be pretty detrimental to this. Just like can drive sympathetic activity with the total amount of food usage, that total androgen load. If estradiol skewed relative to androgens, estradiol is going to drive, um, weightfulness. And so like, we have that high estradiol environment that's too high could potentially be driving detriment to the sleep. So there is a supplementation side of the equation as well, but I think you could consider there's a lot of great products. I like the supplement needs one. It's just kind of a staple that I'll use alongside some like high melatonin usage. Um, but I think that, I think that the sleep routine also kind of comes with consistency in the meals. And then Darren, I'm going to have you like talk about this because we've all been there where we screwed the, screwed the day up and it's supposed to be a better at 10 and it's 9 45 and you have like two meals left or somethinGHappened during the day where you're, you're way behind on your food. And I think that, that day consistency, like what your day looks like is, is pretty massive too. What do you think Darren? Yeah, for me, like, I think we're hitting the nail on the head there when you talk about routine and something that I think always think of, um, I think you, you talk about with trening before, like the, that song that sets the trigger for a set. I have my routine that sets the trigger for relax. So like, listen, I'm overly like a robot. My day looks the exact same every day. I have meals same time, tren same time, wake same time, bed same time. But my, the way my evening looks is we have an agreement, both me and my wife, like we, we, we online coach, we're up on doing stuff all day. Once it gets to between seven and seven 30, our phones get turned over and put away at that point. Then we will shower if we need to shower, but always by eight o'clock we're set there and we watch a series like a 45 to an hour long episode on Netflix to kind of just switch your brains off from work. And the, for me, that sets the tone to, to bring it all down. So I don't think it matters. Like everyone's going to have a different routine, but I think it's having that consistent routine that sets that trigger in your brain that it's like, I'm sure enough by between, between nine and nine 30, I'm like ready for bed, no matter what I'm always going to straight to bed, straight to sleep. And like ours is so like this, that our dog will look at us at about nine o'clock and be like, I think it's the rare occasion where it gets a bit later. He'll just look at us and walk up the stairs himself. So like our routine is so locked in like that, that our dog knows. And he's like, no, I'm not the bed. He's like, I'm done. And that's something I use with clients. And I've used my past again, it's coming back to like the meditation. And I remember when I did like some therapy to kind of get around this anxiety things. And they told me to like, you know, write down things that are on your mind at night. I'm like, that's a load of shit. But I tried it. So like when I'm like in the evening, I've got a lot on my mind, like this client's competing and I'm thinking, I think, I think I go to bed, I'm still going to be thinking that, but I always write it down. So that's the first thing they didn't get to think about. So I was like, I'm taking it out of my mind to put it on the paper. So a lot of my clients who work like stressful jobs are living in high stress. Some just every night, just write down what's causing you stress, put it on the paper, get it out of your brain. You know, it's there. Then the next day. Yeah. There's like planning apps to like notion. Like, oh my gosh, my life is starting to run off of notion. I was joking with our calendars, block calendars and block schedules are massive for bodybuilders. I think building in your meal times into your calendar so that you know, like when you're supposed to have your meals, is pretty huge too. And I think it's just, it's, it's so simple. Like they're controllable tasks. And this is my main hang up with this is that I understand if, you know, stuff hits the ceiling fan for, for avoiding these four letter words, like you, you're going to have days where somethinGHappens that is out of your control. But 95% of the time, all of these variables are such controllable variables that you should be able to execute on and coming from someone who's had an individual tell me that I expect too much of my athletes that is competing at the highest level. It's like, I do not understand how you pull the most out of someone. If you can't even execute the simple daily controllable tasks. And this is the most frustrating thing as a coach is like when it's so controllable that you should just know how to do this, when you'recompeting, like looking for a pro card or you're wanting to be able to compete on the Olympia stage, like these should be non-negotiables that have already been implemented. And if they haven't, we need to spend some time working on it. And I'll even like, I have like little goals sections in my sheets where I'll set goals for them around routine. If routine is a problem, like documenting the fact that they executed on this routine, like that's how important I think this is. Because I think it sets the stage for high level of execution and every other aspect of the, of the client process. Right. And I think this is a big one as we start to kind of pivot into, you know, pro card desire with, you know, novice level of, of execution. The trening side, I think, is, is the next piece that kind of starts to wane. If even this routine is, is not there because you get hydration status, won't be the same every day that you go into trening. If you're like massively skewed on your meals, you're not going to have digestion, be in the same spot that you're going in trening. You're not going to be consistently taking trening footage. So like, this is kind of where I would want to push the conversation next is like on the trening side, like, what are the habits that you see people, you know, start to kind of lax on or aren't executing well on when it comes to, you know, having this pro card expectation, but aren't even doing the simple things right. Alex, start with you, kick it off. Yeah. A lot of it, man, is like just fighting through that barrier of, oh, well, I just, I wasn't motivated to go work out today. And then they take a rest day. And then the next day they're still not motivated. It's like, well, hold on now. Like, I'm not asking you to be motivated. You, you have to go. Like, it's just, it's just like, we get, you know, drink water and eat food. Like you, it's time to tren. You're going to tren. And so a lot of times it's just getting them on the gym floor. And IMake this joke with some people. I'm like, I can't even do half the cool stuff I know to do with a trening block because I can't even get them. Like, I'm still trying to get them in the gym consistently, you know, but then like, once you're in there, like you said, you know, trening for me is huge. Um, because like 90% of people don't know how to lateral raise. Um, including myself, when you pulled me aside and showed me how to lateral raise, I was like, oh, I've been doing that wrong. Um, but it's, it's, you know, it's not only like, cause well, some people who their effort is just a thousand and they're going through, you know, they're, they're hitting nose torque and they're, they're trening intense and they know like, they're, they're the people like I got trening. I don't need help with that. But then you break down their mechanics and you're like, oh, this is a disaster. Um, and so Tyler is the, and for you guys that like, we have that session on YouTube, if you guys want to go check it out where we, we trened at Evagen and kind of broke some things down. But IMean, that was a classic example of, and Darren, I'll kick it to you in a second, but that was a classic example of like, this dude's got the effort piece figured out, but like the effort's not the only piece that we've got to figure out. You know, that's something I explained to people. Like when I'm asking for footage, I'm like, look, I know you're going to want to like impress coach, but I promise you I'm not, I'm looking at that maybe for half a second. So, but, but yeah, that, that'd be the biggest thing is just, you know, getting them into the gym and then they're going to be the biggest thing. Yeah. And Darren, I know I kind of want you to kind of comment here as well. Cause we had a, what would you call that week that we spent here going through everything? Like, uh, like, uh, like break down, uh, like this whole sort of section is really, it was, it was reminded me recently of, I got asked thEQuestions through my Instagram, like someone asked me, what's the difference between pros and amateurs? Like they're expecting some big fancy answer. I think the biggest difference between pros and amateurs is pros do the simple things really well over and over again. And I remember a couple of years back, I remember talking about, you know, talking about my routine and you know, if you want to be a pro, you want to make progress, you have to do this, this, and this, and this. And I was alluding to the fact that eating the same food every day, eating at the same time every day, going to bed at the same time, doing the same movements over and over again in the gym. I remember like a couple of, you know, social media fitness people called me out and like, you don't need to do that, make progress and all this. And sure enough, here we are a couple of years later, they're doing the exact same thing and preaching the exact same thing. Cause they've got to that point where you realize to make those 1% differences that matter, you have to remove as much variables as possible. Variables equal, you know, distinct, like differences and potential mistakes. The better you can get, do get, get doing things over and over again, the more progress you make. That comes into trening as well. I think the biggest barrier with trening with people is, oh, on board, you know, a couple of weeks into a program on board, are we going to change up the movements? I'm like, you do realize if you change up the movements, you're going through a four to six week period of where you're just relearning the movement and not making movements. Skill acquisition, baby. I'd put up a post about how we should treat bodybuilding as athletics that some people got very, very upset about in the comments. But this is just like, it's so obvious. Like it, there's a skill aspect to trening that has to be developed. And like there, I'm just like, you've had one of the best trening blocks you've had, I think in probably your career right now. Like some small skill-based stuff that we fixed during that week that you were here. And it's like, you've been doing this for, for how long? 15 years, 10, 12, 15 years. Yeah. 12, 13 years. Yeah. 12, 13 years. So like, we're still working on skill. And Darren's an Olympian and John still works on skill and my pro athletes still work on the skill of trening. And it's, it just, it boggles my mind that we do not focus on perfecting this thing in trening that drives the hypertrophy adaptation. Like sure, PDs help with recovering to continue to drive that adaptation at a faster level. Nutrition does. Sleep helps with recovery capacity. All these things contribute, but like, this is the core stimulus that drive that adaptation. I don't understand like how perfecting it wouldn't be. And I think Darren sharing your, like your challenges with push would be a great example of like how this is like so impactful sometimes if you, if you just take the time to perfect it. Yeah, absolutely. I think we're kind of in that kind of brought up something that we need to go over. And that's like with, I'm sure you guys talked to the same as with clients is trying to get a video footage. Oh yeah. That's a little bit, but yeah. You know, I'm trying to press the people that, you know, I can give you your nutrition, we can correct all this stuff, we can do all that. But ultimately there's so much progress we made by just correcting movements. Like, and that comes with exactly what you're saying about me with push, a few little tweaks to push that you noticed and it's helping you progress loads. That's the same thing we can do for clients when we get trening footage from them. And some of them don't realize that, oh, I didn't want to get my phone out. I didn't want to set up a tripod. It's like, you know, is thaT3 minutes worth? What could potentially be a difference making you turn pro or not? Yeah. And it's like, I, and I get people and Alex and I, you've run into this too, embarrassed to take trening footage. You guys had that before? Yeah. It's like, man, like this is like, like you have a device that can tell you and give you feedback of how you're executing something immediately. Like one of the greatest tools that you have to help your process and you are embarrassed to use it. I feel like saying, if you're embarrassed to film in a gym, how are you going to get on stage in your pants? I can guarantee you when you are dead center on stage, you are not going to be embarrassed about the six months of trening footage you took in the last six months. I tell them, I'm like, Hey, you know, just give your phone to someone and say, Hey, would you mind recording me that recording this for me, for my coach? I was like, it's so much cooler than if you're like, Hey, we record the set, bro. If you like bench and, you know, like I promise you, they're going to respect you for what you're doing. Yeah. It's like, it's like such a, it's such a small task. It's so simple. And it's just like, we keep coming back to this, but these are small tasks. Like these are small controllable daily tasks that we can all execute on. And I think that's truly what separates high level professionals from there's a genetic skill component for sure. Like, I think that there is some genetic component contributing to the highest levels of bodybuilding, but for pulling the most out of your process and developing your physique, like these are small daily tasks that are easily controllable. Now I want to touch on one last one that I do think you can get a long ways without, but I think if you truly want to find like your highest level physique development, communication is massive and finding your ability to, as you both shake your heads, your ability to communicate with your coach clearly is thEQuickest way to create a coach client relationship that just elevates you to the next level. And I think that this is like massive with the check-in process. And I think it's like a two way street. And so like, like Darren, just kind of starting with you, like, how do you, how do you foster this in regards to like the check-in process? I know it's different client to client, but just some basics that I tried to like express that at the beginning, you know, when I initially have a call with the client is, you know, trying to get really into like, just relax the environment a little bit, you know, like how are you doing, you know, and all this, and then stress them that, you know, all of this is cool that you input every week. But what you tell me is more important. Don't, don't be afraid to tell me anything, you know, stuff going on, just tell me, you know, I'm here to do more than just write your nutrition and set your trening. And ultimately, I always stress, it's the fruits of the pudding, the clients you have the best relationships with, get the best results. You know, and the ones that you kind of will check in and they're like, all good this week. And then you look at their result, you're like, you ask thEQuestion, are you sure it is all right? You know, I'm surprised to see your weights come up, and then they are really stressed to work. My wife does this and this. You know, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think like you touched on it, it's, it just comes from like that relationship builds over time. You know, and once you get comfortable with the athlete, once the athlete is comfortable with you, I'm big, like I'm super sarcastic. And like, I like to make jokes and cut off. So, um, a lot of that I can usually get through the barrier like pretty quick. Um, but, but it just goes into the, to how, you know, they, they also like receive, like, you know, and interpret what you're saying. So, um, whether like, sometimes you have to go that extra mile as a coach and like, Hey, maybe they need a video of me, or maybe they need a voice note from me rather than just typing, you know, and some people, the more analytic people, they want to see the sheet updated and they don't really care to hear your voice. Um, but then you can tie it all together with like words, like ways you're saying things to them. Um, and just, and again, that over time that takes just, just from the, the jump, like how you say, Hey to like, you know, I've got, I got a young kid. He's 20. He just hit 200 pounds. Every time I talked to him, I was like, what's up, big man. Like every time. And he loves it. So it's just, it's little things like that that can go, you know, a long way. And in classic Luke fashion of reaching for something from his desk for a podcast. I think that this book is one of the just simple, it is like 125 pages. It is 160 pages. One of the most simple reads that I think as a simple prerequisite for coaching, like emotional intelligence is probably the biggest skill you can have. Like, I think it's pretty, uh, it's an expendable trait, I think, in my opinion, and, or a non expendable trait, like you have to have it. And it's, it's such a simple read and we'll start to push you in the direction of understanding people. And there's so many little things you can do with, with check-ins or like usinGHumor, or like, I have some people who send me voice notes, like they have like a two and a half minute, three minute time thing that they send me every, every week. And that works well for them rather than writing. Like some people are verbal communicators rather than writing. And you can hear it in their voice. Like when things change, like Darren, you talked about like not being able to pull something from a client. It's like, if they're verbal communicators, like you can just hear it from the moment they start the voice note. Right. And so there's certainly different ways to foster the check-in. Uh, I think making sure as a coach, like you keep them concise and on point is huge. Like there's a reason I put a time limit typically on voice notes. It's because like, I want them to get to what they're telling me and not drift off into storytelling. Right. So, um, I think it's, I think it's really important to foster that communication. And I think it's an aspect that the longer you work with someone, the better it typically gets. And I think that it delivers with better results year after year. Like you guys have worked with some of your clients for a long time. I've worked with a lot of my clients for a very long time. And like, it's at the point, like I see one or two words in a check-in and I know immediately like what's going on. And I think that that's a, a big aspect. I think it's why we delivered at such a high level this past year in 2024. I think we, 19, 20, 21 pro card, something like that. That communication piece is the core of how we run coaching. And it's like the entire check-in process is built around that. And I think when we look at people having that pro card expectation, but not delivering on things that keep them from actually getting there, that ability to communicate to coach and actually tell them what's going on is like the last piece to tie it all together because you don't pay us for when things are going well. I tell people this all the time. You pay me for the moment that stuff hits the ceiling fan and I've got to figure it out. And if you don't communicate well to me, I'm not going to be able to figure it out. Like that is just like the profession in general. Like if you don't track your data and consistently execute on the uncontrollable variables and then communicate with me things that are happening on a week to week basis. This is why when we do check-ins, like I switched to two times per week updates because I'm trying to make sure that I pick up on these things quicker, like before they actually become a big problem. And I think that it's, it's just so massive. I think it's, I've said to a couple of clients that like they're checking, they should imagine they're playing charades. The better your decision, the easier it is for me to come to the conclusion. Yeah. It's, that's a great way to put it. I've never thought about it that way. I'm gonna have to steal that one. It's pretty good. I'm not gonna lie. Yeah. It's, it's so huge. And I'll even like, like I'll even use my social media to try to help foster this. Like I do some mindset stuff on my, my, uh, my Instagram. Like, I think it, it drives people like Alex, you put one up the other day. That was so good. It was like, like the effort piece behind coaching and like being able to push like athletes to that level. Like it's like that level of buy-in is only going to improve that communication. Like when you bend over backwards for people, and this would be like the last point for coaches of like, if you're wanting to help foster your athletes to a place that allows them to execute at the highest level, like just buy in, buy in from the very beginning. And then I think that that's like our love for this sport and like this passion for this sport. And yeah, I'm calling bodybuilding a sport. So if you guys have a problem with this, you guys can just like, let us know in the comments below that your love for this and showing that to the athlete is like the last piece to get them to execute at the highest level they can on all these controllable variables. Like Alex, and I'll kind of keep this to you. Like, I think this is something you're so good at is like showing everyone that you work with how much it means to you. Yeah. Cause it's funny. You know, I was never like this amazing competitor or anything, but like I could get in shape and you know, in the gym, like I was able to gain respect from my peers, from my effort and just those little boxes that I would check. Cause I wasn't the genetically blessed guy who was, you know, going to go pro very easily. So it was something that, um, when I kind of will post like a throwback shot of me competing or, you know, something of me trening or something like it, it reminds them that, Oh, like coach still has it, or, you know, I'll go and, um, meet some people before their show. And, and, you know, they're like, God, you're, you're big, or you're in shape. What are you getting ready for? And I'm like, nothing. This is just me hanging out. Like, but my goal is I want to be able to take my shirt off and pose with you and show you like an avid thigh and I don't look stupid. So, and, and once they kind of see that, or, you know, you all go through some storytelling moments, they're like, Oh, like it almost fires them up. And, and, you know, it's funny, you mentioned that post. I had like four people message me like, Hey, sorry, man. Look, I know I've been slacking and, and it wasn't anything at them. Like I wasn't even thinking about them. Um, it was just like, Hey man, this is my standard that I'm trying to set. And, you know, I told him like, you can do this. Like, I know you can. And, you know, the, the whole thing behind this is we, we have like, you know, Darren was saying it's, it's the little things each day, but this is like the genetic outliers. We're going to go pro anyway. Like we've all seen it. Like they don't, it doesn't really take much to get them in pain. It doesn't really take much to get them huge, but we have to look for those little things to give us that edge where we can beat those genetic with less people. And that's where, you know, to tie all this back together, um, when athletes can see that buy-in, it's just, it, it, it gives them a amount of respect for us that they're, they just double down on effort. Yeah. Yeah. Um, well, I, I think this is a really good episode. Is there anything y'all want to leave the audience with before we kind of log off here? Nothing. Yeah. Like I would say, you know, we're in this sport that I heard this on podcast the other day, but we're in a sport where you can decide you want to be a pro at 20 years old, 25 years old, and you can achieve it. Right. Like most sports, like you can't come to us and say, Hey, I want to go to the NBA or I want to go to the U of D at 30. Like you can't, you can't do that. And so while people think, Oh, bodybuilding does take a long time. And yes, it does take a long time for most of us. It's still is attainable to a certain degree. But like, if you look at the Olympic level wrestlers, they've been wrestling since they were two years old. And that's why they're there. So take advantage of the fact that, Hey, this sport, if you decide later in life, you want to get into it, it can be achieved. You just have to really execute on a whole different level to make it. Yeah. I think that that's the end of it. I think it is a sport that you don't, it doesn't matter where, you know, you know, basketball, football, all these things to make it. You really do have to be a genetic elite. Right. Okay. But in bodybuilding, yes, to be like the Phil Heath or whatever, the seven times, you're certain to be, yeah, you're going to be the genetic elite. But I think this is a sport where the misfits and the non-genetic elite, the people who couldn't maybe run like 10 steps in school without falling over and make it with a certain amount of effort. You know, if you're willing to fully commit to it and go for it, you can, you can make it to a decent and high level pro in this sport. We've seen lots of people do it, but maybe it didn't look like much in their early years. They, you know, knuckle down and did it and they've madEQuite a career for it. Yeah. And I think it's, it's a time piece. Like how much time can you devote and give to the sport and execute at that high level for a long period of time. And, um, I think that's the expectation of like, if you're truly pursuing your best physique or competing at the highest level you're capable of, like devoting yourself to whatever that time piece looks like is the last component of like having that pro card expectation. And it's not, and I use this, I'll use this saying for people like fear is what if, and faith is even if, like, if you operate on this, like, what if IMake it or am I going to make it? Or what if I don't make it type of a place? Like you're probably not going to actually make it right. But it's, if you have this faith that I know that I execute the process to my highest level and the highest capability, even if I don't turn pro this year, I'm just going to go back and look at what I did, improve those aspects, execute my process and get better the following year. And those are the people that, that end up making it. And then that's like such a big thing to kind of grasp. And it takes stress off the process as well, because it, it allows them to kind of focus on these daily things that we're talking about. But yeah, this was a, this was a killer episode. I think it's just an expectation setting piece for people that is, is huge. And for you guys listening, like if you guys want us to talk about anything specific, like let us know in the comments below that there's other habits you guys see of people that tell you they want that pro card and, and, you know, they don't really kind of align with the, that thought process. Like let us know in the comments as well. I'm super excited for this J3 Cut coaching podcast kicking off. I think it's a great way for all of us to kind of share some of the anecdotal, what we're seeing in equals one type case study work. So yeah, until next time, take more all switch and consider results and we'll see you on the next episode. So

=== FILE: What this season taught me  ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 192 [T9r-UgMPkmk].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your cohost, John Jewett. And I'm your cohost, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. What the season taught me. What the season taught me. What the season taught me. And in today's episode, we want to jump through a little bit on my season, but it's just, it's not all about the problems that can come out of the process, the problems that can come out of the process, or even if you're coaching others, and trying to share an unemotional, more objective review of areas to improve on, maybe areas that you did well in your prep process, your peaking process, and then, what do you do with that, and how do you improve moving forward? Mm-hmm. Luke, hello. How are you? I'm good, man. This is a fun conversation, because I think me and you casually have these conversations kind of as it's happening, right? Like, we talk about all season split designs. We talk about like managing recovery capacity in all season, and like maximizing your potential to tren, and therefore maximizing progress with some small management stuff. Talk about your peaks, kind of when you're in your peaking process for the shows that you did. And it was interesting kind of seeing the difference, not only between the peak for Tampa and Texas, but how much progress you made from the previous year to this year, and kind of how easy it seemed. So, I don't know where you want to start, but I think just like a quick highlights of the primary two things you learned from that all season phase. I know we've talked about like the six days of trening, and like not kind of pushing that on the podcast before, and a few other things. But if there was like two things you would pull out that made your all season that much successful, I think that'd be a great place to start, because I think a lot of the conversation is going to be around the peaking. But I think that's kind of where you laid the groundwork, and you were, correct me if I'm wrong, six pounds, or seven pounds heavier from last year to this year? Yeah, at Olympia, I was, IMean, if we go off like what I walked on stage with, I was like 232 at Olympia, and the best for Texas was 240. So eight. Yeah, it is eight. I guess I think I loaded pretty hard, so maybe whatever, seven pounds, whatever you want to call it, seven pounds of tissue, doesn't matter. Yeah. It's like, yeah, yeah. So it's like, you go on stage real flat, you're like, oh, I only added five pounds of tissue. It's like, well, okay. You know, tick for tack, like, actually, it's probably is a fair assessment, because Olympia, you're on like at the nighttime anyway. So light bulb at nighttime, I'm like much better. Prejudge is a hard one. I think we'll get into that in a second, that part. But yeah, it was nonetheless, a lot of tissue added. Yeah. And even from the previous offseason, I was like 10 pounds up from that offseason. So 10, then eight. And it's just, which is surprising to keep stringing that along really well. But it's kind of like the process we do right now. You look back on the previous offseason, what worked well, and a lot worked well. And you kind of rinse and repeat that. And that's pretty much what happened. At this point, there's not, I'd say there's not major levers that I'm pulling that all of a sudden are revealing something that I wasn't doing. It's just more of the same. And that was probably a little bigger of a piece because the previous offseason was shorter. And so I gave myself more time. And I think time is what was needed as I knew the rate of progress was going to slow down. And then also off the last offseason, I prepped for a lot longer than I needed to. So I gained a lot of that time back by looking at the previous season, knowing like, all right, you absolutely dieted in like nine weeks for a show, basically. So I allocated like 12 weeks for a show and I still did an earlier show, Tampa. So I gained some offseason time back knowing off that past data that I could run a shorter prep. Yeah. So like, it's like timeline setup was still something that I was refining. And as I've gotten bigger and out of 212, the preps are a lot different. And they're not nearly as I don't want to say as as hard, but but yeah, to a degree, they're not quite as hard because you're not having to like suck down as much. And I was usually coming from sometimes roughly the same body weight as I've been in the offseason, but a lot higher body fat percentage. So being able to stay a lot leaner in the offseason has been a benefit to you, but that's nothing new. Like I did that this this past offseason as well. So I'd say a big timeline, a big big thing. Take away was still taking the past timeline and refining the next phase for it. The probably the detriment is that I ran a pretty similar split design that I had run in prep, which was just pushing. Push pull legs, push pull legs off day and the offseason prior. I didn't have that second leg day, but in prep, it worked fine. However, as I got stronger in offseason, that leg day into the push day in the middle of the week, what I later came to find out was like really limiting the push day. And I didn't find that out till IMoved into like my pre prep phase and I took out that leg day and added an off day. Then all of a sudden my push numbers were like coming up. I'm like, Oh, okay. The body parts I really need. I was, I was limiting. So I think that was like one of the learning aspects because I, I, there's a bit of an emotional connection with trening. I just like to tren. And I think some of those, you know, a lot of people, they like tren days cause you eat more food and maybe there was some driving factor there too. Like, Hey, I like my diet more and my day is more, more efficient on days that I tren. I just prefer it. And so I had to, I have to remove myself from that. So that was like the one I think negative I had. That was also limiting my ability to put a lot of volume into my push days where I needed it. So I think that was kind of like at least a few, few takeaways from the last offseason. Yeah. And I think, I think you see that in the new program design, right? Like being able to kind of move your work where push is getting the frequency that you're going to be having. It's like three times per rotation, I believe, if I remember correctly, when we talked about it. So it's interesting to see kind of some of the things that are changinGHeading into this one. But I think like coming off the back of that offseason, running a nine week prep, like the staples that still happened. I don't want people to get the wrong impression here because people hear nine week prep and they're like, or sorry, 12 week prep. And they're like, Oh, John diets in 12 weeks. I can diet in 12 weeks. It's like, no, that's just data off of previous rates of loss that set up the ability to diet that way and still be ready ahead of time. Um, kind of throughout that prep process, like I know it was pretty clockwork. Was there anything different from that prep process that led you into these peaks relative to the last one other than just having more tissue? Or was it fairly similar rates of loss, similar issues that crop up as far as managing that rate of loss? Um, was there anything kind of out of the norm that happened to that prep? You know, honestly, nothing that was terribly standout, uh, more. There's a lot more outside of the nuts and bolts of this is my diet. This is my cardio for this prep on like the, the, the life and emotional standpoint just with, uh, like relationship wise and where am I headed in the future with bodybuilding? A lot of stuff kind of left me in a weird spot for prep. Like I, I execute a course, all the things that I love trening. I love bodybuilding, but there was a question of like, am I going to keep doing this? And how do I do if I am to do this? How do I do it? And still like have good connections outside of bodybuilding, like with Renee or with friends. And so there's a lot of work put in there, which kind of opened my eyes a lot to that. I, there is a way where I can bodybuild at a high level and still have meaningful experiences with people that I love. And it kind of led into peak week, honestly, a feeling like reinvigorated for bodybuilding because I knew I could do this and keep doing it and not have any other detriments in other areas of my life. And I think that's when for a lot of people, bodybuilding probably should be coming to an end when all other aspects of people that you care about or other life situations are not developing the way that you want. And so seeing that was like a huge thing in this prep. So honestly, it was kind of like an emotionally like stressful prep, but that led to a positive. So yeah, kind of a newfound way of being able to nail the variables like I know how to do and also stay like really connected, which made it made it easier prep in a way. So, but yeah, as far as like nuts and bolts things, nothing terribly different that like just stands way out of my mind. Like I always, I've cut Cardi out into prep. There's like still steps on my walking pad, which, you know, I I've done it only on my walking pad. Like I rarely would walk long durations outside, which I know guys that do and it eats up their legs, which sounds ridiculous. But absolutely like the difference in like walking on concrete versus walking on a walking pad is pretty large regarding leg fatigue and not getting injured and keeping like your legs from getting beat up. But you know that that was the same for me. I think the last prep I walked a bit more outside and it's also summer in Texas. So it's like a hundred degrees. I don't know nothing like diet wise that really stood out different. So, all right, now getting into the peaks. This is where I think there was a lot of aha moments for you because I felt like every show you did this year. So for Tampa and Texas, you correct me if I'm wrong. There was like the holy crap. This night look is so good. Right. And I know kind of leading into Tampa, you were chasing a bit. But what is it that you think from the assessment piece you learned off the back of this show string is going to help you the next time you compete in regards to bringing the level of fullness that you brought like at the night shows, especially Texas night show, which I agree with you. I think was the best look for the assessment piece. Where are you going? What are you going to pull from that assessment process that you think you could kind of lean into potentially even being more aggressive than we're in these these last peaks? Yeah, I think with you know, if you're as a listener as well, picking up things like what Luke and I always teach on is understand what we're talking about when we're trying to find a look. Yep. And, you know, we're doing that even even before peak week really happens, trying to find what amount food and fluids and duration of time you need. To bring about like what could be a look you could walk on stage with. So we're looking at pigs throughout the day, looking at our meal and fluid schedules, and then you find a look you like and you're like, all right, let me try to repeat this on show day. And it's easy like coaching yourself to keep a little bit of the prep goggles on and know what you like to chase. And so what IMean by that is I like condition and so I can chase that down pretty hard. And so you understand the look that you need but also being able to document all this too is important because I have all my sheets like here in front of me of meals and times and notes of like decisions IMade. So I can look back and I'm easier now to pull out mistakes. So these are two things I would say if you're if you are going through this process is understand how we find the look and the data you need to make decisions. But but through having these things right. And and knowing that, you know, if we look at what was the best look was Texas at finals and what did I do different in Texas versus Tampa. And what happened in Tampa. I think that's where I can like finally see like mistakes and things that were made. So like prior prior to Tampa, I was looking at my looks throughout the day. And you know 237 to 238 looked look good. However, you know, you realize like, OK, I'm going to have some fiber stuff dropped out that might lower the weight a little bit. And then, you know, I reconfirm the look throughout peak week every day. And, you know, I sent you some visuals Luke on in the gym trening. I was a little over 237 still even with fiber and stuff pulled out. It looked pretty wild. And then as you keep feeding throughout the day, you're like, well, you know, I get fuller and they're a little condition slips. And like it's like, I don't want to sacrifice that. Like the 237 still good. So that's kind of like what I had in my mind. This this one visual and weight. Some of the problems that cropped up was one day out my weight just like dropped down. Like I kept dropping down from two days out to one day out actually held. It's like 234 in the morning, which was pretty light. And rather than two days out, like staying aggressive with food. I wasn't that aggressive. And so one day out. I kept my normal meal eating pattern that I had during prep to diet because I like to fast up in the morning, do five meals a day. It makes managing the deficit really easy for me and how I like to schedule my stuff. However, when when you're getting on stage at different times and also your person needs to make sure you get enough food in keeping that normal structure, you might want to shift it around. And so one error that IMade was starting my meals too late in Tampa. Like it was nearly 10 a.m. Before I would have my first meal. And this is with going on stage around 12. So basically, I'm like one meal in and I can go on stage, which finding my look was solid. Like I could do that. I could do that. The problem is there's no adjustment time if there's an error there, which what we run back to that one day out is that my weight came up to like 239 really quick. And I just kind of kept the same diet the rest of the day. And I ended up going in bed at 239, which I should have pushed it higher. But off my my past days, I knew like, hey, one meal and I usually come up to like 237. The but then the problem was that that that those meals that I was doing, it got pretty heavy in my waist. And so when I that first meal the day, I didn't feel fully emptied out, but I only have like one shot with one meal to make it all happen. And so I could only do so much in the morning. And that first meal brought me up to like 236.4. And then I was, you know, pretty much on stage. And also coming back from from prejudge, which it's a lot of rounds, right? I dropped down like a pound during prejudge. So I'm back to my room at 235, which I am. I faded. And that's something to note for me is that like even during prejudge, why I do these weights and all these things is because I know across a prejudge in a pro show, I could drop a pound of body weight. So I need to be putting in like 16 ounces of fluid, like as I'm posing with a little bit of carbohydrate. So these are notes and data that I have to look back on. And, you know, then I fed up a bit more into into finals and my weight came up some, but still, I was still shy with fluids because you worry about softening a look. And I just I didn't rely enough on my past days data that I had. And I was like, well, I definitely don't want to come into your show like softer, which if you look all the way to my like PM picks, like I stay very conditioned. So anyway, these were the issues, right? Starting meals too late, not enough meals throughout the day. And then being shy on show day. And then also being a little bit more conservative with fluid. So because even on show day, it was like 2.7 liters of fluid. And yeah, from from, you know, wake up time till, you know, 530. Yeah, in the afternoon coming down from I was like at five, five and a half liters. So, yeah, IMean, I can have your questions around that. I can fast forward to Texas about changes made based around that. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with J3 University? Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3 team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Well, no, I think the I think the biggest thing to pull out here is that. You you nailed the look, but you didn't nail the prejudging. It's kind of what I gathered from you talking to you after Tampa was that you knew how to get there, but that you didn't felt like the process of keeping it there for the entirety of the show was. Was possible. Was possible. And I think that opened the door to potentially you being a bit more aggressive in the Texas, which is what I want to talk about, because we were actually sitting in the Airbnb and talking about like. Like, when is the time to be aggressive like if we're going to if you're going to do it like when do you do it and I kind of want to go into that thought process because the interesting thing about Texas is I noticed in your assessment you felt much different about your pictures. And I don't know if that's because of what happened in pre judging at Tampa, but I want to hear that because you were like even getting excited seeing like two 40 at night when you were, you know, those last couple days in when you were loading kind of into Texas. And so some of the differences there, you also didn't lose your luggage heading into Texas either, which is a nice little drop in stress. But you've pulled those lessons out of Tampa, right? And you know that this has to be fixed in the Texas. Do you think that helped you with not being as gun shy? Gun shy, because like your standard is best conditioning on stage, right? And so you want to hold that and you want to maintain that. But we've also got to remember that it's the best physique on stage, right? And so where's John's best physique? And I definitely saw a John working through these visuals of like a lot more willing to go up and see like what what happened at these higher weights. Yeah, it puts something different in my mind when I did talk to Tyler Mannion after. Tampa is like, hey, where can I prove? Of course, you know, it gives me the bigger picture feedback of development wise, like up top and front shots. Keep building out extreme. Don't let don't let your waist grow. Basically, that's the summation of that. But he also said, you look like, you know, we've seen you fuller and we want that look because when I'm full up top is when condition also shines through more. And not that I was flat and like missed it. It's just there's a there's a range to work within there, right? Like he has. IMean, I guess he can recall that I I've pushed the fullness marker more and come to life in that doesn't mean softer. And some people might might take that away of like all the you know, you've heard people that go to shows and they're like, oh, they're not looking for condition. They just want, you know, size. And that doesn't mean softer. And so for some people, when you say fuller, it absolutely means you need more muscle. Yeah, because you can only feel like a balloon up so much before it pops. Sometimes you need to upgrade your balloon. So that means offseason. But for for what Tyler was referring to, he's like, you know, you still could probably push fullness a bit more, which I knew I could. And so going into Texas, I'm like, well, I have the feedback of what they're looking for. And I can I can do that. Like, I know I can. I knew looking at my weights and my assessments from the show that I I could go there with it. So it was like a repeat because it's one week later this show in two days out. I woke up at the same weight in the morning, like 234.2. I'm like, no, I do not. Not again. I do not accept this. Like I knew the exact diet I ran where my body weight starts slowing down. And so I was like every day I need to wake up heavier fasted and then keep building upon that. So when it does come show day, I'm not left like with one meal and a bunch of food to put in to try to catch back up. Like I want to be ahead before I land there. So like two days out. I put in like an extra 150 grams of carbs and what I did from Tampa. And instead of dropping down back down to 234.2 on one day out, I was 236.2. So like two pounds up. And now this is still like working through visuals and watching throughout the day. And even on one day out, I start slowing down. And just like I did for Tampa around like mid afternoon. And I was like, I was 239, just like I was in Tampa. And if I held back, I probably would still be at 239. But that's when like my normal like 120 grams of carbs went up to 150. The next meal, 170. And then finally, I'm looking at a meal six, which normally I've been only doing five meals a day. So I adding eating earlier to have an extra meal at night and the ability to do that. I had a last meal and then going to bed at like 242 basically. And even looking at those visuals, you're like, damn, this is still like pretty conditioned everywhere and very full. The problem becomes waste control because you have six meals and a ton of food in you. And this day, you know, I lower protein to 800 grams of carbs, 100 grams of fat and like 230 grams of protein. It's still a lot of food that you put in for the day and five liters of water. So it's like, well, I can't walk out that this because I need to still be able to control my waist. And yes, fuller is better, but not when you lose aesthetics. So. So at least the one day out changes that that led me to the setup on show day where I could be successful. So starting the meals earlier, which I started my meals like an hour and a half earlier for the day. And then being able to spread out fluids. So there's less fluid between each meal because of that same total fluids for the day. But it just gave me the ability to put in more food that I wasn't able to one day out. Yeah. I think what the cool thing to pull out is like we've talked about matrix, right? And we've talked about building your matrix is free peak. So first matrix being like food, fluid, sodium that brings your weight up, holds your weight or drops your weight down so that you can make those kind of game time decisions. But also the matrix of the visuals. Like there is a range of body weight that brings about what we would call the best visuals. One that leans more on the fuller side of that equation. One that leads on the slightly lower side of that equation. And kind of where you choose to kind of put that on stage is based on like what you think is going to be the best package to maintain through prejudging. Pro shows obviously are going to be longer in prejudging than maybe national shows. Obviously national shows going to be longer than a regional show. So these are all decisions you've got to take into account based on the show that you'recompeting in. But I think what was interesting is when we got to finals and you were backstage, you were like, holy, look at this, Luke. You like, I was like, my client was walking to go get her glaze and stuff. You're like, come look at this. And it was like two 40 ish. If I remember correctly, two 40.2 or something like that. And it was just bonkers. Yeah. I knew before, like, I just took my shorts off. I'm like, this is going to be something. So like, y'all, y'all want to see this. Yeah. Even I guess waking up on show day, I did what I wanted to do because I woke up at 2 37.4. Yep. With the idea to go on stage somewhere around 2 38 and still put in a meal earlier, way earlier than what I did for, for Tampa. And then I had another chance to put another meal in. And so what I did instead was more frequent assessments. So I kept the same, like, fluid rate, but I had, like, my meal two. And I weighed myself, like, an hour and a half of meal one after. And then I went ahead and ate that. So I'm not going to get behind and then have one big meal to eat. Then an hour and a half later, I, like, reassess and put in the other half of that meal. So the meal sizes gets lower, but let, but more frequent just so I can start managing it more acutely. Uh, and then that led into me going on stage right at 2 38.4 for pre judge, which what was far better than, than Tampa. But I, I still had more to go. And IMean, why not go fuller? Uh, and a bit of it was a surprise jump. I didn't think my weight would go up that much, but it did, but it looked positive. And that was still like for Tampa. Basically, it was like a meal and a snack before I had to go back on. We had to go back on at 4 30. Well, in Texas, I was going back on at, and it was nearly like 8 PM. So I just had more time to eat and have fluids, but it was a good teaching point of, of where I can really push this with fullness and what they want to see on stage. Cause yeah, then I was that two 40, which relatively was, you know, going back to my same meals. But by that point, they were starting to stick more with me. Um, so, and then seeing Bill Sylvia, the head judge after the show, he's like, what you did tonight for finals was the best. He's at all these shows. So he saw me four times on stage. He's like, this time was the best. He's like, you nailed this every time. So saying like, all right, you know, if I have a low of a two 34, I can come up all the way, like six pounds and have a best, best look. So for me, I know pushing fullness is what needs to happen. Mm-hmm . And I, I, I don't really sacrifice condition. And, uh, maybe that's, you know, been some just bias from coming from two 12 or habits of what I need to do for two 12. And just not the time to fill out of what that would look like without my waist becoming a problem. Cause you know, you gotta make weight. And I don't eat so much in that time period, but it's just a, it's, it's a different bodybuilder too. Like, um, we were driving up to Texas. I was like, Renee, can you imagine me like cutting 25 pounds right now to make weight? It's just like, it's just like, it's hard to fathom. You're ever two 12. It's like, I know. So, IMean, someone with a 25 more pounds of like tissue on them, like it is a different, different peak. And it's every year, it's been something a little different to learn on the frameworks there. And I'm the same human, but it's still having to refine the process. Cause when you're adding that much stage weight on a year, it does change. So. Yeah. It's, um, it's cool to see because the assessment process in and of itself hasn't changed, but where you feel like you look your best has changed like over the years. Like it's the same build the matrix, use those matrices fluctuate the food matrix, according to kind of how you're speeding up or slowing down. Um, and that's something that I would pull out. Like with, I've talked about before, like having a ballpark of what brings you up, what holds you, what drops you. There's certainly a component of like going into show week and like having all the responsibility to show athletes certainly can get a little more stress, have some digestion issues. You might need to watch out for, they might speed up on you. They might not. So a lot of that's dependent on kind of how you strung into the peak week. But, um, it's interesting because it's, I don't say it's foolproof, but it's, it's pretty close to foolproof. And you still have ways to improve in regards to how you push yourself in regards to like the best visual versus potentially your like favorite bias visual. And as coaches, like, I think that's the hardest part of self coaching is like with you self coaching, right? It's like, we love like a grainy look. It's like when you prep wellness, you know how you prep wellness and you're like, okay, this is like ideal for wellness, but I would love to see this like five pounds down and more shredded. Um, it's kind of a similar thought, right? It's like, ah, it's just seeing you like nasty pulled down shredded is cool. But we have to remember that it is bodybuilding and balancing the two of the criteria. And the divisions are still different. Like you have, I was listening to someone speak around classic physique and bodybuilding. And why, why don't the bodybuilders get like as conditioned as like a classic physique guy? And it's like, there is, I think, you know, the muscularity fullness aspect, it is weighed a bit heavier than the condition piece. And again, like with classic, the allies just have to make weight. So it's kind of like the necessity of the division of having to remove a lot of things that might hold the fullness just to get down. You end up being like really hard, but also a condition you kind of want this stream. Oh, with classic, you want the streamline look with bodybuilding. They want this round, like muscle exploding look to still happen. And that's kind of where you need to take your physique for the division. That doesn't mean out of shape. It just means you're not going to chase like every last line of detail. Like you might in classic as I do think at least how I, how I've been judged is that there is a differentiation there. Because coming from 212, I would kind of chase every last line of detail. And they absolutely do want to make sure that you're full and muscular and guys have beat me with less condition that have the muscularity card checked off. And even though I beat him in condition, that wasn't, you know, as, as much of a, a winning criteria card. So either way I did, I did exceptionally well, Tampa and Texas. Like I need to break apart these things and see where I can improve and not just look at, you know, placings or, you know, people say you should be higher. I'm sure other people say you should be lower or whatever it may be, but it's like, what, what can you control? And this is getting down to nitty gritty of things of where you can improve. Cause it wasn't like I went to Tampa and I was way off or missed a mark. It's just, it, it can be better. And so that's what we, we look to do. Yeah. And you know that you can run the process and repeat it and make sure it's there. And that's the, the beauty of it is it's very predictable and you know where you're going to put yourself kind of like that next time you go. But I think that's pretty much it for today. Yeah. Yeah. That covers the overview of just like looking back and assessing the season and off assessing your season. I think that will lead into some of the episodes, other episodes that we covered around your decision to take the next show or to take the next offseason and leading into like post-show phases. And, you know, we've already discussed that. So for me now, it made a lot of sense to do offseason, but. But anyway, for our next conversation, we'll do build your next split based on what show day revealed. So it's a good segment around trening and looking back and especially if you're going the offseason, how do we lay out trening now that the season's over looking at body parts. And we can go through some, some sample layouts too, of how we would structure things. So. Love it. Anyway, thank you all for, for one, if you follow along my, my journey of shows and the support. The guidepost.com. Thank you.

=== FILE: 🎙️ Burnout,  identity, & the mentorship you never got ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸  Ep  177 [xlrfh5MfGRI].txt ===

 The abord- geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez or if you're a female listening, hang in there because you might get some insights into your man's brain and how he thinks and his struggles. So we want to address some of the mental components around being a high-performing individual or even moving from a low-performing to a high-performing. What might be some barriers and bottlenecks that you might be facing that Luke and I have personally faced and how we overcame those things? Yeah, and it's an interesting thing to kind of peek behind the door because I don't think a lot of people arEQuick to talk about this because from a public persona perspective, we're supposed to give this – I don't want to say front, but if you are on the more successful side, you want to seem that way to everybody involved or that's on the outside because it can be something that's attractive from a business perspective. But I think there's a lot to kind of break down from like a questions perspective of what does it truly look like to kind of pull the best out of yourself? And I think some of the places that I like to think back to are – and correct me if you think like this is a bad place to start, but kind of where you came from when people didn't believe in what you saw, right? And where people didn't believe in what your outlook on life was and what you wanted to accomplish and what you wanted to make happen. Because I think a lot of times these high performers develop it during those years of like this capacity to become what they end up becoming. Would you agree? No, definitely. I think you get pieces of the person you will eventually be when you are younger. And there's just a lot to figure out at that time. And then who's in that circle might not align well with that person you could eventually become. And there's just a lot of just lack of clarity at that time. And like for myself being younger, I've always competed, was athletes or all in on things that I was interested in. Of course, there was a lot of rotation of things that I was interested in from, man, you name it. I did competitive paintball, the track, then getting into like powerlifting and then into now bodybuilding or even, you know, cars. Like I would, I was obsessed with things that I was into. Now, like as those people are in your life and you're kind of moving through these different things that you do, some of them, they're not about either. Like when I first get into bodybuilding, like my parents just saw this as like a temporary thing that they, I hope I just grow out of. Same with like, you know, my ex, you know, partner, she wasn't about that either because the risk was there. And what does future look like with kids and is, you know, are you going to be around like with bodybuilding, what entails? So there was just a lot of fight back in that. And, you know, through those times, it's, it's when you're facing a lot of the adversity to everyone's telling, you know, it does make you question like, maybe I, maybe I shouldn't be doing this. And should I be having a, a plan B in this and put my time into something else? And so it's a lot, a lot to figure out at those times. And, you know, looking back, it's, it's a, you need the, really the right people in your corner that are making sure that they are building you up towards a positive outcome. And I had a lot of people that were just like, it's tearing you down in a negative way, but it's, it's a tough balance, right? Because you do, you don't want to be unrealistic with what you're trying to do. And not, I don't mean unrealistic, but also like you, you could be interested in something that is just truly not the right thing for you and need someone to guide you, even though you're so damn stubborn. I think that's, that's part of it too, is overcoming, you know, being stubborn versus like this passion that actually has potential. That's a tough one to sort out. Yeah, it's a, it's a very tough one to sort out. And I think, I think when we kind of start to kind of peep behind the door, I think a lot of this drives, and I know for me, this is what drives me into places that I kind of have to take a step back and reevaluate where I'm headed and then make decisions to move in the right direction. Because I tend to, I know when I first got into the bodybuilding space, like I'm a very one track minded person, right? It's, there's a reason my original brand was No Switch Fitness, like no all switch in the pursuit of results. I played competitive golf for a little over 10 years, and I thought it was the only thing I was going to do. And when I got out of that and got into fitness and bodybuilding, and I was like 140 pounds starting in it. And like, you know, the first few shows you do, you're maybe 160 pounds soaking wet on stage. And like people don't see that journey of what you are wanting to accomplish. And at that time, you don't fully maybe understand what it is, and it just kind of develops. But I'm kind of one of those people that if you give me a challenge, I'm not afraid of it. I'm the person that tends to like stand up to it. And it's a good thing and a bad thing because it builds resiliency, but it also, it leads to quite a bit of burnout. And I think that that's where I can push myself into places that aren't productive. And it's because of what I feel around me feels like everybody expects me to not make it. And I do think that I know what I'm capable of behind closed doors. And that's kind of where this starts to lead to is when you start to get to a place of burnout, I found that surrounding yourself with the right people is what allows you to pull out of it. And I think it kind of gets into the mentorship of what does a good system and what does a good mentor look like. I want to ask you, Luke, because, IMean, people might have heard you speak to this before, but you got to a very high level in golf, which from what you've explained, it was all encompassing. Like weekends were traveling. Mom was trying to sort out it all with just pretty much, it's very much a full-time job already and not even at a professional level. But was there ever a time within that you were burnout or mom got burnout too, right? And just to her context here, this was aromasingle mom raising Luke, right? So she's doing it all, which I'm sure like those that don't have that same mentality as you could get burnout along the way. Were there times for you to get burnout or mom like throughout that process? No, I think it was so kid-like, the passion and pursuit of it, that there was never really burnout with the process of golf. I think it was more expectations that I had placed upon myself that led to me not continuing to pursue it. But I grew up in an area that had a lot of high caliber golfers. I was kind of like in a pocket down in Mobile where like a lot of my friends that I traveled with all play professionally nowadays, right? And so I had a meniscus injury my senior year of high school that kind of took off the table a lot of the higher caliber schools that I was potentially going to play for. And that level of like letdown that I wasn't going to one of these high caliber schools and that my only options left on the table were like small division one or division two schools was kind of like in an 18-year-old's brain proved to me that I potentially wasn't going to have the skills in order to make it. And so I just didn't have the right people around me at the time to tell me that that was unbelievably false because like the college years in golf, like for those who are familiar, are extremely developmental in trensitioning your game from high-level junior amateur golf into professional ranks. And so it wasn't burnout for me. It was almost like the identity crisis for me. Like I spent every waking moment of the last 10 years from the age of 8 years old to 18 doing anything that I could to be the best golfer I can. And then this is where I'm ending up type of a deal. And I think that's why I actually fully removed myself. I, for those who don't know, I didn't touch a club for 10 years after that moment. And that's my full dive into bodybuilding was like this rebuilding of myself with a new identity of through bodybuilding, right? And interestingly enough, bodybuilding taught me how bad it is to have an identity that's tied to something like that. But that's what it was for me, man. Like it's probably the biggest regret I'll ever have. But I think it taught me so much into what it looks like to actually build a productive process that leads to success in different avenues of life. And yeah, I think that's probably more what it was. It's probably more identity related than it was burnout. I can see that. That's a huge shift. And I think within that segment of that trensition was probably the biggest struggle. And like who was your inner circle group then? Like did you have a golfing coach that was guiding that? Or was it still just you and mom during that time? Yeah. So just a lot in your head, would you do something different at that time? Yeah. It was – it kind of all happened at the wrong time. Like I was in the process of switching coaches. So I hadn't really built that relationship with the new coach yet where he would like step in and be that person to say, hey, like – excuse my French, but get your shit together. Like this is potential for you. And then on top of that, my mom's not really the push you to do something you don't want to do type of person. She's more like the I support you in whatever it is. And so I think it was just I didn't really have the right people. And I tend to be – while I am extroverted, I tend to be a bit of a loner in my pursuits. Like I'll just dig myself in a hole and just work and figure it out. And so that's kind of where that led to that because – and this is – I think this leads so much into kind of what I do now because when you look at like high success people, like – and you feel this a lot throughout different periods of life of like – and John, you know this very well. When you're trying to build something that's bigger than yourself, which is the whole goal, my whole goal in starting my original business was to build something bigger than myself. This is kind of what J3 University has become. It's what J3U CoachinGHas become. And you have all of these people that start to depend on you. It becomes a very heavy weight to bear, and it's not something that you let go of lightly to the point that you'll detriment your own self in order to make sure that the outcomes happen. And I think a lot of that happens because of when I failed in early life in my early pursuits, the now work level that I try to pursue is out of that will never happen again. And then it becomes something when I get to the burnout level that becomes negative to the environment around me. Yeah. I can relate around that. I think with being – I think if you look at a lot of people that are high-performing, there are a lot of like do-it-yourself type people. And when you just are trying to – everyone is depending on you because you are that person that does it all. You really need to be able to pivot and bring in some people that can like support what you're doing that are like-minded. And I think this goes back to developing your own inner circle because very much like you, I love control. And I want to just do it myself and not have to wait around for other people to do it. And that is to my own weakness as well because I end up doing things that I shouldn't be doing, that I'm not great at. And to really build up to be bigger, whether it's in bodybuilding or business, bringing in other people and having to let go some of that control is freeing for one. But it's truly how you can like fully grow. It's just like when I brought Mark in to help partner with J3U and then yourself to help with the education. And then we now have like Abby and Emmanuel doing our – helping with sales and content creation and Dylan now supporting us as well. So now this group, this network expanded to where you're not having to do so much and everything riding on you. And that's when it's like, gosh, it's like from morning to night, it's nonstop because you wear all the hats in your business or your bodybuilding endeavor. And when you can finally breathe, like man, that's when it fully is freeing. So yeah, I think that was a big mistake earlier on is support and then also balancing like dependency. And I think when you have a good support system, you're freed up from that feeling of a lot of the dependency that everyone's riding just on you alone. Because it's nice when you feel like you have people that have your back. It's easiest to swing back in to only wanting to be independent, right? Like, man, this is all on me still. It's like, no, it's not. Like you do have people that are in your circle that have your back if things are to fail. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. And it's funny how the things that were problems a year ago, when you lean into this, like, no longer start to become problems. And especially when you surround yourself with people that have, like, the I truly want shit out of life type of people. Like, that is, to me, the difference maker. Because it's like it's not just pulling anyone into your circle. It's the pulling someone in who has an expertise that you don't have where you can not only learn from them, but they can benefit your environment in a positive net outcome. But also have the viewpoint of I really want to achieve something with what we're working on. And then that pulls everyone forward, right? The standards that we hold ourselves to. And it's just something that, from a self-development standpoint, I think is massive. Because the problems we had a year ago are no longer the same problems that we're talking about as far as getting to the next level. And then I know next year will be the same. It's because we keep elevating that inner circle of people that we have around us. And I think it starts to spread into multiple different places. And I think, John, one thing I wanted to ask you is how you have learned to separate. And maybe you haven't. And maybe this is something that we can talk about. You as the athlete. And then you as the business owner. And then you as, like, John the person. The things outside of those two that live. And kind of how that identity relationship has developed for you. And how you view it now. Because I think it's something that honestly allows you to be more successful when you do it well. When you first start, I think that this goes back to, like, earlier on. Is your identity kind of lines with a thing that you do and that you're interested in. And you'll have a lot of people that start maybe noticing you because of that thing. Whatever it is. Whether you're playing football and you're now, well, that's John the football player that's really good at football. And it becomes your identity. Or Luke's the, you know, soon-to-be pro golfer. And that's his identity. So you're relying on your own identity from what others are perceiving you to be. When that's not how it should be. And you really need to create your identity around something that's going to be sustainable. Or you'll have constant loss of identity when you do have failures. Because none of this stuff that we do potentially will last forever. Or the stuff that you do won't be able to last at the level that you do it at forever. Right? Like, maybe you're at peak golf. Well, that's going to decline at some time. Even though you can maybe keep golfing until you're 80 or 90 years old. Right? But you could lose something in that. So how do you make that identity sustainable when your interest shift or your physique changes? Goals evolve, you know? You don't want to do the same thing anymore than, I'm sure, like, you know, I can't bodybuild forever. So all these people that see me as John the bodybuilder and seeing them again after you stop, you're like, what happened to you? Like, why are you so small now? I'm not sure. That's a fear of a lot of bodybuilders that are out there. And then it's like a challenge to you as a person. Like, I'm no longer that same person. And I think that's when you do have to redefine what you're seeing as your identity. Yeah. And make it not so segmented even, like, it's not just you as the business person or the bodybuilder or even the husband. I think your identity should come down to these, your core values as a man of, you know, how do you want to treat people? Leading by example, just showing up consistently for people and, you know, be the person that others can rely on. And building people up rather than making people feel small. And that's what I've always tried to carry out through all my endeavors and how I interact with everyone. And I picked a lot of that up from my own dad, which going back to, like, you know, who are your mentors and where do you pick things up from? And, of course, we might inherit some of the negatives from our parents, but at least picking up a lot of the positives that, you know, anything that I did. And, like, you could speak to your mom, Luke, is that they always showed up. Like, man, my dad was at, like, every single event that I could, I was in, whether karate and gymnastics. IMean, you name it, powerlifting, bodybuilding. Like, he was always there. I'm sure the same for your mom. Like, he showed up. And that's, like, a huge on a piece, a core value piece of him. And so that's the type of man that I'd want to be, which that supports, like, good mentorship and how you want to carry yourself out at. So you can still, like, have some identity, of course, as being the athlete, but, you know, don't let your output define you of, like, the thing that you do define you. Let your character lead the way in that. And that's kind of where I fall now. So, you know, yes, I'm into bodybuilding. I'm into cars. I'm into several different things. But that's not who I am as a core value person. And it takes a long time, I think, to get there because we start off with just that very young, lower level of, like, these are things that I'm into and that creates my status. But, again, it's a lower level of connection with people. And so trensitioning that identity can, in a positive manner, is where I think it will also lead to more success when you have those values clearly defined. And that's where I also just figure out who do I want to bring into business. Like, they have to meet those same core values. And that's what's also going to make it sustainable, too. It's so important with J3U. Like, I don't need the best educator or the best bodybuilder aligning with J3U. I need the person that's going to have those values as that's what's going to be able to sustain the business of how we're able to treat people and build them up. Because that's what people will remember forever, not whether, you know, we were, you know, 1% better than the next guy in information or something like that. Yeah. Yeah, 100%. I think it's so interesting because, like, my skill set has changed a lot over the last couple years of, like – I still coach, obviously. But I'm such more in the mentorship role now of, like, supporting all the J3U coaches and making sure that they're growing. And it's unbelievable how quick people can expand their abilities when they do align on the moral, ethical values level, right? Because they just get it. And they treat people the same way that you would want them treated in your coaching process or throughout the university process or the education process. And this allows us to expand our impact. And I think that's kind of where, from a mentorship perspective, like, creating – and you'll hear me talk about systems a lot. I aim to build better systems for other people because I know it will allow them to operate at a level that I do or even better in certain areas because of their areas of expertise. And so you'll see, like, different aspects of, like, I've talked about block scheduling a lot in my content or in YouTube or a bunch of other things. Like, I've been helping people in my inner circle build block schedules for themselves so that they can operate more efficiently. Or even just small things on communication, like how we talk to people, emotional intelligence. Like, I talk to the coaches weekly about how we talk to people and build them up and create better athletes over the long term because the outcomes on stage come as a product of not only the X's and O's of coaching, but how we build up these people to be better individuals in their daily lives. So it's an interesting dynamic to kind of have a massive view shift on because education in this space gets very X's and O's focused. But I think when you step into that role of mentorship, you see there's so much more than just X's and O's in creating better individuals. Yeah, and it's hard to be a part of at times with social media because it is such a negative space and how people go about building up their own image. And it is the exact opposite of what you want from supportive male roles in the industry of people are gaining like clout chasing based on demeaning others, exposing others' weaknesses. And it's not pushing everyone forward just in how we want to treat people. That's why, like, I've never wanted to do content around that because it doesn't align with my core values. So I'd say don't feel like you need to chase that as well because you see someone growing fast based on demeaning others or in treating others poorly as that's not the type of, like, longstanding, sustainable relationships that are going to really last. And to really do that, again, you have to treat people well. And just see, it's so easy now to cross those boundaries in social media, but uphold those values after it's all over. Like, the bodybuilding's done, you know, your business is done. Like, what are you really left with? And it's just the relationships you had. And you want some ones that are a really good quality and that it's going to be a lot more meaningful in your life, too. So not to get on a huge, like, philosophical, like, you know, aspect here, but that is what it does come down to. A lot of this of, like, the development as a man, just as a person of where you want to see yourself going. Luke, to throw this back to you, what do you wish someone told you 10 years ago, back when you were just trying to figure things out? Or what would you, I guess, say back to yourself then? Yeah, it's tough to pick one thing. I tend to lean kind of more towards always being a student. Like, I think there's been times, I don't think recently, but I think maybe in those earlier years where I felt like I had it figured out, right? And while I've been a lot more open about, like, there's so many different ways to do things and you can achieve goals in many different ways. And a lot of that comes just from, like, understanding of knowledge. I think that's probably what I would have given myself 10 years ago is that if you aim to learn from the highly successful people always in your circle, no matter whether it was directly related to what you're doing or not, I do feel like that would have fast-tracked me even more than I was. Because when you're young, you're, like, setting out on these goal sets and you're wanting to achieve them and be the person that is the achiever, right? And so, like, the ego can kind of start to go up as you start to achieve these goals. But in reality, it's like we all learn from each other in different facets. We just don't realize it until we have the emotional maturity to realize it. Yeah, I think if I would go back, I would be 28 that time. So I would have been still doing my master's degree and I would be not even a pro yet, be an amateur. So I think in that space, I was still so much so isolated and doing it just the way I thought it needed to be done. Yeah. I think I would have told myself that find the people in those segments, that tradition, whether it, you know, I was trying to be a dietitian and in business. Find someone that's doing the thing that you want to be doing successfully and start making those relationships with that person. Same with bodybuilding. You know, you need to network and create relationships with people and that is what's going to help really expand your knowledge. Because I was just so much, I'll learn it on my own. That was very limiting to me. So I think having successful people in a variety of areas that I was trying to get into with business and bodybuilding would have fast-tracked me to being a lot more successful earlier on. And not so closed off to it. And I think, too, like if you're earlier on, you don't have a lot of money to hire all these coaches and business coaches and life coaches. But there's so much free resources out there. And I think a lot of people are willing to give back, you know, if they see something in you that reminded them of themselves earlier on. And I've had people that just talk to me nonstop and have become friends just through having conversations that I've given them a lot back as well in the form of mentorship without having to pay me anything. Just because their rapport and their drive and everything reminded me of myself earlier on. So you just want to help those people be successful. And now we're in such a great age of information and technology that there's so much available to you. Like in our J3U forum, it's $20 a month. You can ask us anything in there. IMean, anything about business, your bodybuilding. And Luke and I, we've written like huge posts in there back to people. That would have been so huge when I was earlier on to be able to ask some top bodybuilding coaches and pros, like, here's my plan or what I'm thinking. Like, what do you think about this? Some people have asked us, like, hey, I really want to get into coaching. Like, I'm 19 years old. Like, where do I start? And to have someone like, here's like the guidance around that would have been massive. And for $20 a month, like, I could afford that. I was spending $20 a month easily on some bullshit supplement that I didn't need. So, you know, we're in an age where, like, all this stuff's available. There's business programs that are really cheap to be part of. I think Mark Cole out of Australia, I think, I believe he has, like, kind of a similar monthly subscription that's low cost to get people involved and just having conversations. Like, kind of like our forum. So, man, there's just a number of resources out there to make it happen, to get good mentorship from great men, leaders that can help build you up in all these areas that you are interested in. So, we'll wrap. Oh, sorry. Go ahead. No, go, go. I was just going to say it's so fulfilling to see some of the answers back in the forums. Because, like, we get people come back with, I won my show or I presented my best package ever or I had my clients come back. And I've even had, like, I had someone reach out a couple weeks ago that IMentored them for, I want to say, five or six months. And they said they've, like, 3X'd their business since they've stopped, like, since they've implemented that stuff and just been working it on themselves. And it's like, that's so huge. I've given someone a livelihood. So, it's when you create meaningful relationships with people, and that's the last piece I wanted to add before we log off, is, like, meaningful relationships, right? People can tell when you're trying to use them for something. Meaningful relationships go so much further because two, three, five, ten years down the line when they can potentially provide value back to you in some different way, like, they'll be so much more willing to because of that meaningful relationship that you've created. But tell them about next week because next week's an interesting one. Yeah. Next week, when a check-in goes off the rails, what to do? LearninGHow to apply coaching tactics is what we're going to be getting into. So, we all have those bad check-ins that come through as a coach, but also from the athlete side, you have weeks that don't grow great. So, we'll dive into that next week and tune in for that one. It'll be a solid one. And thank you all for tuning in to this one. And we'll see you then.

=== FILE: 🎙️ Changing your split is stopping your progress ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸  Ep  181 [-l3XuMx2g2k].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Changing your split is stopping your progress. And I know you're going to take a step back and say, what do you mean, John? Like changing my split is how to make progress. But that's not always the case as there are issues a lot of times with full on, program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle I could talk for hours about this, and I think it comes from a place of knowing that the long-term development of the athlete a lot of times comes from small detail work. Like I think that you see this kind of become a topic of discussion post-show with a lot of people where they do well, but maybe they don't win the pro card or maybe they don't win the Olympia qualification. And so they come off like expecting this massive plan overhaul that's going to be the secret to them winning the pro card or the Olympia qualification, right? And in reality, if you look at the progress between the last time they competed in this show, there was a ton of progress made. It just might be a situation where more time is needed. So I love this conversation because getting really good at the skill of trening, and that's how I prefer to talk about it is the skill of trening because it is something that you develop over time, is really the key to any program design. And then the small refinements and tweaks are kind of what puts you over the edge as far as reaching your true potential. Have you yourself ever done like a big program hop? Like in the past, do you remember like any specific like XYZ program you hopped around between? I'm about to show my age here, but which I'm 30, so I guess I'm not that old. You're not old. I've been doing the bodybuilding thing for too long. I remember when I bought the Ben Pakulski like black and green binder, what was it called? Like max hypertrophy or something. And it was like all the discs. And it was this like massive high volume like trening split. And I had been trening more like progressive overload, like effort, like lower volume. And this was before we were working together. And I was like so enamored by this. And it went from like, you know, your typical, you know, 10 to 12 sets of let's say quads per week. Like you were doing like 22. And it was like massive, like five, six sets on hacks and stuff. And I just remember the excitement around that. But I also remember the lack of progress that happened as a result of absolutely burying myself to no utter end. And I think that like massive pivot in program design is kind of where I started to fall in love with the nuance of driving trening because I saw that the massive shift didn't work. So it's actually why it comes to mind first because it's where I fell in love with like the ins and outs of program design. Yeah, my first like biGHop was I was doing powerlifting, like Westside barbell style conjugate method. I was like, I'm going to bodybuild. And this is when I was in my bachelor's program. And so I wanted to be more sciencey, right? So I'm like, okay, what is some type of evidence base? Like I want to do the right optimal thing. And I came across Brian Haycock's HST trening, hypertrophy specific trening, which was actually pretty solid. It was more like full body trening. I think there was a four day split that I ended up settling on, but nearly it was like full body every day coming from powerlifting, coming from being able to like take sets to the end. I buried myself. It was brutal. And also just wasn't really as enjoyable with my psychology of how I like to tren. And then from there, I kind of like had to regroup and fell into DC trening and bought like Justin Harris's. He had him and Steve Kuklo had the project super heavyweight. It was like a DVD, right? DVDs. What is that? And I got that and I fell into like the dog crap, intense muscle forum. And finally, there was like a culture of people that were just bought in to that piece. So kind of creating that belonging was a huge part of it, but also like it was a just tried and proven method. So stuck with that for a long time and it fit really well with my psychology and a lot of like great framework there for what drove progress forward. So that was kind of the early initiatives there. And honestly, if you look back, like I think across trening, like the core system of DC from what I do now, some things haven't really changed that much. Like those core pillars were still there. What makes like a good program. But anyway, it was always looking like what's the next thing that's optimal, I think is what we always want. And I think we get our feedback from our show. So we're very like focused on right in front of our nose. Like the judge said, you need to bring up your chest. You're like, man, all right, well, what's my new chest trening split that I need? And it's like, well, wait a second. What have you been doing? And has your chest actually been improving? It just still needs more time of doing the same thing versus let me now tren chesT3 days a week and I'm going to tear a pec off. It's like, no, no, don't do the complete overhaul just yet. So I think this comes back to now where we have the audit, right, of what do we look at to actually take away from how do we assess our current plan and move forward from there? Yeah, the audit's huge. It's funny, like you guys will see me post comparisons side by side sometimes where it's like where an athlete started with me to kind of where they're at now or some change of time. A lot of times that's from the audit. That's from me reevaluating like how has the trening progressed this physique and has it moved it in the direction of winning more often or more likely to win in the class they're trying to compete in. And that audit I think can be multivariable. I do like a couple different comparisons. So I've always loved the comparison of the highest level that you're at versus you. So that would be like the most recent national winner versus your physique if you're an amateur or the most recent Olympia winner to you if you're a pro. And then on top of that would be the change of the period of time the program design was ran. So like the starting visuals versus the back end visuals. And I think it's a really good way to get the subjective metrics from like a visual perspective because that's what's actually judged on stage. And I do this fairly often like often relative to how often you change program designs. So I'd probably say like at least once every four to six months I'm doing this with my athletes usually at the ends of their phases depending on how long someone's offseason phase lasts. But man it's so important because when you compare the initial physique with the initial program design to the now physique with the now program design. It makes it very clear and objective of what levers and toggles you pulled and how that resulted. And then it tells you what levers and toggles to pull in the next program. It's pretty simple. You know in looking over the audit because you know we have people that in the J3 forum they'll post their full the new split I'm going to be doing and all the exercises and all the sets that they're doing. And what we don't see is like what were you doing before? And I think this is also when you might have more of an overhaul that takes place because even with new clients that we have come in they'll send us our trening. And when we see more of the kind of the full if we want to call it a program hop is when their past program wasn't really meeting those tenants of hypertrophy very well. And you know where we have like high quality sets that are executed at that high effort level with accuracy. And that might be instead looking at lots of sets at lower effort levels. I think of the female side bikini side of doing lots of like band type of pump work to where we're not getting a lot of quality work in. Now some of those splits very well might already cater to body parts but some of them times we do see it still like I have guys coming with a generalized bodybuilding split trying to bring up body parts that aren't coming up. And that's when we might need some shift into specialization that does take place which is more of a trening just trensition over like a huge hop in design. But I think that hop might happen when yeah you're seeing more of those like things that are just the basics of what good hypertrophy should look like not happening. Which a lot of the programs I don't I see it have some existence of that. But things that have like a lot of set extenders are very short rest times lots of the type of pump work like those are things that could add a bit more excess fatigue in versus the stimulus that they provide. Those are some of the trensitions to make around that. But for from the most part it's always looking back at what they were doing and how does that align with thesEQuality tenants of hypertrophy then shift them to that. Then we might need some time to like reassess where to go from there. Yeah and I think that like coming back to the audit and the assessment piece like I think it's something that you do like a visual comparison. But I love a trening comparison like a trening video comparison like how did the execution hold up across the trening block because that's a large part of how much you get out of a program design. And I find that this works really well with the people that are I would say maybe newer to being pretty detail oriented with their trening because they can see how the emotional like which I love the passion. Like I love coaching passionate athletes but the passion can derail you from focusing on what's actually going to drive you forward. And I think that's an audit that has to happen as well. You pivot phases like whether it's like all season into a trensition phase you're pulling volume down and you're reevaluatinGHow that program did or it's post show or whatever it might be like man there's such a such value in a trening video audit as well. Yeah just to give some like action takeaway items for people listening like how you could do this is that those I would say do it over all relatively all body parts but mainly your compound movements that require a lot more skill acquisition is you know week two potentially because week one still kind of figuring out maybe week two of your block like film those lifts save them in a dry folder week two. And then at the end of this block which usually I have a good timeline for blocks is kind of eight week segments have those lifts that same lifts that go back into that folder to where you can compare them over time and see how much they trensition on a week to week basis like you might if you have a good eye you might be able to catch things. What you're probably catching is like that exercise didn't quite feel the same this time which you can always go back to your week two where you had like a really good execution to review. But over time if across this block you're seeing that one really shift that's something to reign back in especially for the body parts that you want to be improving on. So just just save these things put them in something that you can actually track with. I also kind of look at like lift progression if I have a lift that's like just scaling out out the wazoo right you're like man am I actually putting on all this chest tissue right now. And then it's like oh no I'm just like shifting my form for the worse the better to lift more weight but for the worse for actually stimulus because once you've gone past the novelty of a new exercise and those your like neuromuscular changes that you get the actual like moving load from tissue increases is pretty it's pretty slow. So for for once you're in that intermediate stage especially to advanced to where you're not taking like big 10 pound jumps on like you're pressing every single week or gaining reps one two reps every single week like that's not really the reality of what you're probably seeing. And if you are that's when I start to question like maybe we should do a form revaluation. Yeah it's pretty big. I think one of the things to kind of understand too is that there's there's multiple ways to kind of progress within blocks. I think that's pretty important and why the audit holds so much value because I've had some people that run movements for multiple blocks in a row like three four or five blocks in a row. But when we go in these like little trensition periods where we do the audits some of this like ways to progress forward is by raising your glass ceiling and correcting some of the things that you started to let slip because like there's some patterns and I know you've done this like you got this favorite machine and you're starting to max it out. And you're like oh no where do I go from here if it doesn't like take a gym pin and then you watch like the first week you did it to like the last week you did it and you're like that's not even the same movement pattern. And you're so excited because when you reset it you've like ticked off a couple notches where you have more room on the machine. It's like there's so much value in that across the board like you can build so much progression without injuries and I think that's a big piece of this where it's like one way to build more progression in the blocks is to have that accuracy and trening open up the ability to have more load to progress up. And it's also going to build more progression because it's going to keep you off the injury injury reserve list which is a huge detriment to consistently stringing blocks together for maximal progress in my opinion. Yeah that's that's a good point on your end of block evaluation is those ones that have shifted form of like the next block instead of an exercise swap out right it's just shifting back to the old form which in turn is like reopening you know raising the ceiling again for what you can do stimulus wise. To that same point I know a lot of people ask like hey this one lift is progressing really slow like is it time to swap it out or is it just par for the course and I'm just adapting slow and I should just ride this out. How do you usually go about tackling that type of issue. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason. Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah I don't I always tell people like slow progressions are necessarily not a bad thing like it's still providing a hypertrophy stimulus like I look at it more on a session basis like if we have three sets and usually it's the top set that gets a little tough to to progress like the top set will stall but then the two back offs like if there's three sets will progress and that's kind of usually where you see it. A lot of times I see that issue is there's a deload that's needing to come up so there's like some neural recovery fatigue that needs to happen or there's a form issue that's the the only reason they got to that top set load is because they've leveraged themselves into that position. So I I tend to find more often that rather than a movement swap needing to happen it's one of those two in those situations where I'm able to open the door to more progress by resetting the lift or doing the deload that is clearly coming up. Now there are cases where this might lead to movement swap but man I need to see it stagnate for a pretty pretty decent period of time. Like I'm talking like two three weeks probably three four weeks of minimal progressions. Do you think there's any grounds for like a more advanced guy is I know like hey if a movement's progressing and for an advanced guy it's probably all kind of slow across the board relatively where every block there should be some rotation. If you're not within that block having enough variation anyway more as a preemptive measure to prevent like just reap repetitive movement injuries from occurring or just you know beating up the same like lines of connective tissue. I could see it like more so from an injury profile perspective than I would argue it from a progression perspective probably. And one in the same almost right because yeah injured you're not progressing. So I guess maybe that pretends on the history of the individual right if they have like a reoccurring problem. Exactly. Because like I'll fall into patterns myself where I'm like all right the squat's working for now. So like I just keep doing it doing it doing it then I rotate another one then keep doing that one and then I kind of keep occurring into the same kind of issue. But first maybe you have a deep set root cause that you should be addressing there. But you know otherwise potentially there there's some grounds for like rotating some lifts. And if you're not having a set like like we have some guys that rotate like a A B type of rotation. And yeah maybe that's enough to do it alone. Or if you're running just an A rotation maybe the next segment you have like your B rotation that you move to from there. I think for potentially isolation exercises IMean for one how many variations of a leg extension can you do? It's just a leg extension. But for like some compound work there could be some potential around there. Yeah you see it a lot more in like the squatting and then occasionally in pressing depending on the person and the injury profile. You see it a little bit less in like pulling and stuff like the need to switch based off injury profiles. But I think that kind of covers the aspects that would hold you in a program design. I think there's a pretty big conversation to be had about when is change needed. Right. We've touched on it some. What are the biggest red flags that you see in regards to like change being needed to be had? Yeah. For one I think just getting overly aggressive off what you want to do in your initial blocks. And I've been there with them thinking like we talked about this on Think of previous podcasts. Like in prep I could tren six days a week with like low volume and short sessions. And I'm not near I wasn't like peak strength. Right. So you move in the offseason food goes up gear goes up. I'm thinking like yeah six trening sessions a week. That was fine. But then like strength rapidly progresses and like on a per set basis is just a large slam of the hammer down with fatigue as well. And so it quickly like backfired. So it's like well okay you're running a six day per week session with how this is all spread out. That's almost a click rearrangement of that split design into five days. Not really. It's hard to say that's a program hop because we're not like at this stage we're not really following like a program. Right. I'm not moving from like the John Meadows program to like the whatever X Y Z program. But it's more of like that's more of a massive shift in a program rearrangement that would take place. So if you're running to where hey in you can't string together six to eight weeks of trening before needing a deload or you're running into like numerous connective tissue problems. Like it probably is you're trening beyond your recovery capacity and need to make a larger adjustment than just switching out a couple exercises or adding a set or removing a set here or there. Yeah I think the other place that you'll see it too is there are times where posts show that I think there is a revamp that's needed. A lot of times it's with your I think there's two sections of client that this happens. It's like the person who's almost across the line for the pro card and there's like one body part that really is just like keeping them from getting it. Or on the same level like the pro trying to make it to the Olympia like they've they've got some seconds and thirds and it's just like one body part that's keeping them from getting there. And this is where it's time to push the needle on that specialization of like OK this something's got to change here. Something's got to give and we've got to sacrifice progress in one area to really make this something that's competitive. And that's where the other big program hop red flag for me is is like when you're that close for that long there sometimes has to be shift to make it get across the line. And to give an example of that too like I'm working with Carlos Thomas Jr. On his programming which if you look at his quads they're ridiculous. Most of his body parts are ridiculous. And initially post show like coming from prep we were keeping food pretty low just to keep body fat low. Not a lot of recovery resource there to create like a specialized trening split. I wasn't ready to pull like his his strong body part volume like way back down to a maintenance level but also drive up the week with the week body parts with a high amount of volume either. So we are running like a push pull legs off push pull trening legs once a week into having back hit twice a week which if you know Carlos like we really want to focus on back. So now foods up gears up we're pushing a growth hormone phase but Carlos doesn't need more legs like they're enormous. Carlos also doesn't need more chest definitely doesn't need more arms his arms are crazy. So it's like delts and back that's our focus. But what is Carlos not done before and that's what I was looking at. He hasn't run like a very high volume frequency dedicated back split. So this is when the revamp happened like moving into this growth hormone phase now trening back every three days. At at which pretty much adds a whole nother session in for the week of what we were doing. Legs is now trened like once every 10 days with very low volume. So it's very just maintenance. And then we still have like delt frequency across all those sessions some delt work put into pull sessions as well. And then actual like chest arm work is far less. It's like it's like twice spread across 10 days now. So de volumization of legs and arms chest and upping delts and back. And that is like a pretty big revamp. But when you need to be like with a pro someone with that much tissue completely allocating it differently. I did the same thing with Sam Pierce. He's like 300 plus pounds in the offseason ride. He's a massive guy and a very strong guy. So again he needs to bring up like legs and back. I can't do that all in one segment. So now that that looks like an eight week block where we dedicate to legs. Then what you can do to save some of the connective tissue stuff and for being just a strong dude is switch to an eight week block of back. And we can rotate between these blocks specialization cycles. And that's kind of an advanced way of programming where you are having more of a massive shift of like the program hop. And I tell you what it's like it's being a strong dude is one of the hardest things to manage. Like you talk about coaching Sam like someone one massive like that right. Like from just a total body weight perspective but just the per set stimulus that they can provide is so high. It's like your volume shifts are so small like the ranges you can shift volume because like each set addition is just so much stimulus. It's like you're almost getting to the point where yeah you obviously need to be strong to provide a lot of stimulus to progress in bodybuilding. But there is a point where strength can be a detriment in my opinion. I'd rather be a weak bodybuilder. 100%. Like I know the goal right of like well you need to be doing more load reps over time. But I almost want to be doing the least amount of load rep progressions needed to keep growing as fast as possible. So it's like that's kind of bodybuilding in turn like yes eventually if you're big you will be doing more load reps. But the goal is not more load reps in a way. Maybe that's convoluted but I think people understand the idea. Because prepping someone that's strong when you can do like a 700 pound back squat for reps. Imagine how one set feels like. Like it's like you could bury you. Like you're still the same human nervous system wise. So versus that same person only need to do a 400 pound squat for the same level of stimulus. It's like it's much more to manage. Like the needle moves faster for fatigue and for having to like pull someone back. It's just much more dynamic. And the energy output too right is much greater too. So just a small little tangent on managing strong people. That's my fat. Is there anything else you would see like you would want to highlight within the change aspect of this podcast? Well I would say to those listening about these advanced guys doing this. Don't think that the advanced thing is the thing that advances you. Because that's you know an aspect of like you're wanting for guys that need a lot of tissue. Because I see guys that like you do have a weak body part. And you're I would want to very hesitant on moving to a very specialized split. Because you might be leaving a lot of progress on the table for these major body parts. That are going to progress you a lot faster on stage. So if you need like 20 pounds of stage weight. No you shouldn't be running like a chest trening every three days. And only trening legs once a week. Like you're not going to gain that amount of tissue onto your chest. You could probably easily just make some slight volume shifts to accomplish that job. Especially someone earlier on. There's probably a lot of execution improvements you can still be making. So you know bring in the advanced aspects and specialization. Once you're there don't start with that. Because again that's not the way to advancEQuickly. Yeah it's people want it because they want to be the advanced guy. But it's like you really don't. Because you don't realize how hard it is to progress at that point. And I tell people all the time like silhouettes win a lot of shows. Because like God silhouettes win a lot of shows. Especially at the amateur level where they're judging quick. And you get pulled to the center quicker. And you get it's just be a massive dude on stage. And or girl. Yeah it's like build out that X-frame. And speaking of program hopping. Maybe the people should hop to the X-frame program. That we sell on G3U. For the limited time off. No I'm just kidding guys. It is a good program. It is a good program. Oh goodness. Anything else? I think my biggest thing is. And boring is winning. Like it is such a hard thing to sell. But man does it produce some really good freaking athletes. Yeah winning's not boring. Winning's not boring. Making progress isn't boring. But the day-to-day tasks to win can be boring. It is. It's like well doing these same exercises that I always do. But I think the fun part of that is still like within that exercise. Trying to create the improvement. Because every time I'm in a movement. It doesn't matter what it is. I'm still like thinking about how I can improve the execution in it. And manage my session overall. So there's still like. And just the enjoyment. Like I. You should just enjoy the tren. Like keep your perspective if you're feeling bored in your session. That you're able right now to walk in the gym. On your own two feet. And tren. And have a good time. Get stronger. Get a pump. Like that is a great day. There's a. I think Renee. Bless her heart. She dropped a 45 pound plate on her toe. Doing the. A belt squat. And just fell from like three feet high. And fractured her whole toe. Right. So she's on crutches. You can barely walk on it. She can't tren right now at the moment. We're going to get her there though. Doing some isolation stuff. But. But think about it. Like what if you had a broken toe right now. You'd be. You'd be so upset. Renee wishes she could go do. The boring movements she did. Over and over and over again. So keep your perspective if you're feeling bored. In your program. Because. Bodybuilding. Greatness. Comes from a lot of just consistent monotony. Of doing the right things. And. Keep your program. Consistent. And progressive. And that's the main thing that you're looking for. And you're doing bodybuilding right. So. I think we can. Wrap it up there Luke. Next week everyone. We're going to talk about. The mistakes. Of refeeding. On a hard prep. And when you. Should probably be doing something. Else instead of refeeding. That's your teaser. That we'll cover next time. So anyway. Thank you everyone for tuning in. And we will see you next week.

=== FILE: 🎙️ Offseason isn’t easier. It’s just a different kind of hard. ｜  J3U Podcast ⧸⧸  Ep 176 [S86779hEr40].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Off-season isn't easier. It's just a different kind of hard. Today's episode, we're going to dive into differentiating between prep and off-season. What should carry over into prep to make your off-season successful? And what in the off-season might show you to make your off-season? What should change should change should change should change to not be what you've been doing throughout contest prep is? I think there's quite a few misconceptions here. And a lot of things where I think what you want to do is not what you need to be doing. And so we'll dive into this and try to really straighten everyone out and give you some good takeaways of how to get more out of your off-season. Yeah, and I think it's a common myth, right? And I do want to kind of hear your take on this before I dive into kind of some things around goals and kind of how we manage this with clients. But I think people think all-season is our time to chill and it's our time to relax. And while I understand that thought process and that logic relative to kind of how contest prep can be structured, I honestly think the people that look at all-season as arguably the largest potential to make the biggest difference in your physique career as far as like what your glass ceiling is potentially within your competitive realm is the people that make the most progress. They don't see the all-season as chill. They see it as a place to execute at a level that is even greater than they did in the contest prep because as an athlete, they're looking at how they can actually develop as an athlete long-term. And all-season is where they learn these new skills of developing as that athlete. And it's pretty unparalleled how much an athlete can change in an all-season setting. When they reflect on the contest prep previous, the amount of progress they made from the last show to this show, and then understand that there has to be new habits of being in the off-season. You do wonder where some of that mindset around truly like off-season came about because I know some of the more modern educators and athletes where they call it, you know, this is not off, it's improvement season. Right. Which, whatever you like to call it, it's semantics at this point, but what's done should always be the same no matter the naming. But the idea of being off, it's just more off of the timeline to compete, but you're still on as far as how you're executing your routine, goals, meals, etc. I don't know if like where there used to be like just some big influences in bodybuilding to where you would have more of this, the dirty bulk off-season. You think back, I don't know if we were, we won't throw out any names of older, old school bodybuilders that just like blew up in the off-season. But, and then I don't know if it's a newer competitor thing of like, oh, finally we can have more like free eating. And then like cheat meals were always the big thing in the off-season. And I was like, this is when you can have your cheat meal. And we had really that naming tied into it to where, I even had guys that remember when I was first startinGHad like cheat days. We're like, yeah, just eat whatever I want. And so it's really easy to get tied up in like just truly being like a far deviation away from contest prep. But I feel like we've definitely shifted away from a lot of that. And you look at like, gosh, all the mainstream top bodybuilders and everyone stays in really good shape throughout thEQuote-unquote off-season, right? And you don't see guys that are blowing up doing the dirty bulks anymore. And so it's like, well, you know, we should learn from this and why are these guys having so much success? And if this is what the genetic elite are doing, the genetic disadvantaged should be doing it even to a greater degree, right? And even if you do have the genetic advantage, who cares? Execute to the greatest degree because it's just going to fast track you even more to moving up the ranks. So off-season, it's not necessarily chill. It's still a constant, you know, aggressiveness towards your goal. But like you said, Luke, but at the same time being patient. So I ask you, and throw this your way, is, you know, how does coaching behavior change moving from prep to off-season with that mindset before even the athlete? Like how do you shift as a coach where you're directing these athletes? Some of it has to do with the goalposts, but I do want to make a pretty big point in that the way that you act as a coach can trickle down to your athletes. And so if you become a bit lackadaisical in this off-season phase and don't dot your eyes, cross your T's in these phases, it's going to trickle down to how that athlete executes. And I would strongly urge that you look at the way that you kind of act in these different phases, whether it's pre-contest, during the contest prep, in that immediate post-show phase, in that off-season, of what are you verbalizing to the athlete in order to keep a development mindset kind of throughout? Like how are we shifting gears, right? Because during the contest prep, it's been all mirror-based. How's the physique looking? We're looking at body composition. We're looking into less gym-based stuff. Like we're tracking to make sure the gym's not plummeting, but we're not like setting lift goals or things along those lines. And I really like to shift the goalposts into here are the things that from a daily habits perspective that are going to make you a better athlete. I set some goals in the daily habits realm, but I especially set some goals in the trening perspective. And a lot of times it can not only just be lift-based, like numbers are easy for athletes, but I really like to set up ability to execute goal sets. And so this would be if in previous off-seasons we couldn't do a certain pattern, let's say like a Smith Machine squat, and that fits their goal set as far as what they need as an athlete. Like that would be one of those goals heading into this off-season is how do we fix mobility injury profile concerns in order to allow you to open up that movement pattern in this off-season. And I've done it with a lot of athletes. In fact, Emily King is one that I've done this with. We Smith Machine squatted the entire off-season, and I put up her side-by-side of nine weeks out last year to nine weeks out this year on my Instagram. And it's like a completely different athlete. And a lot of it was just fixing kind of how she stabilized different patterns from a mobility stability standpoint and then better cueing within squatting. And she ran that pattern progressively for almost 11 months. And you just look at this side-by-side, and you can see the physique difference there. And maybe we can get Dylan to pop it up on the screen. But it's wild how simple these goals are. So when we trickle down behavior from the coach, it's not that we take a step back in relaxinGHow we communicate to the athlete. We just shift the focus of that urgency to execute on the day-to-day to different goals. Yeah. Yeah. I align with that so much because trading performance really in prep, it's not as exciting because you're just trying to kind of maintain, and you don't have a lot of the resources to fix issues if there's movement pattern dysfunction going on. And so that's really where you can shine in the offseason. So I think it's always looking back at your stage picks, what were the deficiencies there, and how to address them. I think it could be simply looked at as where do we need to build muscle. But a point to what you bring up is sometimes getting in positions of poses is more of a deficiency and could be mobility, or it could be able to control that end range. Like an example of what I'm just going on about here is that in my rear double, for example, I have a really hard time externally rotating my left arm to get it all the way back. And then what I notice on like even doing like that quarter turn on that same side is that to really get that arm opened up, we'll say it simply, I really stren to do so. And so you're like, well, okay, I just need to like mobilize and practice your posing. But this same type of issue will trenslate into your trening because what I've assessed is that, you know, I could have Renee externally rotate my arm for me and I can get the range. But I have really poor control and weakness. So in other words, my rotator cuff is extremely weak on that side, which means I lack stability to output force. So that means like my whole left side of my upper body could start lacking development on that side because of this lack of strength to be able to stabilize. And so that's part of my like prep work routine going into my push sessions of being able to get into that range and then strengthen it and then move to my next, you know, main compound movements for the day. This will improve my posing as well. So this is like the time to address these things. And prep, try to, but again, it's nothing's going to stick and change like it will in the offseason. So I think it's just always looking back and posing and thinking beyond just adding tissue, but also adding the ability to control ranges that are going to improve your posing and trenslate to your trening. So like having probably the goal list of like things that need to be addressed. And so you can always have, you know, a focus on short and long-term goals around your trening or your posing or whatever it may be. So Luke, do you have a more of a goal list that you set short-term or long-term for these athletes? And maybe even speak to like timelines. Cause I think that is a big piece to keeping people on track and having a prep type mindset. Yeah, I think there's, there's, it's funny that you bring up like kind of the goal set list because I've started doing this for a few athletes that really struggle. It's not only goal setting, but it's block schedule organization where like I'll not only set the goal list, but I'll put in blocks that have to be executed within their schedule in order to achieve these goals. And a way that we can point this out with athletes is when you get into contest prep, when cardio gets high, steps get high, you have a much strict time allotment. Like you can't just have as much time to waste unless you're just not working. Right. And so they kind of operate in a block schedule without knowing it because they do cardio every morning at this time. And then they have meal one at this time every day. Right. And so I just take that structure, show them it on a schedule from a calendar perspective. And then I take the goals list and implement that into their block schedule. And then I obviously give them free reign to adjust it according to their life variables. This is one way to keep them focused. And then you switch that over into the timeline of like, Hey, I expect us within this post-show phase to see X, Y, Z get better. We've got that six to eight week time block on that timeline phase. And this is our setup to offseason. And IMight have goals specific to that post-show phase, which would be centered around sleep quality, schedule maintenance, adherence goals, things along those lines. And then when we get into offseason, we're kind of looking into shifting it even further into the trening aspect. And I've like had some people who are really, I don't want to say visionary, but they like to see what that future holds that I'll map out the timeline a year and a half in advance of like the expectation is to have two to three pushes, whatever it is for that athlete to actually close that gap from where we were on stage to where we need to be. And you'll see this a lot of times in people who just turned pro, like the physique that turned them pro is, is just not quite ready to come even close on an open stage. And that's where this can have huge value because athletes like that, in my opinion, get into coasting. They just turned pro. They've got some validation for the work that they put in. They know that they have the knowledge set and the experience set to do this well, and they don't put urgency on the day-to-day execution and they coast. And then you see them two and a half years later, they do their pro debut, and you look at that physique and it's like, you're not really much better. And you wonder why. I like the, I didn't think about the daily goal. Yeah. I think that's a huge one because I think we're still thinking, even if you had a trening goal, right, that could be a week-to-week of what you need to do around the logbook or something. But a daily goal, make sure that you have to execute. And I think that's huge, especially with routine is what just kind of fades off, right? The cardio slips, and then you can't get it in for the day because you have something else scheduled. And your meals get pushed back, and then it just snows balls into just a very whimsical off-season. I feel like, yeah, I got my total food in for the day. treninGHappens sometime during the day. But it just makes a lack of ability to control your fatigue, your recovery, and be able to push trening up as high as what you probably could have done a lot more with but not able to. So, like, in prep right now for me, like, I get up at 630. I work and walk on my walking pad for that time period. At 750, like, there's no negotiation. I get off the thing, and I go do three rounds of posing. I'm 12 weeks out, so this is what I've set as must happen before the rest of my day can continue. And when I do those things, like, man, it's so self-satisfying. Because I'll be honest, like, the biggest worry and stressor for me is not being able to, like, control posing on stage. So, start it now and, like, take control of that anxiety for myself and just make it better. And so, when I do that, like, every day I've already, like, achieved a goal. And I'm excited for the day. And I know I'm moving forward. I think that is awesome to be able to add into your athletes as a daily goal list to be able to nail. And then also very much keep some very accountable during the week of in-synthesis saying, well, yeah, I ate the food and I did the trening. It's like, well, did you hit this, this, and that at your time schedules that you wanted to? And it's like, oh, no. Okay, we still have areas to improve it. And so, I guess one thing I wanted to add on for you for the coaching side to bring up is around this, you know, coaching piece of when the offseason might feel like coasting. Because I know there's those check-ins that can be, all right, everything looks good, keep going. And as a coach, could you start coasting and get a little complacent with the process just moving along? And I guess, how do you keep those checks and balances in place, Luke? And is that part of just how you do your check-ins and your data that you have laid out? Or is there something that you're always trying to dig with the athletes to make sure there's always something given back in a week? And then also maybe address the last thing to throw at you would be, when's it okay to not have something, like, to give back to the athlete other than keep going? Yeah, the offseason is probably where how you communicate what's needed in the check-ins a bit different. I think the biggest red flags for me are, especially post-show into the early stages of the long offseason, is I'm fixing a lot of trening stuff a lot of times. Whether it be for an injury profile or a body part that's just not up to par relative to the rest of the standards in that class. And people, like, they'll send it one or two times excited about the offseason and think they're done. Like, we fixed it. We don't have to continue to monitor it. That's kind of the first place I start to, like, re-push somebody. Like, hey, like, it was great. We watched it and did some fixes on the forefront. But, like, you can slip back into old patterns really easily. Like, if you come from an athletic background in coaching, you'll know that people have what they call their DNA. So their DNA of how they operate or how they do things. And a lot of times the problems that crop up for these people of, like, how they execute their sport is very recurrent in nature. And so they need some sort of reminder to kind of drive the cue, whatever that new cue is, or maybe it's bringing back an old cue, to get them back into the positions to execute their sport the way that they need to. trening is no different. And so I really kind of push that as, like, hey, great check-in. You got your data in. But we really need to see continued trening footage of X, Y, Z. Because last time you were on stage, it was the reason we lost or we didn't win the pro card. Or when you get on the pro stage, it's not going to be acceptable, thEQuality that we put on stage there. And that kind of, like, emotional pull, right, of, like, they left something on the table, a lot of times we'll pull them back into it. Now, if those boxes are being ticked, that's kind of where, to me, I think that check-in of, hey, you're doing a great job. Just please keep doing this so that I can keep doing my job for you. And execute on that plan is where that check-in comes into place. When they're submitting all that data, they're submitting check-ins on time, they have their trening footage for what you're wanting to focus on within that check-in process. And that's kind of where you start to see that check-in go in the direction of, hey, we're doing a great job. And I think that's kind of just where that makes sense in that off-season phase. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And I think it's easy for letting the videos slip off for a lot of athletes. And even as a coach, you've checked off a lift and you just kind of forget about it and you don't revisit it after X period of time. So I think it's okay, like, if you have those weeks where everythinGHas been moving along well, to, like, revisit lifts that you haven't seen in a bit. And I think that's helpful to keep a folder of those lifts of weeks to go along to where you know when you had those lifts to look at last. Especially for weak body parts, it's going to be really easy for those lifts to start slipping back to what they were prior. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the off-season? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from off-season to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have. And livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, and it's just something that's so important. And people just don't realize how habitual they are in nature. And a classic example of this is I have a competitor who, on their rowing for a lat-based pattern, they shifted into rear delt without even thinking. It is so easy to do, right? And so having that in the trening footage every week, it's such a quick catch. Like, instead of going five weeks where you do a rear delt row, you do one set or one week of rear delt row, and we shift it back to lat. And that progress, like, added up over the entirety of one or two pushes is massive because you're not spinning your wheels doing old patterns that left you without a back in the first place on stage. And so I think it's so huge. Like, my brain always goes to trening, and I know that there's more. And I kind of want to kind of shift this conversation a bit because there's a lot on the PED side and the nutrition side that we need to touch on that I think needs to be understood, kind of the level of expectation on the execution side. But it's because, like, I said this in a check-in earlier today. Like, we have two aspects of pushing a physique forward. We have the stimulus that drives the adaptation, which is trening, which is why we need to focus so much on it to make sure that we're driving the stimulus to that. And then the secondary piece of it is actually adapting to that stimulus. And I think that's where that next conversation comes, John, of, like, where do we shift the mindset on the nutrition side and the PED side and, like, not only from the athlete but from the coach's perspective of optimizing this for this entirety of this phase? Because if we're going to gain the adaptations of perfecting the trening, like, this piece of the puzzle has to be intact as well. Yeah, IMean, this gets down to, like, the nuts and bolts of programming. And, again, a lot of the framework that you're carrying from prep would be moving into off-season as well. And, like, if you had a pyramid and, like, the base of this pyramid is still sustainability for all these variables. So with an off-season being typically much longer than a contest prep, nutrition, PDs, you know, all this aspect, even trening, what's going to keep the athlete sustained in ability to progress throughout the entire phase? And so a lot of times we look at what's optimal on paper, and that's just not going to fit every single athlete, whether it be this extremely strict, optimized diet with all these fruit and veggie variety and nailing all these, you know, micronutrients. Or that just might not be doable for someone. Or maybe it's this flexible diet approach, but it's someone that is so routine and so busy with work that they're not able to have all this diet flexibility. And they actually do better on something a little stricter. So, end of the day, the best diet's going to be the one that can be sustained. But as we move someone through the athlete development process, being able to shift this into what might be more optimal for the result. And within optimal, there's going to be a range here as well because the big picture needs to happen. And then the little nuanced things of like meal timing or supplementation at certain times, like this is far less important. And then the same thing goes around PDs is sustainability. And where that shifts from contest prep, and how I look at this, is that you might be bringing in things PD-wise. And let's maybe give you a few, like different types of oral steroids, different types of fat burners, maybe more harsher injectables, like say Trin-Balone. These things are not sustainable for long periods of time. And that's part of the shift from prep into off-season is that now we need to be able to sustain this progress. As muscle tissue doesn't grow in jusT4 to six weeks, we really need to string together months of this to really change someone's visual appearance and muscularity. So if these PDs are leading to a sleep discrepancy, GI issues, the inability to tren and keep up with the work capacity and the volume level that you need to drive that stimulus, then that's not the PD design that you should be running because it kind of defeats the purpose of what our off-season should be to begin with. So that's kind of like where the focus should shift, PD-wise and nutrition-wise, into being sustainable. And typically, at least on the PD side, we see this pretty much heavily leveraging just our injectable-based steroids that are, I should say, not your injectable orals that are 17-alpha-alkylated. You're not just doing injectable anadrol because it still can be impactful. These are still your estified steroids, so they're going to be a little less impactful for overall stress. And then just coming up with a compound design that drives anabolism and being the less benign on your health markers. And a lot is going to work within that. And we have other podcasts that kind of dives into breaking that piece down. And then as far as the nutrition piece goes, I think this is where you really see the big variants of where people can fall off because off-season, right, how can I have more fun food and enjoyability? And part of being sustainable is being enjoyable, too. We usually have people fall on different sides of the coin on this, of being extreme all year long, and eventually it could lead to burnout. And also the guy that's all in, super strict, has no tools when things goes wrong. Then you have on the other side the person that has extreme flexibility, problem being is they can't rein things back in or extra things start going in. Then on the coaching side, it's also hard to know when a problem arises what's the root issue here. So there needs to be a balance between these two extremes of bringing someone back towards the middle with some shifts around it, too. Like some people that don't like to do macros, they're better off with a set plan. It gives them anxiety to do macros. At least needs to build in the skill set of knowinGHow to do food swaps when problems do arise. Same thing goes for someone that needs a lot of flexibility, that enjoys the more social life. They need enough structure but understanding of what's okay to be flexible with and what's not. So we're all trying to shift these people back into a little bit more of a tighter range. And with the tool sets for them both to be able to execute strictly but also have some flexibility built in. And so what that looks like, at least how I program it in a general sense, is that laying out a strict meal plan with having macronutrients beside and then having someone that starts to teach them how to log their food and then we start being able to do just food swaps is an easy one. Or maybe it's just, hey, a meal swap. On this last meal, you can have the flexibility to work within, could be calories, could be the macros, or just simply arranging foods. So this starts to teach people how to do that and utilize that skill along the way. And eventually you get to a point where, you know, off-season, you kind of can have all the foods that you want. This is how I do my off-season. If I want burgers and pizza, it's stuff that IMake at home because those things are really hard to eat off-plan and not have an impact, at least my physique. Everyone's going to be different here, right? Some people could go and eat something really calorie-dense. That's the rarity. And then also if I do want to go out to have a restaurant, I know the places I can go. Like if I'm doing chicken fajitas or fish tacos or sushi or something like this, it's very close to normal bodybuilding foods that fits within my caloric and macronutrient profiles to where the next day I feel fine. You know, I sleep good because I'm not up all night with acid reflux and it's not impacting my recovery and carrying over day after day. And so, you know, that's kind of where you need to move into your off-season of being able to enjoy your foods. However, the ultimate goal isn't lost. The goal stays the goal of improving your physique. And so, you know, the nutrition side's huge. I feel like this is where a lot of people slip and it needs to be pretty controlled in how we move people and develop that athlete process. Yeah, and it's such low-hanging fruit, right? Like it's such an easy skill to learn if you just take the time to learn it. I chuckle like you see some people like earlier in there, they follow the meal plan and they're kind of learning the macronutrient side and they start to try to make subs at first. If they don't fully grasp the macro side, they'll just do like 200 grams of potato instead of 200 grams of rice. And you're like, okay, you just like massively underate. But like let's talk about it and let's learn it, right? Or like to your point, like the meal plans with multiple fruits and veggies in play, like they run out of one fruit on accident and then they just like lose it. But it's like these skills are so easy to implement. And I think this is kind of where we raise that glass ceiling with athletes. And something that I kind of want to do touch on is as he was mapping out like some of the PD stuff is understanding and trusting that coach's thought process and managing your recovery metrics, not only within the acute trening side of the perspective, but the long-term health considerations as well. Like I'm huge for self-advocacy, but it's more than likely not going to be something that is this shining new supplement or this revolutionary thing that is going to change your off-season. It's these things that we're talking about from a consistency standpoint. And so understanding that the PD side might be pretty boring and that's okay because it's a component of the progress in the process of improving your physique. It's not the entirety of it. I just chuckle when you say like people wanting to do injectable antidraw, like the oral thinking that's okay because the amount of times I've had someone respond to me with something like that is uncounted. Like there's so many times. So it's interesting like the way that athletes think is you often see them searching for the most revolutionary thing to change their process when in reality it's just kind of a look in the mirror of how do I change the way that I execute my process rather than anything else. Man, you brought up something that could be a whole podcast on its own with the new add-ins. Because it's exciting to get in the off-season. I understand that. And one of the new things I can try here, and not PDs but anything, new exercises, new diet strategies, or new supplements for PD strategies, right? That's going to bring the next best aspect out of my physique. And I get the competitiveness of it. Like I would want to utilize every single tool that I can to maximize my time in this. And it's hard when you're hearing about these new exciting things that are coming out. And there's a lot right now. I think that's where we have a lot of people that information is everywhere. So there's a lot to be learned, a lot to be spoken to. And everything can seem very exciting and revolutionary. And then when you see your actual coaching plan, you're like, man, all these other guys are talking about X, Y, Z, and we're not using any of them. Like that has to be like on the cutting edge of coaching. And it is exciting. It is something, I think, to keep our eyes on. But what so many people still don't have nailed are these basics that we're talking about. And it's such a long-term skill. Like I still try to like perfect my trening, and IMiss the mark, and I have to keep refining it too. I've been doing this for years. So that's still my big-ticket item, or even how I've developed the nutrition process for me of being able to progress, stay lean in the off-season, and grow like year after year now. Like that's taken a lot of time to perfect. But that's the big-ticket item that's done it. All the PD side is relatively the same thing, rinse and repeat. There's not this new exciting thing that's out there that's going to be bringing about that change yet, right? But that's not to say like keep your eye open on these areas. But I think it can be really easy to, for one, take information and oversimplify it because someone speaking to it could have a very advanced understanding of it. But, gosh, how do you retain all that? So it might get down to, well, X drug will help me stay leaner in the off-season. And maybe that's not actually how it works. And then that information gets passed around to where now everyone's using X drug to stay lean in the off-season. But now it's not actually how it works. And you just have another drug on your list of things that you've added to. So with a coaching mindset, I like to be able to, when there's an issue, be able to assess it, make a change, and then assess what that outcome is. When I have someone that's now on, we could have been five off-season drugs, now on seven, eight. What goes wrong? Like, hey, my apetite crashed this week. What could that have been from? Your injector the antidrol, your, like, retitutide or XYZ peptide or, you know, some compound. It makes it a lot more to try to pull apart and assess. So not throwing shade to any of those things. Just like from an athlete perspective or someone that's getting into this, just make sure you're focusing on your basics, then build in complexity only as you need to. But, again, that's kind of a rant rabbit hole to go down. But I think our, to bring it back here, is that taking your prep strategies, mainly executing your routine, goal setting, and then building that into some flexibility with nutrition that can keep you sustained, trening that can keep you sustained, and even, you know, sleep routine and PD strategy that will be sustainable throughout your offices is how you're going to make the most progress possible. And a lot of this starts with how we set up coaching with J3U. Coaching is, you know, being pretty meticulous with data tracking and also having a very good open communication with athletes. And I think those two things are missing a lot of the time is that there's, like, poor data tracking. It's like an email with pictures and your body weight and how'd the week go. And you're like, good. All right, keep going. That lacks a lot in tracking, and it makes it easy to miss the mark. Then with communication, too. It's very much of, like, here's your plan, go do it. And you don't have to give a lot back as an athlete to, and think throughout the week. Same with the coaching. So, you know, with our coaching, we use, like, videos, voice memos to try to really build the relationship and having that open lines of communication to build a personalized plan with athletes. And I think that's where, like, modern coaching is really pushing big in this space is being better about tracking data and also with communication. Yep, 100%. I think that kind of ties it all together. It's more about, like you said, keeping the goal the goal. Assess what the goal is for that phase. Always keep that at the forefront of your mind. So thank you, everyone, for tuning in. Remember, off-season isn't easier. It's just a different kind of hard. I know IMentioned this week we're going to actually be covering men's health. Just kidding. Men's health is actually next week. So I got my dates wrong. So we will get into some personal side for Luke and myself or identity as males, what that should look like, and also the challenges in business, bodybuilding. And it's going to be a great episode. So tune in for that one next week. And thank you. And we'll talk to you then. Thank you.

=== FILE: 🎙️ Peaking before peak week ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 186 [PJV4L4WFU7g].txt ===

 previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously not rolled dice and the kind of luxury is getting ready ahead. But the thing on this episode we want to cover is what you should actually be doing when you are at that point. And I think there's a big psychological piece to this as well that a lot of athletes struggle with that we want to touch on and then get into some of the nuts and bolts of what are the first actions that we take to kind of begin the peak week actually before you even hit peak week. So Luke, how's it going, my man? Yeah, man. It's the season of peaking right now. So it's just like rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat. I'm on like week six or week five in a row of shows this weekend. So it's a great thing to think about here because I think your emotional statement is where I think starting off the conversation is huge because it sets the stage for the problem that we're trying to solve. And if the athlete is fully bought in from the beginning of prep, it makes it much easier to understand why the rate of loss might be a little bit faster at the beginning, why it seems like you're ahead relative to different preps you've done in the past, especially if it's their first prep with you. And the problems that you're going to solve by doing this that we're going to dive into today's episode is going to allow you to not only be in shape on time, but eventually present the best physique on stage. Because in my opinion, the first time that you reach true stage conditioning during a dieting process is not the best that visual can be. I do think that it takes some time there to remove kind of the fatigue stringy look that pulls off, which is, you know, a little bit more of an anecdotal take on that. But we have to remember that coaching is an art of both data and PubMed and things that we're taking actions from on that front and also looking at what we're coaching right in front of us and being able to make anecdotal decisions based on that. So this is something I'm pretty passionate about is running peaks like this because it just makes peaking easy. It makes it really hard to miss. And in my opinion, it puts the best version of the athlete that you're trying to prep on stage. I thought you said you brought up PubMed. That's funny. And it made me think of like, yeah, I'm doing a PubMed prep. Science-based. It's like, okay, you probably won't be ready if that's all you're doing. PubMed prep. But yeah, I think with earlier on, depending on, you know, different situations and your coach that you do have in place, a lot of people run into that. Like your first few props, just like mine, feels like the gas pedal had to be pushed down all the way into that kind of Monday of a Saturday show. And so that's what's kind of normalized of feeling like it's always this grind, grind, and grind. And finally, you're like, oh, seven days out. We can finally take the breather. So if that's not happening and it's earlier on outside of that seven days, psychologically, it makes you feel like if you're not workinGHarder all the way up, that you're not bringing something better. And I think for especially like the type A individuals that they're all about pushinGHarder and it's really hard to get that person to pull back. That is a huge barrier to realize that your prep should start feeling easier as you kind of like lead in to peak week. And there should be a tapering of the kind of the grind feel into this relaxed, empowered state. And I think that's another big piece of once someone finally lets go of the reins and trust that process to happen, that you do empower yourself with confidence and reduce a lot of the stress. Starting to see the physique trensform. And you said the anecdotal aspect of it. It takes quite a few days to bring someone out of fatigue. And absolutely true for a lot of people grinding down and sometimes seven days isn't enough and you do need more time. But when you give that person more time, they drop off that fatigue. They start feeling really good. And the physique really does fill out and you start getting the even harder look because now the muscles pushing against the skin. But man, the boost of confidence you can get from that going into peak week, when you start to see the same visuals every day of like, wow, I could, I could walk on stage like this. This is the best that I've ever looked versus, you know, the norm of what we've seen of you're not really seeing that to maybe like a couple of days before the show because beginning of peak week is just all that fatigue drop or a lot of people not seeing it to their second show. And I think that's even more common. Their second show is their best because they finally got to rest over their post-show period bit, get back home. They had some food. And then finally that next week, they're like, wow, wow. Now I'm really starting to look on the money. And that can come down to like, oh, you needed more time dieting or you did, you needed more of the rest time and eating than what you had allocated for that, that first show. So a lot of this can be a huge empowerment to the athlete. Also to the coach as well, especially if you're a neuro coach and have that opportunity to do so of being able to start testing the look earlier on versus kind of see it to your pants. I hope I see the look come about and we drop off enough fatigue early. Right. What other psychological aspects do you see around this, Luke, that I kind of wasn't touching on, but was that it? I think there's a psychological component on the athlete side to understand that you kind of see the stage visual a few times before you're on stage too. Um, it's, it's pretty cool to see, like kind of seeing someone like really you've seen it before. Like you've, you've been there, you get to full contest shape. You're starting to pull back. You're doing some food testing with some loading. You just get that one shot in the gym. That's like the right lighting. And it's like, you're full enough to kind of see that condition signed through. And it's extremely motivating. And almost like, not only do they start to feel better because you're pulling back on the variables, but it's almost like a re-motivation type of a deal. And I think from like, uh, managing an athlete perspective, it's like, I have one prep in particular right now that I can think of is this guy's first prep prepping with me. And he has been amazing. He's just executed everything so well, but he's a coach himself, right? So he wants to learn through the process. He asks great questions. And one of the things he keeps bringing up is he feels like he's ahead of schedule, right? And I'm like, yeah, you are ahead of schedule. I'm like, but that's purposeful. Like you're going to get ready. You're going to be ready way ahead of time. And then I'm going to be able to lay off the gas and you're going to be way fresher. You're going to be, have a much better visual than if I tried to land this like, you know, five days out. Right. And so the emotional aspect of that on the backend is like, he's going to start seeing those visuals, what they're going to look like on stage when he gets three ish, four weeks out. And it's going to be a re-motivation factor for him those last few weeks to get through it. Yeah, no, that's, that's a, that's a good point. And I think there's another psychological case here where you have the one that wants to push hard all the way, but also the one that is not quite ready and might want to pull back early. And I think there's a point to assess and say like, are you stage lean or not? And you do have to be able to accurately assess that. Um, and, uh, have been watching yourself close enough leading up to, you know, that two week out mark to start really being able to make the call and looking at someone in their fast and state post-workout, maybe at another time of day. And then what I like to do is, is, is assessed for biofeedback as well. And then look at systemic condition and localized areas. And so what IMean by that is if there don't look extremely crisp in all areas, are they highly fatigued? And so you have someone like they do feel pretty run down, like, Hey, how do your quads feel heavy? Do they feel hard to contract? And maybe we see like, see some females too, like just their quads are blurry, but then they turn around, like they have glute lines and like, that's all on par, but we have a localized aspect. That's not quite conditioned. Then if you have the biofeedback of that, you know, they are feelinGHeavy on prep and legs are hard to contract that likely that's a fatigue thing when they are conditioned. And so I think you start assessing that piece to make sure, you know, like you do push someone far enough and don't pull back the reins too early on someone. I think a lot of people are like, well, I need to be ready early. So I'm just going to pull back. It's like, it's still like the better case to get more body fat off the last week versus like pull back and drop off fatigue. Um, because we, we still have strategies and we talked about this on previous podcasts of how you can really hit someone hard with fatigue drop in seven days. You just have to do it, do it in the right way. Um, you know, and so we're talking about a better case situation here of you already early and able to start, you know, tapering back. But that's what I would start, start looking at the assessment piece of, you know, is there more fat to lose or is this just water masking fat loss that's been present? Um, and then we have to bring up like the PD aspect because that can blur some things too. And why we teach this is trying to let thaT4 to five week out mark start being able to tweak around with your PDs and test some different things like using, uh, AIs to, you know, drop estrogen acutely or even, you know, shifting growth hormone hormone hormone hormone down and back up to see if those things do change the look and bring more condition from just a water drop perspective. And then if that is the case, then we write out that stack design into this kind of two week period. So we've already removed one variable of water that we won't have to sort later on. Then, then come to find out that, oh damn, that was, that wasn't water. That was body fat to still lose. So that's in like thaT3 to five week out period. We want to make sure we have that like very, very well sorted. Ideally, you're already running like a PD prep stack that would already align with what you want to be able to have for assessing accurate visuals. But, um, I think that's, that's the other piece I need to bring up as the person that still needs to keep pushing, um, and to not be too, you know, reserved in, in doing so. But I don't know if you have something else to add, but I was going to jump to, we can, uh, like once you are there, what do you do? The nuts and bolts of it. I was going to pivot it. I was going to tee it up like a T ball and let you take it off. But we'll do that now. Um, I, one of the biggest things, like let's assume you run the ideal prep, right? And you're there, um, you're kind of at that point where you need to start tinkering with some of the variables. Um, I always go towards and tell me if you think differently, activity reduction to gauge how much that improves the visuals first before I then go into testing food and or PDs typically. So at that point, I'm just trying to gauge like, what is the fatigue depth that I'm paying off like straight out of the gate? And then getting that gauge of like, how far does that weight tend to shift is, is always kind of my first go, which is typically done via the output days and a couple other things from like a trening, pulling some volume and some reps and reserve. But that's always typically my first move. Um, and then one other thing that I like, and I'm gonna let you kind of dive into this is testing the loading strategy. So we talk about this pretty in depth in level one. Um, we talk about like in the trening side, like how to do the more aggressive fatigue drop versus the less aggressive versions, um, for the preps that are running a little bit closer, but there are different loading styles that could help with different looks. So you have some people who are going to frontload and need to wash it off. You have some people where backload works. You're going to have some people where linear loading works. Um, and by being ready early, I think you get some really, really good data. on how these visuals look. And I actually, I've actually done this recently. The peak week sheet we use, I've started using further out so that I could start to mark down like differences in loading metrics, depending on kind of how I see someone's visual shift. I want to pull something out of what you said, just to give clarity people, because I just mentioned like adjusting PD is like three to five weeks out. Yeah. You said like you drop output before like PD adjustments. So yeah. I know we're talking about slightly different things there, but do you want to give some clarity to people that were listening to the difference in what we're bringing about there? Yeah. So more so like with the PD changes, I'm like modulating stack design in order to kind of see like how much fluid retention is affecting the actual visual portion. But I'm also trying to delineate how much of that is fatigue as well. So a lot of times, like I'm doing that D output before I even start like the full testing process. And then as soon as that's done, which is two days, three days, maybe that's when I'll usually do PDs kind of out of the gate, which is going to be removal of GH or titration down in GH or testing some AIs or things along those lines that John had mentioned. But I'm basically just trying to different, be a little bit more differential on what's driving the change in the visuals by doing one before I did the other and not doing them both at the same time. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum. You'll also get access to our four rooms with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Okay, I guess we differ then in that approach because I'll mess with the PED stuff pretty earlier on to then once I do get to peak week, there's or the two week out mark, right? I can then like do the D output piece and I have enough time to, because some of that stuff, it's hard to adjust last minute, right? Like if you have an AI put in and you see it drop, like you can't really just stack design in 10 days to see testosterone play out. growth hormone hormone hormone for months different though. But I think whatever your approach you do are implementing one variable at a time. So if you want to check PDs, yeah, do that early in one phase. And then if it's like D outputting arrest days, then you're doing that in another. And I think you, along prep, you'll, and getting to back to your question, Luke, around like the refeed strategy is that you'll start picking up on all these things on which variable is impactful. And so you'll have like the individual that you're seeing after say a string of three trening days, their weights up after legs, and then two days later they drop. And maybe that's after a rest day. Or maybe you've implemented some D output days along the way of like, Hey, let's do two rest days back to back. Then that on third day, they check in and they wake up looking really hard and I dropped weight. So you're like, that should like start sending, you know, a light bulb to go off that. All right, that's, this is someone that, you know, trening and out and output really drives a lot of fatigue. And the D output is the big variable to play here. Or we see the individual where they, I've seen different strategies here. Like where I have guys doing infrequent like injections and the day after they're shot, they're like weights up and they look more watery. And it's like, ah, like this is a testosterone piece that should be adjusted. And that's when it already happens earlier on. Um, or the other situation refeeding. We'll, you know, of course, towards the end of prep, like bring in more refeeds, start slowing down the deficit and you could have some refeed data now present too. So if you have someone that refeeds, maybe the day after they don't look their best, but then two days after they look really good. You're like, Oh, okay. Like this is someone that, you know, could maybe work well with the back load of just doing a Thursday load Friday kind of, you know, just maintenance and then show day they land their best look. Um, or, or we have other situations with, with a few people where, man, you feed them and it's like nothing sticks and you feed them more the next day and nothing sticks. And you're like, wow, like this is someone that's going to take a long time to load. And you might need to hit that person with the frontload. So like six, seven days out, load them really hard to catch them up a bit, drop off a tee, and then it's more coasting the rest of the week. So with all, all this of like, what do you do once someone's already ahead, you should have been like picking up these pieces of like, what's, what is the more impactful variable for them to implement, to drop off a tee? That, that is the kind of goal here. But I would say we default towards output first as that's usually the one that is, we really see makes the biggest difference. And also it's, I think it's less variable withholding nutrition more steady during that time. And you're not seeing like fluctuations as much with carbohydrate and water swings. And I would bring up, it's the last thinGHere. I'll throw it back to you, Luke, is that that is even more so the default for the weight class athlete that is above weight. Uh, because if you start, well, I need a drop off fatigue, I'm going to bring food in. Well, that's going to increase glycogen, increase weight. And what is going to be more impactful is dropping down output and holding food low. And that way you'll actually see body weight start dropping typically doing that process. So making it easier for this individual to, to make weight versus feed them more and keeping output high. Man, weight class athletes are special ones, like ones that are real close to the weight cap. Like they're, they're special ones to prep and peak. Um, just for some clarity to about kind of what I was saying earlier, like I still do that PD drop, like five ish weeks out, like the testing for it. I'm just like going into that. I want to see like what change is the actual PD drop going to create. So I'm trying to have a clen slate heading into that drop. But man, I really think like when you start to kind of look at mapping all of this out, it's, it, it really becomes simpler when you have someone ready before, because what you start to learn as a coach is that the extremes of loading in most cases don't exist as long as you have control over the other metrics. I do think there are people who need frontloads and days of being pretty aggressive, um, to kind of like settle them down, like, especially on the faster metabolic side. But man, when you do it far enough out, it allows you to just really coast. And I think that's the piece people miss, right? Is because like, sure, it may take a day or two days, maybe even three of you being pretty aggressive or progressively aggressive to kind of stabilize them. But then once you do that, you're not continuing that all the way into the show, right? It's like you stabilize them, you get them up and you can hold them pretty easily and coast them. And that's kind of like the classic frontload that you'll see is sometimes needed to stabilize someone out. But that's where I think people miss it. It's like, it's like you don't need as much as you think you need once you get someone stable. Oh man. Why rewind that and hit it play again on it? Because that's, it's so true. So the majority of people that I peak that are ready, like fatigues dropped, we are coasting on the same diet nearly all a peak week into the show with just some shifts. And that's plenty full for most people and doing like, I'm on 300 carbs. Now I need 1200 grams of carbs to load. That's such a rare case to ever see that. And usually that is rolling a dice and you're having to clen someone up on the, on right after they do that load and it makes it really messy. So, you know, I just had, you know, Sean Howley, he did, uh, you know, his show and we're, we're rolling into masters and he's been ready for a few weeks now, just his baseline diet. And he is the guy in 1200 grams of carbs, but that's his baseline diet. We were literally got up and had his normal, like two meals and just went on stage because we just knew what that looked like. And the fatigue was already low. Um, other, other situation like Colton, our coach, uh, he was cruising on a little over 400 grams of carbs throughout his peak week, but he actually started like really relaxing towards the end of the week. And then, uh, I had, had some like metabolic speed up going on. So it turned into looking like a backload, but his visuals were already good. It's more of like just keeping up with maintenance for him. So you could say like, Oh, well you backloaded him. Well, not, not really. It was more just like keeping up with the visuals that were already looking really good after a few meals. So, you know, even in those cases, that's really what that, what that kind of ends up looking like. But the, the big loads, cause we get that question a lot. Like when do I start my load? It's like, I think that you're starting with the wrong question. If you're, if you're asking that and these should be giving you better like clarity before you even get into peak week in this approach that we're doing with assessing and starting the D output. But look, let's, let's talk about this here. Cause let's give someone an example. You have your athlete there on whatever macros you want to say, uh, doing 15,000 steps a day. They're doing 45 minutes of cardio. They're ready. What, what's your, what's your first approach here with this person? And let's make sure we have like 80 micrograms of clenbuterol in there. There's fat burners. Um, so, so where do you start? What's the D output look like? Yeah. So I get pretty aggressive here. I just want to see like, if I shift them off on base diet, are they going to move in? Which direction are they going to move? And that's going to be like step reduction. So 15,000, I'm going to be pulling back to 10 or 11. I'm going to be full removal of cardio for two to three days. I'm going to keep them on their baseline diet and I'm just going to let them rock and see what happens. So baseline, this is still like, if they have a trening day diet, they do the tren day. If they have their non-trened day diet, they do their non-trened day. Yeah. And what you actually see happen here is that this happens pretty much every time is you no longer need the rest days. Like you just kick them up to the trening days and hold them there pretty easily. Like, so if you have a split diet, like you can just kick them up to the trening day after that first initial, because it's closer to their maintenance. And then you can start to like, kind of really get dialed in on what their maintenance is and then slowly take it up. And it's actually, it's funny you say this. Um, I've actually had less preps this year where I've done two meal plans because of this. Um, just for the accuracy of what is the actual deficit? What is the actual maintenance? What is the actual surplus that pulls someone up? It makes building the matrix for peaking so much easier. And the decision-makinGHappens much quicker because you're very clear on what, um, not only what's going in, but you're not like playing this averages game, right? Like you're, you're playing one meal plan all the time and modifying off of that. Not saying trening day and rest day diet doesn't work. It absolutely does. I'm just saying I found myself shifting into more single day plans recently because of that accuracy in this portion of the process of being able to move someone up to maintenance or even higher if I need to pull them back up. Yeah. I have that with a lot of athletes as well, or the discrepancy is just not that vast anyway. Okay. And even then, when you think about our, how we program trening is like volume comes down quite a bit. So trening is not that high of expenditure anyway. Yeah. Um, and then keep in mind everyone that, you know, your rest day is still a recovery day. So a lot of people trening at night, like that bleeds into your next day. So having a more even diet split absolutely works and can make the assessment process a little, little clener. I think the thinGHere is like, if you have that real extreme approach of like really high trening days into very low off days is where you probably wouldn't be going just straight to your trening day diet. Yeah. That's more of a case of like, if you're running, uh, kind of a milder caloric rotation here. Um, so that, that would be the case. And, um, also where even as I get into peak week, start having guys almost, almost tren every day, uh, just shorter sessions. And then it just makes everything a bit more standardized with output and input. So, so you implement this the firsT3 days, cardio is off steps, drop down to like 10,000. They're on this base diet. Uh, from there, I guess you're assessing like, what was the response that they dropped? Did they hold? And from there is that when you start bringing up food, when steps have gone down to a maintenance and do we call maintenance, Hey, less than 10,000 is pretty doable. Yeah. Yeah. Or, uh, you know, do you, do you have people that you do need to shift back up? I do have people I need to shift back up. Um, sometimes it's really like once I pull that assessment, I kind of see they're not like, I'm thinking there's more fatigue than there actually is. They rinse it off. They might drop a pound or two, but there's still more body fat to come off. That's the person I kick back up back to the deficit and like, let them keep running. Um, but really what I'm trying to do in the first load is spill them. Um, so like if I know someone is ready, I need to know where they spill and where the visuals start to go negative from a fullness perspective. So I switched to daily check-ins at this point, not for the rest of the prep necessarily, but it like this like testing phase. Cause I'm basically giving them to diet every day until I see them spill. And then once they spill, I can pull them back on that deficit plan, rip it back down and then just kind of find my maintenance baseline there. And so basically I'm just trying to create my matrix of what is the top end of where these visuals start to really start to go down right now, because what it does is as you go with the last few weeks, it just kind of notches down, right? Like you get a little leaner, that weight drop cap notches down, that notches down. So you kind of start to get a very good accuracy of like how quick someone can spill on you. Um, it also, what it does is by doing it that way, I've dropped the fatigue. If I plug in food and someone speeds up, I know that that's going to be the issue. I'm going to have to chase someone. Um, it's more, so I'm more doing it from the fact that if I have to chase someone, I need to know early rather than I'm, I'm not worried about at all. Rinsing some fluid off someone if they're already ready. I gotcha. So you have three days outputs pulled out during the base diet, food will start incrementally increasing the day by day. You're watching to the fasted look might start getting a little softer. Yeah. I'm sure you're watching them a little bit during the day too for that because usually if they're midday, spill-ish and like, well, they could go on stage a little bit before that and look good, then you probably don't need to take them all the way up, right? Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Okay. So I'm getting different time points, different days usually. Sure. And then, then you can then pull back the diet, you have your maintenance and now we kind of cruise into peak week on that. So I think that, that is the peak before peak week kind of simple nuts and bolts of it. Yeah. Somebody will ask like, do you move carbs? Do you move fats? And I would say typically I always shift up towards carbohydrate versus that's what is going to be impacting visuals and trening and recovery the most. So that is the initial shift always. In your rare cases, like we have someone that needs a ton of food, fats might start moving up. That's when I find the carbohydrate volume is starting to become too large that you're having bloating, not, not bloating from like GI issues, but more so just, there's a lot of food volume present. Um, I think the last piece that I would bring in here is that another piece to consider output wise is going to be posing and posing would probably this week had been at its all time high. This could be three sessions a day of doing four rounds of posing. And you should have by this point, uh, you're posing well figured out. If not, IMean, it's not the time to like change the game here. You're going to drive up a lot more fatigue because posing is very taxing. And we had a recent paper that looked at this too, that, uh, card cardio, IMean, posing was classified as vigorous intensity cardio with about a hundred calorie burn per 15 minutes. So if you're doing three sessions a day, that's easily 300 calories for some individuals. So anyway, during this phase is when I would start tapering down posing as well to just doing one session and leading into your peak week, I I'm just pulling this back down to only posing during check-ins because you're going to have multiple check-ins and that alone is going to be enough posing because I don't want guys getting fatigued, just like flexing their legs and stuff the whole time. So as you start moving into this, like posing should be beginning pulled down as well, not tapered back up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 100%. I think it's like the mad dash to figure out the posing is like my pet peeve. And like we started, you know, working with Cody and havinGHim doing a lot of the posing for the guys. And I think it's something that can make a peak messy because then you have someone like doing the, doing the call with their posing coach and then posing for you and then posing for you again. And then if you're not even thinking about it, they end up like, if you're not aware of this, right, they end up posing for you four or five times and then they pose with their posing coach. It's like, they're wrecked. I start asking for like bare minimum poses and check-ins like give mEQuarters. Then I'll be like, give me a front double side chest and rear double seven poses. I want nothing more. I don't want selfies. I don't want bullshit. Just give me seven poses. That's all I want. I know I've confused some, some athletes in the past. Cause I'll be like, I'll message them. I'll be like, I've got my poses that are their telltales. Right. Yeah. I'll be like, just send me a side chest and front double. And they'll be like, you just want those two? I'm like, yeah, just send them because that's all I need to see to know where you're at. It's like, like whatever those two poses or three poses are. Right. And it's more from my perspective, trying to keep them from posing themselves to death. And like, by the time I've gotten to this point in peak week, I know you so well, I could probably peak you falling asleep, but I've got your weight metrics matrix. I know what your weight's at. I want to confirm that with the visuals to make sure this matrix is correct. I know which poses are going to stand out the most, either fullness or flatness. And I'm just going to ask for those. Like, it's just, you get to a point during peak week where just like chasing this posing thing just becomes a little bit pointless. It's funny you say that. Cause I was thinking about what poses I look at for myself. And if I have a most muscular and a rear double, that's all I need to be able to tell like fullness from the front. That's the tall tail sign condition from the back. It's all I need there. That gives me everything I need if I'm ready or not. So, uh, yeah, it can get pretty, pretty simple. You're not like doing a bad job as coach looking at every single pose because the posing should already be done. Yeah. At this point, it's just making sure you have the right visuals to assess fullness versus condition. So 100% well, yeah, that's it. Is that everything today? Yeah. Yeah. That, that is your peaking before peak week. And hopefully that helps everyone lead into their shows in a much better position and remove a lot of the peaking variables and bring those to a maintenance level to makes it really simple once you do get in a peak week. And I think that will remove a lot of the mysticism around pulling all the variable levers that make a really complicated peak and make you miss the mark. You're like, wow, peak week is really tough. It's like, it's because you're trying to move all the variables at one time. But if you spread out the peaking timeline and shift one at a time, you understand what each one does. And it makes it a lot more understandable for you than to arrive at the look that you want to put on stage. So, so use these strategies. If you need to learn more, we have all about this in J3 level one. And then for next week, which I know the previous week we mentioned, we're going to talk about what happens after your show. Well, we didn't do that because we needed to hit this one first, but for next week, we will talk about what to do after your show, that first seven day period afterwards. So tune in next week. Thank you for listening and we'll see you then.

=== FILE: 🎙️ Still not growing？ It’s probably not volume ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 180 [2qQgZzBCKZE].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, are you having issues growing and reaching the physique that you really want? Are you having issues growing and reaching the physique that you really want? It's probably not your volume that you're actually trening at on the trening side. And today we're going to kind of unpack that a little bit because we've gotten into this information era where we talk about volume escalation and trying to get this volume. to extremely high ceilings that we can barely recover from. And in reality when we start to get into the brass tacks of moving people forward and making sure that we perfect the trening side of this, which you guys know that I live, eat, sleep, and breathe, it's not always the volume issue. And I think this is such a big topic to dive into and trening mistakes is so huge. And John, I think we can talk a little bit of personal experience from this because I know we've trened a little bit across both ends of the spectrum when it comes to like high volume pump, performance really low volume, like different times during our careers. And I think it's a, I think it's a great place to start. Yeah. I think like volume is just going to be as never ending conversation, which it is always, always come back up, but it's, it's an insightful thing to share. And a lot of people, I think, start with, you know, it's always, what split should I be on in a revamping of their entire trening split. And then what gets plugged in on the back end of that is then all of all, you know, volume, but I think just the start point is what are you, what are you currently doing for volume? If you're looking to like rearrange your program and get more out of it. And then how does that volume look like, how do you quantify it? ThEQuality of it. And I think that's where we've seen so much really shine into the art of coaching of trying to perfect thEQuality of this volume. And if you look at the research world and science stuff, and you're following that along, it seems just to skim over that piece and that you look at how far are you from failure that qual that quantifies the, you know, that quality of volume and that's it. And there's just so much more to it. Like how you align in that exercise profile. What is the resistance profile? What type of range does that take you through? I'm like, is there more LinkedIn loading in that range? And then what's your ability to brace and take that set to a point of, is it mechanical? Where's a technical failure? IMean, just the few things that is spouted off there are a lot of things that are going to be defined. And thEQuality of that volume outside of just, did you fail or not? And that's it. Like, so there's just so much more to it than that. And that's when, you know, we have clients come through where we're really trying to get them to a point of high quality volume per set. And then, but the volume piece still has to be addressed, right? Like it, it is a start point, but I think a lot of times people come into this and they're looking at the research, like, all right, 10 to 20 sets is a good average amount to work within. I need to get there. And they kind of throw out what they've been doing. You jump into this new volume set, but I don't start there. And I think the assessment of where are you at and what is that doing? Kind of sets up what you should be doing next. Would you agree on that? Is that your start point, Luke? Yeah, 100%. I think I contextualize the volume they've been trening at with the initial assessment I do. It's like the movement assessment and some of the initial sets that I asked for upon onboarding, because it tells me which direction to move them across the spectrum of like where they're at volume wise and thEQuality of that volume. And so the point here is that I'm never too far removed from where they're actually at. So I get thEQuality is really low, but they're trening extremely high volume. IMight dial it back a bit. But the reason that I'm dialing it back is because I know I'm about to like completely revamp the way that they look at executing patterns and getting so much more out of a trening set. Just on the flip side, like if their execution quality is really high, but their volume is really low in order to make more progress for this individual, we're probably going to have to push the boundaries of volume and do it in a way that they can actually recover from it. And so I'm going to be looking at smarter ways to get either higher frequency for that specific body part or for multiple different body parts, higher total volumes across the week. And so where you come from is the is the is the parts to know how to move the needle because they're coming to you to how to make progress. And while we need to kind of, you know, focus on the execution piece, which we're going to get to in a second, because I really want to clarify some things that I think you guys mistakenly take when we talk about execution. You've got to start at somewhere that is similar to where you've been so that you can actually learn to drive progressive adaptations. Yeah. And so to give maybe maybe the actual example from what Luke is sayinGHere, I, I had a client come across, we're looking at their program and they were in prep and look at their program. It was like barbell bench press five sets of 10 and it was be like 10, 10, 10, eight or something. Right. That leave out of 10. I don't know. There's five sets in there, but they had like a lot of big, big compound movements. With a lot of this written out, like five sets of 10. That's one where I'm almost not even going. I almost don't need yet to. I will. But look at the video analysis of how they're trening. Because I know to do five sets of 10, 10, 10, your effort level is super low in the beginning. And then you also need to ask that client to you like, hey, are you getting these are warmups? Like what are your actual work sets you're counting? Or are all those of work sets in this particular case? Like these were all work sets. It's getting to a weight and doing five sets of 10 with it. So we know, all right, that volumEQuality is pretty low. I could scale this person back and push up effort. And that's when we might see that volume reduction happen for that particular type of client. Also scenario. They're in prep. And what was happening? This person's becoming a smaller version of themselves. They're not getting that hard look because there's a greater proportion of muscle being lost per amount of fat. Because the signaling to uphold this tissue wasn't the best. But also a lot of volume present causing a lot of fatigue. Causing issues in other kinds of areas. Sleep. Daily energy. So that's that type of correction. Let's look at the other spectrum. Sean Clarita. I'm doinGHis trening. Sean knows how to take it there. He can put effort behind a set. There's a few areas that we've been tweaking on execution wise. But for the most part, this is a, you know, this is a highly experienced professional in trening. So should I be backing away off Sean's volume? Or not? He has a high quality volume. So it's more so looking at areas for Sean to work within for his recovery. And so for him, for that situation, I know he's not, he might be overdoing the volume in areas where he doesn't need more growth hormone to happen. So we're getting into a higher level individual that, hey, we might need to, we only have so much volume to work within. IMight need to scale back areas so I can add a little bit more into certain body parts. So that's a different kind of situation. So like with Sean, for example, like his delts and arms are crazy. His back is crazy. So to free up areas for morEQuad, for more chest, we bring volume down and add a little bit, just a little bit more in. Because for a guy that executes at that level, another set or two in a workout is a big deal. It's not adding another five sets in. So this is when with Sean, I review his, his program. We have, all right, we have 10 sets of quad work for the week. We're going to go to 12 sets for the week. And we're going to ride that out. Then we're going to assess it seven weeks later. And then we're going to rinse and repeat that. So that's just the two different scenarios of the assessment piece that I wanted someone to actually have a takeaway from of when you might be shifting volume. And assessing thEQuality of that execution to then kind of pick what route you need to go from there. Yeah. And I want to, I want to get into thEQuality of the execution piece, because I think there's a couple sides of the spectrum that are getting misinterpreted when we talk about this. And I want to kind of make sure that I'm very clear. The point in execution work is to get someone to being as productive as possible, as fast as possible. So I'll give you a couple examples to kind of walk through this. Um, when we look at injury profiles and we're fixing execution around injury profiles, one of the biggest things I see is I'm not squatting. So I'm obviously going to be limiting my ability to progress my legs. And we might find that that injury profile that's keeping someone from squatting is has something to do with a movement quality perspective. So while we're fixing that, I'm going to be writing sessions that allows this person to click their brain off, focus on control within the patterns that allows them to get to full range, load lengthen, load mid, load shorten, and be as productive as possible. While I work on fixing some of the things over here that may allow them to squat again. And then on that flip side too, we also need to understand that when we fix execution, we need it to stick. So another example of this would be the person that comes in with a high level of experience thinking they know trening, but they're coming to you to solve the problem of the weak body part. When you go through and fix all of the execution in order to allow for them to be able to at some point, hopefully click their brain off and just tren. Their potential for reverting back to old habits is extremely high. Because they have a high level of experience. And so there's people that may fix it on the initial weeks, but then revert back to old habits over time. That's not actually fixing thEQuality of the stimulus. And this is a couple places that I think we missed the boat on quite a bit is because we get obsessive over a certain pattern that has to be in the program design. Or we get obsessive over old habits or we forget to follow kind of the process of sending check-ins for the body parts that we need to improve in regards to trening footage. And I just see it missed so much because there's so many people that come to us to fix problems that are keeping them from winning on stage. And then we lay out this process and there's certain aspects that aren't executed on in order to actually fix what's driving the core stimulus of hypertrophy, which is trening. And so it just irks me so much because there's so much that can be pulled out on that portion of it that needs to be addressed like so detailed. So what's your, what's your application for someone listening that has the weak chest? Let's say we guess that's my, my weak point. And they want to apply what you just said. Uh, what, what are the things that they can put in place? They may not have that they can take away and do right now. So the first thing I would do is download the video analysis guide from level one. I walk through like all the angles that you're going to be taking trening footage from for different body parts. The ones for chest are in there. Okay. We're going to create a standard of review, right? We're going to create a standard of assessment from there. We're going to take the first two weeks, three weeks of the program to refine movement selection. Make sure that set up aligns with our structure. And then also make sure that we're getting some of the subjective metrics, right? We're getting sore after these sessions. We're getting a pump during these sessions, during the body parts that we're trying to tren. We're feeling that stimulus kind of throughout the trening session. Now is pump the only indicator of progress? No, but this is a part of those initial first few weeks. We're going to keep those trening reviews and the trening footage. And we're going to use that once we get the execution to the level of standard that we expect. We're going to use that as our standard for every week. And every week parts, the part that I don't think people understand is that when you have a body part that is unbelievably weak and you're chasing progressive overload in order to drive a progressive stimulus, if you don't keep that standard constant throughout, it's not going to always lead to the maximum amount of progress that you could have made. And so week one, week two is create the standard, set the standard, know what it is. Week three through four is progress that standard within the volume set that you have and be able to assess how well you recover from it. Week five, I'm going to be looking at volume progressions as long as recovery is there, performance is moving in a direction, and we've kept the execution intact. And that's kind of like the initial process of the first five weeks that I walked through with pretty much everyone that has a problem in regards to trening. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions. To further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. I think another, you know, one that I pulled out from there of like trying to get your setup right to feel this connection or make sure you're distorting this muscle to some degree, right? You know, what makes a good exercise? Well, when you fit in, you align with and something in that muscle should be happening, right? If you leave, you leave a chest press and your triceps are pumped, you're probably not doing a lot of chest and you might need to reconsider your exercise choice. But one thing that I found and to my mistake is like, I do this, say I do this incline bench setup, right? For aromasingle arm pull down. I've done it. And then I come back to set it up and I get my incline bench and I get in it and I'm like, why does this not feel the same? And I look at my notes and it just says incline bench pull down. I'm like, huh? Okay. But what was my cable on? What was my bench on? I can't remember. So your, your, your takeaway here to apply is that any of these setups that you do that you find, you finally connect with, write it down. Uh, this is in my, my notes. I use notes on my phone and just copy paste up like my workouts. Right. So now on my incline bench pull down, I have noted incline bench, hole seven pulley setting 19. And those are my settings. Don't copy paste them. Uh, but now, now I have my setup already written down of what I do. So any of those like bench heights, cable setups, like note them down when you find something that connects well, so you can actually remember them. Uh, and, and then be able to be repeatable. So if you're not doing that, take that away right now and start writing down your, your setups. Um, and then I think on that too, with, with Luke's point of like doing video review is like, save that video. Make sure you have a good spot. When you finally find on that chest press, like you have that right hip position and arm path. You're like, oh man, finally, that's, that's nailed. If you have that video, you can always compare back to that now. And so a few weeks down the road, we're like, man, it just doesn't feel the same. I've had that happen. Like it feels off now. What's going on. Uh, I could compare back to that on the money video and say, oh, okay, that's it. Like my hips have been shifting out further or I've been like now, like really tucking down, digging down to do this chest press or something's changed. My breathing mechanics. I'm now pulling my chest up or whatever it may be. So I think those two actions are good takeaways for trying to standardize the execution and even give you some problem solving along the way when things aren't, aren't working well anymore. Yeah. And I think that's so important because with a lot of us that have a passion for trening, like I know, I know both of us have fallen, fallen victim to this. It's like, you can get pretty amped for sets sometimes when you're in that, like pretty highly motivated prep scenario. And you're going in and you're like, I'm going to get better today. And you might progress the book, but it might not feel the same. And then you go back and review and you're like, ah, this is, this is not the same set or not the same rep. This used to happen to me on squatting. I get like really amped for a squat set. And then I would cut something in regards to kind of like the descent or the breast cycle or something along those lines. And it would change the actual stimulus that I would get out of that. And then on top of that, because it's something as big as squatting, I'd probably drive more fatigue getting that amped alongside less stimulus. So I was making myself even more inefficient. These are the things I wish I could go back and change, right? Is like the objectivity with the process. It's like, if I could go back and change one thing, it's like learn to be as objective as possible by creating systems around how you take execution to failure. So that you can, one, assess what kind of failure it is like John pointed out in the beginning. But two, also be very, very tightly monitorinGHow well you recover so that you can take volume escalations when it's warranted and you fix all the baseline things of the pyramid. And that's what I refer to this as. It's like baseline pyramid stuff is setups, execution, quality of stimulus, and recovery capacity. And then that next step up is kind of moving volume metrics according to how you want to push someone forward. And I know what we had just said around. There seems like a lot on like, gosh, this seems like a lot to focus on. Like always making sure you're connecting so strongly and it's repeatable. You're going to have bad days and bad workouts or just bad exercises some days. That doesn't mean that you necessarily even did something wrong because we know just environmentally things shift too. So like my AC went out this weekend. It's Texas in the summer. That affected my sleep quality, which in turn affected my hydration as well. And also my trening the next day. It's like, gosh, things didn't quite feel the same. Was that a trening, you know, execution issue or more of this recovery and environmental issue that were somewhat out of my control? Yeah, it's that. So I don't change anything. It's okay. Like, you know, you're going to have bad days, bad workouts. Just, you know, you have that standard of like, yeah, at some point this worked really well. Just repeat it the next week. And then if it's a pattern, then that's when you should start to be addressing these things. Now, probably to shift this also forward back into the conversation of when do I increase volume? And, you know, if I have all these things, you know, nailed pretty good and I'm moving along, like, should I, should IMove up volume? And it's a, there's a balance to make here. And I, again, I go back to my first point of first assess and to have a good assessment, you need to have done these variables pretty consistently for a period of time. And that's why I'm not a huge proponent of, you know, weekly volume escalations, just because it, it creates a moving needle of stimulus and fatigue that I don't, I don't think needs to move stimulus that quickly along. And then also for a lot of people, if you have a lifestyle that maybe has a lot of shifts in recovery, like maybe one week you have extra work to do or the other next week you don't, you might have shifts in recovery that at some point the stimulus and fatigue spill beyond what you can recover from that week. And you, you kind of have a week where you fall, fall short and the next week picks up, but you're set to like escalate volume. And it, it creates a lot of moving parts that makes it hard to assess. So I like to hold volume pretty standard and just keep improving thEQuality of that volume. Then after a good block of eight weeks, then you can review, review all your lifts. You can look through your logbook, like, are all these lifts trening up in, in the upward direction of more load and more reps? What does recovery look like? Am I recovered prior to each session? And feeling fresh and within that session, able to increase my lifts at least every other week. If yes and yes to those, this next block, looking at my, also my visuals, as I'd like to look at, and maybe body parts that are not progressing as quickly. I'd say, okay, legs are really progressing fast. Like I can visually see these things are getting bigger and the loads and reps are drastically moving up, but my push to exist really not. But I feel recovered going into that session. It's like, okay, here's where we can now do something with this off of all this data that we have where I'm like, all right, I'm going to scale back this leg trening and provide more recovery resource to push day and add a little bit more stimulus. And so maybe you drop off two sets of leg work. And so maybe you drop off two sets of leg work, quads and hams, and you add that into your, your push work. Next eight weeks, then you reassess and you keep going from there. And so through this process, you're going to get really good at knowing volume allocation and recoverability and why I would go more so in, in blocks than just rapid escalation to escalations of volume within shorter timeframes. I would say at least, especially if you haven't done this before, then once you get more advanced, you know, by then you probably don't need to be listening to anybody. You would, you would have it all figured out then, but that's how I would go about assessing volume. And when it's going too far and, and, and look, maybe you, I could throw this back to you of like, when, you know, it's gone too far and you've been doing these escalations, uh, maybe signs of needing to pull back. And also maybe the psychology of, you know, disillusion that you should be pulling back. Yeah. So I, I want to make one point before I dive into that, because I think people forget that if you're tracking your, your stuff and progressing load over time, so reps and, or load or both like that's volume progressions within itself, which creates volume progressions week to week within a set number of sets. And so I think this is where people like get kind of hung up on it. Like, ah, but I need to keep progressing every week, like the stimulus that I'm providing or the volume that I'm providing. It was like, that's a part of that progressive stimulus. That is the reason why we go about it. Kind of the way John just described, but, um, kind of going into knowing that you pushed it too far. Um, there's a few big signs that, um, I kind of look for. So the first ones are going to be signs of deload, which are my like subjective metric skewing. Um, usually performance is the last one to go. If you're seeing performance starts to decline, you've probably needed the deload for like a week or two in the first place. Um, so subjective metrics that decline are going to be sleep, digestion, um, hunger signaling, libido. Um, you can have like increased achiness of joints, um, more excessively sore going into sessions. These are like the deload signs that I start to see. Now, one of the ones that I think kind of starts to kind of really get pulled out when you have pushed volume too high is frequency of deloads. This is the biggest one. Um, so when you have someone that you push this volume really high, you know, it's time for deload. You deload and you get back to that trening volume and you're needing another one within four or five, six weeks. This is like one of the biggest signs that I'm, I need to kind of start to pull back. Um, and this can happen towards the back end of offseasons, um, quite a bit because you're kind of wanting to try to find that threshold for someone, especially a newer client that you might not have found the threshold that they can work within. Um, and it's okay to dial back because you're bringing someone back into what would be considered their maximum adaptable volume. So their ability to maximally drive adaptation for hypertrophy and recover from it and drive progress for the physique forward without having to take so many weeks where we're not trening in a stimulus that's pushinGHypertrophy forward within a deload. And so this is kind of where that needle needs to be balanced. Um, and, and understand that this is always relative to how well you recover. So your ability to recover from a stimulus is relative to all of these outside life variables. So food, are you in a surplus or deficit? Do you have some physiological compounds in, or do you not? Um, what did the life stressors look like? Like that's why these numbers can shift like even all season, all season, because you might have like life changes that, that happen. Um, one of the biggest ones that I remember to give an example is when I was at USF in grad school and working as a strength coach, it was like 4am mornings with being at the strength room until like 435 and then class from like 515 to 830. And like my ability to tren in that offseason was just like survival of the fittest. Move into the next offseason where I was an online coach full time, staying at home, do whatever I want. And it was the amount of trening that I could do within a week, like nearly doubled from a volume perspective. Um, and my progress in that offseason showed, um, not only from like a total of tissue that I accrued across the same amount of timeframe, but the body composition that IManaged as well. Um, and so this is like the biggest things that I typically look for when it, when it comes to that, when you push it too far. Uh, uh, I would, I want to give some personal antidote to like for myself, but when I know I have been pushing it too far and it's, it's just subtle and it just creeps in until you're at a place where you're just kind of progressing slow, but you're trying to make it happen. And it's, it's just a overall mood and motivation going into the session. Um, I, I just, I love to tren. And so psychology is like, I'll make it happen today. Like I, you know, I, I can do this workout and progress it. Right. But in the same side, it's like, I don't really quite feel like trening today. And you, I, it's like a point of like, I don't even want to admit that to myself. Uh, there's like a denial factor there. And also a thing that I don't want to step back. Yeah. Because I just love to tren. And so it's more of this emotional drive that is just creating some disillusion that I, I'm at a place where I'm just not recovering and it's mild because I can go in and still make some numbers move. But even though it might be taking a ton of effort to do so. And you know, this past offseason, I, I was trening five days a week. Recovering. And I, then IMoved to six days and I started getting stronger. And first the six days is fine until you run into the issue of like, not quite feeling like you want to tren almost every day. And certain sessions that are, especially with the weak body part sessions are really struggling to move. You're like, why aren't these sessions moving up? It's like my, and I'll give you more insight. My midweek push day, I started having a little bit of leg work before the day before, which got into a little bit more leg work the day before. Until like that session got pretty big into where my next push day just wasn't really moving. And I just kept, kept it going until finally, like, you know, pulled gear down, went into my whole phase before this prep. And I removed that leg session. Then what do you know? My push day started progressing and I had gear low. I'm like, oh, I wasn't recovering enough. So, uh, don't, don't be a John. So just sometimes, you know, you should even your offseason when you're earlier on feeling pretty good about recovery. You know, the grass isn't always greener and yeah, you could do more, but again, you have to be able to sustain that amount of work present. So, uh, if you're progressing load and reps, that's like a good place to be at. Um, you know, more can do a little more, but also it can slow you down at the same time. So just, uh, that's why I would say, just take your time and assess off like blocks of time before you make the change. And then also make sure it's within a block of time where the phase in the environment, it's the same. So if you're moving into like a growth hormone phase and gears going up, that doesn't mean trening should go up at the same time. Gear is going to drive a lot of that. So hold that. And then eight weeks later, maybe then you assess and decide about, about volume shifts. Don't be like me of like, let's push up gear and we'll tren six days a week. It's going to be amazing. Uh, until it's not so. Oh man. Anyway, I'll, I'll wrap it up there, Luke, unless you had something else to add. No, I think it's, I think it's, it's so important to get right. Like it's so important to get right because you can really pull out so much more progress out of someone. Um, but if you guys havEQuestions, like let us know, put it, put it in the comments below. Like we'll obviously have, you know, be in there being able to, uh, answer questions or comments that you have, or just hop into the forums. We're in there helping people with their process all the time. Um, John, what's the, before we sign off, what's the next episode we've got kind of coming up? Yeah. Progression is a numbers it's decisions. We're going to talk about program hopping and how to really make progressions. All right. So talk to you guys next week and thanks for tuning in.

=== FILE: 🎙️ What happens after stage ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 187 [2kTk06beqXk].txt ===

 Welcome, what do you do the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. What happens after stage? You nailed the look. Now what? Is it an explosion of food and up 20 pounds? Or are you staying dialed in? So Luke and I want to cover today. What do you do the first seven days after the show? What do you do the first seven days after the show? I really see this as a make or a make or a make or a make or a make or a make or a make or break week for your offseason and even your next contest prep and stage league. It goes that far. And so we'll dive in today. What should be, for one, well, why is that the case? And you can let me know down below if you're watching on YouTube if you believe me or not or disagree. And then also just break down kind of the nuts and bolts and the psychology as well for leading athletes from post-show or post-stage into this like little post-show window of the first week. Luke, how's it going, man? Lots of post-show happening, right? It's about to say it's post-show week every week right now. It is one show after the next. And I think it's, what's cool is when you have the competitors that have done this once or twice with you already. And they kind of start to understand the value in this first week post-show. A lot of people like when they ask, you know, what did you do in the offseason that made someone change? Like how much they progressed, you know, this, this or this past year versus years past. And a lot of times it's just the fact that I had control from the end of prep to the, to the end of all season, because what really allows me to do our job and what allows me to do my job throughout the entirety of the offseason phase is how much control we get straight out of the gate from the post-show, building some buy-in with the client before we get to stage about what the expectations are the first week post-show, really kind of setting some expectations and standards and being able to exit execute on them so that it's business as usual the first week and not a free for all because man, it's so easy to ruin an offseason in three to five days post-show. And I don't say that lightly because I have seen people do it. Yeah. I've heard people say like, just have a meal. Like what's one meal is not going to kill you. And yeah, potentially one meal absolutely should have it be in place. But we see a varied response across different clients of that 1000 calorie meal. It does stick to them and they might be up a few pounds and that's going to stay. And that very well can be just fine. And we want some fat gain to happen post-show. The thing is, is when that keeps trailing on and for the very sensitive athlete that is not very metabolically adaptive, it just comes on quickly. Then that next day, if they still have some celebration eating, they very well could be up 5% body weight within just a few days. And to put this in context, like for every one pound gained in this phase, you easily could be taking away two weeks of offseason time. That could be productive growth hormone hormone hormone. Because think about this. If you were say a male gaining one pound of body weight per week, let's say 50% of that is fat, like a half pound of fat. That one pound of fat gain is two weeks worth of offseason time. So if you've accumulated 10 pounds of fat gain, that could could have been 20 weeks of offseason time of slowly adding tissue and fat gain. Now, again, these are just a theoretical mathematical aspect. You're like, well, John, 20 weeks, that's like my whole offseason push phase. Again, some fat gain is going to happen. So we're seeing someone that if they were in true contest lean shape, sure, like they could be up 10 pounds if you're a male from 200 to 210, 215 pounds. And that could be a very reasonable start to your offseason phase. That's acceptable level of fat gain for sure. But when it becomes like now you're pushing beyond that baseline of what a good offseason start point is for body fat. And what is that is usually I tell people it's the leanest you can maintain while removing all the negative aspects around prep. So you're able to not be food focused anymore. Psychologically, you don't have any of those issues driving you. You have great energy throughout the day. You're like libido's back. You want to chase your wife around still. You have good trening performance. Your sleep is regulated. You can sleep for most people throughout the night. Some people are going to wake up at least once. You should have back to like offseason regular life aspects. And so the leanest you're able to stay and do that. And that's going to be that's the kicker is the leanest that you can stay because it's going to vary a lot from for one. How how lean did you have to get how far away from that is like from your set point. And then also just how you're able to manage your lifestyle stress allosteric load around that because as you get better in bodybuilding and executing you're actually going to be able to have a more sustainable lower body fat level that you can start that offseason from. So just wanted to give some context around what that looks like on the front end of when you have that much fat, how that kind of maps out and then you easily could see like, all right, I'm now up 25 pounds start of offseason. I can't put on as much now because then I'm going to have to pay it back in prep. And so now I have to allocate still a 20 week prep to drop off this this body fat. And we find a lot of individuals end up still with the same rate of fat gain in the offseason. And as quickly you're in a maintenance spot in offseason to where you're just kind of maintain body weight or you have like a free meal on the weekends, then the rest of your week is at a deficit to make up for it. And you just kind of really don't make a lot of progress offseason wise. And there you are, wind yourself right back up into a contest prep that has to be really drawn out again and because you put on too much body fat. So the first days are essential. And Luke, you know, with that being said, I think a lot of this probably starts with setting up the athlete with the tools to have the set expectations and also the psychological piece to this to be able to execute it. Yeah, I think that's where potentially some of the conversation can happen pre-peak week. I think there's some conversations to be had like, hey, what's next? No matter the outcome, it's like we need to know that we've still got bodybuilding to pursue, right? Like win or loss, pro card or no pro card, whatever the next step is going to require us to be a better versianavarselves to either compete in the pro ranks or to actually win the pro card the next time we step on a pro qualifier stage. And for people who have gone through this before, it's a little bit of an easier conversation, but I'll actually map this out on a timeline of like what a rate of gain should look like so they can have set expectations and see it. Because it's sometimes it just doesn't click until they actually see numbers on the paper and how quickly it can start to dwindle that all season phase. And when you ask like, where did the drastic changes come from? It's like it really comes from these people who just treat post-show phase like an extension of prep. And I do want to have some clarity around what John said is like the leanest you can be with prep adaptation starting to subside. It doesn't mean that after one to two weeks, you're going to see those prep adaptations start to subside. If anything, the hunger signaling in the post-show phase is the highest and the hardest to manage. And it is the worst time of the year in regards to how you feel subjectively. However, your pumps are going to improve. Your gym performance is going to improve. You're going to start to have more energy, but you're going to have that really, really high hunger signaling. And you're not going to see it start to really fully subside until you get to the end of that post-show phase and kind of move into that offseason. So it is something that's a process and requires patience and understand you're going to have to sit with that. Because I think that's the big expectation that people miss is like, oh, when I finish my prep, I'm going to be, I'm going to have the relief of being done. I'm not going to have to deal with any of these. Right. And it's like, no, it's probably going to suck worse than the prep, honestly. Yeah. With a lot of this, if you're not experienced in dieting, that first hit of hyper-palatable food, wherever you go out, cheesecake factory or something, right? And it is just a dopamine, such a strong response that you just want to keep going for a lot of people. If you don't have that psychological control. So, you know, if you know that's you, it might be time to be a little strategic with pre-peak week. Hey, we're going to go out with family friends. We're going to go here and I'm just going to have a reasonable meal that I don't feel like crap. And honestly, that's where a lot of this has evolved, even for myself, is like, I don't want to feel terrible the next day. Because I've done the big eats where that night you can't even sleep because your heart's pounding from, like, the huge sodium and fluid retention that's occurring. And you wake up just feelinGHorrendous. And a lot of times post-show now, I go have, like, some type of protein I really like, a steak or salmon and then, like, veggies. And then what that does is because if you've done a peak week well, usually a lot of people are eating a lot of food into the show. And you can keep that going, which makes managing the post-show hunger really easy. What really stops it quickly is having that meal post-show that is, like, tremendous, right, to where you're eating until you're going to pop. The next day, that phase is kind of gone where you had that sweet spot where you're eating a ton of food leading into that show. People that are successful, if you can have just a reasonable meal that night, you can go back immediately now to your peak week plan with higher food and execute that the rest of the week. Now you'll start seeing body weight will start trening even back down. And you start bringing in the flexibility there. So immediately post-show, you need to have an idea of what your restrent level is and probably do some pre-planning on what might be reasonable for that meal. And when you go have that meal, don't take crap back to your hotel room with you. Don't pack a bunch of food with you either and have, like, every new flavor of Oreo stashed in your hotel room. Just don't have it around you. Then I like to also, just for the next day, already have my meals pre-planned out, right? So there's already food available. It's not like, well, you know, I won't be on prep anymore. I'll just have whatever is available. And, you know, sometimes that might be I'll go out for breakfast, but the next day is going to be structured. Now, Luke, I know we've done a lot of things with protein and veggies for some individuals. Maybe you want to touch on that piece. Yeah. So, IMean, it just depends on how bad the hunger signaling is. I've had a couple people where kind of the plan post show brings up some of the satiety metrics, like as far as like the food that provides satiety. And so it's pretty easy to pull protein up. We have some pretty clear evidence that we can pull it up fairly high without it being detrimental to fat gain or body composition, I should say. Same with vegetable intake. We can bring that up to help manage the hunger. Even like for the people that want that quality time with family, like having protein, veggie meals between the meals that you have that second day. So like if you have a breakfast and then kind of some protein, veggies and then a dinner with family. Like I had, which congratulations to Alex. Alex, after competing this weekend, got engaged. So it's like one of those things. It's like once in a lifetime moments. And so that was kind of like, you know, some of the conversation around it is like, hey, we got to get better. So that the card is ours next time. But, you know, we need to be able to enjoy engagement and things along those lines. So there's multiple different ways to manage it. But I think when we look at like the options for protein, veggies, we have a pretty good opportunity to manage hunger by just being able to pull that up within the meals that we have to kind of help with the hunger management piece of it. Yeah. Yeah. And on the protein, veggie topic, like if you did have someone that went out that had a pretty large meal. Yeah. And a lot of people the next day, they're good. They hop on the scale. Like weight didn't even go up, coach. Like I'm such a metabolic badass. It's like, yeah, give it, give it one day, buddy. It's like you just ate like 2,000 calories six hours ago. So like the sodium and water retention swing, like that's coming. It just hasn't hit you up. Then it's like two days later, like weights up, ankles are swollen. And then those effects keep coming. So for the person that had the really large meal, a lot of times the next day you might have pretty low hunger and to get fluid balance back on track pretty quickly. And I kind of really do like to get someone back to their pre-peak week weight that wasn't depleted. So this is someone that, you know, was eating at a maintenance level. I will bring them to just have, hey, the next day I want you just to do protein and veggies for four meals. And I give them some amounts, I hate 200 grams of whatever meat you choose, 200 grams of whatever vegetable you choose. And I just had one gentleman, I gave him like, you know, a fruit option of choice. So pick like 100 grams of one fruit that you'd like. Do that for two days. And the ideal thinGHere is get back to your normal water intake and sodium intake. Because a lot of people have asked like, how do I get this water off mEQuickly? It's like, it's time. It's still going to be there, but the best thing you can do is get back to being consistent with fluid and electrolyte balance. That means not adding in more sodium-laden foods and keeping your water intake regulated. Your kidneys will adapt and you'll regulate and fluid balance will be struck within a few days. Usually if I have people on protein and veggies for like two, usually two days, three days sometimes, I'll see that weight shift back down and then we can start bringing back in their start of what that post-show diet would be. For those that didn't have that happen, we're much quicker to be able to jump back into just their regular post-show diet of implementation, of what that might start as. But yeah, that, and I do tread lightly in that area because some people, that eating could be the binge restricting. And I don't want to put that out there that that is what I'm doing for those individuals of like, oh man, they ate terrible. I need to now restrict them. And you better go do cardio and it's a punishment. And if that has the psychology of someone, that's their history, there's just a different approach that's taken with that individual because that's happened. And I've seen people have eating disorders kick back up in this phase, especially body imagEQuickly getting distorted from their prep. And it's now a shift just to look at more sanity cueing and not focusing on like a success fail, whether they're eating what's measured out on their plate. It's more just eating based off of hand portions and looking, making sure they're trying to self-regulate now and not worrying about body image, more so looking at the subjective things we want for post-show around, hey, my energy improved today or my sleep's now improved. My trening's really good. Like these are the success things that we're looking for and taking away from the body image, the scale for those type of individuals. It could be a whole other podcast. It gets a little bit beyond the scope even of what some of us that are just doing the nutrition side should be working with. But so protein, veggies, pull water off, get back to baseline. For the client that is not in that scenario is a strategy that we can utilize. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the off-season? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from off-season to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I really like to try to get to the non-depleted pre-peak week weight. I think that's just such a nice goal to have for people because it also kind of sets that rate of gain chart at the point that you know they're not depleted. They're in a pretty good spot for those people that have been able to do the maintenance into the show. I will say the preps that are heavy weight cuts into a weight class or really brutal fat loss to the last-minute preps. I do kind of leave that wiggle room a little bit higher just because there is a debt to pay on the back end and I want to be able to pay it back so the performance starts moving. But it's still not very large. It's still a very small percentage of body weight that I'm allowing to kind of jump on because I'm still trying to swing them into an off-season that manages body composition better so that we don't have this prep again. It's like you don't want to swing them into high body fat where now the prep's a miracle prep all over again. A lot of times it's just preps that you pick up like you pick them up at the beginning of the prep or kind of mid-prep and you're just trying to get the job done and you're trying to teach them kind of what post-show should look like. It's a little bit tougher to manage, but I think it's a big thing in regards to creating better expectations that lead someone to a better outcome. And it's pretty easy to create buy-in. I don't know if you do this, John, but for the people who really struggle to get in shape, it's like this sucked. Prep's going to suck, but we can make it not suck this bad. Can you please just do this so that we don't have to do this again? And it kind of clicks. It's like, oh, yeah, okay. If I'm going to do this again, I don't want it to be the 50-pound prep. It's just like it's so brutal. Oh, you know, it's so true. The guys you see that are always coming in that's a little bit out of shape are usually the ones that just don't have any tools left to play on the back end of prep, right? Like food's already low, cardio's high, all the fat burners are in. It's like, man, what else can I do to get leaner? It's like have a successful post-show period and then you're able to get food up while staying lean and then you're going to have a much more successful next prep. That's not to say there's going to be miracle changes to your prep. Like likely for that individual that's genetically just always going to have a harder time getting down, it still will be, but it absolutely can improve and we've seen it improve for individuals. But it comes down to putting in the legwork earlier on and you cannot expect to continue to do the same post-show and off-season execution at this far down amateur level with pro-level outcomes. It has to be pro-level execution the whole way through before you're a pro. That's the kicker there. Like some of these pros get away with a lot. Assume that you can't and execute like a professional. That will fast-track you to be at that professional level, whatever that is looks like for you. But look at the guys that are even on the circuit now, like the genetic anomalies. They stay in great shape year-round. They are living out bodybuilding every single day year-round, the majority of them. And so as a less genetically blessed amateur, you're not going to be able to get away with more than these individuals if that is your goal. Because that's when people lay out like, hey, I want to go as far as I can in this. Well, here's what that looks like. And it means that that choice every day, that goal comes first, not the emotional driver of what's going to make me feel good. And that's where you have to really have that understanding. But yeah, to that point, Luke, you also brought up something around the weight cut athletes. And so someone might ask, what's a reasonable weight increase one week after the show? What are you kind of looking at here? And so I would say towards the top ring, you might have a 5% weight increase. And then it's going to trinkle down from there as you get towards someone that did not need to cut weight, that had to be extremely lean. Then even a smaller range from there is going to be the athletes that do not need to get stage, like peeled out stage lean. Talking about like bikini, something like this, fit model. Like you don't need to have a 5% weight increase when you didn't have to get that far below your set point. And so that might be far less from there. And then from there, we really slow it down. And have just a weight gain that maybe is 1% to 2% gain after that first week. Then from there, it slows down even more. And if I see you guys are doing well, at some point, four weeks post-show, we just kind of maintain that into the off-season push phase. And so if I can hold them there and keep them lean, I will. Such a good point. Like people expect every single week to be pushing weight up. It's like there's a point in that post-show phase where you're like, all right, we're good. Let's just keep it here. And like, let's just maybe slowly titrate cardio back a little bit more if we haven't gotten it all out yet. Like we're not fully at steps only or whatever. And let's get you to the off-season phase because that's where we're going to make the most progress, right? We're going to get into super physiological compound exposure. We're going to get into food starting to escalate up. And it's something that I've even, as long as health metrics look like they're in a good spot, like IMaybe plan to post-show phase a bit longer than I've actually needed knowing that, you know, they're kind of ready to go. I think something too, and I don't want to shift gears too much, but I think on the PED side of the equation, there is one or two things you can do to kind of help with this as far as like not getting too much fluid retention back and kind of plugging in how you go about plugging GH back in and kind of what PED strategy looks like. Do you want to touch on kind of some of that before we? Yeah, I know we've just been hitting some of the food pieces and everyone, there's a lot more to expand on even within nutrition on how to manage hunger within just this post-show, this initial week, right? And really those should be your first tools that you utilize. I realize like everyone's probably has on their mind in this current era, all the GLP-1, GIP, you know, and newer analogs like retotruotide and these are tools that can be utilized, that are being utilized. This is not the podcast for us to dive into those, but you need to build in the basics and knowing the skills of how to regulate this and not just mask it with more and more drugs. So, yeah, we have some other tools that are out there pharmacological-wise, but you need to be able to utilize the big tools and actually be a coach or be an athlete and execute the hard stuff. But anyway, with that being said, on the PED side, so what comes back in depends on what went out and why it went out. So, the assessment always takes place, which we have the individual that needs testosterone completely removed and needs growth hormone hormone hormone hormone completely removed because they're likely someone that was retaining a lot of water from it. So, bring that back in post-show can add a lot of fluid retention back in quickly as well. Now, the other individual might be that really grainy, hard guy that keeps tests and GHN the whole time and that might be someone you just continue into the post-show phase because nothing really needs to change. So, what comes back in and goes out should be assessed first. And so, for that individual that is more responsive, usually testosterone, I start up with like a TRT dose and leverage if they need something greater than that for post-show, usually, usually I have a lot of guys that are at least at the 300 milligram mark as a baseline, then the rest is made up with some other non-aromatizing anabolic. Then growth hormone hormone hormone hormone will start tapering back up from a hormone replacement level of like 2, 3 IU, something like that. For other minerals, I leverage it a lot. I use a lot of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone and we go right out the gates with it, but it's just very person-dependent with oral steroids gone if they've been utilized. There's just no role for them in the post-show phase. A lot of times of the post-show phase is trying to set up for your off-season head. If we continue to accrue total stress load and organ systems that we're already trying to pay back debt for, eight weeks later when we're post-show, are you thinking you're going to be ready to push up more gear? No. So those need to come out now. Let's let food and already waking that's occurring drive trening performance up. It's going to. trening's going to skyrocket. So this should be the lowest gear use in my opinion and with the exception that I do can get away with a lot of growth hormone hormone hormone from during this phase to help with mitigating some of the fat accrual. Yep. On the same piece around fat gain are the fat loss drugs that have been utilized with, you know, your main one usually Climbuterol. Yep. Depending on where you were at and if that had come out yet on peak week or not, I start tapering that down a little bit to not have such a big drop in output so I can keep food a little higher to manage the hunger side of the equation. With thyroid, usually T4 is left in until you're in a position where you're in a better spot to actually restorecomplete thyroid function, which you need body fat on you basically. But T3 is out because T3 is very suppressive to that thyroid axis. So, that is usually the strategy I utilize. For some guys, T4 is going to stay in year round anyway at this point. But those would be some major ones that would be changed back to TRT with some anabolic alongside, growth hormone hormone hormone hormones tapering back up, fat loss agents are tapering down, oral steroids are out, and that then sets like, kind of set up for our post-show phase. Yeah, and I would kind of concur with all of that. The only thing is with the fluid retentive individual is being a bit patient with growth hormone hormone hormone hormones sometimes. Like, especially if they're pretty fluid retentive, like, IMight not even plug it in the first week back, like, let them hit a reset point and then slowly taper it back in, like, start around two IUs and then move them back up as I can to their, but then you have people like Alex this past weekend had eight IUs going into the whole peak week. It's like, it's like he's so lean and dry, it's like I needed it to help him stay full. So, it's so individual dependent and not to pivot too hard, but I don't want to go too long. I think the most valuable thing you can restore is your day-to-day routine. I don't want to spend too long on this, but like the basics, it's like so simple. A night routine, a morning routine, consistent wake times, consistent sleep times. Like, if you did your prep appropriately, you have these structures already in place, know what they are, and your sleep quality should start to improve over time across the post-show phase. We need to leverage this and not just let the fact that we finished contest prep, let those go out the window because people get the freedom of being out of prep, and then they start to let those just drop. And I think with nutrition adherence, you can pair the sleep routine and scheduling right alongside it into how important it is to make this phase be successful. Yeah, absolutely. Once meals start shifting around, trening shifting around, that's when meals gets missed, and oh, well, let me put in something big at the end of the day, then that kind of rolls in the next day, and you might not have the same type of drive to eat or exaggerated drive to eat. the routine piece is huge. On that note as well is the cardio output side. And for a lot of people, those routines help as well. Like, hey, I get up every day and I put in 3,000 steps right off the get, or maybe you get up for the day and you do your cardio, and that's something that kind of sets your pace to already feel like a successful day. keep those things in. For the immediate post show, almost always the day after the show, I say take a full rest day. It's okay, buddy. A lot of people are fired up to go tren, they go tren legs, it's been a week. When you've been on stage posing, and if you had any fluid manipulation done, you're in a pretty high risk state for injury, or had lots of guys I've seen get rhabdo, myolysis, from just putting out way too much effort and breaking down a ton of tissue. The best time to tren legs is not the day after your show, typically. Tell people, hey, get your steps in, get outside, do something you enjoy, don't tren, don't worry about cardio, let's pick it up the day after that. So, Saturday show, Sunday rest day, Monday, let's get back to it. And that's when, depending on who it is, if I've had guys where cardio has already been pulled out, I won't start with cardio the first week, I will taper it back in over those weeks to then when we're in the offseason, it's like their baseline. For people that have had it throughout, that's something that I'll probably already keep in at a baseline, and then steps will typically be moderate, but have already come down a little bit from their pre-prep. If I have someone less than 12,000 steps a day, to me, that's very livable. So, that might serve as a baseline for a bit, and it allows you to eat a little bit more food during this time if you are struggling. The issue is when people just now, cardio is done, I can sit around all day, but I'm going to be eating more, and output drops, input largely increases, and you're going to be in a very bad position quickly. So, stay active, that's part of the routine piece of what Luke brought up, and it's going to allow you to have a very good high energy flux, and have an intake that supports trening, that's going to help you aid with hunger more, than having that low energy flux of sitting around and having to eat less food, but likely you're just eating more food anyway. So, so, keep the movement going. Anything you want to touch on around trening coming back in, Luke? Yeah, I'm, I approach this a bit different for different people. I like people to have fun the first week. IMean, they've been, people, most people love trening, like that's why they do bodybuilding in the first place, right? Especially my little group of people, like they're just freaking trening nerds. So, like, I'll let them follow, like, their plan they had beforehand with flexibility. I'll be like, use your volume landmarks from each session for kind of the trening leading into peak week. Try some new movements, let me know what you like, how you feel, those kinds of things, have some fun. Don't tren to failure the first two to three sessions, and then we'll kind of get into the new programming after that. And that's usually because, like, I have a debrief with them after the show. Like, most people I work with, I'll do a debrief on, like, what we did well, what we didn't do well, where are we at relative to class standards for the level you'recompeting at and what needs to happen across this all season, and then present the new program design with them as we kind of go across that. So, I really just want them to have fun again. Like, just restoring that fun in the process of trening is huge. And I think it's one of the things that if we can restore that fun, then it's pretty important. Now, I do have some people that are very type A, and they're like, progress starts today and they haven't even finished show day. And it's like, okay, maybe that person, I have their program to them like immediately post-show, but like, before the debrief, right? But it's kind of person-dependent, but I really, my preference is to get people to have fun again with trening. Yeah, and even the type A person, right? Like, that, that they're already getting back to fun by seeing the trening laid out. Yeah. And so, yeah, for those people, I feel like I need to protect a little bit, and I do try to plan out like, okay, this is the program that would improve you, but just add in one extra rest day. Yeah. And just to spread out their volume a bit, and then once for post-show, I can pull that rest day, and that's kind of what I would actually be running. Yeah. Some people are really hard to do that with, as they want to tren like every day, and they're that excited for it. I think that's really when you need to weigh out is this what you want or what you need? Because I've trened six days a week, and I love to tren, but that's not the best for me. This past prep, I stopped trening legs twice a week, and I've been a lot better for it. And so you do have to start weighing those things out. In prep, you're kind of driven and blinders on and wanting to do a lot of things that might not be the best for you, even though it seems like workinGHarder is getting more results. So for some individuals, yeah, I plan out trening with just that in mind to try to just have some saving graces in their form without them even knowing it, because I know they'll benefit from more rest than just trening more any time, because they're going to tren hard enough. Yeah, 100%. 100%. I think that's... But anyway, I think that covers a lot of the nuts and bolts and the psychology around this immediate post-show phase. Again, it's such an important part, the immediate right after what you do. and why I've seen so many athletes being able to make traumatic progress. When this is done right and they execute it like a prep, and it's almost like, hey, in eight weeks post-show, you have another show to do. Like, you're doing the Olympia. You're like, all right, well, how would you treat your post-show phase if that was the case? And then eight weeks later, when you're walking onto your Olympia stage, it's the start of your off-season and you're going to be super productive now. So, you know, always have your big picture goal in mind and map out your timelines, which is what we love to do. Because when I do this, like, immediately post-show for athletes, and we'll look, all right, what are we looking at? Let's do the same show next year. We map out eight weeks post-show, they need another, whatever, 16-week prep, eight weeks before that for a pre-prep phase, and then you're left with only 16 weeks of off-season. You're like, oh, there is no time to waste. Yeah, so look at your timelines, because you'll quickly realize weeks are not that long, and they quickly add up to months, and all of a sudden, you're back into your contest prep. So make the most of your first seven days post-show. Thank you all for tuning in, and we'll talk to you next time. See you next

=== FILE: 🎙️Between shows done right ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep. 188 [miP9tqj1NLM].txt ===

 The abordings, on that assessment that took place. This is course with the goal of improving from your first show and not focusing on the wrong things and bringing in a similar or even a worse look. Luke, how are you doing today? Pretty good, man. Peak show season. Doing this a lot with people doing a few shows kind of back to back. So the peak refinement process is an interesting one because the visuals get a little bit fluid. They do like to kind of move kind of show to show. And so it's pretty important what you do immediately post show to kind of make sure that you're landing that peak for the next one in a pretty good spot. So I'm excited to dive into this one. Yeah, I think our first step here in this process, and if you're coming off stage yourself, is to be able to, of course, look back at your past peak week data and what you were able to bring to stage. And you can, of course, do this yourself looking at your stage picks or even comparatively, like I like to look at kind of the last final check-in photos before going to stage and how that trenslated to stage. And then also even the same check-in time, like for instance, if I was going on stage around 2 p.m. and I had a check-in at 12 the day before when I was practicing that peak around 12, like did I actually get pretty close to look I was aiming for or not? And retrospectively, when you look back, you might see like, oh, you know what? I was a little bit flat here or I should have been, I was a little too full. But I think the main thinGHere is that you are able to look objectively at stage picks and judging feedback can be a great tool. And I think we have some great judges in our midst right now that can give you good feedback on where they saw the errors, whereas they're the ones that are looking straight on at you in real time in 3D, not based on 2D images or even photos that might distort what I was actually seeing in person. I see that a lot too. Like you get your stage photos back. You're like, gosh, did I really, really look like that? And maybe you were more nailed than what you thought you were. Yeah. I think, I think really the biggest thing too, is like making sure when you're trying to look at stage photos that you look at high resolution ones, I hate the cell phone pictures. Like I get it. Like when you're at the show and you just want somEQuick photos, like just to post up or whatever, like thEQuick cell phone photos are fine. But like for an actual assessment, it's not what we're going to need in order to be able to create kind of a comparison chart of what actually needs to improve. And because it's like one of the biggest things like, like someone that needs to get a little bit sharper between shows using cell phone pictures, thinking that they don't, it's because like that cell phone picturEQuality makes you look a little bit sharper. Right. So, um, there's, there's some, some big details in regards to making sure that you get as high quality photos as you can, but man, nothing beats being in person. Um, and I really think it's, it's important to make sure that portion of the assessment process is handled well. To, to your point on that, like I've had people post up there or send me even their like cell phone pic photos in on as an individual and you're like, all right, well, how'd you look on the same playing field of photos amongst everyone else? So we go to like the NPC news website, look at the comparisons and find the guy that was like really, really in shape under that same crappy lighting or photos that maybe took place and be like, Oh, see, they were a lot more in shape. And that's on that even playing field of photography and lighting, you look soft in that lineup. And so maybe, maybe that's something to go about. If you don't have like awesome photos, at least compare amongst your lineup to see if condition was something that you were getting docked for. Then of course, from the muscularity side, you can compare amongst your class too. And that's something that could be a little easier to see, but I think just don't look at yourself as an individual because you could look very, very good. But when you start getting exposed and what it matters is how you fare amongst people that you stand next to. I think it also is important if you are getting judges feedback to be able to discern what sometimes that terminology might be because sometimes you might hear a lot of times you need to be fuller or you need to be drier. And I think these are two that arEQuite easily misinterpreted. And you know, they're thrown out from a judge as they don't know what your check-in photos were like leading up to the show and what your level of muscularity was or level of body fat. They easily could be using those terms when that's not the thing to necessarily address root cause. So a lot of times you might hear you need to be drier being that assuming like, oh, I should cut more water. I was holding water when almost nine times out of 10, I would say, if you hear the dryer, just assume you need to get leaner because almost everyone I see on stage, it's usually a body fat issue. So if you, that can make things very, very clear for you, I think. Um, also if someone says, Hey, you need more fullness and X body part. That usually just means you need to add more muscle on. It's not that you need to carb up more strategically or you underdid the carbs. Usually it's add more muscle. Now that's not always the case. Um, again, that's where you start have to like look at photos and look to see if you were lighter on stage and not as conditioned as your check-in photos. And potentially that was mean you were a little flat and could be fuller. Uh, but that condition had to be there beforehand when you were in, see it not trenslated to stage. Uh, same thing goes with the, the dryer piece. So if you were conditioned before going on stage, looked hard and then you were heavier and softer on stage, likely you got a little too full. And in turn were a little spilled and potentially that looked like you were holding water. So I think that gives you at least some idea framework of visuals you should be looking at. And based on that is where we should start saying what needs to happen next. 100%. We made some, like we made some great kind of step-by-steps on like the specifics of how every single potential process could look like between shows, like in the coursework. But, um, one of the big ones that I see is like stringing along shows for a national qualifier, let's say, and you're showing up to your regional, maybe not a hundred percent, knowing that you're showing up 90, 95% just to kind of get your qualification and move on. One of the biggest things if fat needs to come off from like that show is making sure one, that you have enough time on the timeline to finish the dieting process, which is where we're going to be looking at the rate of loss you ran into the original show. And then the amount of time that you have left between that show and the next show. And then secondarily, um, making sure that you get back to like homeostasis as quick as possible. Um, one of the worst things you could do when you have more fat to come off is to go celebrate. In my opinion, um, I understand like the desire to like have food off plan or celebrate with friends and family. And, and I get that, but when we have a job to finish, like we really need to finish the job because like one night of eating could set you back a week and a half pretty easily. Um, and it's, it's one of the hardest things to keep control with an athlete. Who's not like fully clicked on most of the fully clicked on athletes. It's, it's not a problem. They know what the role of the first show is for the second show. Right. But, um, it's, it's kind of the two biggest things in regards to checking your rate of loss into the first show, matching that to how much time you have between the second, the first and the second show. And then also making sure you get back to homeostasis so you can get back to doing your job. And those are two, I almost feel like I need to reiterate those points because they're, they are that important and people don't get that timeline. Um, and I, to, to the celebration meal, I, IMean, just between myself and likely for you, Luke, I feel like if I was out of shape on stage, there's nothing to be celebrated. Exactly. I, I'm, I'm going to have lettuce for my celebration for my punishment meal. No, just kidding. But anyway, Luke has excellent points here. Like you need to get directly on a plan. If you have more fat to, to, to allow us to happen. And this is even more so to a point, if you don't have a lot of weeks between your show, because, uh, um, a meal out, I've seen meals out where people, it takes them a week to get back to their baseline. That's one week lost that you could be pulling off more body fat. And then to Luke's point as well, what do you, you know, looking back at what was the rate of fat loss that you could achieve with the deficit that you had available to you? If you're able to drop off one pound per week, this comes down to math, right? If it looks like you're on stage and you have four more pounds to pull off to actually be stage lean, you need four weeks of active dieting time from that baseline weight you went into peak week from that's not counting. If you went out and had food off plan as well, cause that just adds additional weeks. So now you have four weeks of fat loss on top of a peak week. So that might look like five weeks. So we basically need to re-engineer the timeline and reverse engineer it, work backwards and make sure that you can pull down in time. The, the thing that some might look at is like, if I have, well, I need four weeks of diet time. I have seven weeks between the show. How should I handle that? And I would be more apt that if I was not in shape for the first show that I rather get there sooner and be able to feed up into the next show as that's just a better position than feeding when you're not in shape yet. And then maybe potentially still running out of time if you weren't able to manage your timeline in the first place. So if you're in that situation, keep dieting first, then you'll have the luxury of coasting in with low fatigue and more food into that next show. Yeah. Just get it done. Like just get it done. Get it over with. Like one of my pet peas is like the fear of like losing tissue, being ready early. It's like, how are you going to lose tissue if you're pulling back cardiovascular activity, giving yourself more food and helping support trening performance, leading into like you're literally doing everything to drive tissue retention at that point. So just get it over with, like get the fat loss done and then coast and get some peak data. Yeah. Yeah. Losing tissues, running out of time and having to race it off at the end. So that, that is the worst case there. Then there is, you know, what you need to do post show, uh, should be reflected in your PD changes. Like, so if you need more fat loss to happen and have continuing diet time with lower recovery capacity, what you change PD wise is going to reflect that. So you're going to have to have still in anabolics at a dosage level that allows you to maintain that tissue. Uh, likely you're still going to have in fat loss agents that support that deficit that you needed, but that would flip then if that is not the goal anymore. Post, post show, uh, same goes for, I don't think we need to dive into the nuts and bolts of it, but the nutrition side, the cardio side, like all those is going to be going towards what is the next goal you need to achieve for this show. If fat loss is what needs to happen around that. 100%. Um, I think that covers more fat loss between shows though. I think, no, I think it does. I think our next thing that would come up, it'd be, what if you nailed the look at your show? What do you do then celebration meal all out? Preferably not. Um, again, it, some of it's going to depend like how much time you have between shows like, um, like I'll give an example, Alex Kaylee did Toronto and then his next show wasn't until Vancouver and he nailed it for Toronto. And we had like, I think it was seven weeks or eight weeks between Toronto and Vancouver, something like that. So it was like, yeah, like go have a meal. Like we'll get back to dieting, get it back down. And then we'll be able to kind of start letting off the gas quite a bit. We had already let off the gas quite a bit leading into Toronto. Um, but it's, it's largely kind of contextual to that. I would say sub, sub two weeks. I'm, I'm really not wanting that to happen. Like if it's a two week time period, like we need to get back to diet plan, kind of wash off anything that may have happened from the loading, hit the reset button and then get back to it. And more than likely your base plan is going to be higher food, lower cardio. And like, that's just kind of your celebration. My opinion. I think if you are, thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results, along with our comprehensive physique curriculum. You'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Newer with an athlete as a coach or newer as an athlete to the process. And you don't know what to expect or haven't seen your response to certain foods. That would definitely be the safe bet to go with like, yeah, for my, like for myself, when you go for myself, don't do what I do. I have, I have one week between Tampa and Texas. Right. So I was in shape after the show. I went ahead, sushi, like two rolls, no sauce of fish, rice. That's it. Um, and then I had like some, I think it was a quarter cup of ice cream. Like I could, I could fit this little Ben and Jerry's thing, like in, in like the palm of my hand. So that was it. The next day I, I, in two days following, I'm already at baseline. Like there was no impact because that day of the show, I only ate two meals. So there's context there that I was, you know, you know, didn't consume nearly the calories that I normally would for the day and had a very small meal relative to what I normally consume. And I know my response. That's the thing. That's the kicker. I know my response. So safe thing, do what Luke said. If you just don't have a lot of time between your show, just go back to your base plan. Um, and then you can post show when it's truly post show time, have your meal, you can see your response and then you can kind of learn as you go from there. Yeah. Um, but, uh, the thinGHere is, you know, two is with, if you have nailed the look, um, you essentially could be coasting into that next show. Uh, and, but I would say like, are there areas where you still can be improvement in refining your peaking process? That's when you also be refining your posing that could be on stage. Like where, where shots, are you able to improve? Um, this might be a situation where you are going to be able to come in fuller because you're not coming off that completely dieted down state. So you might be able to push that fullness variable a little harder, potentially. Um, a lot of people, we kind of aim to be conservative on the first show. And then if able, able to push that up and some people keep pulling down and getting even a little leaner into the next show with more food. If you're in a leaner state, you will have more ability to have a greater weight range to where you can stay conditioned and get fuller. So you very well can improve in that variable too. Um, as far as adding muscle on, don't let that, uh, take you to do things that you shouldn't do in your programming because your ability to add tissue on, even if you had eight weeks between a show is so, so limited. Um, IMean, if, if you even added a pound of muscle on like, wow, you're, you're amazing. Uh, but likely it's going to be a change of like glycogen and water fullness that's coming about if there is a significant change in some stage weight. So with that being said, this is still not the time to like rework your trening split up. A judge gave you feedback that you need to bring up some body part, still save that for the offseason. Um, because that's just not the time and you don't have the ability to really drive that type of change to occur. So don't let that misguide you into digging yourself into a hole, trying to bring up certain body parts. Um, that's, that's, I would be a big thing to add on to the, the trening piece. Yeah. And I think it's like, I think more what you're looking for with those longer time durations between shows is potentially some sort of recomp of some sort where you kind of have that more flexibility on the peaking. Um, sometimes that comes with like, you know, it's, it's happened like the accidental lows where you're just like kind of coasting on your plan and you just kind of wake up one day, like two and a half pounds lighter. And it's like, oh, okay, like we can handle more food and plug that in. And then you kind of bring them back up and it looks even better than what they did when they were there before the new low. Right. So, um, it's an interesting dynamic to manage. I think really the biggest thing is maintaining recovery capacity, not trying to push volume on the trening side, especially like one of the worst things you could do would be to try to step on the gas, trying to recomp and like get more trening volume in and make your peaking process tougher. Like that's where I could see you making some pretty big mistakes. The other thing that I would be testing too, if you had this scenario was like higher growth hormone hormone hormone, um, tend to find that like with the peaking process, you can tolerate it a bit more. Um, once you're already there and you're kind of spending time there. So like, and I'll just use Alex as an example. I think we had, we had four IUs going into Toronto, but we had eight in for Vancouver. It's like just so much more fullness could be maintained. And as a result, like the loading process for Vancouver was a lot less food, um, because he has to make weight. So we like, we kind of like hold off a bit during the week until he makes weight. And then we kind of just kind of go into the show. Um, and so those are like the small variables that I'm looking at on those long breaks. If you didn't nail it with the first one is like titrating up and down some of those small things to make peaking as easy as possible. Yeah. Even on the gear side, like if you were using agents better for muscle retention, like running some tren balloon into your first show, which is great to retain tissue and you're, you got lean and now you can have more food in place post-show. You don't need to die anymore. Well, you don't really need, need have the role for trim balloon anymore. Like pull that out less cumulative organ stress could likely improve sleep potentially. And that's just going to lead to a better fresher physique as well. Uh, same thing goes with oral steroids, especially long-term. Oh yeah. So a lot, a lot of those are used just acutely in the last stages of prep to retain tissue and trening performance. Food is going to be your biggest driver of trening performance. So if that's up and you've been in shape, you can really go ahead and pull those out. So a lot of times you might see someone just on a test base and some type of one other anabolic agent and some growth hormone hormone hormone leading into their next show, which sets them up for a great post-show period because they haven't had to run the gauntlet for another eight weeks into their, their next show. So again, what you need for stage dictates what you have to do PD wise. So I think a lot of people have like, well, what I ran into the first show to give me that look is what I have to keep doing. And that's just looking at it the wrong way is that this should still keep evolving because this next phase is still going to be a different environment and different needs than this last phase. So you should adjust those things accordingly. Same thing goes with use of a fat loss agent, for instance, like clingbuterol. So if you don't need to create more deficit, you don't probably need clingbuterol anymore. And there is a balance to strike there, of course, with like how much cardio to how much food, how much fat loss agent trying to create that sweet spot ratio to where cardio is not that fatiguing. You have enough food for fuel trening, but also you're not using so much fat burner that's impacting, uh, sleep. Right. So, and you know, Luke said something that might've thrown some people for a loop that he was able to use less food in peak week. And I think a lot of people always think more food is better for, for dieting to shows or for even loading, especially. And I'll tell you right now, like less food is better for a lot of reasons. Uh, for one, you need to be able to control your waste on stage. Uh, more food creates more variability as well. So if you, you know, you can peak on less food, I would, I would take that over needing to load even more food and having someone get away from you. Uh, in that sense. Yeah. I look at it as like the low food peak is the stable peak. Like I've gotten them to a place that's a lot of stability. So it's like, it's easy to get them in that range and hold them there. And that's like, so ideal. It's like, let's show runs on time besides the pros where they'll like stop the show and put them on stage. Right. But like, yeah, it's just, it makes it so easy to manage. And you know, I feel like that is the, the main thing of going to your next show, but I think there's a thing to learn too, from that first peak is time management within just show day itself. And you'll quickly learn doing this, that it's so variable with show times and even how long you might be out there and trying to take that look that you found and land that in the moment. And the more variability you're peaking strategy is what IMean by that. If you're using diuretics and cutting water and you've found just this cusp riding the line of the look that could fall off at any moment, you're more likely to fall off when you have a timeline that could get stretched. I see this, especially for pro shows, right? Like for Tampa, there's like 21 competitors, right? We all get like a one minute posing time for an individual. That's 21 minutes just for that part of the show. That doesn't count like your comparisons that come first, then your call outs, then confirmation of some call outs easily, easily. That's an hour. Can you hold that for an hour? If you have some peak that created just you're on the line of tipping at any moment, most guys will fade out and you see that happen. So it's a better peaking process that you'll learn this, that you can find a greater stability in your look with less variable manipulation. And it may be that line that you found of like, you know, the more variable peak does create a better look, but it's for like a 1% gain that could fall off to a 20% loss at any moment. And that's not worth it. So to, to further the point here, it's like coming from like the Tampa show, I kind of realized that not that I do vast variability changes, but that it's better to go in a little fuller, like for myself and be able to sustain that. Yeah. Cause once I get flat, it's my look fades. So a long posing time is going to be more impactful. Now that, that is that the pro level. So when you're at the amateur level, uh, you're going to have shorter stage time for sure, but you're going to have much more variability when you go on stage because they just kind of push amateurs around as you need to for the timeline. Um, for, for pros, it's like, we'll start here. However, it might go for a long time. So I think those are things that you should be picking up on is, uh, is, is the acute timeline of the show and realizing that you're trying to get someone to a look that you can hold them pretty consistently without having to do a lot. And that's a part of the big goal that we, Luke and I try to find is this, this kind of body weight range where someone can look really good. What's the top end and the bottom end of that. And so it would be a safer to say, to go put them into the show at the top end. And then as they go through the rounds or if the show goes long, if they even trensition to the bottom end of this weight range, where they still look really solid, they're still good on stage. Yeah. And so that's, uh, that, that is our, our peak week and what we're trying to find. So a second peak just furthers, allows you to refine that process. Um, and I think a lot of that process has to, and Luke and I will go on and on to about being relatively meticulous with your data collection. So you can actually look back at this stuff and you have the pictures that match with the meals and how much fluid you had with those meals. So you can actually compare things. And, uh, you know, I always tell people, I just collect as much data as you need to be able to do your job. Uh, nothing in excess. So, but there, there is going to be more than what's probably needed. That's been done in the past from, from old ways of coaching. Um, because I, I've left shows with like, we, we got to look on stage, but we don't really know how we got there. We have nothing to really look back on to make decisions off of. So that's why I like Luke and I, we have our peak week trackers. It's something we give out to you in J three level one. So you have those available. You'll learn how to use them as well to where you can look back in your peaks and be able to make some decisions and keep actually improving. 100%. I, I, I think when we think about this, like if in doubt, like always default to the data, like, and I don't want to bring up a point that he just brought up again, it's just like, it's so objective and it's so reliable. Like it's, it, it always tells you the truth. And like, I, I even for like Emily King, like she's on her fourth show in a row. And it's like, I keep going back to data from Austin, which was like four weeks ago. And like comparing that to now, because I'm getting weights that look better now than they did then. And it's like, am I blind or am I, what am I seeing? Right. And so, man, it's so important to keep track of that stuff because you can just do so many comparisons and confirm or deny what you're seeing actually in front of you. Yeah. And a lot of this you'll, you'll find too, that to really improve your process, you just need consistent photos and you'll, I'll have a video coming out on my YouTube on, on the Tampa weekend of how to do this. So I show exactly what my setup is for taking photos and being consistent with those photos. These aren't my Instagram photos that are going to like, wow, these are going to look so cool. These are ones that I can have consistent lighting on and good assessment off of. So being able to do that when you set up your hotel and taking things with you, like whatever lights you need or tripod and, uh, you know, good quality camera, like all those things are important. Like I gave up on using the cell phone, uh, like on show show weeks and for show days and stuff. Cause it's just, the iPhones are a mess for distortion. Yeah. So I just, I bring my actual, like I have a Canon R seven or R eight that I use. Um, and I'll, I'll take with that quickly drop wifi to my phone and can look at picks. It's not a big deal. Um, a little bit of cost investment, but for how much I put into bodybuilding, it's worth it. Get yourself a good camera. You don't need a, you don't need anything even fancy, just something beyond what the iPhone can do and not auto correct your, uh, your photos and leave you look at weird highlighted Shane or something. So I think that wraps it up for today. What we got next week. Yeah. Next week. Uh, well, since we've, we've been nailing these peak weeks and post and post show initial phases will be, uh, the art of the rebound. So we're going to extend beyond we're doing multiple shows and talk about how do you build after the show, harness that anabolic rebound and go from there. Love it. Thank you everyone for tuning in and we will talk to you next week.

=== FILE: 🎙️Peak Week Secrets： What most get wrong ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸  Ep 185 [SzHt1RwW6Eo].txt ===

 geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez bread and butter of what we really shine for in J3U of creating a methodical approach that takes back control of your peak week and stops rolling the dice or the diazide or whatever you want to gamble with and gives you a structured framework to create decisions that lead you to on show day being able to execute a plan and not just hoping to wake up looking reasonable for stage. So Luke and I are going to kind of walk through a few of these things that really stand out mistakes made and how to rectify those mistakes. So let's jump in Luke. How are you doing? A lot of peak week happening for you too. I know this won't come out for a while but we're already four pro cards deep this year with the team so that's a nice feeling. It's a nice feeling. I think one of the biggest things that's underlooked when you look at how we manage these variables is how come the coach can stay knowing what's going to happen. The way that you manage yourself and react to things and provide feedback to the client can largely affect their stress input or their stress output as well. And when you have it set up like we do and you fully know you can move the physique whatever direction you want based on the decisions you make, it makes life so much less stressful and calm and you don't like affect the client negatively. And I think that's an overlooked aspect of this. It's not even on our sheet for today but like before you dive into the nuts and bolts of how to run a peak week, it's like man, it's so important to just execute as a coach and not affect the client negatively. And by doing it this way, you can do that. No, that's very true. Like when I was first competing and getting exposed to peak week by other coaches, you know, you get to this point where you're like, all right, you look like you're ready. And then it's like, all right, peak week starts here. And I was so excited for peak week because for one, it was kind of mystified in that something amazing was going to be happening. Um, I, yet to have things go like terribly wrong for me. Uh, that was later to come to where there was a point then too, where you're like, man, all right, how do I figure out this peak week? Once mistakes had been made, I'd seen those to where peak week was no longer kind of an excitement thing. It was like, how do you not mess it up these, these last few days. And that created a lot of stress around me trying to assess and figure it out. And what should I do? What should I, I not do? And now like, you know, fast forward with, with our clients, it's almost kind of lackluster when you get to your peak week, because it's like, all right, you're looking ready. We're, we're starting to reverse the process and there's not going to be this big radical change that most of us are, are making it all. And I think that can open the eyes of a lot of clients. Cause I get a lot of clients that they want the radical thing, right. I'm like, here we go. Like, this is when I'm going to like really mutate and it's, it's not there, but I've said so many people when you're kind of leading into this peak week and we're looking at the various looks and you're like, you could walk on stage just like this. And they're like, yeah, that would be awesome. And then we see that every single day to where by the time we do it up on, on show day, it's a very controlled thing. And they're confident in what they're bringing. They've already seen like glimpses of that. And so I think it does remove a lot of the stress and also just the planning piece for them. Cause I know it shows there's a lot kind of going maybe in depth of what we might be discussinGHere, but there's a lot of outside variables that could change, right? Like scheduling. And when you have a, a program protocol, that's already moving parts on top of a moving schedule, it just feels like there's a loss of control on the client side. So if we have like a plan that's already been pretty figured out when the environment starts changing or things shift around, it's not as dynamically alarming for the client either, but yeah, anyway, not you're, you'recompletely right. I think that's a great framework of the improving the psychological stress reduction that can take place. But, you know, I think this gets into the real role, right? Peak week is refining and not getting to a fixing point of view, which sometimes it happens. But I think if you want to kind of lead us away, Luke on, you know, what is our overarching framework goal of what we're looking to peak week when we have getting that client skinned out, they're lean, they're ready. What should that look like from there? Yeah. So for me, it's, it's a matrix system, right? It's like, how can I keep these variables as consistent as possible to produce a change in the physique that I want to see to move it towards the target look? Um, and a lot of times that matrix is like X amount of food, X amount of fluid will hold weight, X amount of food, X amount of fluid will jump weight, X amount of fluid, X amount of food will pull weight down. Um, and you do this kind of based off like how things go throughout the peak week and you kind of understand where that's at. And we have some, some fun stuff coming out for y'all soon, kind of centered around this. But a lot of times it's, you don't, you want to avoid some of the classical errors of like panic button changes. So panic button changes are going to be like massive refeeds or trying to plug in a ton of food last minute or overcutting water. Cause you're worried about someone being a little bit full or spilled over, um, these last minute changes type of things. And if you have this matrix that I build for every client going into a peak week, what ends up happening is you can assess where the client's at. You can know when they have to go on stage and you know where you need them to be the night before bed. And this comes from weight tracking through the week. Um, if any of you guys have seen my chart, I have a chart that does like a fasted, a post-workout slash time around stage weight, and then a pre-bed weight. And I track that all week. I know where they need to go to bed. I know where they need to wake up. And I know based on where they wake up, what food amount is going to jump them or hold them based on where they wake. So even if they wake up a bit fuller, a pound heavier, no panic. I just go to the lower side of the matrix. Right. And, and building this matrix, I think is the big thing. And I think if we can start to build the matrix, then you just have so much control. Absolutely. Because hopefully they don't figure out they could take the red or blue pill and escape the matrix back into past. Sorry. I just had to plug that, um, or take both pills. Um, anyway, no, you're right. Like I do, I do the same thing, obviously doing the same thing. Uh, but we, we give you all this in the J three level one, we have our peak week lectures and we, we give you a lot of these tools that we're talking about, but around that time, seven, 10 days out, I shoot this over to my clients that lay out. It's, you know, like a sheet document day by day. It'll have different body weights that I want tracked. And with those body weights, I'm getting their visuals too. So I'm, I usually want to fasted like a post-workout a lot of times. I'll do like a pre last meal and then a last meal, uh, the pre bed as a start point. So I can see some various looks throughout the day. And then I'll also have like their diet in there. I'll lay out the trening. So they're going to know ahead. Cause a lot of people bring up, what should I tren on this day? Or I'm traveling on this day. So like that's already mapped out fluids are in sodium are documented on this. So every day I can see like what's being done, their steps as well. And then we have another document too, that once we get even closer to the show, we'll break this out meal by meal. So we'll have, I'll have a chart by weights by meal pre 30 minutes before every meal. I'll have their fluids laid out. Like Luke's talking about, like we want this all to be consistent on the same page here. So if you're doing six and a half liters per day, I have in this document, like before meal one, 500 mils with meal one X amount between each meal, this amount. So we know exactly the consistency that needs to happen to be able to be repeatable day to day and assess these visuals. And that starts the framework to be able to then have the data to make these decisions and without makinGHasty decisions. And I think that's where we would get into these classic errors is where they come from is not having this matrix present to where you don't have a clear of us understanding of why a change happened. And then you're reactive to that change potentially for the wrong way. Example of this, the, the panic refeed, you have a client, they wake up two days out. Let's say they have a two and a half pound weight drop. Oh no. Like they're, they're getting like, and maybe even their way for that day is not coming up as high. Like they're starting to like speed up. I need to put more food in. And that's when you have like, well, what would I be doing for the refeeds? Well, I'll do, I'll repeat that. Then one day out, they wake up even, even spilled. You're like, Oh no, I shouldn't have done that refeed. That was way too much. Now you're clening them up on one day out. And if you had this matrix and you can look back on how their weight was changing throughout the day, three days out, then also looking back over their diet of what maybe you changed, you could have a clear picture to assess and create a proper protocol. I have people that drop like this, you know, over overnight. And a lot of times it's cause we like made a fiber adjustment. Um, and you know, that's documented. And then we have about BMs happen or whatever it may be to where I can clearly say, here's where that weight drop came from. And this is the decision. Sometimes that might be more food. Other times it's do nothing. And we just had a, that weight range we work in for what we want for the look, just adjust down now. And we have a new fasting starting point. So that's like part of where we see some reactivity of like increasing more food. Uh, same thing goes the opposite of the spectrum, right? Look like we have someone wake up heavier and they look softer. And a lot of times like, Oh man, okay, well we need to start maybe one day out. We should probably pull water or it might prompt the diuretic use. Yeah. It's like, well, if you can't say like, why, why did their weight jump? And that root issue should be the one that you're addressing over symptom chasing. And that's what we don't want to be doing on peak week. We always want root cause and address that versus just the side effects. Because if you're addressing side effects, that root cause could very well still be working the background and you could be compounding the problem. So the matrix begins the matrix, all of this process. I think there's a component of this and I see these mistakes made kind of throughout the last portion of the peak is like the assessment piece is not done very well because they don't understand that the matrix that they may have built is not truly religious to those body weights. Like you got to take into account like the fatigue drop and the fiber drop and knowing that we're going to drop some GI weight. And the worst one is when you go get the tan. And we all know this, like you take the natty photos when you're like pale and you got the sunlight coming in and you look shredded and it's just like, you can see everything. And then you go get your coats of tan on and you're in some crappy hotel lighting and it's dark outside. So you're like doing the hallway lighting or, um, you know, even your ring light that you have isn't quite bright enough for the consistent setup for check-in photos that you typically do. And coaches then react to that because of the layers of tan that are on there and makes you look dull. It looks dull. Right. And so this is another thing that it's like sticking to your guns. Like when you do this and you build out this matrix, instead of being reactive, like you can know, okay, this weight is ideal. It's exactly where he was yesterday. And I know that if I just keep down this path, he's going to go to bed at this way and he's going to wake up here and I'm going to have a physique on stage. It's perfect. And I need to not react to the fact that somebody got one, two, three layers of tan on and just doesn't have enough lighting to show it. And I can't tell you how many times, like you get excited for clients and you want to post like, you know, three hours out, two hours out photos because you're like excited and you want to put it on your story or whatever. But then you just, you get them and you don't put them up because you know, like they look a hundred times better than these check-in photos and you just want to wait for them to get on stage. It's like, this is part of that assessment piece is like having that matrix allows you to stick to the fact that even just like changes in environment, like getting check-in photos when you go to your tan, like you're going to be taking it in different lighting. And that's a part of the assessment piece that I think is huge in the process that that matrix can really support. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. We have a cool visual in our level one lectures where I show you like, these are some of my photos, different tan versus no tan versus different lighting as I'm kind of moving around the hotel and into the venue. And, uh, it's all relatively around the same body weight, but, but visually it looks very different. And you're like, this one looked like, man, you look six weeks out to this, this one looking like you're, you're shredded out of your mind. And so you need to understand that. And that's a trened eye thing. And that's why we give you some of these tools in J three, you to help you get a step up on trening the eye, but yeah, it's recalibrating your peak week goggles. So it's like, okay, this is the new set point of how a tan looks on this client. And that's what I compare off to relatively to knowing at this body weight, that's when they still look their best. Yeah. I've this last show, a show with a client I had, I know he always looks just really washed out flat. And, uh, even with the tan the whole time I'm watching, like, man, the whole time we don't look ready, but I've seen him in good light with how it should be on stage. So I know that's there at that body weight. And the whole time I'm just like, yes, all these pics look pretty bad, but I'm going off the weight now. Yeah. And it goes on stage, get back the photos. I'm like, yes, like right on. It was, it was nailed because of this. And so I didn't let, you know, that just the visuals getting skewed by poor lighting and tan on to change what I was going to be doing. I think that's a, that's a huge one. And, uh, that, that we've all had to come to realize with just experience, um, and not letting that throw you for a loop is a, is a huge one. Um, regarding, uh, trening cardio. Yeah. So, you know, this is a piece a lot of people ask about in Luke did a great job in our, our, our new, our peak week courses and trening modules of laying out, you know, where a client's coming from and the degree of how much you need to pull back within your trening versus not. So we have some different client situations where you have the guy that's, or girl that's been just dug, dug down where you maybe didn't have the timeline you wanted. And so they're coming into peak week, pretty fatigued. So you need to take a pretty big drop off the front end to get them to a low fatigue spot. So that might mean a larger reduction trening volume. If you've been doing three sets, we're moving down to one set and then the RIR could be pretty high. And then that same goes for the cardio piece might need some rest days in there with just only steps where we have another situation. The other extreme, you got someone ready ahead. You've been able to literally increase food and reduce cardio or steps to where the, now they're in this, they're just like really comfortable maintenance place and trening is extremely manageable. They recover great. Their lifts are progressing again now. So do I need to deload if someone's in that position? Like, no, we just continued nearly the same trening plan all the way into the show. It would just, of course, some slight reductions as we get close to the, uh, you know, a few days out, but that's like kind of our two extremes. So what is the peak week trening protocol? It's like, well, it's a spectrum depending on where the client's coming from. And if y'all are seeing the tren here, it's all about the assessment of the client and then making decisions based around that. And so with the idea of that on the output side, getting them to a low fatigue state, that's kind of really what we're centered around for the trening piece on, on peak week. And then as far as the muscle retention side, it's like, you know, it doesn't take much to retain tissue. That's not really the idea. Um, some people bring up and maybe we'll throw this one to you, Luke around some mistakes that are made around trening, which maybe we talk about, you know, depletion workouts, um, or pump up workouts or, um, maybe other things that you see that maybe not have a place. Yeah, I think, um, I think really the big one is like the depletion sessions to me just don't make sense. Like, especially if you've been trening a certain way, like not only the entirety of all season, but the entirety of contest prep, like there's things we can do from a reps and reserve and a total stimulus perspective to lower it and actually produce a better physique. And you're just emptying the bucket to fill it back up. Like it's not going to present a better look unless you're like having to push someone to the very end, which is like that one end of the spectrum where you're like pushing someone until the Monday of peak week, and then just deloading them the last few days into the show. But that's kind of like the extreme side, right? And I think that's kind of where we need to understand that we build the timelines and why we preach the timelines is so that the peak week is the easiest thing to manage. And because when you have someone who's ahead and is ready ahead and is coming back up, like Emily King's a great example of this. Like she had a low body weight of like 61 kilos. John, you've seen her photos, right? Like 63 kilos is like a little too sharp for wellness. Like I'm going to put her on stage a bit up, up from that. But it's like I've brought her back up with food being pretty high. Like she hasn't had below 300 grams of carbs in like a week and a half. And so she's just pretty much trening normal as she kind of heads into the show. I gave her one to two reps in reserve with removal of a leg press like four days out. And she'll do like a modification, a modified version of her session on Thursday before the Saturday show. And then she'll walk on stage and it's just the same trening split and pretty much nothing that would be too different. And this is really where I think we don't have to make it special. Like it's just, you don't have to tren full bore, just taper in the RIR throughout the week. And if you do it on the front end by preparing the, the, the prep well, that's where you really kind of set yourself up for trening on peak week to be super simple. Um, it's just, it's so overcomplicated and it's just, you just get it on the front end. Yeah. Yeah. I get, IMean, our idea here, right. Is like front end of peak week, you deplete down glycogen. So in turn, when you, you could super compensate glycogen and that's a great idea. A lot of that comes from like the endurance world where the visuals don't have any application, it's pure function. So you absolutely could load a ton of glycogen, a muscle doing it that way. Um, if you looked at some of the more late, later research around that, that they're saying like depletion workouts don't even really need to happen. Um, and again, in a bodybuilder, you're already in a relatively depleted state. So you don't really need to deplete farther and dig a hole just to fill the hole back in. But here's the kicker is that in these endurance super compensation studies, they're not looking at visuals, like what actually looks good on stage. So anytime that I've seen someone like truly like super compensate glycogen, which you're really looking at someone that went into that post-show kind of phase, it is not something you could put on stage. Um, more typical is someone that's at a maintenance calorie level and maybe is one or two meals in with some carbs and fluid. And that's about as full as you could put someone on stage before you start taking detriments to the look of condition. So when I see these protocols where it's deplete, load hard, there's usually having to be a follow back with a further, like a refinement day, dry out day, or it's taken so far that you have to use a diuretic to pull the water off from the super compensation and glycogen with the idea of like, oh man, we're going to fill out the dry out. Then we're going to be fuller, but it'll have all that inside the muscle and no water outside the muscle. And guys, it doesn't work like that. Like your, your glycogen water reservoir is not devoid from all the other fluid compartments. So if you dehydrate, you're still reducing water within that glycogen storage component. So you can't just fill the muscle and then dehydrate it, only lose water outside the muscle. It does, it does not work like that. That's one of the biggest mistakes and misunderstandings around physiology that I see made. But a lot of it starts when we're talking about here with this trening piece of needing to deplete. So you don't need to deplete for the aesthetic point of getting someone full enough to go on stage. It's simply getting them to maintenance and seeinGHow much food in do they really need and fluid to then walk on stage. And we see this so much with our, with our peaks and watching these weight trens of why we do it throughout the day is to find how full can we get someone before we lose some lines. Colton, our J3U coach, like I've been watchinGHim and he's come down to a low of like 188 and he can go to bed at 194, six pounds up. I haven't even sent you these look to see yet. And there's like minimal loss of anything condition wise, a little bit in the front of thEQuads. I wouldn't put them on stage with that 194, but man, his back looks like I just pumped it full. Like it's, it's like, it looks like he had a whole offseason between these photos. Um, and, and that's just following a maintenance diet of what I've been doing with them. 500 grams of carbs has been maintaininGHis body weight. So now I know how much I can bring them up before I start losing anything. And so do I need all of a sudden to put in 2000 grams of carbs to load them? Like, no, why would I do that? I already know off this same maintenance diet that he gets plenty full to go on stage. So it's just a furthering the point here that, you know, a lot of these protocols of deplete, low, dry, you can do them, but there's a lot of moving parts and it takes away a lot of days that you could have on peak week to keep assessing the look because depletion days, it's going to be hard to assess, right? You're gonna have someone look really, really flat throughout the day. You're not going to see their best look. Then you're going to load them and maybe you catch a good visual and wait around that loading period, but then you're going to keep going back to a Friday or one day out where who knows where they're going to land. Um, it kind of brings some variability there. And then you're hoping to get them back on show day to that look you maybe found while you're loading them. And so it's just a lot of moving parts and unnecessary of loading to find that look where we could easily do it with just a simplified approach. So I feel like I'm tangenting back on the, uh, a little bit on the nutrition side of it, but it all ties in with, with this trening piece. And other thing, Luke, around this too, is the, you know, diet, digestion point. Yeah. That would be a big impact too on peak week. And we know a lot of people struggle having bowel movements leading into shows and, uh, with bringing in large amounts of carbohydrate or, or even shifts in the type of foods that you're using. So we see some pretty random foods come into peak week. And I've, I've had people that come to me like upset because they had some food go in and we're really bloated on stage. I spoke to a, uh, a female at the gym that she's like, Hey, I saw your post. And that's exactly what happened to me. She's like, I had a burger. Like we cut water. She's like, it sat so heavy. I could not control my waist on stage. Um, I just didn't know why this was happening. And I was like, yeah, you know, this is it. Like bring in a random food, don't have water that you need for all the digestive processes to work and your food will just sit there. So, you know, part of this is keeping consistency so you can keep improving digestion. If that's an area that you need to improve on and what we can, can watch for when we have a more standardized meal plan that we're working through. Yeah. And it, it just keeps it so consistent. It's funny. Like with Emily coming from Australia, we've switched to foods that are, we had a couple of foods that she was using in the, cause she's a more macro based client that you couldn't probably get here in the States. Right. And so we simplified it over into foods from a sodium perspective that probably aren't going to change too much flying from Australia to the States. It's like strictly based off the digestion piece. Like I don't need my total sodium for the day fluctuating. I don't need digestion changing. Like I need the foods that are in to be the foods that are in. And so we started talking about this like last week, like, Hey, like let's make sure all the foods that we have in play are just the ones that we can get pretty identical here in States. And let's not do anything other than that. You know, people do bring up like, what are things that I should be cutting out in peak week? Like, should I cut out my whey protein? Should I cut out artificial sweeteners, chewing gum, like whatever it may be. And some stuff does has no impact on, on individuals. Um, others maybe got brought into prep from just a point of trying to ease the nutrition burden of being in a low calorie state. Right. Um, in a, you know, a general guidance here is that, Hey, if you have less variables there, it's going to be easier to troubleshoot. So, you know, seven, 10 days out, if you're have something that's in your plan, that's not contributing to fueling performance recovery or essential, you might consider removing it. Um, especially if you're earlier on and trying to learn this process as more of just a safeguard to not having a variable that just throws you off. So this might be like, I'm having a pack of chewing gum a day with a bunch of xylitol in it and get bloated. Or I had a past client that it wasn't an issue actually till show day, still using like Mio and water. And then they were running into like acid reflux. It's like, so I'm like, you know, going through thEQuestions here. It's like, Oh yeah, I still had this Mio, which citric acid in it, which, you know, put, put enough in, it can cause problems, um, on top of now more food coming in. So, so, you know, those things that, you know, if it's not like your Mio isn't essential to improving your physique, then it might be things that are just best to remove, um, before you get into peak week. And the same thing you brought up here, like standardization of condiments. That's a huge one that I see a lot of variability in, um, it, with, with the means of what you're trying to do in peak week, I would say that goes in your mouth, you should probably be measuring it. So whether that be your, whatever your mustard or whatever. So you actually have a grasp on sodium and not letting that sodium fluctuate. Um, and that might bring you to really simplify your condiments. If you're having to measure all these different ones out, um, and, uh, might even consider that, Hey, I just want to go with just salt and, and simplify it even more, but just, just some things to consider, um, things that might send off some, some light bulbs for individuals, or if you're coaching out there, you're not considering these things, um, might give some insight of why you might be seeing things happen on peak week that you didn't account for. Because if you didn't bring up someone's whatever their mustard intake and ketchup or something, and you give them now double the size of meal that they were at dieting and they double their condiment usage because they want the same, you know, moistness to their meal, uh, that can cause some problems with fluctuations in sodium. So things to think about, yeah, it's a digestion and keeping fluid status regulated, uh, could be around that. And that, that all will help you give clear look at your visual assessment and making those calls. Um, I know we're getting close to our time here, but I want to do, do you touch a little bit on show day as, uh, this one is where a lot of mistakes still can get made because I know we talk about keeping water up pretty high and Luke and I, we do have a, our own individual course pretty much coming out with around peak weekend water, just cause it's, it is the largest mistake, um, made. But what we do is like for most time, water is about the same, right? But when you do finally find this look of what you like, so you have so many meals that go into a client, so much fluid and say person comes up from 200 to 202 pounds, that 202 pounds is what you want to put on stage. You can put in the same amount of food and fluid on show day to get them there, but then you need to hold them there. And that's when we make the fluid adjustment because you don't need to keep putting in that same amount of fluid and carbohydrate to move their body weight up. So this is when we make that adjustment to reducing it. And then is when, how we toggle carbs and water on, on show day, putting in more pulling it back down. So we keep them within that body rate range. Maybe it's 202 to 203 or something where we know they look at their best. So do we cut water? Uh, we just modify water needs based on trying to hold that visual and that's how we go about it. Use the matrix. Use the matrix. What do we got? Yeah. Next week. Well, we talked about peak week. So what comes after peak week is post show. So we're talking about, you nailed the stage. Look, hopefully since you listened to this podcast and now what do you do? And so we're going to cover, what do we do the first seven days after peak week for immediately after the show to all those days of these are the essential days that are going to set you up for already your next contest prep. So we'll dive in next week. Thank you all for tuning in and we'll see you then.

=== FILE: 🎙️Second peak done right ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 190 [d20ax9eK0m8].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. The second peak done right. The second peak done right. The second peak done right. We know if you've died it hard for one show, why stop there. You probably have a second show lined up to maybe refine your peak, keep gunning for! The two parts of geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez lots of back-to-back shows done this a handful of times um and i think it's pretty cool because you'll see some interesting responses you'll actually see sometimes depending on how low long the shows are kind of in between like the matrix your peaking matrix might shift a little bit on you so um some pretty cool stuff to dive into today because it's definitely like i think the first thing to point out or the thing that i noticed it's like it's almost like the first peak is the relief you know for people it's like the the big diet deload break thing that they get the nerves out of doing the first show like no matter how experienced someone is like it's always it's always like some sort of monkey off the back to then go into the next show it seems it's where you see a lot of people get better for their second shows probably a lot just from that stress drop off and re-familiarity with the stage potentially right i wanted to throw this your way first because it just came up as we're talking a lot of thinking on what what starts this planning process and i think that is where you start is when we're we map out our timelines for when we when we get off stage last year what are we going to be doing next year and we start picking shows right and so i think based off for one if it's a current athlete you know some responses on how they are show to show maybe gaps that they might need between shows i would imagine this location is also a you know variable in that decision process now of course people develop and things are different of course but you also would probably consider if this is a new athlete never competed before that might change this timeline decision process so to make the first into the second show actually strategic and beneficial so maybe we start there and i would just want you to bring up how you do your timeline planning for hitting multiple shows for the year yeah i think it's i think it's huge that you base the prep off the first show as much as possible i think a lot of times what ends up happening is like especially with the more advanced athletes like you have the show like it's nationals or it's universe or it's usa's or whatever um and so like you can kind of have that qualifier show be like a second thought of of like i will just do thEQualifier whenever but i think if it's planned well it can actually serve as like a kind of a leap uh like a springboard into the national qualifying show especially if you plan it around enough time in between and i think that's my big caveat is like running the rate of loss into the first show where you can then really slow it down or even hold it between first show and second show and this is kind of where we talk about like reversing into a show like when you map out that timeline one year out what i'm doing is i'm taking that rate of loss mapping it out from the first show we're going to do doing like a worst case scenario all the way out and kind of reverse engineerinGHow long i need for that prep and then every phase before that is about getting that athlete to that start point that i need to run that prep appropriately and this kind of like solves all your problems in regards to how you run contest preps because you know that you're planning for the earlier show the earlier show might be a warm-up and you get time to practice peaking someone who is already in contest shape now if there are like five percent away like that's fine a lot of these more advanced athletes will do fine at a regional show when that's the case and then they'll most likely win overalls but really ideally the data collected from the first show would help support the second show which is why i always base my preps off the first show typically i i think there's a advancement in coaching knowledge that you move past from the micro level of when you're coaching someone and this is i'm going to bring this reference into your timeline thing is when you've laid this out from someone and i when i was just an athlete getting coached i would look we're at a week to week basis right like if i'm if i'm moving the needle where i need to on this one week and same from coaching when i started out it was like well you know next week all right how do they look looking good okay keep it going but i think the next part of coaching is that on those week to week check-ins you're able to kind of shift your brain from the micro and macro at all times and what IMean by that is that i am looking say you're in a post-show phase and i have someone that's like rapidly adding body fat i see like what was that change over this week and what do i need to do in that immediate like micro level but i'm also immediately thinking of how shortened their offseason might be and what that might mean for already this next contest prep so it's like in my my mind i'm seeing this like timeline shrink on the back end creating decisions of what should i do on this like micro level that that's kind of how i'm framing it now i guess when i'm looking at things and same thing when you just said a good point around you're trying to land your athlete at the body fat level at the start of this prep that you projected when you're getting towards the tail end of this offseason for someone that's the marker you're kind of looking for for some people that means they can keep going in offseason this might be like hey six weeks at the end of the of your push right should you just let them keep going and hopefully you land at the right start point for your prep or should you already be looking at these things to be like oh wow you know what body fat kind of did get away here this is going to mean we only have two more weeks left because we're going to need every bit of that timeline and we shouldn't keep adding on body fat so i think when you're getting to a more advanced coaching mindset you're not looking just on the week-to-week basis but also across what you set up for your timeline and why timelines are just so important because getting back to our peaks right that's when you just won't even be in the position to take advantage of these things and the other thing i wanted to bring up that you mentioned is you program the worst case scenario yes and what you mean by that is i'm sure you've looked at you know what does a a client normally take to get down and then adding in the two-week buffer there or if it's a new client getting what you have a rough idea of a proposed timeline maybe what they did on their last show do they actually get stage lean what does that mean for how much many more weeks they might need and adding in the buffer around that too so i think you know to give a little bit of like expansion around what you're bringing up there is it's okay to add in a bit more time yeah because it only gives you advantage into the first show because right luke is when you when you see someone that really improves into the second show like what is the deal is that usually they're already finally got lean you have time to drop off fatigue and feed them more that's why we harp on like getting ready ahead because you do that and so you can almost make when you when you have someone that's only nailing it on their second show with ready ahead you hopefully start nailing it on your first show too another question for you all right so uh planning out timelines uh one situation we see often is the guy that hey they did their state level show regional show they did really well they know they need more size to before they're at a pro qualifier level do you have them already qualified so you go straight into nationals or knowing what we just talked about do you have them hit another qualifier show quote unquote warm-up show practice peak show or do you do you write them right in nationals like what is your typical approach if so reframe it again were they ready for the first one or they're not quite ready to compete at the national level because that changes the thEQuestion conditioning wise they can get there muscularity wise is what what they need so they they're taking the time now to grow yeah i i'm not sending them to a national show at that point um i'm probably pulling them off the national show if i can help it um for a few reasons we'll talk about the primary ones first um really like the goal of showing up to a national show is contending i don't think luke i should clarify this is them hitting their qualifier show and they're going to take a year off and come back so you mapped out their timeline do you take them straight now to nationals next year or still hit like a qualifier again or warm-up show to make sure the first peak is still nailed gotcha yeah i'm doing thEQualifier every time i love it i think every time okay i i try to um if it's easy to do if it's local and it's like i can do it i'm always going to encourage them to do it there's a few reasons one like there's something to be said about polishing stage presence that i think is intangible um i think that when you do that from like uh getting on stage for the first time that year and then you have that confidence that you did do it um and maybe even fix some posing stuff from the previous year i think that leads a lot of confidence into the national showing where you have more demand on posing so you've got like initial comparisons and then you have individual routines and then you have comparisons like there's a lot of demand to be able to pose for a pretty long time there so that's one reason second reason is data from a peaking perspective um you're again you're mapping out the worst case scenario for a show that's two to four weeks before your national show so you're you know you're going to be ready and you know you're going to be able to have a refreshed athlete by the time where it counts the most um i actually it's funny you ask this i did this with nari when she won her pro card she did a qualifier before her pro qualifier that she won her card at and she had gotten her qualification the year before where she didn't need to so i'm a big advocate for it there's there's so many reasons i think as long as someone financially is not in a bind where it really matters that much i'm always encouraging them because presentation looks more polished we get the initial nerves out we get peaking data on a new athlete because as much as like you had the data from the previous year like you've probably added more tissue you're peaking a different athlete the prep's been ran different so it's a different peaking process um i'm a hundred times 10 out of 10 i'm going to be encouraging someone to do it now do they have to no um i i i don't think they have to but man it helps it's just it's so valuable yeah you because i used to do hey i want to go all in on this one show and not blow my my one shot on this like state level show right and i think it's thinking of like hey we're usually not like aromasingle barrel shotgun and we have one big blast and that's it you're done we're more of a revolver so take take a shot use that first shot it's kind of like IMissed a little bit you readjust the second shot could be dead on right yeah so that's that's like the i the idea around that um with having that laid out then uh what is kind of like your ideal timelines for spacing out a second show because i know like like i just did a show right it was like six days apart um now my favorite how would you buffer that what is what is ideal what is too long and when is the the six day uh you know next show okay to do i think it's always okay to do the six day i think the the caveat that you have to do is you have to be really good at that prep like you have to be on it like you just you're not going to have room to really pivot a ton um between that first show and that second show now we'll talk about you can shift someone down pretty good if you do it right but um ideal on paper is two to four weeks um reason i like this is because we can get some trening back in um create some more homeostasis around kind of like food coming up activity dropping down coast them in a lot of times too what i'll do is if it's not a weight cap athlete i'm probably like getting them to the top end of their matrix and then coasting food down into the show day so that midsection is not a problem um so that i'm not having to chase them that's the one thing with the six day difference that i find can happen is you end up chasing them a bit on that second show like you drop the fatigue you've been plugging in some food you hit a good visual on stage you get like the stress drop of doing your first show and then you have to like plug in a little bit more food kind of throughout that next week um and too long man i'm not gonna lie anything over seven gets a little dodgy more more on my pd exposure timeline than anything i don't really know that i have too much of an issue with someone having a long gap from like a management of the other variables because we mapped this out in level one like we know how to apply the rate of loss to pull someone up and then put them back down in time for that second show anyways really what you have to start asking thEQuestion is when it gets to the longer ones is is that second show worth it like is it a pro chasing olympia qualification that's worthy of one um or is it someone that's like barely missed their card and they're kind of right in the mix every time because really what you're doing by doing that is you're taking away time from progress on the back end so that's why i really hesitate with the longer than i would say i said seven but i would say even six like six to seven weeks like it's really pushing it in my opinion that's the time thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with j3 university our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our four rooms with our j3u team to answer any questions you have and livEQ a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top ifbb pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at j3 university let's get back to today's podcast yeah i think that's that's a great layout and i i you know even on the second show that's really close i sometimes see the opposite two where you had someone that you loaded pretty good and it nearly serves as the frontload for the next show yeah and they they need some time to like pull back down uh maybe that's the guy that needs to get pretty full and it sticks uh but then you know you're basically like coasting down into the show yeah and it could be better in a sense because they won't need so much food however it does flip like you like you did say and that they speed up and they need more for the following following show and with the the where this really fits and hopefully you have the ability to have a flexible timeline i have some i say start booking all their plans like way out and i get it from a cost perspective if you have the ability to like kind of play it by ear it's nice so where you get off stage you realize like what do you need and that kind of determines what the timeline is that you need and what you should do next because sometimes it's like hey you need to get tighter it's like okay i'll do a show in six days you might need more fat loss time than that or was it just like hey the muscular is there you're just a little flat on stage like you need to refine the loading it's like okay that's something to do within six days uh is it like you brought up with your other situation as someone that's like really riding that cusp of i'm in that third fourth spot i'm almost about to win whether it be the pro card or the olympia qualification if we have a show within a reasonable time frame here like two to three weeks it could make sense but IMean i think once you start getting to those longer timelines like six plus weeks it's not enough time to really improve muscularity wise and then it's it's uh really just almost having to hold a lot of that condition for that period of time so it's the person that like you need the right lineup to win a show and it's a real roll the dice and i kind of always lean into let's fix what needs to make you knock out and undeniable and put that in offseason the next year let's run the gauntlet like line them up like you had the you had the muscular to compete like let's do four or five shows whatever you know whatever take the time then but i rather not just extend a phase of like a maybe um that was my situation for texas like if i had the right lineup i could probably win a show but then i'm also now looking at seven weeks taken away from me from the offseason what's the better choice here yeah and it's a hard choice too um because a lot of people i think the fear of missed opportunity can feel like a failure and you want to keep you know riding that spotlight it's a hard decision to take the step back but i think always keep keep your goal the goal like what is the ultimate goal right to see out the best physique possible how do you fast track to that you make those hard decisions and don't let it be emotionally driven yeah anyway back to like i know we even got really into like a peak to a peak but a lot of this planning mindset and decisions are really driving the the initial framework of what you should be doinGHere but rewind it back here down just like you hey your first peak to make this second peak really effective you need to have the right data present right and be meticulous enough to look at this and be able to understand what went wrong what went right have your judging feedback and then refine your peak from there so i know luke with with both of us like we have pretty good peaking timeline data tables whatever we want to call them data sheets uh that help a lot with that so that probably starts of like if you're going to try to nail it on a second peak to be able to have the tools to assess the first peak to begin with right yeah and i i actually use the same sheet because i like the reference like i'll make the one for the first show and then i'll just like kind of drop one down and like put the new dates for the second one so that i can see like all of my decision making at the top and i'm like taking notes in that sheet a lot of times or in in a sheet that i keep on the back end but um yeah it's god it's so crucial because i've i've even it's funny like wendy who won her card earlier this year like her show day i cannot like lie to you was almost identical for both shows she did like it was literally like same stage time same amount of fluids almost identical food and it wasn't like it was just literally like she woke up the exact same weight amount from the ideal look for that week and the response was very similar to the first time that we did it and it was so funny like i literally just looked back at the old one it was like what i was planning was all like identical to the first show and it was like i had that right there in front of me and she nailed it like she she won her card by miles so it's it's pretty cool when you have that data there because it can show you like like if you did make the right decisions help guide the decision making for the second one but it can also be a slippery slope because the dynamic of an athlete can change when you get like weeks away from the first show so you have to pay attention to your matrix and so the matrix that i refer to is there i built two so one is the weight matrix so like the top end best look and the bottom end best look for the weight like that weight gap that like presents a good stage visual but also my matrix of this amount of food and fluid pulls them up this amount of food and fluid holds them down or holds them where they're at and then this amount of food and fluid drops them and like i'm using those two and i'm rebuilding them every show because sometimes like this food and fluid one can change like i know you saw this between tampa and texas like it took quite a bit more to jump you up with with texas than tampa uh yeah and just for reference these sheets that we're referring to we do give them to you in j3u level one in our contest prep module so you'll you'll see the daily that we use for like check-ins but then also the one that is meal by meal to document weights and then plug in like best looks so any anyway with uh yeah with like first peaks too it's almost a trial of a look with a new physique because with tampa i had you know roughly another like six pounds of stage weight which which i thought would be six pounds of stage weight right and to bring that in i i thought i had a good balance of fullness to condition and it turned out i could have pushed the envelope a bit more more and with fullness and that also it led to me eating probably more than what i wanted to on show day and that's something to consider for loading that i was like just we're taxing to control your waste the whole time with more volume in your abdomen so you know based on feedback and then going off of like the data that i had it's like okay what if i load harder earlier and by earlier like two days out and then able to taper that down to show day not having to eat so much and so that solves some of the the waste volume issue on show day and also being able to push more food and and land heavier oh yeah that's what happened for texas like i went from basically around 550 grams of carbs and it ended up like needing quite a bit more like on uh i think it was right at 650 grams of carbs two days out then one day out a little over 800 grams with like 120 grams of fat so fats kept coming up too but what happened on tampa is every day my weight kept dropping and holding and so it'd take more and more food earlier on to get up to my goal weight which is not what you want on show day and so for texas i had that same drop in body weight uh two days out i was like no i'm not letting this happen load the next day one day out weight was up more load harder and on show day then i i land i woke up at like two it was a little over 237 where we was able to not have to eat a lot of food into the show but then i kept pushing up into like 240 by finals and go and behold this was like the best look and so when IMentioned i thought it was six pounds of stage weight it was actually more like eight pounds was actually the best look so come probably justifiable to do another show but i think it's just better data for the future but that's how like i took data from the last show and applied it to the next show which was just six days later to refine that process but i had the data is the key right i knew the fluid intake that i could regulate with meals between meals kept that stagnant and then was able just to purely look at carbs and what that was doing my body weight and had that that numbers to go off of and know if i eat this much in one day roughly how much that would push my body weight up so it wasn't just another guess of a peak week because i don't find people to drastically change from a peak to a peak necessarily i think that would be more of the anomaly situation that probably riding into the first peak they were on the extreme side of a prep and that in turn changed their second peak a lot but um yeah for for most cases just like in my situation you can be pretty predictive of what you need to do from the first into the second 100 i think one of the things to discuss too is there is like the conversation around like travel in different environments depending on like how much someone's traveling like you were going from tampa to texas that was just like from baking oven to baking oven but it it can change like depending on how drastic the like time of year is in different sections of the country or even if you're going to different countries like i've had someone go from like cold environment to uh the show in portugal and it's like like humid so humid and it's like sweating like you're just doing your steps you're excreting a lot more and so like you have to be able to account for that and that's where when you have that dynamic there getting there early is massive because you can create your new baselines and then run those into the show when it comes like fluid sodium if those need to change based on like how big of an environment um change it is but man it's it's something to consider and account for and i know you've done a bunch of content on this about like scheduling your plane flights around your meal times and like doing those things that make it the least amount of stress as possible yeah it's a it's a huge thing to consider i had some clients recently like planning to travel one day out i'm like this the one day out is when i use a lot of the data to monitor you meal by meal to plan what we should do for show day like you're you're removing a big piece of what i need from my coaching ability and so can we move this back right so that uh absolutely like really ideally three days out get to your show as a as a general guideline if it's maybe within your country or within your continent let's say uh once you start doing the really long flight times man six days out plus might really be what you need and the extra day can make a huge difference it might be you sitting around a bit more but it's just another day to like get settled in and it doesn't harm anything versus like you know getting there late and missing your peak when you put in 20 plus weeks of effort here like i know you might save a day of an airbnb but geez like if you're that strapped maybe you shouldn't have been putting your money to a bodybuilding prep to begin with like it's like part of the financial planning that should happen and another conversation piece there but another thing that i wanted to bring up with the shorter turnarounds for peak to peaks is trening because i think this is a mistake i see very often and what does everyone want to tren the day after the show everyone put in their mind what do you think everyone wants to tren that they probably have it trened in a week okay that was a good hint is leg day it's like how do i how do i do this because usually a lot of people cut legs their last session seven days out then they do their show it's like man should i i need to tren legs right away so i have it another seven days out and depend the issue right the day after a show is likely there was water manipulation happened so you're going to be a bit dehydrated then also you've been posing your legs hard as hell as well so fatigues to be present especially a ton of demand like torque around the knee and the hip which would was needed for a lot of stabilization for your leg movements likely you're still out at your show so you're in a different gym maybe you're deciding to use different equipment what does this all set you up for well how many people have you heard get rhabdo myolysis this post show here's the situation for it go tren after a bodybuilding show dehydrated leg day and blow your legs away that's when you want to wake up the next day feeling like death and you won't be doing the next show so with that being said i almost always for everyone program the next day when we especially when we have closed shows or off days after the show like the goal of this day is recovery from the show it's maybe just steps and that's it no cardio no trening just rest and then the next day we can talk about putting in a leg session that's going to be dialed back in volume and effort just need stimulus to hold on some tissue and then let them re like repeat the process um now for a longer durations like hey we have six weeks for a show well that first session could serve the same but then we can bring back up our like normal volume effort levels that we need to but at least off the initial with the close show that that's kind of like my general approach i don't know if you have any other mistakes or things that you see around trening you want to address luke or yeah i think i think the non-willingness to take the rest days and or the attachment to trening i think is a big one like i think a lot of people just want to get in and stay busy like like even if they're like especially if they're hungry or something um but i IMean i'd follow a similar setup is like that first day back is rest um just kind of get settled especially if you're traveling to a different show environment like a lot of times it's a travel day so you want to be taking care of that anyways um and then you're you're trening once you get settled at the new place and doing a really altered leg day setup so that doesn't affect the peak kind of following from a effort intensity standpoint is more what IMean yeah i know we're we're close to our time here i did want to try touch a little bit on peds because i do get this question a lot of like how like my show is whatever 10 days away i had dropped out testosterone or whatever else you dropped out like do i put it back in like how do IManage this and a lot of this goes into why we program and teach peds the way that we do with sorting out what you should be running into your peak four to six weeks out to where you know if like hey you do you are the person that needs to lower growth hormone hormone down because you're holding water or you need to completely remove testosterone whatever that may be or you're the person that needs to leave those items in so then when you run into peak week those variables have already been adjusted for and so running into your second peak whether that be six days or two weeks later those adjustments just live in that phase so for some guys like hey if you're the guy that needs a bit of testosterone present and growth hormone hormone usually we cut shots a few days out just as the safety measure around not going stage with knots in your muscle those come back in for just a couple days then the same thing if it's three days out you pull them then we just do that rinse and repeat again growth hormone hormone would stay in the whole time if you're the person that needs those things completely out we're not going to reintroduce them because it's going to have you shift back up with some water retention murky the variables of assessment then have to shift you back down so those are usually coming out as well then the last point i'm going to leave which makes a little bit morecomplexity is what do you need because there's a few people that if you do get skinned out lean and we had to take a few items out to begin with sometimes bringing a degree of that back in since you're lean can add fullness that doesn't blur lines and so if you're the guy that need gh and test like fully out you have a longer show like hey six weeks that's where we might play with starting to bring those things back in and see if it does improve the look but as a generality we make the adjustment weeks out and then let those ride out through peak week and into the next shows when they are pretty close yeah 100 and i think the cool thing is like if you do you do the one where you reintroduce well like you have a longer time duration between shows and you reintroduce these variables and i found it makes peaking easier because it's less food to get someone full yeah yeah you know i have a client right now uh that did masters got lean skinned out lean we had we had tests down low which was working fine look good growth hormone from one stayed in then we pulled some labs and estradiol was like very low low and also had the complaints of like man my joints have been achy like i feel pretty fatigued so like well we have some time here let's go ahead and like move that variable up and then within two weeks he's like man my joints are feeling better body weight shifted up two pounds and i know it could be food whatever but i you know i think there's a contribution there and now he's like two pounds up already way fuller looks harder for it and uh in a in a less fatigued state so it's all checking all the boxes what we wanted just another example of an adjustment made that uh leads us to improve for the second peak but you know we kind of sometimes on the first peak air on the side of caution and holding variables constant to not create too much uh complexity within the first peak but yeah that's uh at least a tad bit on adjusting peds one thing i last thing i want to touch on but i think we'll wrap it up there for next week we'll just do some reflection well because my season ended right so i want to reflect on kind of what this season has taught me and even for for you luke and i know we're not like the end of 2025 but i think even uh reflecting on from the coaching perspective things that you've kind of picked up along the way too would be yeah interesting to hear so so hit that next time thank you all for tuning in and we'll talk to you then

=== FILE: 🎙️Sometimes, the right move is doing nothing ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep  183 [Y5me6Nrbijc].txt ===

 The J3 university podcast. the looks off maybe trenings off and even the athletes is in their check-in is trying to give you a push a nudge into doing some type of action and maybe skewing their check-in to make it look like the call that you should be making and as an athlete competitor or as a coach it's what luke and i want to cover today is how do you look through all of this objective and subjective data remove emotion and make the right call so you stay on track whether it be for prep or even offseason for that matter luke how are you doing i'm good you know what this makes me think of is the i'm sure you've heard this have you heard the famous significance of nothing speech from nick saban no oh my goodness are you going to recite it now i don't i don't know it word for word but essentially just like the the gist of it is like uh every day when you wake up you're owed nothing and it's he continues down this path of being owed nothing um and that you know like for your work that you put in you're owed nothing like for whatever things you do you're owed nothing um and the significance of nothing in creating uh excellent athletes and excellent individuals and i i think that this coincides with this really well because the emotional decision making oftentimes comes from a triggered response that someone feels like they need something due to something that happened in the vacuum of an acute setting so when i say the vacuum of an acute setting it's like a one-off situation or like aromasingle day right and the reality is is and we're going to get into this a lot today which i love is tren lines like tren lines drive decision making we can have a lot of things that skew what happened on the day-to-day and the more that we can buy into the mindset of i am owed nothing and allow my coach to make the decisions for me and report based on objective data rather than the subjective feeling that you need or deserve something the smoother the prep goes and i i will send this to athletes like i have it saved in my instagram because i love it so much and i grew up an auburn fan so it hurts me to send it but it's it's like the most valuable piece of like it is just a little clip it's like 25 seconds long but it's uh it's probably one of the most valuable things that i feel you can look to try to embody and embrace in order to allow for not only feedback to be objective back and forth but also to try to remove emotion from your process yeah i think you like on the on the flip side of that statement of you're owed nothing you also don't have to give something back is is part of it too which i feel like a lot of coaches we want to always give some value in a check-in and i think or especially earlier on coaching i feel like i always had had to do something or feel like i need to change the plan in some way or i'm not justifying my position enough and now now as i do that like if things are going really well like part of me as the coach is to know that things are on track and if i've set up a plan well and through my years of experience in doing this it's okay for me to say continue on the same plan because i've set this up i put in the work in advance to make sure that that is there but to that being said uh people can spur on through emotions to try to want to get something out of the plan when that's not aligning with their goals right and i get the i get the prep goggles i used to uh i trened my ass off right and i'm like man i'm gonna tren so hard in this leg day like the next day i'm gonna drop weight and i'm gonna get more food for it and so it's like then you'll wake up you're like yep weight dropped it's like definitely feeling flat for sure i'm gonna i'm gonna put that in the check-in right like feeling really flat today posing can't feel anything squeezing um and then you're like all right here it comes and there's like no refeed you're like oh my gosh oh my gosh so it's like yeah you can't you can't go about you know trying to get that pull from your coach yes because you're not owed that you know what you are asking for is to be coached based off your goal and so you need to make sure that your your protocol and approaches are aligning with that but that was uh yeah at least some earlier on emotional drivers of you know what i was trying to get out of the coach was like more food on prep right so now now self-coaching that's flipped the script a lot i just because i know my own psychology it's like i can't fool myself um however yeah you can just try to you could look in the mirror that day and say oh man should should i refeed or not so what are what are common ones that you see luke that uh like panic that creeps in with check-ins where that that are some common ones that you need to like kind of bring the athlete back to ground yeah and and kind of reel them back in it's funny you mentioned the leg day one because that's the one that i see a lot is like water retention or like a smoothness especially to the lower body that comes the few days post-trening legs it's like i you know i'm kind of can't really squeeze my legs for this check-in update and it's like you start to learn like because with me with my athletes for peaks or for perhaps i should say i have them check in at minimum twice a week for contest perhaps it gets to higher once we get a little bit deeper but at the very start we're going twice a week right and you can pretty quickly see the leg day in the week um on the trens right like you and this is where my the way that i log the information and the way that we log it with j3 coaching and all the clients that we manage in j3 coaching is there's a daily habits metric it gets filled out and so you're submitting weights on a daily basis and why it's really important to keep up with that is because i'm looking at tren lines to help with decision making and i see a weight spike i don't immediately react to it especially knowing where their leg day is in the week and then i start the process of comparing um different portions of the week to different portions of the week and then watching the tren lines on the average of are we moving at the rate of loss that we need to move with the contest prep um i'd say that's probably the most common one i run into um i coach a lot of people who tren really effinGHard and so i see it a lot and so that's the one where it's like you're feeling kind of flat you got some water attention maybe your legs feel like a little sore it's like kind of like you said they're they're pretty good about like not trying to bait me into it at this point because they know the way that i communicate but um you can definitely see it starting to slip in and some of the feedback and you just have to be pretty objective about it i think within that same client that that is a go-getter killer that they're ones that are might be prompting to get pushed harder yeah and it's by no means i think abating to try to make a prep easier they want it yeah they just want to be better and so if weight doesn't move down that much that week on that i should say that moment of the check-in or maybe it's up a little bit for other you know variables for a few days in a row yeah that they're like hey like should we push like i'll see that like totally okay with less food i hear that one all like all the time in check-ins or like or you know you know if you need to drop food like totally fine doing it here where i can absolutely do more cardio like if they're reading into it that well i'm probably going to get pushed because it needs to happen because i'm holding weight and now they're trying to put their own coachinGHat on which i'm like hey just just be the athlete okay give me the other data that i need so you know in that case when we are looking at tren lines and i think that's an important what you're trying to assess because if you are you do have your process set up to where it's just once a week my client sends me pictures and they send me their weight and they tell me a few things about the week this is when you're going to miss the mark in all the data that you could be using so what i look at because i've seen um one client will come to mind where you know across the week we're dropping like two pounds and i look at their average weight because that just will remove the ups and downs and truly show like where the loss is for the week and that's what i go off of for fat loss rate is what is the average rate the average weight for the week and they are just looking at what is their daily weight changing on check-in day and so if that's not that different perhaps just by chance that they're like man i didn't lose as much this week i should get pushed but i'm looking at these averages and so if the averages are okay i'll know like well why would it change if we're consistently on average dropping at the rate that we need to be should IMake a call and what then i'll also look at will be the daily tren is what luke is talking about here so look back over your weeks and watch how their tren lines are forming and sometimes it might be i've had clients that um come you know wednesday thursday weight starts moving up during the week because like that's their work week then they'll drop off on the weekend when they have their weekend and it's less stress i've had it flipped with other clients so i watch if those tren lines have been normal this one client that comes to mind had three days out of the week leading to check-ins where weight was starting to move up during the week which this is when i'll look at these tren lines and it sends off kind of a light bulb for me it's like okay i need i need to dive into why is that happening because that's like the anomaly of the week and so i asked well what would bring up weight oh it could be or do your legs feel heavy do you does your gi feel heavy like any changes in bowel movements and like for that one particular client he's like yeah my bowels have really slowed down IMy gi feels really heavy the past few days or i haven't had a bowel movement in two days like okay so it's not it's not a fat loss thing this is a gi thing so when i say like well i need to get pushed again if you're like just doing the the check-in once a week and wait you're like man clients weights up i just got to push the guy and you don't have all the data pieces to look at weight trens and what they're normally doing and see that the client's had a routine and then ask thosEQuestions about where was the weight now sitting to know i need to address gi issues i don't need to address deficit issues so fix that weight drops keep on going keep on trucking along i think that is also probably the situation luke where a lot of times you don't have to do anything right like weight holds like fatigues up they have a weekend and then they're like are back down to a new norm new low it's like every week you don't need to keep chipping away at food just kind of let them ride yeah i have one that comes to mind for this the first prep that me and brayden did which god bless that human he's one of the j3 coaches for those of you guys who don't know i don't know how he's making weight this year but we're gonna make it happen um if you saw that recent video of him posing that's like it looks big thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with j3 university our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our j3u team to answer any questions you have and livEQ a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top ifbb pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at j3 university let's get back to today's podcast that's like 232 and his weight cap's like 209 so we've got a we've got a case but the first year i prepped him it was like a six pound shift it would be like across the weekend into monday would be like high and then he would go across the week and he would drop pretty significantly and by the thursday update he would always hit a new low and it was just like this constant like and you get closer and closer and closer and you're seeing this continue to happen and brayden's like panicking a bit right because that was the old weight cap that was the uh 202 or the 201 weight cap so he had a little bit of of weight cap uh problems in before they upped it and he's like sees that weight jump and he's like oh no we're like pretty far away and then you kind of just let him do his thing and by thursdays he's at a new low and like right at the weight cap right or right below it and so this that was a classic example of like i could have made a problem worse by just pushinGHim to the brinks and just like letting that fatigue pile up by faster by pushinGHim harder but by just being patient and knowing the tren lines of like what happened and following those averages like you said it was very clear that the rate of loss was in that 0.5 to 1 percent that was plenty sufficient to make it in time by the time that i had run a peak and sure enough like he he nailed it right like he was well under the cap we were able to load super easy you drop off the fatigue you change that structure of the week head into peak week and he keeps the low weight kind of throughout and is perfect to go on um and it's like so so hard to do that if you're not running a data-driven coaching process and and if communication isn't high like you talk about like communicating with your client about what could be the issue it's like you might be trying to solve for the raw problem i love this box it's it's um the the right problem with the right decision to solve it it's the right problem with the wrong decision to solve it and then on the flip side it's like the wrong problem with the right decision or the wrong problem with the wrong decision and you're always going to land in that box with the decisions you make as a coach and you need to identify the right problem to be able to make the right decision and that's where the communication and check-ins becomes such a uh an important thing and allows you to reframe for the client what needs to happen in order for them to be their best where they start to become okay with hey we don't need to do anything you're moving great here's why just keep doing your thing yeah i i'm i love the data man i can't i know i know our check-ins are so like there are a little longer but yeah it's just it's so helpful and i just think of like you need to be able to accept that as a client just imagine if you went to the doctor and you're all you're only allowed they only want to hear one sentence from you to give you a diagnosis right like i like yeah my my my foot hurts like all right here's like pain meds it's like like what else is going on like you got to hear more of the story behind all this right so the same thing with coaching like to to get you know the the right you know prognosis like you need data and you need information so the the more informative in a productive way that you can be to your coach and as an athlete the better the solutions you're going to get for those issues you might be occurring or improving um what one other one that comes to mind too is is trening uh being emotionally connected for a lot of us a lot of us get into just competing because we love to tren and competing was an outlet right so trening came first and because we loved it and there's emotional connection to enjoying trening and when trening goes to crap it's not quite as fun in bodybuilding is it so you know i have the the check-in too where they'll bring up a session like man i drop load reps on on leg day kind of like prompting the what to do about it and that's another one of like you might want to make an immediate change in programming or oh we'll add more food onto your leg day to keep it sustained it's like are are these the right calls to make and it goes back to assessing and asking questions to make sure your solution to that problem of leg day going down are the right ones and you're not using the wrong tool for the issue coming about so what were the other sessions of the week like and we see like their their logbook and load reps held it's like no just this leg session was off i was like well what was off about it it's like oh my main compound top set i was like mr rep it's like is the rest of the session hold well it's like yeah it's like okay so we're we're talking like one set out of like 15 sets of the day i think we can write that one off or was it you know the whole leg day just was a little bit down okay you know how was recovery this day it's like oh yeah just like i had to get up an extra hour earlier and i didn't sleep great that night or you know something like what what might have other factors that contribute to the poor leg day outside of the big picture of maybe you know foods getting low they're not able to sustain at this rate of deficit that just is starting to bury leg day down but when you're seeing like all other trening sessions of the week holding and just that one session was off that's when IMake the call of the do nothing it's like let's see if we do create a tren and if we're seeing trens and things then we might need to address it from there um so i i don't pull pull the cord on making a trening adjustment on the one off bad session because even in the offseason when you have plenty of food and everything like you have one off bad sessions but when it's consistent you know like hey all trening sessions this week are just starting to degrade a bit it's like okay this is maybe now time to make make the call but it comes back to making sure that your coaching system has ability to assess with thosEQuestions that i just brought up and being able to have someone even tracks their lifts as a diagnostic tool to recovery versus you know stimulus within the session that you're giving yeah i think it's um it's an interesting dynamic to manage on the client side especially with people who don't fall into that psychology we were previously talking about about like they keep their head down they they work really hard like the the other side of the equation from the management because we've all been here and i'm saying i'm laughing so much during this podcast because i've seen just every variation of this like in clients and like you know the people that just buy things for the dopamine prep like their amazon accounts like three times the budget of what it usually is in all season or their shoe closet has like tripled in size or whatever it's like there there is some excitement and dopamine hit about change right and so it's we we need to be able to manage that on the client and i think when you give the do nothing check-in it's important to walk through this logic on that check-in update so that you manage that individual well and keep their buy-in like hey this is what i'm seeing on this tren line i know that you had this you know xyz variable potentially a little off here i want to assess whether this is a tren or this is a one-off situation let's hold plan so that i can create an accurate assessment because consistency provides certainty and then that accurate assessment lead to a better decision so that in the little square that IMentioned we right problem right decision and it's like ah it just there's it goes a long ways when you insure a client in that manner yeah i'm sittinGHere it's like i bought a car is that me is that me doing a dopamine hit on prep i don't know uh no it's not it's sweet it is absolutely unbelievably unreal so but it is that is a thing yeah i've definitely had people like start going on shopping sprees while while they're on prep so um what are some other situations luke that come to mind for you around uh when you are making calls to do nothing or do you feel like those are kind of your major ones that that stand out yeah so i brought this up last podcast i think there's some peaking situations where this can come up um like again do more the the i want the diuretic i want the water cut i want yeah oh man it's i want the reddit truatide i want the oh don't start me on retoucher tide we had an education call with some of the j3 coaches today where i went off about this about like the positive negatives and seeing where this could be used but um anyways before i go on a soapbox there um what i would like to see is an understanding of within peak weeks like the type of preps coming in can change like how we go about peaking someone and a lot of times on the do nothing side like like he pointed out like water manipulation sodium manipulation diuretic side like you've already found a best look like why do we need to try to chase a 0.5 they could ruin us by 10 but there's also the peaks where with that fatigue drop that comes from having to push someone so hard the do nothing in regards to like keep the plan the same but just remove the activity that we covered in the d output goes a long ways but also um allows for the best visuals to come on on on stage and there's one situation in particular that comes to mind with this so for those of you guys that are familiar with my coaching nari is a wellness girl who i used to coach who we won her pro card at nationals well the year before that we did the olympia amateur and the time duration between those two shows was really tight i had picked up her prep like seven weeks out she was way behind when i got her and i caught her back up we went from like 150 to like 125 in the span of seven and a half weeks or seven weeks and so the regional was saturday and we were going to the amateur olympia the following tuesday and so i loaded her into the regional we won the overall at the regional and then we went back to base plan for sunday monday and on stage tuesday because it was a frontload so like i loaded her into the first show knowing she was going to be a bit too full accepting that for the regional it panned out and then did nothing for the rest of the the weekend leading into amateur olympia and she missed her card by like one spot we nailed it like in a class of like 20 so literally like just runninGHer base diet yeah low cardio steps yeah just walk out there just base plan no cardio steps minus a couple thousand and just pump up and walk out on stage and like we didn't win the card but out of a class of like 20 something girls in your first pro qualifier to get like second or third or whatever she got like come on like we did our job right and so we closed the tissue gap in the following year and won the pro card the next year but man it's just like that's a hard trust but that girl put all of her trust in me and it man it panned out she came off like screaming like so happy like she was in the first call out and all this stuff so um that dude nothing's a hard one to swallow for some people but man it can pay off when you do it right so when luke hands you the peak week protocol this is nothing do nothing you're like what i don't get it like where's the magic man like no no i i think more people could benefit from the the do less approach for sure yeah and want to want to pull all the levers and make it way morecomplicated and uh doing doing more doesn't mean you're making things better so you build in complexity as needed and i think that's where you can be more accurate in making those decisions as well the the other scenario i think of when you're it's a do nothing approach is when someone is just going way off plan and is maybe not quite ready for the coaching process or having a hard time like maybe post-show like keeping things on track it's like when they're changing adding so much other things you know into their diet or not routine with their steps or whatever it may be makes it really hard to make a coaching decision when there's already so many variables changing off of a plan when you're like hey i really need consistency in the variables to then know your response and then make a coaching change i think a lot of times i need to hold the plan and not make a change just get them to be able to adhere to that but sometimes the the coaching piece in that is then asking thEQuestions of well why is this happening like why are you having a hard time sticking to this part of your meal plan in the day or whatever it may be and so those might be the actions taken but it's in turn getting them back to that that base plan that is set up but i've had a number one they're like hey coach no i i can reign this in we're going to do this and uh just keep keep the plan the same i want i need to execute it and so that's the other situation that comes to mind around not changing the plan love it but i think i think look that uh probably hits all of our main points of when you should just do nothing for your athletes it sounds like you're just being doing lazy coaching but you're not you're not you're doing your job so i think what next week we'll we will get on to the the coach's corner episode we're going to talk about some prep mistakes that we still make even even luke makes mistakes and so do i admittedly so but uh anyway thank you all for tuning in and we will talk to you next week you

=== FILE: 🎙️The Art of the Rebound — Building After the Show ｜  J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 189 [ufX3sZu4gtg].txt ===

 The J3 university podcast. The art of the previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously some debate from the old position of this is the anabolic rebound window where you're primed for the best growth hormone hormone possible versus some other school of thought that is the worst time for growth hormone hormone possible but all this should be heading into the long term of offseason and that kind of prefaces what we should be doing in our post show phase to set this all up so luke and i will dive into the entire post show window and how to go about it luke how are you doing man good it's uh we just finished a stretch of shows i think i'm on like last week was my ninth weekend in a row or something like that so a lot of people trensitioning into this post show phase at the moment for the ones that have wrapped up for the year and um i think maybe building after the show could be a little bit misleading right because the the process of post show which you guys will see as we might have this out is the setup time like it's uh it's honestly about recovering a bit from contest prep managing body composition as best as possible and putting yourself in a position to be able to make the best progress after that you can um and i think there's quite a few pitfalls because man honestly this could be the thing that catapults your physique forward or the thing that is the rate limiter to your offseason if you depending on how you choose to execute this in my opinion yeah it really is the the prime time for what direction you're going to be able to head all the way into your next contest prep and i feel like we've had a few episodes kind of around this topic that if you blow this phase which you could blow within the first week and put on a lot of body fat your offseason won't be as long you're going to end up looking like you're more of a maintenance phase in your offseason and then your contest prep very well will need to be longer so so anyway um let's set the stage for this phase so understanding this rebound phase or the post show phase is used to be you would hear people state like you're at your peak insulin sensitive state and you're just a sponge to be able to drive nutrients towards muscle tissue and then this is kind of subjectively confirmed in the anecdotal realm of when you go tren and the pumps are just sky high right because you are that sensitive you super compensated glycogen so you're blasting full probably holding a little bit extra water from the post show uh the uh you know rebound a bit of water retention and the the trening's wild right and then it starts taking off so everything from like how you would describe from a science perspective of what what you could bias towards like yeah this is a great time for muscle growth hormone hormone and the anecdotal side points in that direction um other issues that kind of could counter this argument is that yes muscle is very sensitive to insulin at this time however so are fat cells it's also a prime time to gain body fat as we see that happens very easily too um and then to that degree also hunger signaling is extremely high so combine these two things together it's also a prime time to gain body fat at a pretty substantial rate um another point around this situation is that trening flies right and just with nutrition up is enough to create a lot of response which to that degree what we'll kind of get into the pd side but it doesn't take a lot in this phase because of that so if you have just nutrition already driving a lot of that probably don't need a lot of support in that that lines but it's not just about food and pds as that can kind of drive a lot of some stimulus but also some of the recovery piece but it is a lot about recovery is what's going to be creating growth hormone hormone and adaptations to trening so you do have to kind of remove yourself from the subjective feeling of how trening is and look at this what the situation environment is around you that post-show it's it's not going to be as ideal because you have a lot of variables that aren't in line for your optimal recoverability and sleep is number one like i just got done competing and my body weight's higher food's up i'm actually having the worst sleep right now that i did of all of contest prep which makes me feel like i'm dragging throughout the day and it's also going to mean that i'm not going to be able to recover and adapt from trening as easily so is that the ideal position to grow no it wouldn't be completely ideal also considering that you just had a stint of runninGHigher anabolics and some of these you know the agents we use are pretty toxic if you're using oral steroids or trimbalone or lots of fat burners that all accumulates a lot of stress that you have to pay at some point for which post-show should be a time to recover to be able to repeat a degree of that into your offseason not just throw more cumulative stress in there i know some people argue like well you just come down to a more moderate amount and then trensition to a mild amount but again then this immediate like couple weeks post-show you're just trying to recover from the show itself and those last stages of contest prep so you know what we're really trying to do here is take advantage of this phase from the nutrition side that's already going to be really beneficial your trening get back to restorative sleep position remove food focus manage body fat gain and get to where you can launch into your your offseason and all this is kind of this this linear tren is as you're seeing trening start to drop off from the nutrition side and body weight increases initially that's when you could start tapering in titrating in gear versus having it already high to begin with but anyway um not to get into our other points but that's kind of at least some brief understanding of this rebound phase of why yes you're going to see gym progress but at the same time it's not the ideal position to grow so you kind of need to be strategic around when are you going to push growth hormone hormone hard and i i would make i would lean more towards the argument of that this isn't the ideal time now luke maybe you want to add that are there times uh where you see this applicable or not at all where you do try to chase some growth hormone hormone in this phase yeah i think i think really even like the the one argument you could potentially have would be the person that's like in between shows with a longer post-show time frame like maybe like a 12 weeks and that might be the one caveat to this where you might you know theoretically be hoping that you get a little bit of growth hormone hormone because you've got some surplus time before you have to like flip the script and run that rate of loss into the second show but man even then it's it's still not ideal there's never really a situation where i'm like stepping on the gas pedal if that makes sense the intentional i think unintentionally it kind of happens because i remember some some situations for you of clients that were natural that had made the choice to then go enhanced and you do that post-show because it doesn't make sense to like give them eight weeks of just suboptimal hormones and trying to restore their natural levels just to suppress them again and in turn they grow a ton yeah it's just like this you're you're in a subdued state hormonally from the natural contest prep you're pivoting into enhanced bodybuilding it makes sense to replace the hormone environment so that you're not waiting for the restoration to happen you manage body composition well and as a result you just get this like recomp that happens it's just like crazy right like because recovery metrics just shoot up right and you're able to recover from trening and everything but even then like it's not like in those situations i'm stepping on the gas pedal with a food perspective or trying to push weight up at a certain rate i'm just kind of letting it happen under the confines of how we would typically run a post-show phase yeah and i think that was a key thing that you just said is that recovery is happening and that's just the priority of this phase is like putting recovery first and so you can then let this potentiate into your off-season phase so it's not like with that client you're now adding in like a gram of anabolics and oral steroids right yeah to where like now they're at a detriment come eight weeks later yeah and have to pull back now it's like actually immediate recovery for them because their natural levels were were suppressed yeah i know there is like people out there they're absolutely say like well IMade some of the best progress i've ever made in a post-show phase and i've done the same you know i i have and i left in a moderate amount of gear and that's i am not saying by any means that it it cannot happen it absolutely can happen it's just i see this as being short-sighted because it's not looking at the long term of we have you could have a year of an off-season ahead and when i did my like this was in 2016 or sorry 15 after usa's i jumped a weight class right and eight weeks later post-show like yeah IMade a lot of progress but the entire rest of the off-season was not much progress in the actual off-season it was a lot a lot of maintenance of what i had gained earlier on and then also a quick shift to getting pretty soft because gear had to come down because i had been on for 30 plus weeks so looking at that and going back i'd rather have used the least amount of possible than as trening slowing down keep moving that up and spread out that progress because what what you can do is with those rapid increases post-show is like the the water gain is so skewed like it looks it looks so intramuscular and you're so round right that it's kind of hard to blur how much fat gain is actually occurring and it's absolutely there so once that water drops off from that like big rise in anabolics growth hormone hormone hormone whatever else you're doing then you're left seeing like oh you know what i did put a good amount of body fat on um so it's i just see as being a better long-term way to spread out the progress um versus just trying to take it all in in in the first eight weeks post-show yeah i think there's i think there's a mental emotional side to handle here as well and i think it kind of comes into how you manage this food and physique management for someone because there's certainly a a mental side to this post-show phase that i think has to be understood like one of the great ways that i try to build buy-in with someone is walking them through their contest prep of like hey you know you didn't get hungry or starving in your first two or three weeks of prep and you didn't lose all your body fat in three weeks post prep or during starting of prep right so we shouldn't expect the reversal of this entomology that was built up to the contest prep to be two or three weeks as well because arguably like i think for for competitors from a hunger signaling management standpoint this is probably the hardest portion of the season and there takes quite a lot of buy-in when the pressure is off like the pressure of a show looming is off of them like it takes a lot of buy-in to keep the habits where you can actually run this phase the way that we're talking about um and make it where you have the physique composition that you want at the end of the the post-show phase a huge part because i i'm literally in this phase right and i was i went to the gym yesterday and this uh couple brought me like uh nothing bunt cake like a family size one or you know for a body for a bodybuilder it's an individual size but it was like oh man and it's like i could have murdered the whole thing absolutely but i what you know i have a timeline already set up and when you look at your timeline you quickly realize that you don't have weeks to waste i don't even have i don't even have days to waste right and you know i've mapped it out it's like man you only have like a 14 week growth hormone hormone phase before you need to prep again for like spring shows it's like wow like i can't waste time here even my first week post show so i had a slice i even logged it into my chronometer and could enjoy this but also not let it turn into something that was going to impact me the next day where i'm up two pounds and just sticks so you absolutely can have enjoyments of this phase but it's just all about you know controlling your calories but i think having like the the timeline goal there and already having the vision because now in my mind it's like i'm just a continuation of prep here like i need to make the weeks count i'm headed towards a date again not that my show's done there's nothing else in mind so for me the the timeline helps a ton yeah it's just a lot of buy in when you see like how little time you actually have i think it's it becomes increasingly important the honestly the morecompetitive you get because the margins become so tiny and like the ability to progress becomes so freakinGHard it's like everythinGHas to be in such a great spot it's like i had this conversation with jess who shout out to her for coming and forth this past weekend just absolutely ridiculous how much progress was made but um it was like hey like this is not the time to celebrate like i i get it like great job go have a meal tonight but like tomorrow it's like you want to go to the olympia it starts tomorrow type of deal and that's just the margins you're built with when you're at the pro level thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with j3 university our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our four rooms with our j3u team to answer any questions you have and livEQ a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top ifbb pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at j3 university let's get back to today's podcast yeah and so with that being said on the nutrition side we have the issue of like should you do like a reverse diet versus this recovery diet you know which and when are applicable here and a while back it was the idea of you reverse right you slowly bring in food it's going to bring up your metabolism at the same time to where you're going to end up you know staying lean and havinGHigh food now more research has come out around this that you know the body fat set point is kind of what you need to get back to before you truly are restored so just drawing this phase out and staying in a you know energy deficient state just doesn't allow recovery to happen to a quick degree so this is when your recovery diet you know um you know shout out to 3d mj and eric helms and albert nunez kind of leading that terminology around this of more rapidly increasing someone in body fat at a paced out rate to get you to a set point that you no longer have the negative adaptations that were occurring in your contest prep but so that's kind of what we we do lean towards too and we teach in in j3u and that's going to vary for everyone based on how far below that set point you had to get where that starting point is for you some people it's not very far other people it takes a lot to get down to that and could feel like you had a lot of negative adaptations in your prep super food focused highly fatigued right slot of sleep derangement loss of menstrual cycle for some females while other people feel fine like no loss of menstrual cycle function and just need a little bit of body fat to come back on and then also just with experience like you get far better at creating an environment that's low stress where you can get to sleep in a better state because you have that set up for yourself you also have a better timeline set up to where you're not digging down so hard towards the tail end of prep to where now that recovery diet looks far less aggressive as it used to be and so where how quickly do we need to push someone up is going to depend on those factors and a lot into the psychology so if we have someone that's really struggling to stay on plan it might be better just to bump their food up a little bit harder add some fat on them and then get them to a more stale position quicker is that the optimal thing to do and should i keep every week trying to like pound them into getting to adherence or just allow some extra fat to occur and you know these are all questions you should be asking yourself on the coaching front or if you're an athlete as well but uh you know for the most part it's always this kind of recovery style diet and a reverse would only happen i think once after you have that initial larger body weight increase we might see some like shifting up slower in food but again the whole idea here is within a four to eight week period you're able to get to a completely recovered state from contest prep and being at the lowest body fat that you can do that at and that's kind of the kicker of that lowest body fat is gonna is gonna shift probably down as you get more experience in doing so but also you're gonna have your own genetic limitations that you're not going to see a completely flip of the script if you're always that really high body fat set point and have to really you know crank down hard and prep to get there you'll see it change some over time but it's not going to be vastly different to where all of a sudden you're stay like you know peeled out year round and died on high food so just uh put put some preface around around that but um anything you want to add luke as far as you know in your coaching on the week to week front of you know when to increase food or how quickly you do so or anything around the food choices that you try to manage and then uh i think there's probably you coach a lot of females so handling the like mental and emotional side of that weight gain as well yeah there's there's a few things i look at um i do tend to lean a little bit more towards like a diverse meal plan um just from like a micronutrient standpoint like i'm trying to get some variety in because we've probably been like especially some of the females that have like the brutal preps it's like like chicken veggie beef veggie like you know there's like five four out of the five meals are just protein veg um so you're you're trying to get some diversity in with kind of some of the food choices that come in so this would be like a reintroduction of fruits if you had to drop those out for prep and things on those lines from a food choice perspective the main things i try to avoid are like the nicky-nacky things like you know what i'm talking about like the little things that add up very quickly of like little processed food items that then drive the hunger signaling and then make it worse where the hunger signaling's worse even though they have like an increase in caloric intake um those are kind of the big things that i look for and then like food options i'm leaning more towards like that list that we have in level one of things that are going to help with satiety um but really the big thing is like the mental emotional shift um and that's where i tie this back into the timeline but also like almost like a real honest conversation of like what do you want out of this and then comparing that process to kind of what the expectation is at that level and honestly for a lot of them it creates buy-in to the point where we can take a step back and be a bit more objective with how that process needs to look and i don't mean to jump topics so quick but i think that shift and focus to trening and like enjoying trening performance and being a little bit obsessive with how we implement trening and execute it and pivot into this new trening block really can help someone with like where the focus needs to be in the first place to actually change their physique long term yeah and when we look at that too like that's where you can get really excited about this phase and yeah even now my that's where my mind is is like you have your stage picks and you got some judging feedback how could IManipulate trening to now create that physique and those improvements and so you get in the gym and you're now could could you'll get more on board with you're now doing the things that you know you're going to be improving so like looking on a week-to-week basis of how you can keep improving form and getting stimulus to that target muscle and then also driving up progress in those lifts and i think that is where the big shift should happen when it's on prep it gets easy to focus on body fat loss visuals and scale weight going down as being good things so to see like lines fading and scale weight going up it makes it seem like that's the negative association and i have been there too like i like to stay lean and you want to make sure you're in like john said in luke said like ending the phase as lean as you can what if i'm gaining too much body fat and i would say it's uh you know it's okay to air a little bit more on the side of being more aggressive because body fat's pretty easy to to pull off if you're already having thesEQuestions in mind you're likely already doing the things that you need to be doing what could be a little more detrimental is actually just staying too lean under doing your surplus and not allowing real recovery to happen and then all that great trening you're focusing on is not creating those adaptations you want to stick and grow and improve on on stage so uh you know that uh should be some like guiding force for you in these in these directions and you know with trening post show and trying to improve again the focus here is again getting to this eight week mark post show where you're able to now really take off in the offseason and so your your hardest trening sessions and most voluminous trening sessions should not be in this phase either and that's a hard one because even now i'm swapping my trening around and you want to just go ham right away and you it's not a great idea because again your recovery is not there it's also could be a little more susceptible time to get injured and then i'm bringing gear down at the same time so uh a good guiding area that i go with is like what you're doing your last week before peak week let that start your post show period and then just add in an extra rest day so say you're doing push pull legs off you now do push pull off legs off and you start off your your sessions with with your weekly uh post show with that and then once you're back offseason you can shift that back to like a push pull legs or something so um just as generality but in our level one course like we give some greater breakdowns of what that looks like depending on how you ended your your prep for for some individuals it looks a little bit more streamlined straight through others it has a more you know dynamic shift in volume so it just depends on like where your start point is from there but typically we don't start with a specialization phase right away um it's it's usually starting something more general than as we build in the offseason that trening shifts into like body part specialization and then gets even farther along the way especially if you're a more advanced competitor um so IMean that's that is the the trening piece and then you know we've already touched a bit on peds i don't know we could do a whole episode just around the pd aspect but in at least what i the initial go to here is this should i'd my mind being the lowest amount of pds that you're running all year long because nutrition is going to be such the biggest driver of this phase that you just it's going to be pretty easy to maintain tissue and if anything people already improve just off food alone and gear and you have to think about even when you stop your your contest prep cycle a lot of those longer acting esters that you might have been using which a lot of people are using now we don't have a lot of people that are like swapping to test prop and mass prop these last phases of prep usually people are staying on some type of sepionate or an anthony ester and so you're having like four to five weeks while these these are still clearing out so even your first few weeks post show like you're very likely still in a super physiological state to take advantage of that but so that's why you know gear post show can come down to your your lowest amount that allows you to maintain muscle which for for many people out there that's going to be like close to a we could call it a more aggressive TRT level there's not many bodybuilders doing like 100 megs of tests per week usually it's like a a 200 meg start point yeah you raise your hand like competing actively competing bodybuilders right um so so yeah that's kind of where your your lowest amount might go to and then uh hell even on the the upper end like competitive bodybuilders usually i usually put the threshold as a hey no one needs more shouldn't even eating more than 500 milligrams per week to maintain tissue post show if you do geez that's pretty uh you're you're riding the cusp man like you're hope hope you're in the tail end and you're uh a very seasoned pro by that by that time but yeah arguably your habits are pretty bad if that's the case but i'll leave it at that uh but with uh only exceptions like i do like to titrate growth hormone hormone hormone up quite a bit in this phase which we had mentioned on a previous podcast around just between show times um that that could be a thing to really leverage but especially leveraging now as it can really minimize body fat gain during a phase when you might be more liable to gain body fat um that's that's a lot of it you know i think the pd side the last trensition is like people ask about thyroid hormone yeah uh you know usually come back to restorative state of thyroid is the goal so if you're using T3 during prep i i would taper that down pretty quickly because T3 is very suppressive and tiered to tsh which usually i just run only T4 then four to five weeks later pull that out unless it's someone that's going to stay on it for HRT purposes and the same goes with clenbuterol like it's a balance of trensitioning of of into the energy surplus as strategic as you can to control someone's intake so IMight leave a little bit of clen in and then again taper that down as someone's getting a bit more more stable and the cardio piece is another one if you had someone that could continue cardio all the way through uh the last you know bits of peak week you just kind of just resume that post show other people i've had stop it like weeks and weeks out that's the person we would taper back up because it is a still another um recovery aspect to consider so eventually with that i'm looking to by the time we are ready to start offseason we have like their baseline cardio back in and that's the goal at least in that type of situation other areas that you would think to address luke yeah i think the last one would just be time with friends and family like understanding we can do things with them and spend quality time with them them that aren't food related and i'd almost encourage you to like do it as a part of prep where it doesn't feel like it's such a big shift when you're post show like i think obviously there's going to be time limits for people and like having to prioritize the cardiovascular activity where it will take away from that but as you have that cardio drop back down you have more time making sure that you're prioritizing those activities and like making sure that you're spending time with them and they're the ones that are going to be around forever bodybuilding is not so um i think that's like the last little piece for like that almost like decompression emotionally so that you can reconnect if you have like let it slip during contest prep but i would i would really almost encourage this as like a a prep thing to make sure you keep intact so that it doesn't feel so drastic when you get to the show yeah to like for many to get good at bodybuilding it can get very secluded yeah and uh to go outside of anything that's not bodybuilding it can bEQuite a bit of effort to where yeah you basically like well i'm gonna have to pack a meal i can just have my meal at home like i just won't go to that function or oh man they're just gonna be kind of taxing talking all these people like i just won't go to that event um and then as you get more advanced the problem is is that the prep habits are the ones that do make you really good and then your preps need to keep extending into like offseason so your offseason starts looking more like a prep to where those same habits and routines of not going out with people secluding yourself now becomes year-round and it's just from a emotional need standpoint it's just very short-lived and not sustainable and not really going to lead to your best self so to to luke's point is that you know this all bodybuilding should be leading to this better version of you and better version of people around you and having a good support system and people that you love and and do the things you love with those people so you absolutely can do those things in prep and don't think that you need to be seclusive or reclusive just to be the best bodybuilder um you there's just a way to manage it and things that you can do absolutely and there's going to be course things that you can't do as well even the offseason things i can't do you know just uh it's just you're just limited to what being a bodybuilder but nonetheless great time to start uh maybe investing deeper in those connections not uh not trying to reconnect hopefully it's not a reconnection hopefully it's not but anyway uh that sets up our entire like you know the art of the rebound and how to be building after your show and let that lead into your your improvement season from there next week um we're after doing two shows back to back uh gonna rewind a bit to peak week and looking at you know the second peak done right so kind of reviewing data from the first peak what to do in your second peak to keep refining that process and maybe i'll have my thoughts together from the tampa texas weekend to give you some good insights as well from that so anyway thank you all for tuning in and we will talk to you next week

=== FILE: 🎙️When a check-in goes off the rails…  ｜ J3U Podcast Ep ⧸⧸178 [P9MyR1t8rzk].txt ===

 The J3 university podcast. quote unquote is a bad check-in. But if you're a coach, now you enter the realm of highly possible, you're gonna get this check-in where you're reading, you're like, I didn't even know this was possible to happen. And you're gonna have to address it. So Luke and I are gonna go through, what do you do when the check-in goes off the rails? How do you ring the client back in? How do you manage the situation? And then get them back to a place of productivity. Yeah, I think there's a bunch of different ways this can happen. And I don't think this is, I don't think this is just the late check-in. And I think that's kind of the clarity that needs to be kind of prefaced with is there's so much that could go into this off check-in that could drive issues with the process that you need to address. And sometimes, and we'll talk about this, John, you know this, you have to read between the lines. People who are not the most forthcoming, you have to read between the lines and then poke and prod with questions. Any of my clients watching this know that I've responded to them with emails, like prodding questions to like get more out of them before if they aren't typically the most communicative. But sometimes it's in between the lines. Sometimes it's understanding the context of the phase that they're in, whether that be the phase of life or the phase like of what could potentially go wrong, whether it's an off-season or a contest prep or anything along those lines. So there's a lot of context clues. And I think of it this way because as coaches, we can be very X and O and try to be as objective as possible. But there does have to be some sort of emotive perspective or emotional adept perspective to be able to start to read people in this scenario. Yeah. Yeah. And that ability is something that you're going to have to probably gain over time. And it's really, I feel like in these situations is where the coach leadership role really shines because giving someone a nutrition plan or a trening plan, that is the X's and O's. But true coaching is where you connect on that emotional level and trying to build that person up as an athlete, as just an overall humaninto that better version of themselves. And so that's where you really need when someone is starting to go astray, take the leadership role and bring them back into where they need to be and meet them in that place. And I think within a lot of this, the coaching realm, especially coming from bodybuilding or even the athletic background, maybe even from the 90s, early 2000s era of athlete coach, it's a really just push them hard and get your crap together, suck it up, let's go. And if that's your only tool and lever to pull, you're going to fall short in a lot of areas. And by no means am I trying to be like, we all need to be a little softer, but everyone's going to respond differently to how you're going to be addressing their situation and then bringing them back in. So I just spoke with a newer client that I was onboarding and he had that same approach from his last coach of like, he had fallen short in a prep and had that strong arm of like, hey man, get it together. Like, what are you doing? And it kind of sent him back backwards and not what he needed to hear in that moment. He needed more of like, let's focus on the positive and push this forward. And that would have been like the opposite like of what he needed, you know, to just keep him moving a needle. But anyway, you know, with the check-in that can come in, like it's a variety of things that we could see, which it might just be the scale weight jumped up, you know, four or five pounds. And there's check-ins where nothing's mentioned and you're left just looking at it like, why is their body weight scaling up? Right. And you're just like, I don't know. Like what would happen? That's when Luke mentions like, there's the 21 questions going off of, okay, why did this day, this went up and like, did some extra food go in? You're trying to balance the conversation of not just saying, are you cheating on your diet? You know, then, you know, sleep is just tanked for some reason. We see the log of like four hours of sleep. And then we have the check-in that comes in at like 3 a.m. or the opposite. It comes in at like midnight that day. This work life happens and you read through someone's like whole life story of what was going on for the day. And then there's digestive issues that could be occurring or even issues around PDs that weren't a problem. Like I've heard all types of stories around gear usage. Like I had to, I ran out of this. I had to go bum some other compound and now I did an injection and now I have this like soreness and redness and they send you a picture of it. Like infected. It's just a list of like what this bad check-in could be and you're always trying to troubleshoot. So I think the thing is like, you know, what typically leads to this? And I'll throw this back to you, Luke. Like in all this and maybe earlier on your coaching or, hey, even from other coaching process that you've seen, are there early signs to this or ways to set up the coaching process that could, to at least limit some of this from happening? Yeah. So there's definitely early signs. I think some of the earlier signs that you'll start to see would be one, data not adding up. Like that's an obvious one. I think that's a pretty quick one to pick up on. The non-quicker ones are the trailing off of the tracking. So you'll notice like one or two things start to not get tracked or you'll notice that the description of their week gets a little bit shorter. If, for those of you familiar with my check-in process, I have a couple boxes at the bottom where it goes into like, what did you do well this week? What did you not do well? And then a description of the week. And you'll see like kind of the first couple months, people will fill out the first, all three boxes and then the next month, they'll only fill out two. And then the next box, the next month, they only fill out one. So you see this like trail off of like how disciplined they are with the check-in process. And I think a lot of what this comes down to in order to keep yourself ahead of the curve is finding out how a client communicates. Because there's multiple different ways that people communicate. And you can see this with kind of typically the first month or two of check-ins. Sometimes they just don't give you enough and they consistently don't give you enough through written. And that's okay because I have some people who send voice notes. I have some people who send loons. I have some people who just do the written. And so I've found that kind of finding that is thEQuickest way to get ahead of the curve because life's going to happen. And that's the thing is you're going to be in a contest prep that you have to push someone hard. They're going to be, have curveballs sent to them and their life perspective. And if you set them up for success with the system, that makes it easiest for them to communicate. It makes it much easier to do your job. Do you think within like offseason or even a contest prep situation that there's a form of coaching maybe with the timeline that could lead someone, an easier setup to someone like go off the rails like that? Like I'm thinking maybe too aggressive of a prep timeline or maybe, maybe just the front end work wasn't there in the initial QA to pick up on things of like this person's not ready for this phase. Yeah, I think on the onboarding process, there's a lot of details that have to be covered because frustration will be one that drives this lack of communication. Like if you're not extremely detailed in the onboarding process and your plans don't address everything that they're looking to get addressed, that'll be a really quick one. I've seen a lot of people come into our coaching business after just a few months of working with someone else that's literally just that situation there. I think expectation management would be more so the thing around the timeline because it's hard to explain to people the expectations of phases that they've never executed at a certain level. So like if they haven't executed at the level that you execute at, but that's what it's going to take for them to get them to the next level. It is going to be super challenging for them to change all of their life variables in order to get to that. And so if we do that from the forefront of expectation of like, hey, this is the groundwork or the barriers in which we operate in. And in order to achieve your goal, we have to operate within these barriers, whether it's IMap this out for 24 weeks for a prep timeline because I want to see this rate of loss so that you're ready at this point so I can do some peak testing and then lead you into the peak or whether it's like body composition management in the offseason and the same flow of thought that you do for a rate of gain. If they don't have those expectations set from the forefront, that's just going to lead to more frustration both directions and you're going to have to keep having that, well, what are you doing conversation? And then they're going to feel like you didn't lay out those expectations on the forefront. Yeah, I could see that suddenly expectation is clear. I think with some people, they've already created their own expectations and what they want out of the coaching process. I've had, and you know, in this modern day of coaching, it seems like it's very, you know, athlete focused as it should be and athlete driven with the process, right? Like now we like coaching is like we have a lot of tools to be able to coach people in different ways. So, hey, I want coach, I want this more flexible macro plan or same with like trening plans. I don't want, I want to be able to log in an app or not in an app, right? Or whatever it may be. And you end up trying to accommodate this person, but it shifts them back into this, the patterns they're used to that they keep failing at. And so I think there's a balance of strike here and you're in like initially assessing someone to make sure that you don't let them go back into a pattern that they're just comfortable with. That sets them up for failure and where it's going to prevent you from coaching them as you need. And just an example of this is like I've had some people that have been tracking macros and are pretty proficient at it, but it falls apart in contest prep because they also don't know how to like maintain just a reasonable structure in the offseason and need all these like different fun and crazy foods present. And so like allowing them to keep doing that, they never gain the skills of being able to just stay adherent within a, you know, a little bit more rigid of a structure to where they're not set up right. So I think part of like the initial with a client and assessing them is making sure that, you know, the flexibility is there, but it's also going to be setting that up for their goal that they have laid out in the future as well. Yeah, I think to kind of push this conversation a bit further forward, I think you can go a long ways with how you react to this check-in. And this is something that, pat myself on the back here for a bit. I have worked extremely hard at doing this well and I feel like this is a part of my coaching that I really kind of lean on a lot is the ability to be able to communicate someone with where they're at because the way that you talk sets the tone for the conversation. Okay, and this is where for those of you that are the coaches here or if you're the client looking for what are kind of traits or aspects of a coach that are pretty good, the way that you approach this and understanding that they need to know you care about them being the best version of themselves is massive. And understanding that you can't change things that have already happened in the past is another thing that's massive in this conversation. And so the way that you kind of come in here with curiosity and understanding validating that this is an open place to be able to talk and then moving someone into ownership of the actions by saying these are the things that we can do to prevent this from happening in the future. So giving them a vision of progress is an unbelievable way to not only manage it in the situation when something goes wrong but also try to build them up to be more successful in the next time that a challenge presents itself. And usually this is in the confines of a contest prep is where you see it the most often like someone falls off plan or binges or whatever it might be or something keeps them from executing at some level. But there's times in the offseason this happens too and the way that you approach that conversation is so huge because like guards and walls can go up so quick if you're not careful. And then you close off the conversation the next time it's going to happen, right? So I think with that and I see it in different types of athletes already the response is different. Like I have some really high executors that just nail it every single week. Like they live the life, right? And so for them like when something does go off the rails by the time they already check in they've already beat themselves up so bad and they know what it looks like to fix it. And a lot of times I think with the high executor it's something that was out of their control but to them that's the failure and I think letting them know that the success is when we're all going to face adversity that's how you deal with it. Like you make the best of that day and you don't let it just keep spiraling, right? And so for that individual like you don't need to be the aggressive one that pushes them like hey man you need to get it together. It's like they know that and they've already punished themselves enough so there's that client but then there's the client too that is going to be emotionally beat down and in a really depressed place that might need to be like brought up out of a hole like there's people that can spiral down like a degree of depression like do you want to beat that person down? but there very is like the real whimsical person that just needs to be drawn back in. That's the person that's probably never really checked in on point to begin with and that might always need like come on man let's you know put it together and you that's the I think the one that you need to set even harsher expectations with of like to coach you and align with your goals you need to do x y and z if you're not doing x y and z there's only so many of these check-ins that we can do until I'm not able to coach you towards that goal and so I think it's letting them realize that you're not just going to be the accountability buddy every week if you're not able to coach them they're not that coachable they're not ready for this level so there's there's a spectrum there so I think to to work within and that language that you're using with all those different types of clients is going to vary you know I think if you're just don't know where to start with the client and you see some strenge check-in come to you is throw it back to the client first so you can gain understanding of where they are at so if something doesn't add up to you send send a voice message back to them like hey this seemed out of character or out of place in your check-in when normally I haven't seen it like could you explain that a bit further for me you know what felt different this week or why did this happen and tell them like send me a voice memo if you don't mind if it's something that off I don't want it written because it can be so misconstrued I've even had check-ins come in that was typed in the way I read it was just interpreted wrong by me and maybe they even mistyped something and so you jump to assumptions so you have to remove yourself emotionally a bit and don't put on just these you know negative assumptions onto your client give them the chance to like rectify and speak and once you hear that back it might get you gain a little bit more perspective of where they're at then you can give the the appropriate response to meet that client and move them in the direction that they need to thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with J3 University our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University let's get back to today's podcast yeah and I think that that initial like giving them the open forum to be able to do this is huge there's and there's multiple different ways to do it depending on how you communicate as an individual like I'm very verbal a lot of my clients know like I'll be like I'll just call them or like get on a zoom call like hey I'm sitting at my desk for the nexT3 hours hop on the zoom call when you can or something along these lines because it's just something that I feel like we verbally need to hash out or you can send that voice note but when you do kind of get that feedback back a lot of it's reframing expectations because we have to get to a place where we're back to the objective problem solving and so identify what they did that they could have controlled identify the things that they couldn't control so they understand the difference between the two and how we are able to use our actions to affect the things that we can control and then let the things that we can't fall off of our back and this is how we start to kind of learn to teach someone we start to guide people and teach someone to be able to go through this identification process so that we can get them back to problem solving because most of the time or a lot of the time when this happens people are in a overwhelming anxiety ridden panic state of some sort whether it's they're anxious about the fact that they made a mistake or they're anxious about the fact the environment has changed and it could lead them to making a mistake and thEQuicker we can get them to learn how to identify the controllables control those controllables and get them back into problem solving mode the better they're going to be able to manage it on them on their own without you having to be there and I think that kind of brings us to that like problem solving skill set of how do we go about problem solving because that's kind of the whole point of guiding a check-in back for someone yeah and that you know you have the emotional aspect that you kind of already went through but then it is getting back to the nuts and bolts of what your program actually looks like so you know what's what was the problem what's the root issue that's your what you're really trying to get down to it's okay you went off plan why did that happen well I didn't have something prepared why wasn't it prepared well my schedule changed does your schedule normally change yes it does we should have a backup in place just in case let's always have this whey protein and rice cakes or granola bar or nuts on hand in case you are out on the go and you don't have your prepped meal with you so there we go you identify the problem the root issue and then have you know a way to address this and like through that it's like that's the decision process that you should take with with all these issues and some things are going to be uncontrollables and it might be an environmental change that's going to be sustained for a bit of time so what's the problem oh man my my I had a a family member pass away and I have to go sort whatever their living situation or deal with this right how what was the time period here like is that going to detract so much from this physique goal that they're headed to that we should just move them out of that phase at all together because that phase might be a contest prep where it's extremely demanding physically and mentally and they're not just going to be have the physical time to be allocate there or the mental capacity to allocate there let's move them to a phase where they can be successful still nail the variables that we set and deal with whatever that life situation might be and so I've had to shift people out of phase we're like hey man I'm not going to be able to nail my meals like this is like such a life encompassing thing that I have to deal with it's like okay well let's shift and we're going to go to maintenance we're going to tren three days a week or something like that and just see what they are capable to do now this is kind of the extreme that we're getting to right of like we're just trying to make do here but it can go the point is is that it can go from that to as simple as like hey just have like a pre-made meal with you so you know through all this it's looking through all the variables that we have tracked that's why you know Luke and myself we have more meticulous data tracking that we do with our athletes so it's easier to pick up on what's the weak link in the chain be able to ask the client about that and see what intervention that we can put in place a lot of these pretty wild check-ins that happen to a lot of times it's like okay this happened let's nail the plan this week we're not going to change anything we can see what happens with your physique where it moves and then reassess next week that's a lot of those check-ins that I get across the desk or like I can't change the plan if you're not able to execute that plan and I've already made all the changes to give someone all the ability to do it and they're still not doing it and that happens over I usually go abouT3 weeks of working that out and if they're still like I've done everything I can and they're still not you know able to adhere to it they're not at a point of their life for coaching I'm not doing anything I'm not I'm not doing my job I'm doing too much is what I'm doing I'm I'm fighting for their goals more than they are that's when it's time for them to like set coaching aside and then revisit it when they are in a better position to execute yeah it's it's a tough place to be in when you want it that bad for someone it can really eat you up emotionally I think the earlier on you definitely get a look probably a little too emotionally involved in your clients goals and it's hard not to be for like how much you care about coaching in general and how much time you put into someone for them to just drop the ball it's it's tough because you know it feels like you just got let down and you're gonna have to swallow that because that is what's coaching is gonna be so I think there's a you need to have a bit of just safeguarding not letting yourself get too emotionally involved and that's a tough one and I you know like coaching friends is a tough one too because eventually the coaching boundaries and friendship boundaries get a little blurred and it lets things slip or if you know coaching doesn't go the way that they wanted expectations weren't met or vice versa like man it could it's ended friendships right so that's a that's a tough one to manage so you know as in the coaching aspect clear expectations and making sure those are listed out and you always uphold some of that to where as you do become more friendly we still hey we still have to uphold this because that's what's going to make us achieve our goals to the best of our ability anyway yeah there's um there's one other thing that I kind of want to touch on with the fail check-in because communication can be a big aspect of this I think there's a few ways you can avoid this on a phase dependent note so people know this I've spoken about this pretty publicly everybody that works with me when they start a contest prep they immediately move to twice a week check-ins and it's not that it's necessarily needed in the first part of prep right like it's pretty just kind of you're you're taking smooth progressions right but the desire for keeping communication stable on a contest prep is extremely high for me because it's where people get a bit more emotional the deeper into contest prep that you go the more I don't want to say reactive because not everybody's reactive in nature but the more driven off emotion someone can be with the amount of effort that they're putting in and keeping that line of communication very clear is extremely important and a great way to do that is to increase the touch points with someone the more frequent touch points can allow you to pick up on things a little bit quicker and I think this is one strategy in regards to kind of staying ahead of it that is massive so because some people will understand who've been through prepping with me before like in a contest prep it goes from like the once a week check-ins in the offseason to twice a week and then the twice a week kind of goes to three times a week or every other day towards the back end and then obviously like when the peaking process starts it's daily but it's so huge like it can it can make or break preps in my opinion because you catch things so much faster and you're able to be a better resource for them because you're keeping that line of communication clear yeah I do that post show to like the the check-in frequency still happens because man post show you know one day off plan to two days to three days and then you check in a lot can happen in three days so keep keep it pretty frequent and it I you know I even as a personal note like on the athletic athlete side of execution like I've been in preps where man you're checking in meal by meal with your coach and felt so connected with the coach and then all of a sudden the next week your shows over you're like back to work and then you just have your coach like for one check-in and it is it feels a bit empty and uh it kind of has like this post show blue feeling to it like I almost need a weaning off of this uh attentive coaching process in a sense not you know I can execute but in a way for someone if they were to really struggle with that it can really kind of let the air out of your sails uh coming from all this attention to like kind of having that drop off but anyway post show I think that's another one to keep the check-in frequency there and then once you see someone mentally is in a good spot for sure physically they're starting to like you know get more stable then we kind of can move offseasons back to less frequent but uh even then I I'm okay with keeping someone on a twice a week check-in on offseason uh some some people they they like that and I've asked people like hey you're in a stable position like I'm going to move you to once a week check-ins unless there's some reason you'd you want to just check in twice a week um and I've had some people that want to and that's okay like a lot of ones just a touch point and then we have like our main check-in day that we do yeah I have some off-season clients to do the same I think it's uh it's important and this is understanding your client part I I chuckled at the uh post show comment because you've seen the people who post show they like they're checking in let's say it's Friday and then Friday night they go out to eat and they blow it up and they know they have all week to try to make it up and get back get back down to the weight they're supposed to be trening at um it's like you're trying to avoid that because that's like post show disaster right there but yeah it's it's so huge it's I've done this on closer clients to just you gotta have my own own fun sometimes if like they check in and they're like yeah going out to uh whatever have my off-plan meal tonight I'm like okay cool if you don't mind check in tomorrow morning too and like they're like wait what like oh yeah you better reel that meal back in I was like okay this is usually the clients are like bump up pretty hard after after an off-plan meal but yeah um yeah yeah anyway uh also the which I can I don't like to see too is the one that yeah I went out and had my off-plan meal like last night that's like what we're gonna be so inaccurate today like like what yeah I know I know and anyway um reeling this back in I think you know in all these moments it's there we're being like can really separate you from just being a a good coach an average coach to one that's really leading the way and building up your clients because in those moments where your clients are failing and uh just falling from the from your process and falling from their goals if you're able to take them and bring them back and then push them forward and make that a development point a learning point they'll remember that forever I think it just goes even more I know maybe someone's listening like these guys they're just talking about you know building some muscle here and having people keep building making the gains but but really like I think the coaching process is so much more than that and it really is a self-development process of of how learninGHow to overcome challenges and even though that's within like this bodybuilding space I think it trenslates to all other areas because how many times are you set up to failure in life and what do you do who do you reach out to like someone that beats you down more someone that builds you up like it can have a lot of different outcomes and if you keep having these stumbles and failures and keep getting beat down you don't really progress and see a lot of self-development so to have that coach that mentor that can take you and show you how to take this what looked like a negative thing that happened and bring it into something positive is a huge leadership moment I think it's a coaching development moment and an athlete development moment so our goal here in J3U is just to elevate the standard of coaching and that all starts with like how we treat people how we coach people and moving that forward so I think this is is a great one to listen to I hope everyone had a lot of takeaways next week we're diving into why your coaching system breaks when you're trying to scale up so know a little bit more of a coaching focus for those that you know are just in that 10 to 15 client range and shed some right on light on like what happens when you get to 20 to 25 clients and the the things that you were had issues with at a smaller scale it only will become worse and so we'll give you some insights on how to set this up to be really effective as you grow larger in your coaching business but thank you all for tuning in and we'll talk to you next week geez

=== FILE: 🎙️Why your coaching system breaks when you scale ｜ J3U Podcast Ep ⧸⧸179 [jf46c_J-KNQ].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, why your coaching system breaks when you start scaling. So in this episode, Luca want to talk about our experiences and give some insights when you're in your earlier coaching days and you're trying to make this work, you're trying to scale up. And a lot of the mistakes that you're trying to scale up. And a lot of the mistakes that you're trying to make this work, you're trying to scale up. The document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document takeaways that you can apply in your own business and scale as a coach and even help guide your choices as an athlete for coaches you could be selecting? Yeah, I think it's an interesting dynamic because the ebbs and flows of coaching are something that are real, especially when we talk about client loads and the way you communicate with people and how much communication someone needs during different points of the season. And so where I think a lot of people fall short is matching the needs of the client to the way they run the process. And this is kind of where I think systems start to kind of break down because it's not that you're putting more effort into one client or another because you think one's more important than another. It's that the amount of effort that goes into someone's process as you're figuring them out might differ than someone who you've coached for a long bit of time or might differ between like the level of detail that has to go into all season versus contest prep. And that doesn't mean that we're not assessing all of the variables. It's just the rate of change is a lot different in these different time periods. And I think this is like one of the biggest steps that I see because as coaches, a lot of us start this out of a passion, right? We want to give back, right? Like we want to give back to people. We want to help people. We want to be able to give them the feeling of winning on stage or bringing their best physique or being in the best shape of their life. And so because of that, we build coaching systems that provide a ton of value, or we strive to build coaching systems that provide a ton of value, which should always be the case in the forefront of your mind. But we also need to learn how to communicate it to the client that it elevates their expectations on how they execute. Because I think one of the biggest bottlenecks is mismanage expectations from a coach to client perspective, and then clients not executing at the level that allows the coach to do their job. And we've talked about this before, right? Like the checking comes in, you send clarification questions back, and then they send it back. And then it's still not quite fully what you were expecting. And so you got to chase them down again for a follow-up voice note. And it's like that checking came in maybe like seven, 8 a.m., but you're not getting these responses until late that night or a day later. And so it kind of just makes this system really slow. And I like to start there when it comes to systems is like expectations and communication, because man, that's where it fails for most people. I think earlier on, the system didn't exist, right? If you rewind back to when you had that kind of like 10 to 15 client load, IMean, even thinking back for myself, like there wasn't, what was the system? The system was just trying to scramble to get anyone to coach. And I think you're looking more so at your system of just like the product you're delivering to your client. What is the Excel spreadsheet look like? How's that layout? And you haven't really thought about much of anything else because a lot of us get this for the passion of nutrition and trening and being on stage. So we don't know the business aspect of marketability and branding and business efficiency and scaling. A lot of us don't come from that background. We came from other areas. Like for me, I was an exercise science major, then a dietitian, and you don't get a lot of the business side of it, especially in an online coaching environment, at least for me. So when I was working as a clinical dietitian doing my 40 hours a week, nine to five, I was trying to scale my coaching business. And I had that 10 to 15 clients and, and thEQuestions that would come up of like, well, how do I get more clients? And part of the, I think the selling point of being earlier on is not seeing yourself as the expert that these people are coming to for help, but having to just over deliver your service and undervalue yourself. And I've found myself doing that a lot, setting it up, which kind of establishes a lot of the expectations earlier on for the client. So I've been in positions where earlier on, um, I'll be like, Hey, I'm available anytime, right? Like here's my phone number, uh, text me anytime you need me, or you take, Hey coach, could you, could you jump on the phone? You go, Oh yeah, sure. You know, what do you need? And then it's that client now, like, Oh, well now I could call John when I need to, or ask him questions or text him in the evening. And I'm going to get a response. And so you sell your coaching based on pay my availability, which a lot of times, a lot of that is just not needed. It's there's a, when you set the expectation for the client earlier on, which is what I should have done of here's my workinGHours. So in my email responses back, I changed it eventually to where I had my business hours of here's when I'm in office. And I would also have my responses times there as well. So yeah, check-in comes or do at 12 PM. You'll get a response by X time. Right. Uh, and then so that you would know, like it will, I didn't, I didn't meet that. So I'm not going to get a response till X time later on. And so I think earlier on making sure you don't bottleneck your time constrents because 10 clients is okay. But what do you do if they have a hundred clients trying to call you on a day? Like, or, Hey coach, can we have a quick chat? You know, a quick chat means a 20 minute call when you have a hundred clients. What's that? 2000 minutes of your day. It's unmanageable. Right. So that, I think that was my, my first off mistake is, is just undervaluing what I was doing and trying to over deliver a value in a way that wasn't productive for coach or athlete. Like, Luke, did you find yourself doing something similar earlier on? And then what kind of evolved for you? Yeah, it was, it was a similar thing. Like reach out whenever you need me or, you know, shoot me a message. Here's my phone number, you know, that kind of a thing. Um, or even the worst is like the early days of billing, like chasing people for billing. Like remember the old Venmo PayPal days of like, just trying to get people to pay, um, and things along those lines. And so I think people, when they hear that boundaries are a part of coaching, they take it as a negative connotation, but I think we need to understand that, um, it's actually a positive. And the way that I would promote this as a positive for the athlete is that when you are getting your check-in done, you are getting their undivided soul attention on your process and the details of your process. And they're looking at your check-in with a fresh mind. Um, and when they were looking at your check-in with a fresh mind, because these boundaries have been set in place, better decision-making is always going to happen. Um, and they're going to be able to refine your process at a higher, higher level because if they're not looking at it with a fresh mind and they're getting pulled in five, six different directions, they have 20 people texting on, they're trying to manage all these calls. Um, it pulls away from their ability to deliver on word check-in. And so, um, I see these boundaries as a big, big positive because what it does is it creates, like we talked about better expectations, both directions, but I think you get a better version of the coach in the long run. Yeah, no, definitely. I think setting the expectation is, is huge along those lines. Uh, I think you brought up a good point around, uh, payment systems being, being efficient. Uh, because for one, I, I had clients in all different types of payment scales, uh, that you would discount further for people just to make sure you could work with them. Right. And I think like, you know, upholding those is important in a mistake that I had made was trying to do different payments for prep versus offseason. And I, you know, you kind of mirror what you've been shown. Right. So I had a past coaching experience that was like that. Uh, the issue with that is that, well, how, when do you delineate prep from offseason? Or what if someone signs up for, Hey coach, I'm doing a 16 week prep and they get close to the show and you're like, you know what? I really think we need to push this timeline back. Like, well, Hey, like I was paying for a 16 week prep. Now I'm having to pay this extra prep break. Um, and then, then you're already setting the expectation up of, of that. So what I've actually moved to, and what I recommend is doing a block payments of X and out for one, start with the year and then go back to like a six month. Um, I was always doing monthly, which kept a lot to keep up of, but also if you're earlier on, you might not get as quick of commitments from people. So that was, that was a big piece of like trying to make sure you're not dropping off in that reoccurring revenue. So you would be surprised because I always thought, Hey, a monthly payment that might be more digestible for people in a very well could, but I think some people are, or could be swayed by the, maybe the discount of the larger time frame. And so that's how I would have, would have done differently in the past. And it just kept a lot to keep up with that way and having the separate prep versus offseason, because then you have to make sure people like would switch over. So it was just a flat, flat fee. And in offseason, what I found is, is like the, you'd worry about, well, I'm not going to do as much for this person. And that's, that's not true. A lot of that is, still they're paying for your knowledge to guide them. And a lot of times that might be delivered as, Hey, this is a great week. Keep executing those variables. The, the education and time it took you to learn, to be able to say that to that client, that's the value that they're paying for. So don't think just because you're not doing something or changing a plan, but you're not delivering that value, but, but to, to not get too far here in the office, you're going to find out, I do more trening review. Now that is what was happening the last time because of just failure in technology. And that's where, when I started coaching, we, the technology was kind of a limitation around that. So you're, you're always delivering value in some way. Uh, but I would say like having an even payment system set up would be, would be huge. And Luke going with one payment method. Oh gosh. I had people through Stripe, through PayPal, through Venmo. I had people, I was, you know, I'm earlier in coaching. I would meet people up for cash because cash is king at the time, right? You don't, uh, not, not to IRS. Don't come for me. You know, all was claimed. Was it okay. It was, but, uh, yeah, just, uh, yeah, trying, trying to be like more efficient with the income side of things would have helped, uh, Luke, anything around that piece to add, man. It's so easy to automate billing now, especially like with all the opportunities that you have from a program perspective of like being able to sign up for billing systems and automate your systems and, and just track it all. Like, I think the, the technology shift from when we were starting of like billing systems that were available versus now, like it makes it so much easier to, to just put people on this billing system, recurringly build them and be able to kind of move forward. And I think, uh, something that earlier on that you, you also need to make sure is a part of your system and structure. And it's, it takes just a little time to do just like to cover yourself. Um, from a scaling perspective is covering your liability. So this would be like business license, liability insurance, and then contracts and making sure that all of these are things that you kind of institute with everybody in the same onboarding process so that you're covering yourself as a coach on the liability side of the perspective as well, because it allows you some freedom of operation and not stressing when you're trying to. And I know it sounds odd to like, do such large tasks when you're earlier on, but it just creates a standard that's upheld for everyone. Um, and opens you up to do your job a bit better. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Absolutely. I didn't have contracts and then it is so, and it's with technology now, like, gosh, you could go to chat GPT and lay out something, but you know, for something, making sure you had some legal counsel to overview something would be ideal. But with all the coaching resource available and business mentors available, that would be huge to be able to align with someone. I think that's where a lot of efficiency can be leveraged now with technology. And like we, we've used kahunas, the coaching app is like an all in one, you know, efficiency tool where you could put in your coaching contracts. So when someone, when someone signs up, like that system's already in place of how they're going to, be first shown all the, uh, the assessment forms, given their contracts, uh, communicated all within the, within an app with, with a messenger housed within it. So it's already an efficiency system that's already made because back when I started, uh, you were just, you're trying to build, you know, replicate what you were shown through a previous coach or keep creating your own system. Well, now we have just like these great coaching tech, you know, apps that are available to help already do that for us. So that's already like some big boxes checked off. So to put a little extra time into like creating the contracts, uh, on the forefront would be, would be huge. And then, you know, like what to do when, and it makes you think about it as well. Like when that person is a month in to coaching and they're like one out, they could just easily like send it, uh, a PayPal, you know, just dispute and get their money back for coaching. And you had nothing that you could show and prove that services were provided. And so that money's lost. And we know it's a pretty tough battle on that side to actually fight the disputes, but nonetheless, you still have this stuff in place and that would help protect, especially earlier on when money could, could be, you know, on a little bit on the tighter side. But I think that the system would be huge utilizing your coaching app. And I know you probably see the dollar signs of a coaching app, which are super affordable, uh, that it's going to take a piece out. But man, to, to leverage your time is going to go find that is the biggest issue when you eventually scale up a coaching is that just simply, you can only coach so many people because you yourself are available for X amount of time to the day that actually work. So if you're able to get more efficient in tasks that are not that meaningful, you know, uh, then especially administration side. Yeah. Oh man. That just opens you up to be able to make more about coaching people. Yeah. And look, I, I want to, I want to, this is a bit of a pivot in the conversation, but I want to lean on on producing results because at the end of the day, like you're paid to produce a result, right? And one of the best ways to scale your coaching produce results, right? What do systems do? They do really well under pressure because they remove emotion and they remove, uh, changes in environment. They allow for you to operate in a, I don't want to say a vacuum, but they allow you to operate in a objective, logical environment that allows you to make clear decisions. And when you create a, whatever your system is, whether it's kahunas or spreadsheets or whatever, it doesn't overly matter, but you stick to it. You expect the client to stick to it and then you stick to it yourself. Um, it makes decision-makings in times of higher pressure. So traveling to shows or peak weeks or whatever it might be, um, a much easier process to handle or manage. And, um, I know this is something that for me has been massive, um, because like I travel a fair bit for shows. Not only that I get pulled into other peaks with the coaches that we have at do three coaching, like for a second opinion or a second eye, and we have everything tracked like in the coaching system. Like I'm able to just pull up the client, look at everything the coach has done. Look at all the visuals from the previous days. They can walk me through some of the things they're seeing and I can help them with decision making when they want to pull me in. And it's like, now I'm doing this for, because of like the team that we have, what over 600 clients. Now it's like those systems uphold for over 600 clients and able to pull in objective decision-making because of that, because that system upholds your ability to make clear objective decisions. And man, like thEQuickest way to be a better coach is to produce winning results. And I just think that's so important. Yeah. And, and on that same stren of topic, I think one area that comes to mind that I struggle with was a willingness to take on anyone because you know, you, you want, you want to grow your brand. You want to make money. And, uh, how do you get from 10 to 20 clients? Well, you take on clients, right? So, uh, but what Luke brought up, it's essential that your reputation is, is everything like right now to go off on a, like a separate tangent analogy, but I I'm looking into someone to like modify my vehicle, right? My car. And I look at these different performance shops. And so now I'm, I'm, I'm contacting people that I've worked on from these shops and that have also left that shop and gone to another one. And I look at, Hey, what was your experience going through it? Like, why did you leave? What were the issues? Or you'll find people that just are so brand loyal and have stuck with these shops, uh, because their user experience was, was great. And the same thing with your coaching, you know, having, you know, be able to get deliver on those experiences, but also a lot of that comes down to, and talking with people about these cars, right? Is you'll find this, the car owner was, was the issue. And it's someone that's just a fly by night makes rash decisions. That's just overly emotional or was just impossible to please. And we have that in coaching too. So you're going to find like the people you want to bring into your brand, you want them to be able to give me good representations that align with your basic core values, because that same person's also going to be a promotion for you. So if you're aligning your someone like birds of a feather flock together type of thing, if you're aligning your yourself, these individuals that aren't great representations of what you want to see in your brand, it's going to reflect poorly on you. And then also when they leave you, they're likely going to be the ones to bad mouth you because you were the problem. Even though very likely this was just going to be a problem client for anyone that they came across. So earlier on, I would have just guarded my personal brand so strongly and made sure that the clients that came in had a good screening process and make sure that they aligned with me on a personal level and protected that reputation very strongly. And, and overall, we've done a good job with it. Like when you come and you see J3U, like you, you know, we're people that are going to do right by you and we're going to be there for you the entire process that we're going to deliver what we say we deliver. And those are like core values that I've always done and other coaches or say other car performance shops, right? They might not be doing that. And that's why they lose. They have poor client retention, they have poor client experiences and results. So it's so important earlier on that don't just take thEQuick client because it's another person on your roster. Protect that because the good client in the short run might not scale you up as fast, but in the long run will absolutely scale you up fast. Yeah. And I think it's, I think it's just such a, it's such a way to create momentum when you birds flock with a feather type of video. Like when you start to build that community, because it can be something that is important to people that come in is like, what is the community like as a part of being a part of your coaching business? So, um, it's, it's, it's really killer. I think a lot of the mistakes kind of earlier on or not being objective about what is it that actually pushes you forward and then starting to learn more a little bit about those things that we're sharing now. And man, it's just, it's so much, it becomes so much more fun when you know that the work that you're putting in are on people that are just as invested as you are. Like that makes coaching. Like I, I, I feel like I work some days, but in regards to coaching, like it never really feels like work anymore because the people we have are just like so much fun to work with. So it's, it makes it so, so much of a blessing, but is there anything else you would kind of pull out from like those earlier processes scaling into the bigger ones, like to kind of try to tighten that ship a little bit? Uh, yeah, I think earlier on to my own mistake, I am, uh, you know, very much like an introvert, right? So, and I like to do things myself and not lean to other people. And so earlier on it was, it was self-limiting, but with social media now there, it's a lot, it's a different space than it was when I was starting. But anyway, uh, to scale, maybe you only have a thousand followers on Instagram. We're like, man, I just have these a thousand people to work within and like, you have a thousand people that follow you. That's a lot of people to work within. So, uh, to scale and thinking on this people are going to buy the person first. So sharing yourself trensparently, honestly, and helping people connect with the journey. So you don't need to be a social media expert and have a videography team, just be real and be honest and people will connect with that. So I think something that you're putting out into the world, whether this is in social media, which if you're online coaching, you're going to have to kind of be a part of this, but being able to share that part of you, that personal journey side. Then on the, on the other aspect, you have these people that are following you or people that are just out there on social media that could be potential clients. And why would they want to follow you? And it's harder to follow someone just off of posting up a client. It's like, yeah, maybe they had a good trensformation, but a lot of times the people that are going to gain those followers are usually ones that are warfing like pros. They'll be like, oh, I want a pro physique. Who, who's doing that? And it's, um, might not be at the level of client that you do have. So your, your thing of what you're trying to put out is solve someone's problem. So if you don't have a lot of clients and I do have a lot of clients, but I was sharing things that I knew about and thinking about what is someone having a problem with, like in other people that maybe you follow, like, what are people asking in the comments about something that they posted? Like maybe it's an exercise and they're like, why are they doing the exercise like this? You could make a content piece about that and, and share it. And then if you have people that are commenting, um, people that are new followers, you connect with those people right away. And again, if you're earlier on coaching, you're trying to make it happen. This is like where you could do it initially is start conversations, those people, and that's not selling them right away. It's like trying to make friends and connection with these people right away. Hey, thanks for following me. Like, why, why are you following me along? Like, oh, I saw this exercise and it was helpful. Oh, cool. Here's something else tonight. And, and, and, you know, have shared about this exercise and this is what I do. And through that, through those conversations and providing people value, and that's how you can start scaling up your business and, and connecting with. And earlier on, I started an email list and I think email lists are huge. Like our, our J3U one has grown massive, but you want to, I would start moving those people that you make those connections with into your newsletter because email is not going away anytime soon. You know, if your Instagram disappeared tomorrow, what would you do? Your thousand people went away. You would have an email list of people that wanted more from you. So then you can still connect and drive up that business. So, uh, that way you have something where you can keep nurturing those people and giving them value. So an easy, easy thing earlier on is start an email list and start driving people from your connections. You're making on, on social media, uh, into that list. And then my last point, I'll throw it back to you, Luke is, uh, you, you need to get, get in front of like where you want your, your clients from. Right. So you need to go to shows, um, and be a presence. And if you have athletes there, you need it, you need to show up and that can be huge. Just, just make connections and network, meet other people. And then, Hey, you follow them. They follow you, whatever you just keep growing and networking that way. So I think that was something that limited me earlier on. Luke Gromenon Yeah. And just like for people that are like, uh, John gave a lot of great examples, but like, where do I start with the problem solving content? Like if you've got 15 people, you've got 15 people who have problems that you've been solving for the last two, three, four or five, six months, start there. Talk about those problems that you've solved and how you've solved them. Right. Like that's a great source of being able to produce content is like, talk about problems that you've solved because you've solved them and you're an expert or you've been through that process of solving it. Right. So, um, I think it's another place that you can potentially pull ideas from as far as like being able to talk about that. Yeah. Don't because how long is it going to take you to make a trensformation? It's like, well, I have 10 clients in six months, so maybe I'll be able to have six posts. Like, it's like, no, no, no. Like every week you're coaching someone and you're answering somEQuestion they had or making some change to their program. That's something to talk about and, and share that. And if your page, when you go to it, you see clients, you've seen what's happening and you're following this journey along, people are going to realize that and connect with it and want to be part of that as well. So, so anyway, I, you know, we'll, we'll wrap this up there. I think that was like a lot on the scaling piece and there's so much more to go into as well. But earlier on, those were some big bottlenecks that we ran to. I'm sure if you're in that position coaching or maybe you have that a hundred clients now, and you're thinking back laughing because at the things that you did, but anyway, I hope you gain value from the podcast and next week we'll be covering still not growing. Your problem is likely not volume. We'll talk to you next week. Bye, everybody.

=== FILE: 🎙️You didn’t need a refeed. You needed to de-output ｜ J3U Podcast ⧸⧸ Ep 182 [rXpLBARLfn8].txt ===

 Welcome to the J3, you didn't need a refeed, you didn't need a refeed, you needed a D output. Question mark, what is a D output. And if you've been tuned in to listen to Luke and I for a bit, you might already know, but there's a lot of times within fat loss phases or more so, we're talking about a contest prep here. And I know we're talking about a contest prep here where you have to make the call of where should I go about implementing refeeds and also managing fatigue. And I think refeeds can get used at incorrect times. And so that's what we want to really talk about today and help give you some tools to assess when you should be utilizing refeeds and then when might you be utilizing the output and what that actually looks like for you. Yeah, to identify the problems we're actually solving for because what is the goal when people are plugging in refeeds and that's thEQuestion I think we need to answer today. And does that differentiate from the goal of dropping fatigue and allowing someone to continue with fat loss? And is there a cosmetic visual change that we're chasing with food rather than simply just fatigue drop? And is there more efficient ways to keep someone in a deficit and drop fatigue and answer that question? And that kind of starts to me and correct me if you think differently, but identification of the problems that crop up when you're starting to see this potentially come up as a need. Yeah, I agree. I think that's a great start point of assessing. Well, you need to know why you're doing these things to begin with. And if you know why you're doing them, it might give you a better rationale into assessing those areas and knowing when to deploy that tool. And I think that's where we're doing these things to be. And I think that's where we're doing these things to be able to do. And I think that's where we make a lot of mistakes is maybe not looking too far into why you are using them to begin with. Let me tell you a story here about my first prep, the Lackland Classic here in San Antonio. This was a time when refeeds or cheat meals, it was still thought of, this is circa 2011, 12, when these things were still thought to be like this metabolic booster. So you'd like be dietinGHard during the week, you throw in your refeed, and this is just supposed to keep you chugging along, dieting, keep the metabolic furnace stoked and keep you moving. And so what I was doing and every Friday night I was going to Whataburger, which that is a, that is like the Texas fast food burger place that is number one in Texas, period. And then I would go to Orange Leaf, which is a yogurt place. You can just like weigh out yogurt by the pound or by the ounce, but I'm weighing it by the pound. I don't think it's meant to be by the pound, John. How many ounces, sir? No, no, no. I'll take pounds. So anyway, that was my like Friday night normal thing. And of course, afterwards I'd go home and pose and be like, man, veins are popping out. Like this is all going in a good direction. But then the next week, what was it, right? Oh man, that food was so good. I can't wait to have that again. Thought about the whole week. And also by that Wednesday, Thursday, I was just drilling myself and felt like walking through mud, trying to get to school that day because fatigue was so high. And then just repeat, rinse and repeat. And so what we come now to know is that there's not really a metabolic stoking that does happen with refeeds. That's not the why to deploying them begin with. And what I was just doing is digging a hole to fill it back in on the weekend and ended up just kind of lowering my caloric level into closer to maintenance. So I had to just diet really, really hard during the week to like earn this meal. And where we should really see the purpose of refeeds is to bring back trening to a level that can sustain muscle retention. And that's not really occurring till we're getting to a spot of getting pretty flat and depleted to where your fuel is then becoming a limitation. And so knowing that and where we've seen like current scientific literature of asking these whys and science of how do refeeds work, knowing it's not metabolic benefit, showing that that just slows down your fat loss dieting period. But really, it probably aids more around just fueling trening. And potentially, there's some psychological benefits and maybe improved sleep that in turn helps with continued fatigue management across prep. But that's only for certain people, right? We could talk about this as well. But knowing that, that's probably the later part of the dieting process where refeeds would be really beneficial when you're actually depleted and you're getting to a lean state. But what do you do in the early part of the dieting process? And I think this is when we can talk about the outputs, but here's the client situation of where it happens. It's like I've just had a client recently, we're prepping along and you start seeing like scale weight rise up. Subjectively, like legs are gettinGHeavy. And they're not fully depleted. You know, they have enough fuel there. It's trening is the issue driving a lot of the fatigue. And if you let that keep going on prep and keep raising up, that's when everything starts slowing down with fat loss for when they start retaining more water. But also, everything becomes more inefficient. Like trening becomes more challenging, so they're not driving as much stimulus to retain tissue. Cardio becomes more challenging, so they start finding ways to make it easier just inadvertently. They start lowering their non-exercise activity thermogenesis, and so they just inadvertently make up for the deficit. And also, you can definitely become losing muscle along the way in that process. So, what do you do? How do you address when fatigue from output is the main issue is you address output. So, with this client situation, we have one day a week where we just pull back on all sides of the equation on output. And guess what? Sometimes I add two days back-to-back of that, and that Monday, weight drops, scale weight drops, look harder than ever, and add a new low body weight. And so, this is where I'll throw back to you, Luke, is maybe differentiating between low glycogen versus allostatic fatigue level, and then maybe breaking down what we're talking about here about these D-output days. Yeah, I don't think we can solely look at performance. I think there's a component of how much fat is there left to lose in this equation. I think there's this component of where in the prep someone is and understanding that someone's body fat percentage can contribute to their fuel available to support trening. And I think that this can be something to consider with kind of what lever we're pulling and leaning into D-loads slash D-outputs more, especially kind of in that middle portion of prep where we're probably taking a large percentage of that progress. That's challenging, right, because the progress on the forefront is pretty easy. Like, you just change a few habits. You drop a little bit of fluid weight. You're kind of moving at a quick pace because you can support that rate of loss pretty easily with food still beinGHigh relative to a contest prep. Compounds are starting to come in usually, so you're supporting trening performance pretty easily. And so, the metrics that I use from a subjective perspective, I don't always solely look at performance. I'm going to be looking at how are they filling their check-in tracker out. Is it as full as they usually do it or not? Is there signs of demotivation showing up in the verbiage that they're showing? I ask my clients a question for any clients watching. You're going to chuckle at this. It's like, do your feet, or do your legs feel 10 feet behind you? It's like that trudging through mud feeling, right? So, I'll ask pointed questions kind of around this because that is something that the more focused individual will just keep trucking along with. And this is kind of where I start to differentiate between is this a recovery issue or is this a fuel issue? Because sometimes, like, you'll pull this de-output and you see trening performance bounce right back to where it needs to be. And so, it's not a food situation, and a lot of times, it's because they have enough body fat percentage on them that it would be crazy to think that with where the food is in the body fat percentage, they need to pull food back up to accommodate this. It's going to be one of either duration of time since the last time they deloaded and or a need to pull back on the output side of the equation to recover and then be able to go back into it. A lot of times, the first or second time I'm doing this, I'm coinciding this with volume drops in the trening sessions as well. And so, this is where the de-output day fits extremely well because what it does is it limits the time that's wasted within the prep process. Full deloads in the off-season for some people will be five, six, seven days. And so, with a de-output, we're able to get in and out. John said he even does one-day one sometimes. I tend to do two days, maybe three, most of the time two-day de-outputs. And keep them at a food level that's constant. Allow them to recover. See an accurate weight tren, which I think this is the biggest portion of this process, is when you're seeing that weight spike happen and it continues to spike or it continues to hold high, you get a more accurate assessment of where the client's actually at, both visually and body weight-wise. And then we can get back into the deficit and continue moving forward. And this is where I kind of lean into that a little bit more, where on the back end of prep where body fat percentage is low, maybe I'm even using these high days to assess changes in the cosmetic visuals as well. I'll potentially use a combination of de-output with high food or just a little bit of high food in order to kind of assess that client's response into what will eventually support my peak week decisions. You had briefly said something interesting that maybe some people's ears perked up or like, what do you mean? Was that the body fat level's there to support trening? Some people might say, Luke, we're not fueling trening with body fat. Right. But I think it's another way to look at this is also energy availability across a contest prep, because there's kind of three prongs here with, as you get to a state with low energy availability is when you see more of these chronic diet adaptations occurring, higher amounts of fatigue, which the three prongs here are your body fat level, your output, and your input. So if you have like high body fat, you have still a reasonable amount of food, but a lot of times you're absolutely starting prep with the same amount of trening in the offseason relatively. And then usually steps are high and cardio is coming in. So that output side of thEQuestion is probably your biggest lever that's been pushed. And not there yet to where the other variables like low body fat and low food availability are the main drivers to when those are, you're not going to add body fat back on. But you obviously have the input lever to push once that one is now becoming the bigger driver in the issue. Once you're kind of Mac or at least at a steady state of like cardio and step count and trening is what it is. So by that, what Luke is speaking to here is, you know, body fat's high enough to where it's not the big contributor for the detriment in energy availability. But to another thing that you brought up to Luke was programming this in. And I think I would like to hear how you go about this with someone starting prep, because it sounds like if you run the same caloric deficit every single day, or are you having a planned day that where, hey, we're starting the D output day somewhat, like with just cardio and without that day and no posing or do those still just reactively get put in? And on the front end of your prep, are you still running like just the same deficit daily? Yeah, I love this question. So there's some front, the answer is both. There's some front end planning and then there's some reactive planning. And we're going to go through each one. So the front end planning is, and I think this is what separates and differentiates how well we get ahead on contest preps. Like you can look at someone like Emily King and she is three weeks out and ready. And she's two kilograms below where she'll go on stage. And so like we're just in this peak week process testing. But something that happens on this preemptive planning for this contest prep is I do a pretty extensive full deload right before the prep starts. So this would be both trening and cardiovascular activity pre-prep to move someone into a contest prep in a fresh slate. This allows me to not have, based on the rate of loss that I've built for that person's contest prep, as many interruptions in the prep that pull me away from pushing someone down that rate of loss as potentially I could have if I wouldn't have pulled that deload. So that's a preemptive planning that I do. A secondary preemptive planning that I do is the amount of cardiovascular activity someone does is relative to the amount of days that they've been doing in the off-season to maintain body composition. At minimum, I'm always going to be having one day where there's not cardiovascular activity and there's not posing that would allow for this person to have a break from output during the week. So max preps are going to be starting at six days per week. The one caveat I will allow someone to have is if it's part of their daily routine to the point that it helps them maintain their schedule. But usually I try to encourage them that that seventh day is just a steps session rather than an actual output day. And most of the time preps are starting with mostly steps anyways. So these are some two preemptive plannings. The reactive planning that comes into play is when I'm starting to see those subjective metrics come in and I'm pulling those in an off-the-cuff manner based on how I'm seeing this rate of loss move and or fatigue build up on the back end relative to how it's affecting their ability to execute. And so I say the reference to the rate of loss because I love doing this with clients that are ahead as well. And John, I know you've done this before too. You have the client that rips it off on the front end. They rip it off on the front end. They maintain a rate of loss. It's pretty significant throughout kind of the early middle portions of prep. And they're so far ahead on their contest prep that there is potential to maintain trening performance easier without having to dip into deloads or anything that would be required to push back into retained trening performance that I'll slow that rate of loss down because we're actually ahead. And I'll use D output days in those situations as well. But some preemptive, some reactive. I will say mostly probably reactive because the preemptive have already been planned into the plans themselves. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I'm glad I wanted to pull that from you because I was wonderinGHow you planned it out. Because I planned it out that way, too. And I think as I've coached longer and longer, obviously, I've moved away from my weekly Whataburger. But even to the extent of I don't refeed people very often. So if you're coming like, I want John to coach me, you probably won't get a lot of refeeds from me, at least, relatively so. I think this is just a strategy that keeps fat loss really productive and you don't lose days. Because case in point here, I had a prep a little while back that I thought it was time to hit the refeed. And based on someone's offseason and what they were dieting on, I'm like, okay, 150 grams of carbs. Like, this is going to work. Like, this is a good start point. And they come up like five pounds. And I'm like, oh, no. And then I'm like, they maybe had more than 150 grams of carbs. And so, for one, there's that. The psychological thing of putting in more food. And if someone can't manage that. But then also, you like load them for the glycogen and maybe someone overshoots. And then it takes like a week to get them back down just to that baseline from there. And you pretty much do lose a week. And so, when you mapped out a timeline where maybe you have a buffer week in there, maybe, you just lost that. So, you know, to get back to the glycogen depleted state is when fat loss gets really productive. You need that to happen. So, with the de-output day, there's just an avoidance of that that can occur. I especially like this with as we get closer to peak week for weight class-based divisions. When you're really having to manage fatigue but you can't let body weight go up either. That's a huge strategy to just utilize is start to pull way back on the output side of the equation and just maintain food. It's the same idea of what we're trying to accomplish of just getting someone close to maintenance but you're not doing it through by means of food. But anyway, that's a mistake that can easily be made is hitting the refeed and just losing time on prep. And I've made those mistakes. So, a lot of times along the way, what IMentioned earlier, Luke, is like 24 hours for like a de-output. That's kind of like what's pre-built in at the start of prep. And you're right, the start of prep, it's easy. Like 10,000 steps a day, that's just normal activity. Like it's just not very fatiguing at all. So, to like actually have something reactive that goes in, yeah, that's what we're talking about. Hey, no trening. Actually lower the steps. Like intentionally get them off their feet relaxing. And probably having to do that usually two days in a row is when it finally sees it makes a big impact. But I think shifting for de-outputs and then eventually getting back into utilizing refeeds is a nice strategy to utilize to like get fat loss off, not lose time on prep. And then by the end of prep when you're lean and you're bringing food back on, you can feel really good going into your show. I think it does something else too that I want to comment on. Like your ability to maintain trening performance to me is higher if we're running a bit of a steadier deficit. We're not getting these zigzag days. Yeah. Right. So, I think it leads to you're not having these days as often where you're just like you're hitting the F this red button of like this session is going to be a wash because my food is so low. Because, you know, I have a high day in three days and you're having to account for that high day and the total deficit for the week. And so, this is kind of where that consistent deficit I think makes the most sense. But I think to your point on the back end of prep, man, your ability to get ahead, stay ahead, not let refeeds put you behind, and then pull food back in and drop activity once the dieting is done. Man, the best physiques come on stage when that happens. Because it is hard to explain without showing it. Like it is unreal the difference. Yeah. I think with the refeed is like what I see is usually where someone's quickly running into bodyweight lows and then seeing the visuals, they do look flat. And then what I'll notice with trening performance feedback is that usually stamina drops off pretty quick. Yep. So, they might be losing some reps on the last few sets or towards the end of the session. It just, there's a pretty big drop off. And if fat loss is on track, that's what would spur on the refeed. And what you would not be noticing, and sometimes it is like it does happen at the same time, are those signs of also being more of the output issue of systemic fatigue. Where usually at this point, it's not that they feel completely buried, you know, and legs super heavy, exhausted, 10 feet behind them, like you said. You could try to separate those out. But they very well could be together. And then a refeed does address some level of fatigue. But I usually would lean to a D output if I'm seeing all those signs and there's the, you know, legs are really heavy. Systemically, they feel just completely gassed. That might be more of the D output with some food, maybe even being raised too. I've done a little bit of both at the same time. But again, that kind of comes towards like the later phases of prep when that's occurring. Yep. 100%. To your point you brought up, I think it's good to bring up the psychological piece of dieting. Yeah. Because I've done some carb cycling approaches or caloric rotations. I've done all kinds of things dieting. Cyclic ketogenic diets, dieting. And you get those days where you're like, man, to go to your low day, it's very mentally taxing. And then you go back to a high day and the food's way higher. And it is usually more palatable with more carbohydrate in, which gets you a little bit more of the dopamine hit. But then you get dropped back down on your low days. And it can make for some people the dieting process feel more burdensome versus having a little bit more food on all days. And just a consistent approach and a little bit less rotation and more palatable like carbs basically coming in. That that can be a way to lessen the burden of dieting over doing the rotation. I get the rotation trying to add more fuel onto and around trening. I think that might just get a little overstated of how much fuel you actually need from trening. And I would also question the trening approach in that. So are you managing volume within your dieting phase and also taking just doing straight sets and long enough rest periods to really uphold trening? Because like my trening and people I program, like we can go pretty low volume to where there's not a large energy requirement for your trening and maintain tissue very well. I think where I see the problem is when people are still running very high volume approaches or still doing like drop sets or super sets and things that just aren't as productive for stimulus, but create a lot of fatigue and also require a lot of fueling. And you kind of burn out quicker than what you would if you're running a low volume approach that is making the most out of every set. So that's what things that I would start pulling apart if you're running into those issues. And you have the idea that maybe a cyclic approach might be better. Just try to really assess and analyze all the components of maybe just being a more static deficit, having more fuel in every day, and making sure you're managing your trening volume would be more applicable in those situations. I 100% agree. I think the longer I coach, the smaller the gaps between trening and rest day becomes nutritionally. And I even have a lot of people just doing aromasingle day plan, like just rolling with that consistent deficit. It becomes less exciting. Like I wish there was a selling approach of like we do car backloading and ramp set trening. I don't know what that is. It sounds really cool though, right? Like I want to do that. It's like, right, I know, it's a secret. And it's like, no, we're just selling like the basics. But we're really good at the basics. And so that's what we want to get you is really good at the basics. And that's how you get to that elite level. But it's not as sexy. But usually doing the things the right and consistent way, sometimes they're not as sexy. Anything else you'd add around that, Luke? Do you think we've adequately covered on a D output? Or have you, anything comes to mind on like D output days that have gone wrong? I look out for. The one thing I would look out for is the preps that get pretty harsh. Because the D output on the back end of the peak can be a large shift. And it's easy to want to pull the refeed button when that happens. And it doesn't improve the visuals most of the time. Because if you're pushing someone that hard to get all the way there, they're either barely making it or still not quite there in the first place. And just filling them back up all the way to blasting full is only going to make those visuals look a little bit more watery. I leave heavily on it during that time frame where my peak week will even change trening wise. Like if you're running a, like you pick up a prep and it's just a little bit behind. And so you're kind of running the gauntlet of making sure they get there. Like it even changes to where maybe Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday of peak week is no trening, no cardio, half steps. I've seen people shift off seven, eight pounds before. And as a coach, it's like, oh shoot, do I hit the refeed button here? Like what do I do? Like oh crap. And you're like watching them and it's just like consistent drops every day. But it's like if you're just patient and let it happen, like the visuals are always going to turn out better. Yeah. If you're lookinGHarder and improved every day, then you let that keep going. Yeah. It's like why fix what's looking better is the thing. Yeah. It's like it can panic some people though. I know like just with the coaches, we, IMentor, I've had a couple that they've been like panicking, seeing this dropping. I'm like, just let it happen. Like you can always put food in and slowly titrate it up. You know, like, are you losing five pounds of muscle the last few days of peak week? Like, no. So what do you think is happening? It's like, what, what you change and why would that cause weight drop to happen? Right. So it's stepping back, remove emotion and think logically. It's like, okay, we're removing cardio. We're doing less steps. Why would weight drop from that? It's like, ah, yeah. Fatigue. That makes sense. Do we want fatigue to look like we're muscles full? Like, no, it just makes you look soft. So that, yeah, that's absolutely like first strategy approach is like getting someone to a maintenance calorie level by means of reducing output first. It could be a big player. One thing I just did with like our coach Colton. Like he's, he's in a good body fat position. We had him down to like 189 and that we had a couple more pounds to come off and he got there. And, uh, his fatigue, I actually got hit pretty hard. trening got hit pretty hard. And I'm like, all right, output's already been scaled back. Like I want to take a big whack at bringinGHim back, restorinGHim. And I hit him with like two refi days back to back, which he doesn't like getting more food because he's like, yeah, let's go. Let's go. Let's just grind. Um, and brought his weight up like four pounds, which he's like, yeah, it's like, I look softer. He's like, I know you spilt a little bit and that's okay. Cause we have like three weeks. Um, but he's like, I had the best two nights of sleep I've had all prep and like that will sustain trening as well. And then now I have some data to look at too, off of like what the refi did. However, it's going to take him a few days to get back down to like a nice weight that I want to maintain him at. So this is the thing that Luke's bringing up. If I did that and I was seven days out from a show and I brought Colton up to like one 93, one 94, IMight just be landing right before the show to get him back to like a good weight that I'd want him at. And that doesn't leave a lot of coaching time to try to make adjustments. So, um, not, not best practice for hitting frontloads on clients when you don't have like data to, to go with. So, um, but anyway, yeah, no, I think that covers it all. Uh, just keep, keep in mind your D output days and these should be taking the place a lot of times for your refeeds. And I think you'll find you'll get much more out of your preps with managing fatigue. And in turn being able to sustain deficits for longer periods of time and getting people to show ready ahead and not losing those weeks. So tune in next week and we will cover. Sometimes the right move is doing nothing. Which of you keep to take some hints of things that we are doing today when you might not want to be doing those things. And that's what we'll talk about next week. Thank you all for tuning in and we'll see you then.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.431130Z ===
