Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jwitt. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard and deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Your mini cut is coming to its conclusion and what do you do to transition back into the offseason? And main thing is, hey, we don't want to rebound and all of a sudden add all the fat back on. We also want to move into the most productive now growth phase that we can. So Luke and I will speak to this today about how should we transition out of our mini cut to our growth phase or maybe we're not ready for a growth phase and we need to do something more of a a hold phase prior. So conversation will be around this today. Let's dive in. Luke, mini cuts offseason. Hopefully everyone's early enough their off seasonason where they don't already need a mini cut, but uh if that's not the case for you, we are here for you. Yeah, I think mini cuts are interesting cuz there's there's like a wide variety of the one the level of execution the client carries into this. And then there's like the other factor of how lean people expect to get versus really need to get. Um, and I think that's an important delineation to make of the whole goal of the mini cut is to set yourself up for the following push and and that's why we use them. And so if we clearly delineate this goal, like not letting first off the phase beforehand get to where you're too far gone where it does turn into a prep to really be ready to do an offseason again is the first step. But the second step is transitioning out of it. There's a lot you can do in the mini cut phase. I believe in how you make the changes and how you set up like the compounds and and prepare the athlete from a fatigue management side on the training in order to make that transition go well. And I think that the first point that I would like to make coming out of many cuts is how you transition out is relative to the client. But when we look at ideal on paper, I'm always trying to get activity pulled back down. And the reason being is again we look back at this. I say this ad nauseium. And you're going to be sick of me saying this. Training is the primary stimulus for hypertrophy. Anything I can do to improve the quality of the trading stimulus, I'm going to do that as the ideal change on paper. For me, I think that cardio and a mini cut is very useful to get people to the end point. But trying to continue it into the offseason phase or too slowly pulling it back is a rate limiter on how well they can train and how well they can be progressive with their stimulus. and is always going to be the first thing I'm looking at is how high did that get and how do I move them into better training as we move into offseason. Would you agree? Beautiful. I love it. And I think you always keep in mind that when you're putting the label of mini cut that there's the big umbrella term around mini cut called offseason and that it's a fat loss phase within the umbrella offseason. And so keep in mind what is the big picture goal of that off seasonason is muscle gain. And so we never let this mini cut supersede our big umbrella goal of offseason of growing. And that's when like hey gym performance starting to hit to where you start almost starting to get a dip is is not where we take that mini cut. So you know transitioning from that point up is kind of where we're initially looking at here. So I think you're absolutely right like that needs to be further put emphasis on just because some people are trying to extend these nearly to a contest prep and you know it's going to vary so far of how you need to take far down you need to take someone what their ability is to get to a leaner point but it's simply working within that productive body fat range to where on the back end of this fat loss phase you could still string together another at least to see another four to five months of being able to grow agreed afterwards. And so we'll we'll have this, you know, transition piece here that's going to occur. And I I agree with you. I think, you know, where you're coming from in this phase is that nutrition should have been relatively pretty high. So in turn, that's going to be your your biggest lever to pull to create a lot of the deficit. And hopefully we already had a baseline of steps and cardio that were in place were um just balancing out energy flux and digestion and health metrics. But for some that's might have to scale up a bit. And if it did, I want that right back to offseason baseline. And you need to realize when you're in these higher body fat ranges, your limiting factor is not going to be like, "Oh, I'm super flat and depleted. I need reefy days." Like that's not going to happen in your mini cuts. It in my opinion, it really shouldn't be because you shouldn't be taking it that far. More of the issue is the the output side of the equation driving a lot of fatigue. And that's the first thing to really address in the energy equation to bring up recovery capacity for training. So completely agree with you, Luke, like the first thing if cardio did get up above baseline is that's the first thing that comes back down. And you could leave your your diet the same and let that be the first adjustment that you make. I would say what just to give you some like buffer room to where you know you understand the the transition there is that I usually depending on the length of that fat loss phase because you do accumulate some fatigue in that is running some slight D lo could just be like hey let's take a string of like 3 4 days off in a row and during that time like the output comes back to baseline and we don't change the diet and so we can let out the the full week of like baseline cardio the same diet Then when we get to ready to push up, you're like very fresh. You know, you dropped off fatigue and then um from there we can just start assessing the nutrition side of the equation. And I think a lot of people want to push the nutrition side first. But it's like remember umbrella offseason getting back to like offseason like what's manageable cardio output-wise for for recovery. So, um, or or if it's like steps that got really high and cardio was up, like where do you where do you toggle these to create the lesser evil to bring down fatigue? So, what feels really hard to you? Like that's the first thing that you should be addressing on the output side. But then moving to the food piece, there's some mistakes made. If you're done with the output, we can move to some nutrition. I think I think the food piece is where I think a lot of mistakes are made. And I again love Passionate Athletes. You guys are great. You guys make my job a lot of fun. But in the same token, people see caloric intake on paper and think that's not high food. And I love this point because it's not about whether it's high food on paper. It's about whether that food level progresses your physique upwards in the offseason phase at the rate that we needed to go. And I just see the desire to push this food up so fast like off the back of a mini cut that to John's point, the whole goal of a mini cut is to give ourselves four maybe five months again of offseason pushing. And if that nutrition mistake is made off the forefront, you're on a fast track to making that a two and a half to three month offseason rather than four to five. And you don't want to be the person that it requires five 5500 6,000 7,000 calories to grow. Like if the nutrition level is progressing you, you should enjoy the fact that you don't have to push this up so fast and take the progressions according to the rate that you would want to go. We can talk about rates of gain in offseason, but that's the the number one mistake nutritionally I think people kind of fall fall trapped to post mini cut. I've had some people ask me like, "How do you calculate your new maintenance calories or how much, you know, to calculate to increase the calories by?" It's like, you've already been following a diet the last week, so you always would base it off the response of your current diet. That is the best way to set up how you transition calories up and down. these all these calculations and stuff. It's like for someone that has never followed a diet or counted anything before and they just need some starting point. But if you're already on a diet and you're not counting, you're like, "What? How many calories do I eat?" Just count up what you're eating right now and then what is that doing for you and adjust from there. So you're reeling this back into your your maintenance calories. How do you calculate your maintenance calories even? It's like, well, what how many calories were you eating before? And what did that make your weight go down? And by how much? Well, then you're going to have a pretty good idea of where to bring calories up from. Did you lose a pound? Well, a pound is about 500 calories per day. Like that might be a good starting point. Um, now again, we brought up the output side. So, that's kind of where we're addressing that piece. But, you know, from the nutrition point of view, don't try to look at calculators to come up with when you are time to increase food, you know, based on percentages of what you're currently eating. So, and the more advanced you are, the slower that percentage increase should be. So, if you're advanced and you're maintenance calories or maintenance, you know, energy balance, like a 5% increase can go very far. And if you're on 3,000 calories, that's 150 calories. That's not a lot. That's like a 40 gram carb increase, you know. So, you know, there there's your 140 gram of rice added in. But I we've made these these food increases and man that keeps people moving all off seasonason. Hey, this last post show phase I did all I had was a 40 gram car literally it's funny cuz it's coincidence was a 40 gram carb increase and I've gone from like 230 to 238 o over this like span of weeks, right? So it's no other changes. Like that's all it can take if you want to stay lean and stretch out these offseene phases. Don't make the overly aggressive increases. And I would say if you're not sure, like, well, I'm not I don't know if I'm advanced or not. Well, that's okay. Start small and you can always add more in the next week versus lose some extra weeks of starting too high and having to pull it back down. M now another to thing to Luke's point is starting too high in calories with too much addition is also the person that feel like they've been restricted on a f on mini cut phase and now well what about my cheat meals can I bring those back in and now we're immediately going from their maintenance calories in a cheat meal and you're still on maintenance calories so the only calorie surplus you get is one day of whatever crappy food you want to It's like, no, no, no. This is not how we want to do it. Like, you need some restraint and discipline here. And you need to, you know, match these calorie needs within your day for trying finding foods that you enjoy and fit within those macros, not just going out and having a a cheat meal. Um, you'll quickly gain body fat doing this because most people can't regulate themselves well enough coming off their fat loss phase. So ideally, it's just this slow, gradual increase, and you eat within those calorie requirements throughout the week. And guys, just look at your top your top guys, your top pros, right? Like the these guys aren't eating pizza and burgers every week. They're not. The guys are staying leaner in the offseason. They're growing more. Like there's guys growing between shows like in these big spans, right? How do you do that? It's like they're staying so regimented. If those guys are doing it, then we, you know, the the lesser genetic uh ability is not going to be able to get away with eating more than that. If that's your goal, if that's your goal, right? In which, if you're listening to this, you're like, "Yeah, man. I want a pro card. I'm going to be Olympia." Well, hey, we probably need to be even stricter than what the pros are doing so we can like try to outwork them in some way. So, you know, that's that's the error that I see made is like immediately the cheat meal goes back in and the calories are just way too far above above what's needed. We want to be fueling training every day, recovering every day. You know, these these bouts of training, you know, the recovery window could be 36, 48 hours. So, you're not getting out every bit of each session when you're only having that surplus on one day where maybe it's on a leg day or something you want it to be, but still you're limiting all your other days. Yeah. And and this is I alluded to this in my initial monologue, if you want to call it that. Um the level of execution. Um we have monologues. We don't we we don't have a conversation. We just talk for 10 minutes. They're like, "All right, Luke, you can talk for 10 minutes now, too." I'm sorry, guys. Um what I was saying is the level of execution in the mini cut phase and coming out of it is a big piece of this whole puzzle. And I think to to kind of further John's point here is how much you get out of the mini cut is how serious you take this mini cut. Like pet peeve number one for me is people who want to try to keep the cheat mills in throughout a mini cut and not actually like optimize this process of getting body composition down. But then secondarily when you go into this offseason push it's like again it's that thought process of all season's now my time to take a step back and relax. It's like all season's not about that. if you want to compete at the highest level. And I I think that that's such an important piece to understand because I've even used many cuts to reestablish habits. Like people who have gone too long in the offseason and they've kind of let it slip a little bit too far and you know, we really need to tidy things back up. They get these habits into a great spot again and then we get into this allseason phase and you just see it like the first four weeks they just go out the window and then because of that you've now shortened the offseason phase once again and that's kind of where I I think when we like we talked the cardio piece we talked the nutrition piece before we get into like PDS and stuff I just the standard at which you hold yourself to is so important when it comes to getting the most out of your physique progress and that doesn't mean that you can't recreationally bodybuild if you want. But with what we're talking about like getting the most out of this and transitioning, man, I'll be real like I'd almost be treating it like contest prep the first four to four to eight weeks getting out of this at minimum to to make sure that you don't shorten that offseason phase because those margins are so tight. Like that 40 gram carb increase that he progressed for what was that eight weeks? Nine weeks that you Yeah. Yeah. Nine weeks progressed up. It's like that's not just true for John. That's true for a large percentage of the people out there. And so that's the kind of the next piece is like, man, if mini cut for you is one of those things that helps you reestablish habits, don't let it fall back into old old bad habits, right? Because you should take that and then ride that wave of momentum back into that offseason. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and live Q&A sessions to further your coaching and athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Man, that's a great point is just the reestablishment of habits and routines that should be taking place all offseason. For a lot of people, that that does it and that phase shift is is needed. Um, I just I you know, if you have this high level goal, like keeping those habits in place is where you're going to make the most progress possible in the offseason. And you know, right now, whatever division you compete in, I want you to think who won the Olympia in your division. And then you can just say out loud, I'm going to beat X person. Like, I'm going to beat Derek Lunsford. And with that in mind, right, how would you execute every day? like you see how good that Olympian is that you're gonna beat, right? We're we're we're now speaking this in existence for everyone on the podcast. We're we're talking about beating the Olympia and their division. So, how how what would you do if you're like, "Man, I need to beat this person every day. I need to beat this person. You're not going to slip up. They're not eating like, you know, cheat meals or letting routine habits slip up." Like, they're on it every single day. So, that's where you need to be, too. And I realize that can be pretty strict, but there's flexibility able to be within even being strict. But I I I'll tell you, I've made substantial probably some of the best progress as a pro over the last year and a half. Um, basically feeling like I've been on prep non-stop, which Rene Rene is sick of me. So, but it's uh it's true. like it's it's been kind of a non-stop prep for me whether I'm off seasonason or I'm dieting. It's uh all the routine and habits are in place. Um I don't let meals slip up. I eat within my calorie a lotments so that body fat doesn't just quickly crew up. And it's why I've been able to stay so lean and make a lot of progress. So everyone can do it too. It's not just not just a John thing. Now the body fat's going to range where you're going to be productive and that's okay. work within your range, but don't go from the bottom to the top end of your range within just a few weeks, and then you're stuck with not being any room to to keep pushing up. So, the lifestyle routine habits are the are probably the hardest part of the offseason to keep in place and where people slip up. And, uh, I totally get the idea. Like, I'm in prep now. I'm thinking like, man, I can't wait to offseason. I'm going to be like I'm going be like 270 this off seasonason, right? like you that'd be huge. The idea is it's like, oh well, I'm going to get there real fast. And uh it's not the truth to it. You know, I think we just you need to put that out of your mind and um really really focus and be strict in your approach. And I agree with what you said, Luc is that basically it's kind of like prep habits that need to happen with the mini cut to make it productive. So I had some clients where these things just get drawn out. Yeah. And so to to where you're you're in and out and you're back to your growth phase. But, uh, one one thing that I I do want to bring up is that everyone's going to be able to move up to a growth phase after a mini cut. Um, especially sometimes the newer client that we get in, we're like, "All right, hey, body fat's a little higher than we would want it here." This mini cut phase ends up looking like a 10 to 12 week fat loss phase. Like quote unquote mini. I don't know about that. Um, we just did this with, you know, one of my competitors. Actually, it's a case study I put into the offseason uh on J3U level one, which it was like an 11week fat loss phase, which it's like and you know, we're we have PDS in place. It's like, well, should we keep growing into our push phase, which you know, how long do you keep gear up for? Maybe we get another seven weeks out of versus, hey, why don't we drop gear down, drop fatigue off for five, six weeks, and then do a full-on push phase. let them hold that and uh that was like a choice to make around there. So with with these fat loss phases off the initial need to be pretty long, it might be a good idea to run just a maintenance phase, hold phase, hold the tissue, address the issue is my my like my jangle that I can say now you like it. Yeah. You like those dad jokes? I know you do. Yeah, it's pretty good. Hold the tissue, address the issue. So you know, we we hold tissue. We address like fatigue accumulation or injuries or whatever that happened during our our fat loss phase. Bring down um gear to address health discrepancies and then we push from there. So that's kind of the case in that scenario. Same would go for a natural but to a lesser degree. You don't need some long hold phase to take place. You just need to get back to a productive place to go in offseason. So for someone that's natural, that might just be like hey a d lo week into like a maintenance calorie week into right into your growth phase from there. or for the PDS or that's going to be just downtime for gear that's needed to take place which if it's shorter than 5 weeks it almost doesn't make sense because you're still having esters trail off and whatnot right so that's kind of that situation but speaking to peeds it's kind of the last thing that I think we can bring up within this and uh moving from your your your fat loss phase into your your push phase here uh should be kind of like where we like to do this and it could be pretty a seamless transition ition is on the front end of a gear escalation. So, as we're bringing up gear every week, we're lowering food as well. So, you're getting more muscle production aspect as gear's coming up. And then at the same time, you know, you're diving deeper into throws of fat loss. And then once you're done with the fat loss piece, whether it's six weeks, then you can just flip the script, bring fruit up, and you're already on like closer to a peak PED level that would keep you growing in in the offseason. So, it's a a fairly easy way to have it done. There's some that use it on the back end of a push phase, which I think that's a rare scenario for people because the problem here is that on the back end of a push, you might have already had a long phase to where you're kind of beat up and you need to address that issue. So, if there's issues arising that's going to limit your ability to hold tissue in a fat loss phase, it's probably better to just hold hold on to the tissue, do a hold phase, address whatever problems you're having, then continue your fat loss phase on the front end of your next gear escalation. That does extend the season a bit for you. So, I realize some people don't have that kind of time frame, but for someone that's more advanced that's really, you know, managing variables appropriately on the back end of a push, you could do a fat loss phase. So, right when gear's coming down, those esters are still present for four weeks, you pull someone down pretty quick. I do like doing this when guys have like zero appetite left. Yeah. It's where I can take a big hammer to like improve digestive health, get hunger back up. We pull some body fat off quick. and and maybe it's not even the guy that's like has a lot of fat really to come off. So, we had just have a real short phase to get them back addressing the issues that were present, but for someone that really needs to be productive here with fat loss, it's really better on the front end of a of a PD escalation phase. And then, you know, once you have that tapered off, gear keeps rising up or maybe it's already at its peak dosage and you're there ready to have a growing take place. Now, one thing I'm going to turn this over to you, Luke, is we're going to talk about lipolytic agents, clinbuterol, things like that. Where where do you see a place for these? Yeah. So, lipolytic agents, um, I tend to be quite a big fan of things like climbers, lipolytic agents in many cuts primarily for the timeline piece of the equation. Um, especially for the people where it's a little bit of a daunting task to get back to where they need to be. A lot of times this is like on intake you're getting someone who the previous coaching situation, whatever it was, let them go too far. I I love it um because it's another variable I can use to push that rate of loss a bit and then help with that rate of loss and try to keep them from extending it into 12, 14, 15 weeks of of dieting. And so I I think they absolutely have a place in many cuts. Um, I think another place you could consider it as well is maybe if the previous offseason didn't get to as high food exposures as you wanted and so the food the food windows not quite as wide as you wanted. It it is a variable I see fitting in in quite a few mini cut phases um in scenarios where you might not have the ideal off the back of all season scenario where you have a lot of food to pull from and things like that but you still need to redo body composition or re improve body composition. I think it fits fits the bill really well. Yeah, I I like them, too. And and we're we're brought up the what's the umbrella, right? Offseason the goal is to grow. So, if you're having to do so much cardio that it's impacting training performance, I rather just have some clenbuterol in place and drive some energy expenditure to that way. And then also, clenbuterol does have a role in in muscle retention. And where I think it really shines is in the female crowd to because it's usually like where food's lower and cardio has to get higher. So I, you know, I would use it there and not and have someone that where you do have to get so high in cardio that it's problematic off the back end of this this phase. And I think it's a some people have said like you only use Clinton prep. It's like I don't think that holds holds true. It's there's never and always don't hold. It's like there's a there's usually it's usually sometimes, right, for these type of situations. And I I'm AI'm a huge fan for females of clinbuterol in the offseason. A lot of times rotating push phases with anabolics and then into hold or fat loss phases with clinbuterol. I think that can work really well, especially for females that I have that stay on the higher body fat side of the equation where it's really hard for them to like get high food in offseason. So that's kind of how I I would I would run that. And so for like even a female that could look like the first four weeks, six weeks is just clenbuterol and then we move that straight into like raising up anabolics and implement them then and then let that move into like their 8 weeks, 10 weeks of like a growth phase from there. And so a little similar but uh a little different from how we handled the male side of the equation. Yeah, agree. But, uh, 100%. I think that covers it, man. I think we kind of nailed the transition piece. Yeah. So, that's how you would transition definitely for mini cuts offseason. So, don't blow it everybody. We already told you how to do it. So, make sure you're productive and you treat this like it is uh somewhat of a prep to drop the fat off and get back to your offseason. And just keep in mind that offseason is about muscle gain and we don't want to dive these these mini cuts down into what just actually turns into being a prep. So have a uh any questions, leave them down below and we will talk to you next