 Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh Bh in general that seem like great ideas and maybe they're, maybe they're preferences and that's totally fine, but you should be aware that some of these, if you're trying to maximize muscle gain, that there might be limitations around them. And so that's what Luke and I will dive into today. Yeah. With the first one. Yeah. With the first one being intermittent fasting is this is probably one of the more, more popular ones. I would say maybe not as popular in the hardcore bodybuilding segment, but nonetheless, I think it inadvertently can happen like in prep. Yeah. I think you can kind of like delay that hunger signaling as long as possible. You wake up, you have your coffee and your pre cardio stuff. You kind of do some mobility stuff. Maybe do opposing your team. You go do cardio. Then you kind of want to get some work done before you eat your first meal. And then you look and you've been up for four hours before you've even eaten your first meal. And it's like inadvertent intermittent fasting. And, um, a lot of you try to do this to try to keep your meals really close together because you want that meal at like 10 o'clock, 12 o'clock, two o'clock, four 30. And then, you know, seven o'clock or whatever. Um, and man, I just think that this is extremely short-sighted for, um, a couple aspects like consistency and protein intake throughout the day. Um, but to like managing digestion, like I think this is going to be a big one for managing digestion as well throughout the contest prep, because you would never do this in an offseason setting. Like you would never try to put these meals this close together. You would be finishing your meal an hour and a half before you had the next one. If you were trying to do this in an offseason setting and we say like trying to make preps or all seasons, like, or trying to make all seasons, like preps, like these habits shouldn't change this drastically from season to season. Yeah. I think there is some variation that can happen here. And I think you have to almost define intermittent fasting because there's all like, if you looked in the research world, what's what we see applied in the fitness world. It's very different. Uh, for some studies, they're looking at like five days of like you caloric intake in two days of fasting with just water. Uh, some are actually like how it's, it is applied is like 16 hours of fasting with like an eight hour eating window. I think that's what a lot of people might be applying like in the fitness world or some, some variation thereof. Uh, when you look at some of the research around intermittent fasting and just straight caloric restriction, uh, that there isn't really a vast difference actually in like fat mass and, uh, muscle mass loss. However, a lot of those studies are in obese overweight individuals to where they, uh, have a lot of excess stores on them to where it can be more muscle sparing to a degree. Or if they do implement some resistance training upon like the intervention that they could even recomp or you don't see muscle mass lost in turn. I think, however, once you get into the, the, the leaner crowd, especially when you're looking at like protein intake research and meal frequency that you could get to like probably as low as three meals per day comparatively to six meals. Like some of the research shows like there is not much difference in maximizing muscle mass. However, the caveat to that is that if you're doing something like three meals, you have to be really on it with your total protein intake, your protein source selection, and also timing as timing would be more influential around three meals. Cause if it's all close together, you're gonna have this large bout without intake where that net protein and creation could, could be a loss. So I think that's where we do see kind of the literature and what we see in practice leads itself to at least four to six meals per day. That way it just covers to make sure that you're not running into the issue of like not having enough proteins, bolus stimuluses throughout the day. But, uh, uh, if they're all close together, it really is like eating like one meal, one big meal. If you have two meals that are getting kind of paired together. So, uh, and that that's where intermittent fasting, I think would have its limitations. If you're having that large window where, you don't have any intake, your meals are getting too close together. Um, then you have to make considerations for training too, right? Yeah. So if you're trying to train first thing in the morning fasted or like after meal one and you went this really long segment of not eating, what might that performance look like when you're getting towards the tail end of prep and your glycogen depleted? And now meal timing is really making a big difference. Yeah. And I think it also leads to like, um, potentially like combining meals and, and not doing it like as like your set plan. Um, and then that skewing like the assessment piece, which is going to kind of start to carry us into number two, but, um, yeah, I, I'm, I'm not a fan of meal combining. I actually, I found out that one of my clients in a prep last year had started doing some meal combining. And, um, as they got through the contest prep and, um, from an assessment piece on my end, it's like, when you start to see that, especially happen at night and you're getting this large bolus of food, when it's a habit that hasn't been happening throughout the duration of the entirety of the contest prep. And like the season prior, you're starting to get weight spikes, um, kind of in the morning. And it's like skewing with my ability to assess that rate of loss. And this is where my main frustration comes with it is the meal combining doesn't happen consistently. Um, it's not according to the plan that I have written. And so like the, the execution of that is not there. Um, but secondarily it wasn't being done earlier in the prep. And so I'm tracking this rate of loss according to the rate of loss that I had mapped out for your contest prep. And then I'm starting to get these weight spikes out of nowhere that I'm unsure of where they're coming from. Um, they can start to point to, I'm going to start looking into the fatigue aspects of the metrics when in reality it's just this large bolus of food at night, pre bed. That's driving this weight up. Yeah. The same thing happens in the offseason too. And, uh, I think it's common with guys on higher food intakes, uh, or if they get a little bit off in a meal for the day, then it all gets pushed back in the evening. I can't tell you how many times I've heard someone say that, uh, Oh man, I got to stay up later and get all my meals in. It's like, what are you doing? Like, like you're sacrificing sleep. Like one of your number one recovery tools, you're almost like, it's almost better just to go to bed than just try to like stay up and like eat all this food in one sitting. Then try to sleep with all this food sitting on your stomach. Um, and usually that's also, it can impede sleep quality as two. So if you're finding yourself in those situations, like, man, guys get on it. Like for the guys in high intakes, like you have to be so routine to where you get up and you get your meal in right away. You can't let those meals push back at all, uh, because they just creep up on you to where those last two meals get really close or they're just end up being combined and it's not going to be optimal for a digestion and for sleep recovery and performance. So even the offseason segment, like it's why it's important to stay very routine. Like you are in a prep as far as that goes, that execution execution piece. Um, so we just don't want meals creeping up to where it carries over to the next day as well. Cause you'll wake up still feeling full and still having it, then having issues getting the earlier meals in. And we see like large meals, like impact, like insulin sensitivity as well. So, I mean, if you want to stay insulin sensitive, you know, you want to keep health metrics in a good place, like have your calories spread throughout the day as your coach is planned out. Yeah. And it's just like, it just snowballs. Like once it starts, it's hard to catch back up. Like, especially in the offseason setting. Like once you start letting that slide, you're just constantly full and you're never like getting back to that normal schedule. It's, it's frustrating, but what I do when I do find them in that, that situation is I just reduce them down to less meals. So if they're doing six meals, like, Hey, this is basically a five meal plan. Anyway, let's just spread those meals out. You'll be more doable and able to execute. Um, and you won't run into those issues. That's what I rather see someone do. Even if that's going down to four meals, like that's completely fine. Like, um, my, my client in Australia that open pro he, he, he, he's on like, uh, 800 grams of carbs a day and like 140 grams of fat. He does four meals a day. Um, cause that he's a trainer. So that works well as his schedule and stuff, but that, that works like it's totally fine. And we have an intro that happens to that. He just drinks. So you could count that almost as five, but four food meals in an intro that, that can very well work to still maximize progress, but it would be far better than me giving him like five food meals. And then like two or like smash together, which is tremendously, uh, unmanageable to, to eat as a whole. So, yeah. And ironically, our next one is the way that people try to manage it. I think is they go into this like extreme caloric rotation to try to give themselves an air quote break on their rest day for the digestive system. And we get these large caloric fluctuations from training day to rest day. And this is to me something that's not taking into account that program design and recovery capacity within program design is about stringing sessions together. And that nutrition on that rest day should lead to recovery capacity from the previous sessions and set us up for being able to train sufficiently in the days to follow. And so with these like extreme caloric rotations, um, you're potentially, depending on how it's set up, either not allowing an athlete to fully recover from the rest day leading into the following sessions, or if it's something where you're like blowing a lot of food on the weekend and keeping your diet really low during the week, you're not supporting training performance throughout the week when you have that, that low caloric intake. Yeah. And you should consider like, when is the training bout occurring? Cause I know some people are using like these rotations where on maybe certain body part days, calories are excessively high. Um, but what you train like later in the day, how long after that session is like glycogen resynthesis elevated and then protein synthesis elevated for this. These things are stimulating for over 36 hours. So if you train in the evening, you still have all this elevation protein synthesis and glycogen resynthesis over the next rest day into the next training day when you're eating potentially at a caloric deficit, which listen to our last podcast, is also not going to be optimal for maximizing muscle muscle gain. So you're now limiting progress in that sense. So you absolutely still want a surplus to take place, but it should be even spread over these days. And that would just, all that needs to change is, you know, what do you expend during training? Well, that might just be as, as far as you take the caloric rotation. So I would say it's not that you, you don't, that it's a bad thing to do. I think a lot of this dictates around hunger signaling in preference, because some rotation is perfectly fine. But you should absolutely consider when is the training bout? You could have fuel, you know, partitioned around training and that's enough to drive that difference in surplus. But then the rest of the time it's a really even spread intake on a meal by meal basis to where you don't run into the issue of not supporting recovery and fueling the next training session to come. For, from a coaching aspect, a lot of athletes tend to do well with like dropping the intra as like the main caloric drop. Like I'll have, I'll have like a similar meal plan for training day and rest day. And really the differential is like the intra-workout carbohydrate that goes in during training for the athletes that utilize it. Like when core can takes high enough, that's, that's an easy way to do it, right? God, it's so easy. And, and it's supporting training performance and recovery capacity, but still allowing them to kind of manage that hunger signaling potential drop on the rest day. Um, and it's sufficient enough. Typically. The other one that came to mind too, was a cheat meal programming. Uh, kit can also be problematic around this to where, you have, uh, like on a high day and they take a cheat meal, um, which the calories just go excessively high. And that's might be the day that they see more of their fat gain for the week over having that evenly spread. Uh, then like there's someone out there like, well, that's why I do my cheat meals on my off days. Like calories are really low. I like, you know, combine two meals and count that as my cheat meal. But I think the same thing is problematically happening is that say you train the day before, you're going to have several meals following that are going to be a limiting recovery ability. Uh, then a lot of people, when you suppress caloric intake throughout the day, they will overeat at the, the evening meal to compensate and then go beyond. So I think it could lead into someone having a very much, uh, an excess caloric intake. And even, I think it caters to some like type binge restrict patterns of where you're restricting intake and then you're able to overeat the things that you want. So I think it creates a pretty poor psychology around managing, uh, off plan eating. There's just a far better way to do it. We've talked a lot about it before. Not, not the place to do it, but I, I don't think, uh, your unplanned meals should in turn be leading you to extreme caloric rotations. That foods are eating that are not on maybe a strict meal plan should also be aligning with your physique goals and be incorporated into your plan. Uh, not something that has to be off plan per se. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and live Q and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Um, the next point we have, we battered in the previous broadcast. Yeah. If you look, look at our podcast around gain taining and we hit this one pretty hard is about, uh, two restrictive surpluses. So I think it's, it's a mention, but please like reference to that episode as, uh, we kind of drilled that one down, but it's kind of the evident one. If, if you've already maximized your variables and bodybuilding and you're not in these extreme cases where you're, you know, obese individual or you've been in a D train state or like a suboptimal protein intake for some reason, uh, that, you know, if you're now in an offseason state, it's probably going to need a degree of surplus to take place and accept some body fat gain to maximize progress or being, you know, overly restrictive and trying to limit body fat as you're probably going to be also limiting muscle mass gain. When a bodybuilding, we have some pretty strict timelines to work with. So I think we can probably in that point there because we drilled it last time, please reference back to that. If you want to, if you want to learn about gain taining, check out our gain taining episode, but we could probably jump onto another one that I think is, uh, underrated a bit is, uh, water and electrolyte, uh, intakes. I think it's definitely problematic in the offseason or depending on probably what timing for training. Yeah, I think, I think it could potentially be a contest prep issue too. Oh yeah. I think for people who don't know, like, I think there's a, maybe a lack of understanding of that impact of water and electrolytes, um, on the assessment process as well of like how much does it can influence from like a hydration status and fact on performance, but also the assessment piece. And I, you'll see this a lot with like people traveling. It's like using different food sources that they're not at their home grocery store. And then they're spiking their sodium or dropping their sodium without realizing it because they're not, you know, plugging it into the chronometer or whatever it may be. Um, it can really be, if you're not paying attention to this, something that makes the assessment piece hard in a contest prep. And I know there's, there's a lot in the offseason that we should touch on here too, but man, it's like, you have to be so aware of consistency with fluid and electrolyte. In order to make this process consistent. Yeah. And you're right. Like the offseason is, it can be as inconsistent as well. I think in prep, you know, you have a potential to be a consistent linear increase in like condiment and salting of food, uh, which, or there could be spikes where something, Hey, you find something fun and you throw it in. I've had clients eat like a whole jars of pickles in a day before, or a whole bottle of Sriracha in a few days. You're like, what the hell happened? Like, Oh yeah. Try like that new condiment too much. Like, yeah. Yeah. So, uh, definitely for, you know, assessing variables is important to maximize progress, but in the offseason as well, like people are more flexible and eating. And so, and, and you can be for sure, but you need to be mindful that you absolutely can start skewing visuals too. Um, the other night, uh, Renee and I, we went to a house party and there was a, uh, a chef sushi chef that comes to the house and makes all your roles for you. It's, it's, it's bad-ass. That was dope. Sushi binge. If you're in San Antonio, that's the guy we use, but, um, mindfully eight, of course. Right. And, uh, but either way there's more sodium in those foods. So the next day, uh, like hands were a little tighter. Like I was a bit reactive to it. Right. And if that was a check-in day, I'm going to be skewed and looking at what's going on and it might cause me to not push calories. And in turn, maybe I limit my progress the next week because I haven't had just an inaccurate assessment, but I have a lot of clients that check into, that are after their untracked meal. Like, Oh yeah, last night I went out and had like, you know, a burger or whatever. And then it's like, why'd you check in today? Like, I feel a little swollen. Like, well, yeah. Like, what am I looking at here? Like, you look like you, you gain like, you know, a bunch of body fat, but it's just some water retention. So, uh, don't do it on a check-in day. Now, the other thing is I have clients too. They're like, yep. Taking my untracked meal tonight on the day that they check in, in turn, so they can go hard. Right. Uh, and so it's like, okay, don't try to plan that either. That's when I'm like, you know what? I could use another check in the next day too. They'll be like, Oh no. Like, so we'll catch it either way. Don't think you can get around it. That's why we'd use like daily weights and stuff. But that was about to say the worst is like the people that don't always take the weekly weights. And then they check in, like post the cheat meal with like that one weight for the week. Cause they were doing something the previous, Oh man. It's like, yeah, sure. Weight spike, I guess. Just get back and let me know where your weight's at in three days. Oh man. We know just like your coach knows like we, we're not done. We've done this way too long to not know, especially with, with the amount of data that we track now. Uh, like where it was like the once a week check in and just like a few sentences of like, what happened this week? They're like, Oh yeah, everything was good. Normal. Like, all right. Like you can maybe get away with it. Um, but, but not now. So not now. Anyway, I see the data trend or you omit from the data trend. We know. Oh man. But yeah, in the offseason, I think another limitation is like food volume increases in water intake suffers as well. And yeah, uh, hydration is just such a basic component to it's, it's the medium, which all chemical reactions take place in the body. And we see like this small detriments in dehydration. Uh, can easily skew training performance. If you're like, you want, you want pumps in the gym? Uh, well that's hydration. Like water's going to be your biggest key there. I think it's more of a problem like for the early morning trainer to make sure you get enough hydration in, but nonetheless, uh, with food intake higher, you need to make sure that you're timing your, your, your fluids appropriately and get again between meals. And that's the problem with like when meal timing gets out of whack in the offseason and you're having meals getting pushed together, you end up having fluids getting more limited because you're so full from just food that you don't drink fluids. So, so staying routine in your meal timing and making sure your fluids intake is, is regimented is extremely important to not be limiting yourself. And the same thing goes for, for even contest prep, but, uh, yeah, 100%. I think it's, it's so integral. It's just basic habits that we need to have integrated as an athlete and, um, just be aware of so that we can actually do our job to the fullest extent, you know? Yeah. And I think, uh, a last one to address would be, uh, I think this one's kind of been debated before is, um, supplementation of foods or liquid meals versus whole foods. And I think there's been the idea that whole foods are always better for, for muscle growth. And if you're not eating all whole foods is that you're, you're limiting your ability to build tissue, uh, or lose body fat. I've heard, I've heard it go kind of both ways. And that supplementing some, some meals would, could be problematic. And I don't think this bears weight in the research world. Um, there's actually a, a really, I wrote a little newsletter about this one. And there, cause there's a large paper looking around protein takes and various different types of proteins being implemented, whether it be a whey protein into the diet, beef protein powder, um, or looking at whole food sources and kind of the ultimate dictate, of muscle gain came to be your total protein intake for the day, regardless of type of protein, where this kind of gets into being a limiter is that if you're on a lower protein intake side, and you're also having, uh, lower intakes of high bioavailable protein sources. So more things like, uh, vegetable sources of proteins and not a lot of actual meat sources that you might run into an issue with, um, suboptimal protein takes. So that's kind of the caveat around there, but there are still some great, uh, vegetarian sources of protein and, and supplementation form that are complete. Like you do a rice pea blend, for example, not getting on a tangent, but anyway, uh, at least research wise, it's not quite supportive that just because you're using a supplementation for a macro nutrient that'll be limiting and whole food is going to be best. Um, can you see any caveats around that Luke or things that kind of come, come to mind? My main one would be digestion maintenance of introduction and replacement. So like the thought process here being your consistent day to day is let's say five meals, four whole meals, whole food meals with one whey protein meal. And then you introduce like three to four whey protein meals in a day or throughout a couple of days. And then you just see like GI just like go to heck. It's like, it, that's where the problem for me tends to come in is like large shifts in the percentage or the amounts of supplements, first whole food that we're utilizing, um, for managing that, that, that environment of digestion is, is probably the biggest one that I would red flag here in this, in this instance. Yeah. I agree with that. I think I, uh, see more of like question the, why is the supplement going in, in the environment that it's implemented in would be more of the problem. So if it's someone that's like fast paced and they're just trying to get food in of like, just let me just smash this huge, like thousand calories and all like, I'm still working and like stripper active is that you're not getting into that rest, relaxed state to really allow digestion process to be optimized. I feel like that's getting into a subpar mark for just digestive health and overall health. And also like you need to be able to have periods where you can rest, relax and focus on your meal. So I think there's a lot of important aspects around that. Then the other piece is micronutrients would be if you're getting to some, it's like back, back when I was trying to like bodybuild and be, you know, really, uh, cost effective. I would buy like a huge thing of weight concentrate, a huge thing of maltodextrin. And then I would just get like olive oil or peanut butter. And that was my shape. So it'd be, I realized in these weight gainers, like all the other are maltodextrin. They're like, well, hell I can buy this stuff. It's so cheap and I'll make my own. So I was making my own weight gainers. But again, like it's like devoid of micronutrients for the most part of using maltodextrin powder and like olive oil and just way. So you're like, oh good. I'll take a multivitamin. It's like, yeah, sure. But there's a lot of, there's a lot of other value in using these food sources for like phytonutrients and polyphenols that they provide for antioxidant support, anti-inflammatory aspects that all lead to managing your health in a healthy bodybuilder is going to be one that can progress to a greater degree. I think that's where we're running into a lot of more bodybuilders having GI issues is because they're trying to over supplement with things that they're just avoid eating whole food wise. I think this especially goes for vegetables and fruits of just using a, you know, greens powder is, is just not going to cut it. So getting to that extreme, I think that's where you have limitations in the program. And I'd make sure you address them from a lifestyle component of why you're not able to implement whole food sources. And then, you know, work around it. Don't just jump straight to a supplement. There's a lot of food sources that can be incorporated that could help you manage your, your eating process to be more efficient before you're jumping straight to just using a pill or a potion or a powder. So. Yeah, absolutely. I think ultimately, like when it comes to all these diet habits, consistency is the king of being able to assess any of these on your actual process. And so that's kind of where when we look at like just diet, diet habits in general, like being able to make it repeatable is the plan. That's going to be the most efficient for you and finding what that setup is with a lot of these thoughts that we've gone through today of like how to maximize your ability to recover and adapt from a hypertrophy stimulus. Excellent. Completely agree. And if you think of any else down below, let us know if I'm watching on YouTube, any other weird diet habits that might be costing gains, maybe Luke and I should do a podcast on it. So give us some topic ideas. Happy to jump into something that y'all would like to learn about. But until next time, we will talk to you then. Yeah.