 Welcome, let's, let's jump into the J3, let's jump into today's episode. Off-season, off-season, off-season, PED strategies that can actually scale, and off-season, stack design, it's not just about getting big as fast as possible, we do want to get really big, but also being able to sustain that and be productive over the long term, so that, is what we're finally getting into, is what we're finally getting into, if you've been following along, is what we're finally getting into, if you've been following along, the past episodes, we've gone through, some prep scenarios, as I've been in prep, Luke's had a bunch of clients in prep, Luke's had a bunch of clients in prep, we've done some post-show stuff, so now we're gonna make that segment into, off-season, and no better way, than to start off with some physique enhancing drugs, how are you, did you have a fun weekend, any physique enhancing drugs, any weekend, any physique enhancing drugs, any weekend? Yeah, I think it's, it's an interesting topic, I think it's the audience's favorite topic, I think one of the biggest things, when we kind of talk about, the phasic approach, that we use with clients, that I want to make sure is pulled out, is the thought process, that tissue accrual, happening over a longer period of time, is going to net a greater outcome, for the physique, than trying to rush into things, I think this is where people kind of make the mistake, like, bodybuilders are typically, very type A, they're very like, I want to make progress now, I want to do everything in my power, to make that happen, right in this very moment, kind of missing, missing the force for the trees, and, and, and trying to kind of push the envelope too fast, and so what I, what I'm kind of interested, and I'm going to just ask you this, because I think it's, kind of where the mistakes end up starting, is, like, what mistakes do you see people making, trensitioning from post-show in the off-season, or trensitioning, just directly into the post-show, and, like, what does that look like, when, when people escalate too quickly, and what ends up happening, because I think that sets the framework for why, we do stay focused on trying to maximize progress, over this extended period, because we know tissue can only be accrued at a certain rate, and, kind of, trying to perfect that pivot point, is, I think, where a lot of mistakes are made. I think mistake number one, is just the lack of planning, and assessment that needs to happen, to say where to go to next, and, I think we, we, you know, you might be out there, and you've, switching coaches, and, you're, maybe in that off-season position, you're like, alright, what are we going to run, here's, here's the fun stuff, right, and, there is not a, a question around, what did you do last time, and, was that growth hormone hormone response, on par, for what you were expecting, and, within the rate, that you need to move, for, the division, and level, that you'recompeting at, and, I think that's, kind of, the start point, and the mistake, of what you see, is that, that question, just doesn't happen, and, that's usually, like, when I'm in my current off-season, I just started my escalation, right now, of, I look back, on, you know, what did I do last year, what was that growth hormone hormone response, that happened, were there any issues, within that, or areas, that I can improve on, and, then, then, based on that, is what I start to build out, my, my next cycle with, that way, nothing's undershot, but, also, probably another, one of the mistakes, that's made, is the, if we call it the overshoot, I'm just, being too aggressive, I think that probably comes into, maybe a bit more of the self-coaching, yeah, or, if you're, if you're, just a recreational bodybuilder, just running more, and more, because more, relatively, does more, and, you don't want to leave gains on the table, so, I think that runs into mistake, probably, number two, yeah, do you agree on that? Yeah, I would 100% agree on that, I think, we have to realize that, like, it's a piece of the puzzle, right, and so, it's why we talk about, like, trying to go through someone's way that they operate as a bodybuilder, comprehensively, is because, we can make, certain pieces of the puzzle, more effective, where other variables, don't have to change, right, I think, you're caught in the more is more, right, like, I'm coaching someone, right now, his name's Dean, unbelievable, dude, just smart as a whip, self-coached for a long time, but, there's so much left on the table, with the trening piece, and so, we've been talking about, kind of, like, what this escalation is going to look at, looked at some of his previous stack designs, again, answering that question, what have you done in the past, has that progressed your physique or not, and it's like, man, we have such a big puzzle piece that's been changed, with how much change has happened on the trening floor, it's like, I've just opened up progress without that other piece, right, and so, the easy thing to do is just say, oh, we're going to take 35% morecompounds, we're going to ram this down your throat, and we're going to make sure that this physique progress happens, kind of missing the fact that we need to string this along, to actually get him into the open class, and try to leave those variables on the table, and so, I think if you always start with answering that question, you can kind of find what variables of that athlete's process are going to be largely able to push them forward, and then answer how much more is actually needed, because I do think there's some pressure, especially nowadays with, like, coaching being so public, clients sharing their coaching process with everyone, things along those lines, that there's this, like, combination of, like, the expectation of the client, my least favorite is, like, I want to get to X body weight, it's like, well, we'll see if that body weight is good for body composition for an all-season, right, and these types of conversations start happening when it's like, hey, it's like, if we look at the overarching goal set, we look at kind of a rate of gain that might not match what an optimal rate of gain looks like when we map this out, and so that's where I think the conversation should be had, to avoid just ripping it into the sixth year. Yeah, I think, to give more context around that, too, I think you, like, off my assessment as well, like, last off-season, I ended up going from, like, post-show to my peak off-season weight was about a 25-pound increase, then I looked at, okay, well, what did that mean for, like, tissue change, and it's like, all right, this is, like, seven to eight pounds of stage weight, it's like, all right, so that was, like, 17 pounds of body fat, or some water weight, too, that had to come off, and so that equated to roughly, like, a 0.4% body weight increase per week, and so I could say, well, I could probably not have such an aggressive increase in body weight, but it's like, oh, that probably didn't leave anything on the table, and I still had a quick prep, so, like, that's my trade-off there, and it's like, well, is there anything on the PED side that would have contributed differently in that, and it's like, man, that's a pretty solid on-par rate of gain over, like, a 17-week push to accrue eight pounds of stage weight, so it's like, do you need morecompounds with the potential that you might have a drop-off in health markers when they were relatively maintained? Then another question to myself is, do I want to take more risk, really? And I'm already at a higher amount that I kind of would want to push beyond, so, you know, with that in mind, it's like, oh, well, hey, have you pushed the growth hormone hormone hormone lever as hard as you could? It's like, well, I kind of wanted to see what that could go goinGHigher, so I've been in, like, kind of the 9 IU spot per day, so it's like, I'll push that up. Let's go 12-13 and see if there really is, like, a bigger difference there to see it out, but I do think at some point in your higher-level stuff, there is a point of just you're not going to pull more out of more, and likely I think a lot of individuals are going to cross the threshold of there's a very smaller, much smaller return of growth hormone hormone, but a much more substantial other effect of higher dosages, negative effects, and I think people are going to hit that mark likely before you're topping out at the continued growth hormone hormone rate kind of trailing off on that end. So another client situation I brought up is one where you don't always need to do more, and looking at the post-show phase of my current client, he's growing post-show, like, 400 milligrams of anabolics and, like, seven IUs of growth hormone hormone hormone, which I think that's a bigger one as the growth hormone hormone hormone came out, but a lot of variables improved, right? Like, such a better bodybuilder post-show than he was off-season last year for numbers of reasons, right? Recovery, trening capacity. And so last year was, like, I don't recall exact numbers, like 2.4 grams per week of gear, and I sit on the cycle and it was less, right? It was, like, two grams. Like, why isn't it more? It's, like, you're going to get more out of less because all your other bodybuilding variables have substantially improved, and you're already growing. It's, like, you're growing on 400 mg per week. Like, so why do we need, like, three grams now to grow, like, if you're already growing? So don't lose sight of, like, what happened post-show as well. And if you're seeing someone, like, improve and trening performance is going up, they likely don't have to go way beyond that because very potentially they improve their bodybuilding process from there. So with that being said, there's a point of, like, when should PDs actually be increased? And so what are indicators that you see, Luke, of, like, okay, this is clear. Like, we have to push the lever here. And do you do a little bit of that anyway just to make sure progress happens? I do. Especially the people I've been working with longer. I think people that I've built trust with over a long period of time, we've done a lot of athlete development where I know how they execute their process has kind of elevated from where they started, and there's probably less margin in those areas, right? We're probably a little bit more likely to bring that up in those cases. But as far as, like, when do I actually look at this being increased, it's going to be kind of based on rates of progress, kind of like John was pointing out mainly. But secondarily, it's going to be making sure that the stuff that we're doing is not skewinGHealth metrics too far. Like, if we're already having issues managinGHealth metrics, whether it be, like, blood pressure metrics or actually what we're getting back on lab work, we might need to change the dynamic of how that PDs ran. Luckily, it's very rare that that's the case. That's the rate limit that holds me back. But it's mainly that rate of progress thing. And I think of this in a way of earning the right to use that level of compound usage, which is just my coaching brain working. Like, I don't know that I necessarily communicate this to the clients unless there's a high level of pressure from the client of wanting to take more, that we have to have variables from, like, the trening, the sleep, the nutrition, the how we execute as a bodybuilder to earn the right to take escalations, in my opinion. Now, if they're uncontrollable variables, that variables, like, that can't change, like this would be work-related or things along those lines, then potentially, like, that's where making that a more aggressive PD increase is probably one of the only levers you have available. It's like the classic thing that comes to my brain is I have a client who works night shift currently. He's been working night shift the entire, or switch shift, the entirety of working together. And it's like his process is so perfected on every other variable, it's like taking compound progressions in that athlete is our only way to improve him as an athlete. And so I'm going to be taking that with the next push phase that we take. However, if that person was to step out of that job, and, like, we're no longer dealing with, like, switching from days to nights, that is a massive consistency variable that would allow me not to have to do that. And so I think it's kind of a balance of looking at what's on the table cards-wise. I'm always going to go for being a better bodybuilder than I am drugs, but you are kind of pigeonholed into situations where drugs is the only option, in my opinion. There's a lot of podcasts and people that are putting out information around top-level pro dosages. And do you think, just because of the segment that they might be seeing, that those numbers might be skewed? And also that in the position that someone might be in, at their physique level, that those numbers and just the bias of what's working now could be skewed? I guess to be a little clearer for the audience as well, that if you already have a ton of muscle, and now what you're currently using is more of a maintenance amount, I'd want to ask, what did you use when you really grew a lot? And I guarantee there's always some phase that someone pushed the envelope, and then they likely put on a lot of tissue during that time. And again, we need to move people up over time. But I think if you are looking at a lot of, who's going to have popular podcasts and content are going to be those that have some type of experience or they're pros, right? So their lens just might be a bit skewed in what they've seen. So it's like, look at a top whoever, name any top five guy on, you know, Phil Heath, right? Phil Heath talked about his gear usage. It's like, this guy sounds like barely did anything. It's like, oh, so the pros don't do anything. So none of us need to do anything. It's like, well, no, that's not really accurate, is it? Like, the more average genetic guy might have to be pushing that a lot harder. And the reality is that is the truth than what a Phil Heath would. 100%. So do you think there's a skewing of, and people not sharing the reality of like, once you coach more people in the average segment, that there is a higher dosage push that needs to happen, maybe over your top pros. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, 100%. I think it's what you actually end up happening is when you work with people long-term, like I have people, I use photo logs, so like my photo logs are numbers. I have people that are in the 200s now, like they've been working with me that long. It is, you get to a point where you can only do so much on the day-to-day life variables where it's almost guaranteed each push is gonna be between a 10 and 25% increase in compounds, closer to that 25% every time in order to gain more progress if you're seeing progress slow in the previous phase. It's just, it's basic math. Like if you have controlled every other variable, trening can't get much better other than minor tweaks. You can't be a better bodybuilder due to life scenarios, like financial work, whatever it might be. Like that is pretty much your only lever to pull and in order to make more progress, you have to pull it. And so usually the conversation starts around 20%. That's a conversation that's had with each athlete. And we talk about kind of benefits and attractions, what that health metric monitoring is gonna be, what previous health metrics have been for that person. Is this risk worth it? And then that decision's made. And that's just the reality of it. And then this is conversations with people like, it's crazy. Like some of my amateurs who haven't even stepped on pro qualifier stages yet, the amount that they're needing to get to that level genetically, it relatives to some freaks I've coached in the past is just, you're not even talking the same game. Like it's, it's just such a harder level lever you have to pull with those people. I'm gonna push you here. Do you have like a top dosage where you like, it pushed your comfortability? Yeah. But it's just what it needed. And do you want to share that? Yeah, yeah, I will. I won't share the person. Yeah, don't, don't share the person. I won't share the person. But there was one where it was like, we got to, I'm trying to remember the stat. This was like a while ago. Total stat design got to 2750. And I don't remember the ancillators what those numbers got to, but I know GH was well above like 13, 14. And that was like, I was very uncomfortable running that. But it was one of those situations. It's like, this, this might be your last or last couple of years competing. This is what you've ran in the past. And it's kind of in that 22 to 2300 mark. Didn't really make much progress last time you had an offseason. How was the progress then? Yeah, it was great. Best physique that had been produced ever by that, by that athlete. Yeah. Yeah, I had a very large human. Like you're talking 310, 320. Yeah. And seeing what they previously did and not wanting to leave anything on the table. It's someone too that we're not looking for like, I just need a couple pounds of stage weight here. When you're over six feet, it's like, all right, we really need to fill in some gaps. It's like putting that to 3,500 milligram per week, considering too, that this person's like over 300 pounds. And I think some of that is make it makes a difference. Right. But then we're seeing like substantial progress. Again, when that person needs it. Now, every offseason thereafter, that's when you can start dialing things back because the tissue's there. I think a lot of these pros like that have the genetic propensity to just put a lot of tissue on. They're just not having to do the thing in the offseason like other people need that need to fill in those gaps with tissue. Yeah. And I've seen guys that are running in that, thaT3 to four gram mark at times to like really push it, that have the crappy genetics, that also have still put on a lot of size already, and they still need more. And again, that's, you know, it's a risk thing. But what we're talking about here is trying to put a physique on stage. Yep. And when that's the priority, it's just it makes that decision making clear, right? This is like, and these are decisions with athletes who their physique is like the only thing that's like their primary focus. Like they're okay with managing the health risk according to doing this. Like I'm not, you're not having these kinds of conversations with someone who's a recreational or competitive bodybuilder at the amateur level. Has anything changed your approach? Like once you do start an offseason push, like when I first started doing cycles, it was like week one, you're full bore, right? Like if you're running a 1500 milligram per week cycle, you start 1500 milligrams week one, and you run that for X period of weeks. But, you know, we've been doing escalations over weeks to get up to peak dosing. Has your approach around that changed at all? Yeah. And maybe, do you see benefits or cons around it too? Yeah, I think it's morphed a lot over the years actually. Like I would take longer to build up to peak dose. Now I take shorter to build up to peak dose. I think in certain situations where I have all season sprints, so like I have a client I'm thinking about right now that's like got a, because of the way their life schedule fits, we're going to have like a 13 week push. We're going to have a little bit of a break, and then we're going to have another 13 week push later. Like in that scenario, I'll just go ahead and send full dosage. But like if I had the full 20 week buildup, I would do like reach peak dose in four to five weeks, kind of escalate that up. I do find that pretty beneficial for people that you're kind of trying to find the upper ends of tests for. Also, I find it very beneficial in this current day and age where nobody can get Maseron-E or Primo, and you're having to use drugs you haven't used with athletes in the past to manage that. Like just watching like if EQ gets plugged in, are we seeing crashed E2 from that being plugged in? Are we dropping the need for DHT derivative period because you get so much E2 management from EQ? These are thEQuestions you're having to answer now where like the escalation piece really helps because I like the idea of like having some testing pretty early on to see where that E2 is if that EQ is coming in early on. But these are like problems you're dealing with now. But yes, general rule of thumb is you're typically hitting peak dose somewhere between four to five weeks in nowadays. But I do like that escalation process just to kind of monitor how someone's handling each increase in dosage. One thing that I was doing with the Boldenone needing to be used more so, you can give your thoughts around this too, is that on the start of an escalation, for one, I'll be a little bit more aggressive with testosterone because there's more likely Boldenone's going to crash you too. But I will start EQ full bore. Yeah, I do too. And that way I get thEQuickest stability of that. And it's a longer ester, right? So probably six weeks in and you're getting more stable. But then tests can keep escalating up along the way. I can pull labs at any point and get a rough idea if I'm heading in the right direction or if I'm already seeing estradiolos like getting up there. It's like, all right, let's just hold test and I'll fill in the rest with mass or mass prop or whatever I can get. Or I could tweak Boldenone down so I can maybe get a quicker stability in one variable rather than both kind of escalating up along the way. I'm doing the exact same thing. EQ start is full bore dose straight out the gate and then you modulate the other compounds around it. Because for those that don't know, like test and Masteron is kind of nice because when you find your test dosage, Masteron doesn't influence it drastically. But with Boldenone, you all of a sudden will be able to run a lot more tests or you'll just smash your, and at the same turn because of that, you're smashing your estradiol. So it makes it a little bit morecomplex in cycle design and having to find with this much Boldenone, I can run this much test, but when Boldenone's not in place, then this is what my test should be at. So it's a little complex, but run it once and you'll know pretty damn quickly where you should be. It's just a one-time exploration of that. Having your test at Boldenone set for like six weeks, pull laps, see where you're at, and then also go off your subjective of how you feel. But anyway, around the escalation, I think that is a point to bring up too, is the contest schedule of, you know, what duration of time do you have to spend at some peak dosages to pull out progress? If someone might be competing like earlier the next year and just maybe you have to run something shorter. I think the physique also matters as well, which if you have someone that's pretty lean and has a long runway to grow, it could be very, very well okay to spread that out longer. But if you know you're going to reach a stop point to need to drop some fat off relatively quickly, it might make more sense to escalate up a little bit faster. And the whole theoretical concept around that escalation is that week one, you shouldn't need a full send to start growing. Now of course, these esters do accumulate over time, so there's kind of a natural rise in peak serum levels. But just tapering that off, out over five weeks, you end up kind of this, now a 10 week, just accumulation as you're requiring more to grow, just like more food, more trening stimulus, etc. So it just lines up really well that way. And also with the health aspects, like those past times I've dropped in, like one and a half grams week one as my cycle, it's like, holy man, like restinGHeart rate jumps up, like sleep starts taking issues, blood pressure jumps up because water levels are jumping up really quickly versus an escalation. There's just less organ stress and health detriments that can occur and impacts on sleep. And so that's part of a, more of the rationale on that. So you don't need to just take everything on week one. The con to it though, is the assessment point. If you were like, you do drop it all in week one, mid cycle, you can say like, all right, I actually should have done this. And you have some time to change it. If you escalate up too slow, and by week 10, you just got to stable levels. Well, think four weeks later, five weeks later, you might already be done with the cycle. So it might be more of this retrospective look at of like, oh yeah, I should have done this or done more. So there's just some pros and cons around it, but that's probably why we at both Luke have gone to a little bit, faster escalations up. Then we're able to make adjustments more. So probably in the newer client where you're trying to, to learn a bit. Yeah. I think too, it's like, um, you also kind of made the point of like making sure progress is happening. If you do bias, you do bias an escalation style and stack design and like doing that on thEQuicker side, like we are now, I think that's also where the conversation of PD progressions usually comes up a little bit more often because you know, you're really not going to get a full scope into how that person's progressing until they reach full serum levels, which might be nine, 10, 11 weeks in, you know? So, um, you're kind of like guaranteeing that if you run that escalation slightly higher than previous, it's going to be more and it's going to guarantee some sort of progress relative. ChallengEQuestion, Luke. Yeah. Love it. Cause someone just listened to this and they're like, okay, they're running, these guys are running these CPN eight and the empty long grassers taking five weeks, like peak dosage. They're having to assess like, it seems like, why don't we change that process? Why don't we run test prop mass prop? Uh, we'll find, we'll source some bold in on CPN eight instead of a desolate. Yeah. And we'll, we'll get up to this peak a little faster and be able to make like faster adjustments. Um, do you have a counterpoint to around that? It's almost like the frontload, my orals in conversation, right? Yeah. It's with the orals having more detriment potentially. IMean, if, if you have someone that's not, IMean, to play devil's advocate here, if you pin daily, you have someone who's not prone to side effects. So we're even with some of the serum volatility, you would see relative to longer esters. You're not experiencing issues. Arguably, could that be a way that someone went, I think you could make a case for it, but it's not how I would prefer from a management standpoint as the coach trying to manage someone's stack design. I like a little bit more steady serum levels and, and making sure that I'm managing it in that manner. Um, would you agree? Yeah. Yeah. IMean, to the point is like the escalation point is to try to, to literally like match kind of their need of growing, um, as we're moving into the offseason. So to just all of a sudden, Hey, I need some peak doses on week one is the same point of dropping in your full cycle in week one. Again, the other, I think counterpoint around that is typically your short esters are low milligram per mil as well, which at an earlier point might not be problematic, but very well could be once you're getting to higher, higher dose stuff, uh, when you're trying to fit that much in it, it kind of lends itself to needing to use the longer esters because it can be a higher milligram per mil. And, uh, and then you get into like pretty much having to shoot daily to have more stable serum levels, which is another problem for a lot of people, which the earlier on guys, I, I sometimes will leave guys on shots three days a week or every other day if I can, uh, just to meet in the middle of like creating serum stability, but also not turning into a pin cushion. So it could be done, but I think it's kind of missing the point of the big scope of like bringing someone up and not trying to dump the kitchen sink in week one, match their growth hormone hormone rates together and also managing shot volume and, uh, you know, painting soreness and stuff too. So, yeah, I am. I think from a coaching perspective, it just makes it so much easier to manage the athlete. Like you mentioned, there's not adherence. Uh, we talk about this in nutrition. I don't understand why we don't talk about it in PDs, like adherence and sustainability. And that adherence is a huge aspect. Like I've had people just miss shots trying to do daily with them. So just a thought. No, even, even compound selection comes into that play. Like you could have what's, what's optimal on paper. And there's, that's where I see people argue all day long. It's the same guys arguing probably about, um, biomechanics and optimizing like a lift. And they just haven't actually gone to the gym and tried it to quickly realize that is a less than ideal approach. Uh, yeah. Try, try actually pinning that over 20 weeks. Yeah. See if you can actually sustain that quickly. Like, Oh no. It's like, have you ever run 3000 milligrams per week of gear? No, you're just, you're talking about it. Like what you, like what you read and listen to someone else say, like try to do that. And it's going to quickly change the compounds you pick and why you're picking them. And that probably might be the reason why your syringe is filled up with what it's filled up with and not the ideal paper scenario. Yeah. Cause again, it comes down to what we'll, we'll wrap this up with here. Luke is assessing the need of the person in front of you. And what becomes optimal is based on what that client needs and around, whether it's nutrition trening or PD strategies, that's your start point is assessing what worked in the past, what didn't, and then personalize that along the way. So these like absolutes or black and white things, or what looks good on paper and the coaching world, it doesn't always plane out so clenly like that. And there's some good framework to work within, but in coaching, a lot of times you're kind of operating within this gray area, not gray area of doing sketchy things, but gray area that you're seeing a mixed approach and responses that you're having to adapt to. That's not always so clear cut for everyone, but anyway, we will wrap it up there next week. It's going to be one for the ladies. Yep. Female growth hormone hormone. This is why you are staying the same. Luke will dive and I will dive into that and give you some insights into the female offseason, which don't worry guys, it absolutely is still going to apply to you, but this it'll be for the ladies. So anyway, thank you all for tuning in and we will talk to you next week.