 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Optimizing growth hormone hormone hormone in bodybuilding. Today we have on Kurt Havens, who is a physique coach, also does a lot of research and also putting a lot of research. burning out a lot of information around androgen information around androgen information on growth hormone hormone hormone. because it delivers science and doesn't dilute it and is an understandable takeaway, which is a hard thing to convey. So Kurt, great to have you on. How are you doing? Excellent. Thanks for having me, guys. Yeah, IMean, that's kind of been my passion. I realized through both what was going on in social media and what was going on in modern medicine is just a serious lack of good information on PEDs, right? And just stigmas behind a lot of these things and just a lot of bro lore that's just been carried on and carried on and it's not necessarily the best way to go about doing these things, right? Because the goal is we want to be able to do this safely and do it long-term and maintain our health. Yeah, I think with growth hormone hormone hormone has always been so misunderstood. And when I was coming up in bodybuilding, it was like growth hormone hormone hormone was going to be the game changer. Like, don't use this earlier on. This is your ace card to play. Like you turn pro, use growth hormone hormone hormone like opens up the gates, right? I think insulin is probably being more misunderstood, which is a whole other podcast of itself. But, you know, growth hormone hormone hormone absolutely is misunderstood. So I would love, and a lot of our listeners, they have heard us speak to growth hormone hormone hormone, but just I want to get into like the depths of the conversation around some misapplications and understanding of problems that are coming up because that's where I think you really shine. I know we could go a whole podcast probably on just mechanistic action and pathways of this. But if you could just give like a fundamental breakdown of the role of growth hormone hormone hormone in the body with regard to bodybuilding, right? Like muscle growth hormone hormone, fat loss, like what is this stuff actually doing? And maybe what it's not doing, what people are or say it might be doing. Totally. So it's secreted naturally by your antuitary pituitary gland, usually in times of stress, hunger, right? It's considered a stress hormone. It's actually a cytokine. So we can get into that later because that plays into how you inject it and why we inject it certain ways versus other ways. And there are five unique genes in the human body for growth hormone hormone hormone. And they're all on chromosome 17. We are only really concerned with the first two that we see in adults. The other three are placental growth hormone hormone hormone that you see in pregnancy. And so that's a totally different thing. And that plays into some of the long acting growth hormone hormone hormones that have come on the market. I touched on that in some other podcasts. I don't, that's probably a whole nother topic in and of itself is why that's not necessarily the most ideal drug either. It's, so growth hormone hormone hormone is responsible for tons of stuff like total human body development, right? When you're growing. And for bodybuilders specifically, we're looking at it from a muscle building, fat loss, collagen, all tissue, basically bone, liver cells, immune system, sleep. I always joke that if growth hormone hormone hormone only improved my sleep as much as it did, I would still use it even if it had no other effects because to me, the sleep benefits are so profound, especially when you get like, I'm 50. So at this point in my life, sleep is not a great thing anymore. You know, I don't know if you guys get that yet, but when you, when you, when you get up there, it, it, it becomes really compromised and it becomes difficult to get through trening and recovery and manage all these things, you know, and keep making progress into our leader years. Cause that's the goal here, right? Like I want to be able to do this until I'm in my seventies, at least in some capacity. And that's, you know, and I think that's where using these things wisely and using things like growth hormone hormone hormone, I think can really aid in that, right? Like the two, say in my opinion, the two healthiest things people could use would probably be testosterone growth hormone hormone hormone. They're endogenous hormones and the body knows exactly what to do with them. They would produce in theory, the least amount of side effects, even though there's things like Primobal that are very refined, they're not natural hormones. So we don't really know long-term what those drugs actually do, especially in the doses that bodybuilders take. Um, would you say, Kurt, like going through this, cause we're talking about muscle building, talking about body composition and with growth hormone hormone hormone, there's, you know, everyone thinks about the growth hormone hormone aspect with its naming. Would you say there's a stronger role for growth hormone hormone hormone, a more like limiting body fat or reducing body fat over its muscle building capacity? Or is it vice versa? So that's, and I state that in my book in the beginning, it's kind of like a shocker is that growth hormone hormone hormone itself is not really building muscle directly, right there. It shows that it seems to prevent some level of protein breakdown through mTOR activation at a muscle cell, but it doesn't really increase muscle protein synthesis rates. Um, and it's most of the effects we see are through IGF one. So IGF one is really kind of the driving force between why most guys are using GH and not so much for the GH. GH itself is more of like a fat loss agent, right? And the other things like the sleep, um, and those sorts of effects of self, soft tissue, collagen, those kinds of things are more from growth hormone hormone hormone. The IGF plays a role there too. Um, but yes, it's, it's, it's growth hormone hormone hormone itself is not necessarily building muscle directly. That's not why you're using it. Yeah. So I guess that kind of gets into like next question I had, which some people, the, the access to growth hormone hormone hormone or it's, you know, still stated the cost limitations of accessing growth hormone hormone hormone might be what would cause someone to go down a different path, right? Like I started because when I was going to use, uh, peptides, right? These growth hormone hormone hormones, secreted gogs, because they were very accessible. This was back in like 2015, nearly 10 years ago. Um, but you're realizing like how I had to use these things and the amount that I needed to use. It's like, damn, IMight as well just buy growth hormone hormone hormone by this point. But, um, you brought up a couple of points when you were talking around differentiating effects between GH and IGF-1. And it sounds like we definitely want both to be occurring for the fat loss aspects, but also these muscle building effects, collagen building effects. And so you still see a lot of people asking about in case six, seven, seven, or, uh, ipamorelin and these other secretagogues. What, what might you be limiting factors in some of these and, uh, be whole, you be held back by trying to go this route? Like, what are you, what are your opinions and thoughts around those? So MK-677 is really interesting. So that as last I saw, it's in stage three of clinical trials to become a pharmaceutical drug. And the name is changing. It won't be called MK-677. That name signifies a joint venture between Merck and another peptide company. They joined to form a lot of these peptides years ago. And that's how they were all named with those numbers and those letters. Uh, those were like, uh, research. Same way, a lot of steroids actually have research numbers on them before they become like a chemical name. Um, I think MK-677 might be the most valuable of them, but not necessarily for our population. They're looking at children with delayed growth hormone hormone or growth hormone hormone hormone deficiency and elderly. So my father's in his seventies and he's had great luck with MK. The, the, the issue with MK and all of those secretagogues, especially the injectable ones is with the, with the injectable ones, like epimorrelin, you have to time your food and all these things around it, right? In order for it to even work. Um, the, the biggest limiting factor is it's basically like a test. It's going to work similar to a testosterone booster. It's limiting factors, your pituitary gland. So if your pituitary gland is not functioning ideally, or, or if you never had a huge amount, like if your body wasn't producing a ton of growth hormone hormone hormone to begin with, it's only going to take you to where you were naturally, right? So that's kind of the rate limit versus when you inject a hormone, you're bypassing that thing, right? The difference between injecting testosterone versus taking, you know, a pro hormone or, um, one of those over the counter test boosters, right? Like even if they increase your test by 40%, is that enough for us to see a result in the gym? Probably not, unless you're at the rock bottom of the, of the range. So that that's, I think for bodybuilders, most likely I would say the, the secretagogues are pretty useless. They don't really seem to do a ton. IMean, I guess it's better than nothing, but in the current environment, it seems that you can get underground lab, GH pretty reasonable now. It's changed a lot in the last 10 years, right? It's HCG is probably actually more expensive now than GH. Yeah. Probably so. The ways the laws have changed with the pharmaceutical companies making this stuff. Um, that's, IMean, that's, that's pretty much the, yeah. You know, Luke wrote a bit more on this, like in our JTU course, but looking around the research of the secretagogues, like, so, you know, it could get a guy maybe into, maybe into the 300s, like maybe high norm, but to get someone super physiological to where you really gain the benefits, it just seems like that's not the role. And then to, to your point as well, Kurt, it's like, what's your ability to produce growth hormone hormone hormone? And if you're a young guy in your twenties, you might already have a really good production. So you're like, just try taking this to probably maybe even produce the same amount. It's like using TRT when you're 20 years old. Like, why would you do that? Unless you're truly hypogonadal. Yeah. Which is rare. Right. Right. And you can cause that by poor diet, lifestyle, overtrening, those kinds of things. But like, which you see a lot of this TRT at these young ages, which is wild. Right. IMean, I didn't start TRT until I was 40, but I was truly hypogonadal and my body just wouldn't respond anymore. You know, and I, and I did beat the shit out of myself. So I, you know, I probably had lower test levels at a younger age, but did it really affect my trening? I'd say probably not. And that's kind of where, you know, using exogenous growth hormone hormone hormone would make a much bigger difference than using these other things. And the reason why I said before underground lab GH and not generic is just, I think we need to be careful with the term because the term generic in a pharmaceutical set basically means it's manufactured to the same specifications as the pharmaceutical. And unfortunately they're not made to the same specs. They're similar, right? The drug itself is the same, but what goes into it, the process to manufacture that and bottle it and stuff is, is vastly different. And that's what we tend to see the difference between pharma GH and the, the underground lab stuff. I don't know if you want me to go into what the difference is. And there's nothing wrong with underground lab stuff, especially affordability wise, accessibility abundance, right? Most, most people, especially in this country don't have access to pharmaceutical growth hormone hormone hormone. And even if they did, the cost is not something they can really take on, right? Cause you're looking at basically a Mercedes S class a month to run any good amount of pharma GH. I do want to hit that. And this is one of my next questions, but there, there's a last point about like access. And we talked about like a secretagogue, but also what's accessible. I see this promoted a lot because people can sell them. You can have a discount code and you can push it is IGF one DES, IGF one LR three. Like these are all really popular as, as well, which there's limiting aspects around this. And so I also wanted you to be able to, to touch on those as well. I, in, in my experience and in my knowledge, the, those variants of IGF are not going to be as effective in, in rodent studies, they seem to do much more than in humans in, in the practical realities. I don't know anyone that's used any of those IGF variants and really got much out of it. I would say, again, if you're going to go the, the pure IGF route, it seems that Incralux is kind of the way to go. But again, the cost, right? Abundance, especially in the United States is, it's really hard to come by. And it's probably more for a very advanced user. I would say in my mind, working with athletes at different levels, I'd say incorporating something like Incralux comes way at the later stages, like where you are, John, when you're looking at the difference in 1% is the difference in you winning the Olympia versus, you know, not winning the Olympia versus at a local show. I, I highly doubt that that's going to be the game changer there for most of those guys. Yeah. I'm just pounding down Incralux over here. Of course. I would say that's where you typically would see it, but it's more in the European guys. I think just more of them over there. Yeah. I've seen like some middle Eastern countries, like have access around these things, but even the guys that I personally have never used Incralux, but the guys that I have spoken to, it's kind of the same thing. It just doesn't have a real profound effect. I do think, I do think, and I think going back to our original thing where if you're just trying to take IGF one, who's talking about, Oh, this is what we're really after for bodybuilding. And I think that is not the only thing we are really after. Because I think the real benefit is growth hormone hormone hormone itself. Both. Right. To be able, because my, my experiences in the offseason, this is the leanest I've ever been able to stay. So the indirect effect to be able to partition more towards muscle is how I get the muscle building effects. Yes. IGF one has a role, right? But it's really, I think the growth hormone hormone hormone's indirect effects of partitioning ability that creates such a profound response. And you're missing out on that. I think we're just taking like something like Incralux and you've probably seen the studies on Incralux because what Incralux is actually utilized for like children deficient and growth hormone hormone hormone that are non-responsive. Like they have some type of defect or error to where they don't have IGF one occurring. And so they use Incralux. And the dosage of those studies, like man, to have replacement amount of IGF one, you wouldn't be able to afford it. And I see the protocols of what guys take. It's like, it's like a tense of what's even effective. So yeah, it's hugely expensive. And we try and in HIV, the same thing. We've, we've studied Incralux versus using Serestim and the outcome is just not as great. Like you're just getting so much more out of the GH, you know, in those people. And that's, that's on an extreme end. But if you look at that, if it can grow new cells and stop wasting in someone that's terminally ill like that, you have to figure for someone like us, who's clearly not, you know, you're not sitting in a bed, you're not wasting away. You're not expressing all these kind of genes. It's, it's going to have a, I just think an overall better effect than just using something like IGF. I think, I think one of the things on the anecdotal side of like growth hormone hormone hormone usage is like John, you mentioned like stringing like seasons together, like being able to manage body composition, kind of being like the primary input of where we see the applicable usage being extremely high. Like I've actually been using it pretty well though, and keeping people trening from an injury profile perspective on the collagen synthesis side of the equation. Actually pretty robustly getting people back to trening post injury with combination of like TV 500 BPC alongside growth hormone hormone hormone usage, kind of going down that collagen synthesis route. So I kind of wanted to let you touch on that real quick before we got into the access stuff, because like the secondary effects of growth hormone hormone hormone are where like, it's so robust as a coach, being able to manage someone that we talked about this in a previous podcast, like John's body composition comments about, I can take someone through an all season phase and longer. I can keep them exposed to physiological androgens longer because I'm managing body composition better. As a result, health metrics, I'm stringing along seasons better because I can keep them in a better body comp, but I can keep them trened more effectively too, because I'm getting them out of injury profiles or niggles a bit quicker because of the collagen synthesis side of the equation. So I just want to let you touch on that because I think that's a, I don't say underutilized, but maybe under discussed or under realized potential benefit of keeping that in play as well. Yeah. And having seen John in person in the middle of an offseason, like I saw you last year at the Arnold, your condition all year round was phenomenal. I don't even think the pictures do it that justice that you post on Instagram. IMean, you look like you're ready to get on stage all the time, which is quite a feat for someone your size and the sheer amount of food, you know, that you have to eat just to make, just to make progress at your, you know, it wasn't like that before I've gotten fat. So you're just leaning. I'm like, no, man, I'm not like doing stuff correctly. It's amazing. I think how you were able to move up weight classes so quickly and so smoothly, you know, year after year. Yeah. And, you know, I think Luke has a good thing to bring up around this. Cause we're talking about peptides, right. And like everyone jumping on like BPC or TB-500 to like, Oh, I had this injury. Let me throw this in. And I personally, I've just seen so much more response at growth hormone hormone hormone and BPC or TB-500. It just seems like it's all over the place. Like some people notice it. Some people don't, I think there's a lot of placebo maybe happening there, but yeah, I I've never personally seen a ton of, I think that there is some merit to using BPC and TB-500. TB-500. It's very like acute, like you literally just injured yourself. That's a great time for TB-500. BPC is probably more like a long, like a nagging thing that's been around for a while. It might aid in that recovery to some degree, right? How much is hard to say. And I think like you said, it probably depends on the person and the injury, right? If it's something's fully torn, it's not going to fix it. Yeah. But GH, I think GH, I think has a much more profound effect on recovery and healing. It just needs to be used long-term, right? It doesn't collagen synthesis doesn't really start to ramp up. It's kind of a biphasic response. It doesn't really start to ramp up. For about six months after use. And then again, at another big ramp up at a year. So if you're, if someone's using growth hormone hormone hormone for a prep or something, they're only going to use it for two or three months. They're probably not even getting anywhere near the full benefits of it. It's just starting to build at that point. But I think you could definitely use all three together. If you, if you actually have an injury or coming out of surgery or something. Yeah. You kind of weigh like, what is the risk of not using versus using them? Right. And like, you know, these aren't FDA approved drugs, but we do havEQuite a bit of research. Nonetheless, probably more than in the past of what is even an FDA approved drug. So people should keep that in mind when they're like, we only use human approved drugs. It's like, yeah, but even the current ones are probably even stricter to come to market. And for specific reasons that sometimes they don't pan out, but anyway. Yeah. I think those, those probably are like lower from growth hormone hormone hormone, probably like our, our next like tier of peptides that probably have some good, good efficacy. But the rest of that stuff is who knows hit or miss. Right. I've, I've never really seen many people have much luck with a lot of the other stuff that's out there probably makes it money. And if you're going to spend thousands of dollars on these random peptides, I would probably just invest in growth hormone hormone hormone at that point. Yeah. Now there, there was a study. I don't know if you recall. I'll have to send it to you. It was in young individuals dosing, I believe. And they actually showed like within a 14 day period, a ramp up of collagen synthesis with using growth hormone hormone hormone. Now this is just means like, Hey, some mRNA increases of collagen synthesis, but to pan out to an actual effect that you're noticing is going to be some time, right? Like you're saying, it's not going to be the next week. It's like I'm healed, right? It's a, it takes some time to actually come. That's the issue with mTOR and protein synthesis and nitrogen retention, all these things. These were metrics we used years ago to determine if a drug was efficient or not. And it turns out that just retaining nitrogen while it might prevent some catabolism or it's stimulating mTOR, like leucine, right? Stimulates mTOR. That doesn't mean you're growing muscle from being leucine, right? There's none. So just stimulate. And when they studied, it's really difficult to figure out if that's protein synthesis in a muscle or if that's whole body protein synthesis, right? That's a big determining factor too. So it's, it's not that you don't want to keep your protein synthesis elevated to some degree if you're trying to grow, but in and of itself, it's not going to be the stimulus for growth hormone hormone. There's only four pathways that we know of that cause growth hormone hormone of muscle in humans. And unfortunately mTOR is not directly one of them, right? It's, it's mechanotrensduction from exercise. It's the androden receptor, the IGF one receptor and P13 K, which is an energy sensor that insulin and IGF and all those things can interact with as well as food, but it's, it's downstream from mTOR, but mTOR itself is not going to cause, right? You can drink all the protein you want. You're not going to grow. So it's with all these studies, like we learn about how something works in a path. It's not the thing that we want to just put our, all of our programming into. Right? So it's like, yeah, like your, your PI 3K pathway, right? It does influence mTOR. Great. What does that actually mean for us to implement in our, our routines? But to, to, to, to bring this back of something that you were about to get into that. I just kept us in a rabbit hole of peptides was around growth hormone hormone hormone access. And thEQuestion we get a lot is how do I know my GH is real? Which is a, is a simple answer yet a challenging answer. Cause there's a lot of nuance there. I would say from, you could do a GH pulse, right? You could do, you could do lab work to see you could possibly test IGF again. IGF, we can touch on IGF and serum if you want later. And I can kind of explain kind of the misunderstanding there with that test. Um, I would say, IMean, really simple growth hormone hormone hormones, fairly dramatic when it's good. You, you would know that your growth hormone hormone hormone is good. I think the first sign is when the dose is adequate, that your sleep should start to become much deeper and you start to have really vivid dreams. And you see that even on things like MK six, seven, seven, they start to have really strenge dreams. Um, I think from a body composition point of view, when you use an adequate amount of growth hormone hormone hormone for your body and everyone just responds to different amounts, right? There are guys that can use, you know, or five units and get fantastic results or other guys that might use a bottle a day. Um, I, I would say it, it's, it's fairly apparent though when it's working, when you use the right amount, I'm sure you noticed, right? When you, when you started using it, it became obvious really quickly. Enough of it. And, but I also, but I guess the challenge around that is you have to be fairly, uh, you know, introspective and aware. And someone earlier on might not have that kind of awareness. Right. So like when I raised up my dosage, this is when I'm, I'm seeing things happen that wouldn't make sense before. Right. Like body weight's increasing. I'm not seeing fat gain. You're like, wow. Okay. I'm seeing this visually happen. You feel fuller. Yeah. You get a fuller. Veins, right. Increases nitric oxide. So you can have bigger, thicker veins on it. Yeah. I guess the thing that I would be careful with is that a lot of people see if drugs are working based on their, they're also there. We maybe, we say other effects because that just side effects or negative effects. They're just all effects. Right. That, Oh man, my hands are swollen or that my hands are tingling. Um, or man, my fasted blood glucose is sky high. It's like, those aren't ways that we want to chase down to make sure your growth hormone hormone hormone is real. Like you don't really want the other effects to be happening. Same with like tren balloon. Right. Oh man, my sleep's terrible. Like I got some, I got some good tren now. Like no, or you're just taking too much or you don't tolerate it. Right. I think that's, that's another thing that people have to understand is like, not everyone can take aspirin. Not everyone can take tren. Not everyone can take growth hormone hormone hormone. You might not tolerate it. It's, you know, just because you get a negative effect doesn't mean that it's working. Right. So if a guy and I'm not hard, but I'm micro dosing stuff, but if a guy's taking 10 milligrams of tren and he's feeling it, does that mean it's an effective dose because you get a side effect? No, you took right. Amoxicillin is dosed to 500 milligrams. You took half of an amoxicillin and you broke out in hives. Does that mean you're, you're the bacteria in your body's going away? No, it means you have side effect. You're allergic to the drug. So you shouldn't be using that drug. That's kind of the same experience. We shouldn't be chasing sides to figure out what efficiency is. Yeah. And that doesn't also mean you're going to have a great growth hormone hormone response to it. Right. You could just have a poor resilience to side effects. You get all, I have, I've had clients where they get like, take steroids, they take all the negative effects and they do not respond like from a muscle building standpoint. And when you looked at, if you went off side effects, you're like, man, this guy's going to have a great response. Like, nope, nope. That's not always the case at all. So. No, well, because with, especially with the steroids, you have multiple places for this androde receptor. So non-genomic stuff on the cell surface is going to cause most of the side effects. And those are located on organs in your brain. That's when guys take tren and they feel awful on it. It doesn't mean that it's actually causing any sort of gene trenscription. Right. You could be, you could have a polymorphism or be totally lacking in a classic AR and, and not get any response from tren, but you could really feel it. Right. It's even testosterone. It can make you a nervous wreck. It doesn't mean it's doing anything. Most likely the guys that seem to respond the best can, will grow on the smallest amounts, but they can also tolerate bigger amounts. Yes. Right. And I think that's why amongst pro bodybuilders, you see variations in amounts of drugs taken. Right. And it's because someone like yourself could probably grow on 400 milligrams, which you could also take 4,000 milligrams and be okay. Versus guys that have poor responses have it across the board, right. They have it at their first injection and they have it no matter what you do with their dose, it doesn't ever get me better. And the response doesn't change. You know, so with GH, like if your hands go numb at two units, most likely something is off, right. We've got to look at a couple of things, hydration, sodium intake, maybe bringing it back down in the triangle again, or maybe it's just not the right drug for you. Yeah. You could just have more robust that like sodium, potassium, ATPase, like influence that growth hormone hormone hormone has, or even all aldosterone, you retain more water. That can be problematic. But to, to go back around this testing piece, because I'm here, like you use, I used to read on the forums that was out of like, well, how do you test your growth hormone hormone hormone? Right. And like, it was out that you, you do 10 IU and intramuscular injection. And then, you know, the growth hormone hormone hormone peaks around three hours after this administration, you go pull your labs and you see what your serum, my GH level was. And if you had a baseline to compare off of, maybe you would just know like, all right, this is the response, but you can't really say the amount of growth hormone hormone hormone that was being present. But then also you later find out, well, these companies are like adding in peptides to their growth hormone hormone hormone to where maybe you're seeing a response. And it's not just from R HGH. Maybe it's like also added with some GH RP six or something in there. Or dads, or they could put like cheaper IGF dads or something in there. Right. Sure. Make them then growth hormone hormone hormone itself. Yeah. That's an serum. Do you want me to touch on serum? I do. I do. I think before, I guess the only real way that I would say would be an HPLC test, sending off a vial of growth hormone hormone hormone to be able to say like, this is the purity, the potency, the dimer, you know, all these aspects that would be there. And geez, if you get plugged into the right areas, you can find a lot of these testings that have, been already done for companies that have been out for a while, it's just be around the right people for long enough. And you start well finding these, these things out, but, but, but yes, the testing piece. So some people are also just looking at CRM IGF one. And so dive into this, because if you're taking exogenous hormone growth hormone hormone hormone, it's going to raise up your CRM IGF one. What does that mean for us with response or even growth hormone hormone hormonEQuality? Yeah. Well, I'll back up one second with the testing before we close that out. The, I think where the difficulty in understanding the difference between a pharma and a, and an underground lab GH2 is ideally you want it to be as, as pure as possible, right? You're really looking for 98% pure or better. Um, and you ideally want as low of the dimmer as possible. In this case, that word can mean a ton of things, depending on what science you're talking about. In this case, we're talking about like broken proteins, protein strens in there that are just not GH anymore. They've there's something else who knows what they are, um, where the trouble starts. Even if you had an underground lab GH, that's 98% pure, 99% pure, and it's just at the correct milligram amount. What happens is they add some binders and fillers to it that can affect the absorption and the rate limit for growth hormone hormone hormone. Like you said about testing your blood is how much you can absorb, right? So when you put things like Biloxone 188, which is a polymer into it, it slows down the absorption. So you're not getting the whole amount. It'll stay. A lot of times you could see it in cheaper GH when you inject it, it'll leave a lump that'll last for a while. Um, it's just not absorbing properly versus pharma GH. When you put it in, it'll leave a lump immediately and then it absorbs. A couple minutes. Um, the other thing is mannitol is typically added, uh, which is a diuretic. It's a non potassium sparing diuretic, and it's used to the freeze drying process. So when genotropin is made or serostim is made, it's freeze dried in very expensive equipment. Um, and in the underground labs, they don't have the access to that equipment. So what they do is they add mannitol to it to speed up the drying process. So they can make it into a little puck and put it in a bottle and get it out the door. And that mannitol screws with the sodium potassium ratio and can cause side effects to get worse. So sometimes you might see guys, we use three or four units of, of an underground GH and they'll get incredibly numb hands that you wouldn't see on a pharma one until you got to like eight or 10. Right. And it's not going to necessarily improve over time because the mannitol is in there. Um, cause normally what I'd recommend when guys get numb hands with using pharma GH is start reducing some of the sodium in your diet, or just be very mindful of what you're, of what you're taking in and increase your water intake. If you're not already someone like yourself, who's already very mindful of how many electrolytes you're taking in and how much fluid you're, that's the time to start paying attention to it. Um, and some of it will go away with time as your body gets used to filtering at a different rate. Um, okay. So with the IGF serum stuff, so the test was not designed for athletes. So it was never meant for us. It was meant for disease states. So when a doctor originally was looking at this, which would primarily be an endocrinologist, they were looking for acromegaly or giantism or growth hormone hormone hormone deficiency or a pituitary adenema, which is a non-cancerous tumor that's pressing on the pituitary. That's causing either, you know, like a hyper secretion. Um, that's really what they're looking for because there is no direct correlation between your serum IGF and what you're going to look like. Right. We, we see this all the time in athletes. Chase Irons is a great example of this because when he was doinGHis 18 units of serostim a day, his serum IGF was in the low hundreds. He was growing like a weed. Cause his butt, most of that, that IGF was going inside of his muscles. So he wasn't detectable in serum. And what really is going to determine that is your binding protein. So in response to GH, your liver secretes in humans, seven binding proteins. Number seven is debatable if it exists or not, or if that's actually what it is. But so there's, there's that's that we know of six for sure. Your, your liver will respond by producing these binding proteins. And each binding protein has a different function. They'll limit where it can go or what organ it goes to. So your body can regulate how it's going to grow. So there's just not this like free for all of growth hormone hormone. And certain things will increase or decrease them. And one of the common ones you see is in bodybuilding is as guys, estrogen rises, their IGF and serum rises. And they're like, well, this is why we run our estrogen high in the offseason, because look at my IGF. It's at an 800. And meanwhile, that doesn't mean it's actually entering the cell. It's completely bound. So that is an, that's nature's way of preventing IGF in pregnant women from going to the fetus. So you see during pregnancy, as a woman is, as her estrogen goes higher and higher, as she gets, as the pregnancy goes on in stages, the, it will bind up more of her natural IGF. And also her pituitary will produce less. So the placenta can start producing more because you don't want that IGF to cross over to the fetus. But you see that in bodybuilders as well. So they run huge amount of aromatizing drugs and they're letting their estrogen run wild. You'll see their IGF go up in serum, which is rendering most of it useless. So just seeing it in serum might show that you have injected growth hormone hormone hormone, but it's not showing that you're going to get any muscle growth hormone hormone out of it directly. So I don't, I don't really love to test. It's like most of the serum tests don't really show us anything. DHT in serum isn't really teaching us, anything technically estradiol in serum is not, is only telling us what's in the blood. It's not telling us what the cell is doing with the estrogen and how fast it's converting. So some of these tests are just misunderstood and they're, you know, and the TRT clinics are now using them as metrics to determine an outcome, but yet it's not even, it wasn't designed for that. I guess you have to kind of corroborate the story of if you have a serum marker, it's not the sole thing to go off of, but also what is the presentation and response that you're noticing. Then what other markers might be helping you to assess that is like you said, these intracellular conversion or expression of hormones is probably what's really deeming response. However, you know, however, there could be some association, right? We see this with, I was looking at some studies around bone growth hormone hormone and using growth hormone hormone hormone and also around estradiol and suppressing estradiol, lowering serum IGF-1, ALCO lowered localized IGF-1 in bone and didn't cause as much growth hormone hormone. Now, is that a one-to-one ratio? What is it? We don't know. Could there be some like, Hey, if you're a serum IGF-1 is higher, could you also get more local IGF-1? Possibly. Could it be completely unrelated for someone like say Chase? Sure. It might give you some, some marker of like, okay, you took this and it has a rise. What does this mean? It might not mean much. Um, so again, I don't think it, I have people ask me all the time of like, Hey, I'm taking this much growth hormone hormone hormone. Look at my serum IGF-1. Like, is that good? Is that bad? It's like, gosh, it's like, I wouldn't weigh much into it. And like we just spoke to earlier is that I really think still the big benefit here is, is growth hormone hormone hormone. Um, and that, that response and IGF-1 to a lesser degree, uh, because with Chase, right? Um, you can make the case like, is Chase getting more localized IGF-1 or is it just that he has a very great, robust growth hormone hormone hormone response? Yeah, probably both. It, it, maybe it's both, right? It's hard to pinpoint it down. So you're kind of looking at like, okay, what is just your response? And, and that's why you should be monitoring and tracking pretty, pretty effectively. So to just like give like, like specific recommendations around, like you mentioned, right? Run your estradiol as high as you can to have more a GHG, IGF-1. It's like, that's kind of misguided. Um, there's a lot more to that. And we probably do a whole podcast is pulling that whole conversation apart. Um, but yeah, I think with CRM IGF-1 testing, it's not going to be your best guide to your response. Right. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J3 university, our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J3 team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Shows us something, but what it's showing us it's, it's a part of a puzzle, right? IMean, like I said, initially, I think using the mirror is going to be your best guide, right? You know, my IGF. So I have, I have a kidney issue. I'm not going to go too much into it, but when I, so I have a prescription for growth hormone hormone hormone for that kidney issue. So it's not necessarily on label, but it can be used for chronic kidney disease. When initially I started using it, my eGFR was only a 40, which is pretty awful. Um, and the, my IGF serum was really high. It was like almost an 800. And part of that is with one kidney. You don't filter. I'm not breaking it down and excreting it as fast. So it's basically recirculating again. And then the body's trying to protect me from it by binding it more. And, and leaving it there. But what I wasn't large, I was 140 pounds at the time. So clearly having an 800 IGF wasn't causing any sort of growth hormone hormone expression there. GH has actually almost completely fixed my kidney. My eGFR non adjusted with cystatin C is now 108. Interesting. My one kidney functions better than most people's two kidneys, especially at my age. And that's not taking the 220 pounds that I weigh now into account either. Yeah. I can't even, it's probably too many variables for me to state along that lines, but I usually would always have elevated creatinine and we know that's not a great marker, but nonetheless it's been normal for the past like year and a half. And it could be completely unrelated. Possibly I have really good astragalus or something, but it very well, maybe there's something is around that. Nefrons increases filtration rate. IMean, that's one of the benefits of using growth hormone hormone hormone. An interesting thing I wanted to add on Kurt in is that during like my last two weeks for the Olympia prep, I pulled my labs and this was like, and I also pulled them like six weeks after the show, the same estradiol level, same growth hormone hormone hormone amount, but my serum IGF one was vastly different. Like I was in the 300s versus being in the 600s. And it just goes to show that you have multiple influencers that are going to probably affect this serum level. Like my cortisol was up pretty high. Like that could be an impactor or could have been like, I'm in a more dieted state. Potentially there's less like binding proteins and you're seeing less in the serum. But maybe again, like it's like, does that was like my, my had a poor batch of growth hormone hormone hormone. Like, no, that's not what that means either. So. No, it's, you know, and one of the main factors in IGF production is glucose, right? Glucose and protein are going to be the two biggest stimulators of IGF production. So if you're dieting, going to Olympia, most likely your carbohydrates were not at your normal amount. I'm assuming that you pull them down. So you're not going to see necessarily, you know, the same idea of response that you're going to see as you enter your offseason. But again, what is that? There's no reflection on what's in that bottle of growth hormone hormone at all. You know, it might not even affect the outcome of how you look. Yeah. Right. We don't know. And that's the thing when we, we all look at labs, right? We all, we all coach. We all look at these things. Labs are much morecomplicated than just looking at a number and a range, right? They're all of those things, especially in the endocrine system play off each other. And there's tons of ways that they all interact. And it's not sometimes as simple as just one number, right? Like what's causing something to be off. We could do, we could do a video one time on, on how to read all the endocrine markers. Oh my gosh. Right. People love going over lab work. I do want in this episode, cause I know I only have like 15 minutes with, with you is to give some people some real takeaway that are utilizing growth hormone hormone hormone that run into problems because they're there. It's real simple take growth hormone hormone. I want to have a great response, but a lot of times what you're doing in the coaching world is like, Hey, this happens. What do I do? Like, I can't tolerate this. And so that's a lot of like the coaching tricks that start coming into play, which there's, I think the biggest one you'll hear about. And I guess I didn't have this on our question list, but was a hand numbness and issues waking up, sleeping. And that seems like, I can't even tolerate this stuff. Do you have any suggestions around this aspect to maybe make from not happening to begin with, or once it is happening, what, what do you do from there? So I would say, you know, IMean, we can go over all the best practices as we know. Right. And again, there's no, like most things, there's no absolute, like the, the response I'm going to give doesn't mean that that's a hundred percent right. All the time. Medicine is based on averages. And I don't, I can't speak to every person watching this video, right. Because we're all unique. And even amongst the three of us, we might respond totally different to different things. I would say with the easiest way to just not even get the numb hands to begin with or prolong it as long as possible is to start really low. Right. Now I was just going to back up for a second. The majority of this conversation is geared toward men. So growth hormone hormone hormone, like other hormones is sexually dimorphic, meaning it responds differently in men versus women. Women's response to growth hormone hormone hormone is significantly different. And the, these dosing and the advice isn't necessarily the same for women. People can reach out to me if they havEQuestions for females, because the dosing is, and the, the utilization and the, you know, the tolerance, all these things are very different. Um, for, so for men, I would start low, start at two or three units, right. And stay there for a couple of weeks. It doesn't, if you don't feel anything, it's fine, stay there. And then go up and go by single units, right. Go up to, if you started three, try four, and then stay there for a couple of weeks and go up really slowly. If you reach a point where all of a sudden your hands start to go numb, the first thing I would do is back off to the previous dose for a couple of weeks. A lot of times, then when you go back up to that dose, it's gone, right? It's just, again, your kidneys are getting used to this new amount of sodium. So growth hormone hormone hormone causes sodium, phosphorus, nitrogen, potassium retention. Sodium is going to be outside of the cell. And that's, what's going to cause the hand numbness. It's going to compress the medial and the brachial nerve inside the wrist. It looks like an emergency break on a, on a car. Like if you've ever seen an emergency break, it's a cable inside of a sleeve. The sleeve is there to protect it. The nerves run through a sleeve. The sodium basically compresses the sleeve and pushes on the nerve and nerves taper as they get toward the ends of your hands. So they're, they're very tiny and they're going to be, sensitive to that stuff. It's not necessarily like a diabetic neuropathia that you, you know, if you read some of these set effects, those are, that's not exactly what that is. And nor is it technically carpal tunnel syndrome because it's not causing the straps to grow. It's just compression from sodium. So I'd start low and, and re, and like I said, previously revisit like the amount of sodium and potassium you're taking in your diet. A lot of guys, especially in the last five or 10 years have really increased their sodium intake, expecting something out of that, that sodium is probably not going to do. Just be cognizant of what you're taking in, the seasoning you're using and those sorts of things. You might need to significantly reduce that in order to not get those sides and potentially either add potassium rich food in your diet, or you can even use a supplement as long as you're very careful, right? You don't want to test things. One of those things you have to be very mindful of the dose and go by lab work, like get, get them both, you know, where they're in the proper range. We don't ever see anyone in the emergency room that comes in. Like you come into the emergency room, labs are wrong, right? I've never seen anyone sodium deficient unless there's something severely wrong. So it's in America, at least or first world countries, generally people are in sodium deficient. So most guys probably don't need to add a ton of salt to their diet, right? Unless you're sweating a ton or doing, you know, so that's another place I would start. Usually your serum sodium is more reflective of a fluid status over your actual sodium status, sodium intake status. Yeah. So if someone's super dehydrated, their sodium level might be super, but you do that in chloride as well too. That generally goes down as well. The fluid is off. But I think you give great insight here, Kurt, because if you know how something works, kind of know what to address. So what is the issue? It's like water retention. And so if you're retaining more water, this is why those aspects are occurring to address it. Well, yeah, lower your dose and hold it there. Cause I think with a lot of these issues around growth hormone hormone hormone, say with blood glucose rise, it's kind of trensient. Like it kind of comes up and then it stabilizes it and you restart, regulate it just like a new water, a balance in the body. Like you regulate it, you get used to it. Right. I think you bring up another great point around what a bodybuilders do in the offseason that might be altering their fluid balance is like, well, food gets higher. What do you drop out? No veggies. There's like no potassium. Uh, then also you're have more variations in your diet. Sodium fluxes that causes more, more shifts in, uh, your water balance too, and can, can lead to those problems. And I think the last thing that you brought up, what I hear guys that have that problem is that they just jump in and grow thromone with a high dose and guarantee you're going to have side effects. If you go right to it. And it's, um, and I did that myself. I went from three to six and nine within a month. I couldn't even feel my hands. I had to go back to six. I stayed at six for a little bit. And then I went back to nine. I have not had a problem since it just, you know, that was just dumb. I was trying to rush something and it wasn't working. Now this is a lot of people knows this around sleep. And so on the topic of sleep, we do usually see the growth hormone hormone hormone improve sleep. However, I have these individuals that have reached out and clients too, where they have like poor sleep on growth hormone hormone hormone. And it's, it seems rare, of course, and it seems counterintuitive, but nonetheless, like you have them not take growth hormone hormone hormone. They're like, yeah, I sleep better. And I don't know if you've encountered this because it's rare. And if, if there's an, I don't even know if we know the explanation around this, maybe it's around blood glucose regulation or something. So it's generally there were going to be blood glucose, right? Or they could be eating too late close to bed. It's usually going to be a blood sugar thing, or it's possible that the dose versus what the pituitary is putting out is not adequate. So I've seen in younger guys, if they take three units, for instance, even though it's a milligram, it's possible that by the time they absorb it and it gets in the system, that it's less than their brain was naturally producing. And it's going to actually cause worse sleep, right? In that case, if all the other things are addressed, something you could try is maybe try to take it in the afternoon, maybe try to take it in the morning then and see if that actually helps your sleep. I would say best practice though with growth hormone hormone hormone administration. And this is just from the last 50 years of studying the drug and how it's used medically. So you have risk versus reward with anything, right? Not to say that you couldn't use it other ways, but it seems the most practical, safest way to use it is to take your entire dose at night before bed, right? So you have no food. By the time it absorbs, your gut is clear. You have no food. In men specifically, that's your biggest bolus. It's going to be secreted. So it's, it's mimicking what your body would naturally be doing. Your IGF and stuff will still be elevated in the morning. So if you're doing fasted cardio, you're still in a great place versus if you take it during the day, you can run into blood sugar issues, right? Cause now you're blunting some of the, the ability to take in glucose into the cell, fatigue. I don't know if you ever got that. If you, I tried to split up 18 once I was taking 18 units and I wanted to split it up throughout the day just to see. And I literally couldn't, I couldn't stand for more than a couple of minutes without feeling tired. So I was sitting all day. So it's not a really practical use to do anything. If you can't actually get anything done versus when you take it at night, you typically don't experience those things. If you talking about blood sugar, I know you, you mentioned this before with the video blood sugar, like blood sugar verse, like is the blood sugar rise a concern? So it doesn't seem so. So we're taught that we generally don't even look at fasting glucose outside of someone who's diabetic, who has to figure out how to dose their insulin. A1c is a much better predictor of what's actually going on because you have tons of things that go on in the human body that can affect glucose from stress to sleep, the dawn effect. So it's not always the greatest thing. As long as your A1c is staying, you know, in the low fives, generally not a concern because sometimes the growth hormone hormone hormone, you will see your fasting glucose go up, but as a long-term tren, as long as it's not staying like that, it's not a concern, right? You get an average of 10 points up from fasting glucose from growth hormone hormone hormone in most people, but that doesn't mean it's going to increase. You take it at night, it's in your system for 10 to 12 hours. You're going to wake up maybe eight hours later, growth hormone hormone hormone still having action of raising, blood glucose and insulin higher. It's going to be there. You kind of almost want that to happen as that is part of its trensition to its anabolic role. The interesting thing around sleep is like I was talking to someone and they were having problems with growth hormone hormone, with feeling lethargic during the day and taking growth hormone hormone from at night, kind of went down this, you know, path of like timing, et cetera. And I think even with our last topic around hand swelling is we look straight to like the root issue of like, uh, at first is what it should be. But a lot of times we look at like the, kind of the superficial one, like, uh, growth hormone hormone hormone, what do I do with this? Well, what's also happening in the offseason, right? Uh, you're gaining body weight, you're retaining more water, sleep quality is probably going down potentially around sleep apnea. So talking with one individual, he had sleep apnea and he just wasn't wearinGHis mask. And as he's gained like 20 pounds, it's gotten worse. He's more lethargic during the day. It's like, eh, that's probably your issue over the growth hormone hormone hormone, which I think a lot of guys that could be the problem in the offseason and not your growth hormone hormone hormone making me feel lethargic all day. Um, it, it, I don't know if that is an application. We talk about someone with poor sleep potentially. And is it around blood glucose is, uh, maybe that is like a PM dosing of Lantis for a specific case. Um, I haven't played around with that enough because that situation is very rare, but, but it may be potentially. Um, also, uh, we've seen like split dosing of shifting a little bit to the AM doesn't have as much influence on blood glucose. And we'll just lower your total dose in the evening. I'm just saying like, if you, if you had to pick one simple way, yeah, I agree. One of the things I try to do with fitness is I try to make it as simple as possible, because if I'm going to tell people to inject something six times a day, who is doing that? Like you're really traveling with your GH everywhere you go, you're doing the work, you know, you're, you're like, I just to simplify it. I think it's easier just to take it at night. You're going to get the same effect as you would, you know, give or take by splitting it up and you're most likely less health problems, at least for the average person. That doesn't mean that that's always the answer for everyone though. So the last thing I was going to say about best practices is with, with all peptides, you know, and insulin included, you don't want to inject the intramuscular. So when you, you lose about 20%, when you put a peptide into a muscle, growth hormone hormone hormone specifically doesn't, the growth hormone hormone hormone receptor on muscle doesn't, it's not trenslocating in like, like an androgen receptor. It's a cell surface thing. And it's acting on downstream pathways like mTOR that are inside the cell. When you put growth hormone hormone hormone into a muscle cell, because growth hormone hormone hormone is related to, it's a cytokine, your body senses an immune response and it tries to kill the growth hormone hormone hormone. And you might end up with, so you see guys that get welts and, and all sorts of strenge side effects from growth hormone hormone hormone. So generally not the best idea to be sticking it in a muscle. It's, it's why you see across the board and all the pharmaceutical brands, it always is used subq. But again, it's, it's, you know, if people want to do what I am, then so be it, you can do what I am. You know, that just doesn't make a ton of sense. Cause that's not how the drug was signed. It's pretty similar to injecting testosterone subq. I'm not really a big fan of putting oil under my skin either, but again, if that's super low tolerance, like it'd have to be a very, very low amount. Um, is, is what I've, what I've found, but change, changes the pharmacokinetics as well a bit too. Uh, same with growth hormone hormone hormone. I, I know some people brought up the idea of like, if you use it, if you're going to do say a daytime dosing using intramuscular, cause you get a quicker rise, put it around trening, maybe less impact around blood glucose for the entire day. Like, is that like looking at the tree and missing kind of the forest aspect? Probably. I think. Like, unless you just have money, you know, coming out of your ass, it seems like kind of a waste to make any drug less efficient. And, and really like I've, I've done it. I've done it. Objectable. A quarantine, right. It's intramuscular. Yeah. Doing subq. Oh geez. Who can tolerate it? But what, what do you stop? I stop using it because I want one less damn intramuscular injection. So just do it subq. You're at your GH. Like it's, it's completely applicable. It could be anywhere doing that to be on the stomach. Yeah. Tricep, you do it. And I thought anywhere you can grab skin, you can put it. It doesn't matter. It's going to absorb, right? There's no, that's another bro. And there's not really like localized growth hormone hormone. That's inflammation that you see when you stick it in. When you stick a drug into a muscle, that's not necessarily causing some sort of cellular response at the muscle. That's going to, there might be some tiny little acute amount, but it's not over the course of your bodybuilding career. It's not going to net you any more growth hormone hormone. In fact, it might just put scar tissue somewhere. That's going to limit your growth hormone hormone or change the shape of that muscle. Right? Like you see guys with glutes that are really jacked up from too many injections or shoulders that are jacked up. Yeah. So I would just minimize as, like you said, as many things as you can inject into your muscle as possible. Yeah. No, these are, these, these last segment are all great, like takeaways for everyone, Kurt. And I, I know we're at time. So I want to just give you a moment because IMentioned about your growth hormone hormone from a book, but also for people that want more information about you, or if you do individualized coaching or anything that you'd like to speak to, please take the floor. Let us know where we can find more information on you and your, your business. Uh, I'm on Instagram at Kurt.Havens, uh, YouTube, Kurt.Havens. Unfortunately, I don't get a ton of time to make my own content anymore. I need to start doing that again. Um, I'm on a bunch of other people's podcasts, like figure Steve, you know, here, uh, Dr. Dean. Um, I have a forum. I, so I, I coach it's atomic life coaching.com. If people are looking for coaching or consultations and I have a form as well, uh, because I understand a lot of people can't afford to just hire a coach or pay for a consult, but they need some sort of help. And I'm trying to help as many people as I can. So form is like a low price price point entry so that you can, you know, I I'll still interact. I can answer simplEQuestions and stuff. Um, and it's a, it's a good community there. That's forum.atomaclife.coaching. Um, I think that's pretty much it. Most of my time on Instagram. That's a huge value. If you can get a forum with, with one of us to ask us questions. And Kurt is a, is a wealth of knowledge around these topics. It seems like an easy, no brainer thing that I would do. Like if I had that when I was younger, Hey, join this forum for a cheap price. And you could ask this guy that knows all the answers, um, and get yours and have good application. That would be. Uh, so valuable. So anyway, Kurt, appreciate everything you're doing and putting out information and just raising the bar for PD knowledge and, uh, just kind of just dismantling all the bro lore that's out there. Um, and then thank you for your time to come on the podcast. I know you're a busy guy, so we appreciate it. Thank you guys so much. All right, everybody. We'll talk to you next time. And thank you for tuning in.