 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Overrated hypertrophy variables. There's a lot of things that we get focused and hyped up on with training. And I think it's quite easy for us to get over focused on certain variables to where we just lose kind of sight of where our overall program focus should really be. So today, Luke and I, we're going to dive into actually which ones that we are, maybe should just not put so much weight into. And we'll probably have another whole episode just on underrated hypertrophy variables and ones that you should be putting more focus and weight into. Yeah, I think, I think this is a really cool topic because I do think that if we can learn to bring in the focus on the few variables that do drive progress the most for individuals and start to kind of weed out the fluff, we can really kind of build extremely productive athletes and improve how much progress is made on, on the week to week, the month to month, the year to year. Because we don't get kind of lost in some of these other variables that could potentially lead you to making decisions that aren't conducive to maximizing the training stimulus. And I think the first one is everybody's favorite. And everybody says the Arnold Schwarzenegger quote about this is the pump and how overrated this can be for your progress slash session quality. Oh, Luke, don't say that. You're going to hurt. Really hurt some feelings right now because it's, it's funny because like when Renee and I, we get in the car after we train, we're like, how was the workout? And usually the first thing that comes out our mouth's like, oh, had a pretty good pump. Or man, I just didn't even get a pump today. Like that, that's the immediate like subject or data that we give back to one another sometimes. And you're like, okay, well, does that make a good or bad workout? And that's not the case at all. And you know what we've learned over these past years with the hypertrophy research that's been coming out is pump is kind of just more of a indirect marker that a tension was put on a muscle. But that doesn't necessarily mean that you would also get a pump if you had great mechanical tension exposure on a specific muscle. Um, you know, to the other side of the equation, you could get an insane pump and not get a lot of mechanical tension on muscle that would drive hypertrophy. Example of this was that, you know, I could do the spin bike for like 10 minutes at a decent pace. My quads will get exploding with the pump. But you know, like how many repetitions do I do on a spin bike for 10 minutes? It's way beyond the hypertrophy rep range that would even have sufficient tension to drive adaptation. So that's it. That's a situation where, yeah, you get a great pump, but it doesn't mean it was a great workout for hypertrophy. Another situation could be like, hey, like a squat, right? Like if you even set up for glutes, we load the glute lengthened. Like it's a great high amount of mechanical tension in the glute. But a lot of times you don't get it like a massive glute pump from doing your squats. However, it's extremely productive exercise for training. So the pump can kind of come along for the ride sometimes. And it does give us some good insight that, hey, the muscle you're attending to train is getting worked like it's your are targeting that tissue. But there's some other variables that come into play where it might just not be the best indicator for having a solid workout. Yeah. And I would say I probably use it more as an indicator with people that have a body part that's lacking. Like wouldn't you like if you see a shift in training approach, not having a pump into having more of a pump slash connection, that's kind of more where that feedback is valuable. Or even sometimes maybe the back end of prep. But there's going to be days with prepping, like just being in a deficit that the pump's not going to be the great and that great. And it's not mean that you react to that. Right. So it's great. I mean, everyone loves a good quad pump or a good chest pump. But, man, it's it's a little bit overrated as a metric to make program change. Well, I guess that's the thing is, like, if you're basing the quality of workout on a pump is that it's really easy to start chasing the pump. Right. In your workout, it's like, oh, man, I'm not this isn't working. Let me jump to something else or let me do an extra set to where you're adding a lot of volume into your into your program. And in turn, impeding recovery, which, you know, like you just mentioned, there's going to be a lot of other variables that factor into if how well you're going to be able to get a pump. If you're in prep or you're in lower food amount, we know that pump doesn't always happen. So that immediately in prep becomes a pretty poor indicator for making training adjustments based based around that. Could there be some indication like of some some hypertrophy mechanisms that happen for having cell swelling and pump? Like, yeah, there definitely might be. And I think you bring up a very good point, Luke, that if you're never able to get a pump in a certain muscle group, a lot of times I see those are weak body parts for individuals. Like for me, my my quads, like I blow quads up off one set, massive pump other muscle groups like chest. Like, man, I have to be extremely intentional with my setup, my exercise cueing to feel that same effect in that muscle group. So I think it could be a very good indicator, like you said, for if you are able to execute the list properly and maybe improving form and queuing because you're never getting a pump in these areas. There might be an issue with your exercise choice or exercise execution that should be addressed. Yeah, absolutely. I think that covers pump pretty good. Yeah. Next. Next on the list is bands. You ever heard the bands maker dance for the rubber band, man? Anybody that's like busting out all these bands, that's what I'll call them is like the rubber band man. But the questions are they overrated? They are overrated. Yeah. Do they have utility? Yes. In certain specific client situations, I think they can be a great tool for teaching someone how to initiate out of like extreme end ranges. When they don't really have the stability or the strength to manage load in that position. But they should never become permanent slash semi-permanent aspects of your program design. And that's where my problem in the utility is, is for a lot of people, it becomes that banded work is how they train. And I think it should be somewhere we visit temporarily for certain needs, but get as far away from it as possible in most applications for hypertrophy specific. And with a lot of the setups, and this is, I think this, maybe it was like three years ago, four years ago, where banding things got really popular. And again, like you said, there's application, but a lot of PMs, people aren't understanding the application of the band and utilizing it to make the resistance profile of exercise even worse to match up to the strength profile of the muscle. And an example of this, like we're now getting into the research that's coming out around a length in partials, right? Like loading a muscle and it's longer muscle links and having active contraction at those times would have more benefit for hypertrophy than loading the muscle just in more of a shortened position. So with that being said, like look at a hack squat. When you get to the bottom, like the knee travels farthest away from the line of force, like potentially you're having the most loading in the bottom position of a hack squat. Well, the idea with the band was like, let me reduce load at the bottom. And as you come up and that knee gets closer to the line of force, you're getting mechanical advantage, right? So now it gets harder at the top. Start overloading the shortened position of the muscle. Well, this is actually flipping the profile for actually what you want would be more loading of the length in stretched quadricep muscle. So banning a hack squat is actually less potentially productive for hypertrophy. There's other cases around this too. I see the hip thrust machine that has band pegs on it. So it's like, whoa, there's a peg there. So you put a band on it. Well, the hip thrust already loads really heavy short. Putting a band on it makes that even more exaggerated. And we know like even loading a glute lengthen would be more productive for hypertrophy. So again, we're making the resistance profile less advantageous for hypertrophy outcomes. Or we have bands around body parts now like banding around the knee for your hip thrust or your squat. And there's an issue with sensation, right? Like you have a sensation that there's more glute involvement. Well, you are creating like this isometric contraction of your piriformis and your glute medius to push against this band. But in research, you actually see a lower amount of like glute max being involved. So these are these things to consider when using the bands. But with those things being said, there's applications for them too, right? So if you had someone that was coming off an injury in a quad, you don't want to overload the lengthen too soon into your program. And maybe you want something that kind of slows down that transition from eccentric to concentric. That's a great application for a band or someone that needs that type of cueing to externally rotate the hip or drive some abduction in certain lifts for whatever reason. It may be for that person. Well, there's band applications there. Yeah. And I think that's kind of where it should stay is like in that getting someone back to normal training sphere is where they can be very useful. But outside of that, it probably shouldn't be used for hypertrophy outcomes that often. Like it shouldn't be forever living in your programming design. And that's where I think it gets overrated. I mean, here's the thing. You could throw bands away, all of them, and you would be able to completely see out your fullest potential in body. Yeah. Like that's how like unnecessary they are. I think with a lot of these items, if you could do that, like I can never need this in my garage gym and be okay. Okay. Then that's likely an overrated item. So it's getting to where we're seeing like these really nuanced items, right? Like stuff you, there's benefits, but it's not like the game changer or the main tenant that you need in your program. Yeah. Yeah. I think that starts to play into the next point too, because we have like exercise rotation and like making frequent program design change. There's something that's in my opinion, just unbelievably overrated. But before we get onto that soapbox, like a lot of this started to happen because one or two of your favorite people on the social media were using a band in order to alleviate pain in some of these patterns. And then it just kind of became like a widespread thing. Right. And that's kind of like how these trends tend to start. But to your point, like you can just throw it out and you would be able to see your full potential. And I think this is where like frequent program design change or frequent exercise rotation for whatever reason. Like if it's just because you're not feeling it or if it's because you see somebody else doing an exercise you think fits your goal pattern, like making constant change in program design is literally to me like the kryptonite of program design, in my opinion. Like I think it's, I think it's the worst mistake you can make if there's not injury behind the reason that you're making change. Right. And so like when I first was getting into bodybuilding, like DC training was popular and you'd have an like an ABC rotation to your days and you would set that way. You had basically like, you know, three, nearly three weeks of rotation. The exercises before you came back to the first rotation and try to beat your lifts, at least that's how I had it kind of programmed into my mind. And it gave you, it gave you time for adaptations to occur to where you could actually see out like logbook progression the next time. Otherwise, if you just did the same exercise every week, you might not see progress every week. You might be very slow. But I guess to your point is, is that, is that even needed? Or I guess what are the other issues that you would see around it too? Yeah. Cause like to me, that setup is just delaying skill adaptation. So you're basically, you're seeing progressions because of the skill adaptation. You're not seeing progressions necessarily because of the adaptation solely. Right. And that would be my main point. And my second main point would be to build out that many rotations of sessions. When that stops progressing, where do you pivot? It's like, where do you go? Because in order to build out full three different rotations to address the same exact goal set, you potentially, depending on how well your athlete moves, are using every movement on the table or in the cards for that athlete. So like, obviously the better an athlete moves, the more tools you're going to have available to use where you could potentially get away with it. But when you're dealing with people who don't move well, or you're dealing with previous injury profiles that limit the scope of exercise selection, like that's a really quick path to having a program design that doesn't, isn't able to pivot someone kind of down the line. And then to me, it's just like, like I said, delaying that adaptation of skill out at skill learning. So when you're progressing, how much of that is like actually the adaptation verse, you're just getting better at the lift because you finally came back to it and learned how to do it again. And that, that'd be my main points of like directly to that case. But this is my main point in change in general is hypertrophy is a forgiving adaptation and is hinges upon the development of progressive mechanical stimulus. Okay. And if we're looking at the development of progressive mechanical stimulus over a long period of time, the best way to ensure that your program design week to week is doing that is limiting the change so that there's not skill as a portion of that adaptation or that progression. And yes, your progression slow down as you get later in the block, but that doesn't mean that it's less of a productive session. It just means you're seeing more of an accurate representation of the adaptation occurring rather than the skill portion. And I've seen some of you've early, like, like some earlier level bodybuilders, like 10, 12, 14 weeks of skill adaptation driving progressions before it really becomes like something that you're actually seeing the adaptation drive the progression. So this, this is my biggest hang up with it. And I think it's, I think it's something that we would drastically improve the rates of progress of people. If we could keep, if people could keep focus on becoming an expert at a few rather than everything in the, in the playbook. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and live Q and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. When I was writing out a lot of those sessions to have like a C rotation, eventually by the C rotation, I was struggling to find an exercise choice that I even had an option for. It's like, Oh man, I need another, another flat press. Like, Oh, that one flat press kind of sucks in the gym. Like I don't want to use that one. Like it's like, I have a dumbbell press already. I have Smith press. Like, uh, what's my, my machine press. Eventually I got to where like my C rotation was kind of like some suboptimal exercises that I, I didn't really connect well with or didn't fit my profile best. And it's like, I really, really liked this like one machine, but I shouldn't repeat that one because why? I don't know why, why could I not repeat it? And so that's like when you start questioning things, it's like, well, yeah, if you have a really awesome movement, you like, like for me, the prime machine, my lateral is nearly the only thing I can do. Because it like my, this like forearm thing I have going on. So I use it every session. I do, I, you know, train it three times a week. I do the same thing every time and it doesn't become less effective because I'm just repeating it more often. If anything, like you said, Luke, it's, it's more comparable to be able to see like changes occurring. Now, the skill adaptation in this is very, very high. And by your, your isolation exercise. So there's not much learning that really needs to take place there. So I think if you're seeing really big jumps in progress week to week on a movement, it's likely that is like the learning skill set piece or neuromuscular adaptation. Real progression, though, should be pretty small and incremental. And it's, it's okay when it is going slow week to week. That doesn't mean that you need to rotate exercises in to drive that through that skill or to drive that adaptation further. It's not how it works. Just time is, is what that comes down to. I think it's a great way to be able to say finally, not wait three weeks down the road of like, oh man, I haven't been able to move up this exercise. Actually, uh, what's wrong with my program? You look back through it all. It's like three weeks has gone by. You have like all these exercises that you've run through. It might be a little hard to assess versus you've run the same program over week by week by week. And you're not seeing those trend lines move up. It's a little easier to look back and assess of like, oh, this, I need to probably lower volume or, um, I'm under recovering or whatever it may be that you need to address, uh, within your program. The caveat is I think you do need enough variation to be able to address the full, uh, functional ranges of all the muscles. So, you know, if you have a hamstring, like if you're only doing lying leg curls, like you're kind of missing out on like the end range of training the hamstring. So maybe another day you need a seated ham curl or like an RDL to fully address the full range of motion of, of that hamstring or back. Uh, there's so, there's a bunch of musculature in the back. It moves at a variety of angles. So it could make sense to have like a couple, like, you know, if you have an upper back row, maybe you have a different kind of upper back row. That's a slightly different angle. And that can make a lot of sense. Um, I think the other caveat to this would be, uh, safety as well and repetitive use. Like if you're doing like LinkedIn loaded, like, you know, uh, type of squatting or dead lifting, uh, your RDLs every single week for some people can't do that every week. Maybe that's the week that you have a rotation in, but the rest of the movements can stay the same. So don't think you need a complete overhaul of the whole session. You could just be like one exercise that's swapped in and out. I've done this on my like quad days where I mean, I can't, I can't squat necessarily every week. Maybe I need to go to machine, um, every other week instead. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And those like those situations I think are, are warranted change, right? Like kind of like you mentioned, I tell this to clients or people all the time. Um, it's like one exercise may not address the entire contractile range of a single body part, but across a program design in a session, you should address the contractile range of that body part. And so like, that's where the exercise variance comes in. Right. Is like in order to achieve that goal. Um, and then safety as well, like adjusting for injury profiles, but, or keeping someone safe, kind of like to your point. I want to have fun, Luke. I think, um, my program's not fun. It's boring. Um, but this, suck it up buttercup. We're here to get huge. That's what I'm saying. Like it's, it's like boring is what is most productive. And I actually just put something up about this. It's like, if it's boring, it's probably good. Like if it's boring on your check-ins because you just feel like you're executing groundhog day. If it's boring with your program design, because you're just going in executing, taking your progressions and moving on. Like that is like the epitome of what you should be dreaming about. Because if it's not like you're having to address problems over and over, they're actually slowing your rate of progress. Yeah. Boring is, is how you build the best physique. And like, that's the conversations we're having here today. Like, sure. If you want to optimize your psychological health and have fun with it first, but, and then have progress be your second thing, then by all means. But it's called CrossFit. Go do that. Don't do bodybuilding. The day, the wad of the day for bodybuilding. We don't have that. It's like, nope, here's like your barbell work and your machine work and that's it. But, uh, Dorian did it. Look at Dorian's program. You're in the same shit for years, making, making a ton of progress. Look at Ronnie, the same thing. Like all these bodybuilders are basically doing the same movements for a long period of time and getting really stupid strong at them because they're doing the same movements over and over for a long period of time. So we don't need all these, have these, uh, rotations in to like confuse the muscle or like, uh, be able to push progress if something's stalling. It's no, you just stick it out, do the exercise you connect well with that, that are already programmed in to train the muscle as they attend. And that's it for your program. So. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we'll move to, we'll move to our next one. How about, uh, rep ranges overrated? No. Suggestions. They're suggestions. They're not, they're not rule books. I don't, I don't think this is a complete, like, it's not one that you could just toss away because they, they have to exist. But I, I, I would say overrated because people are getting, uh, too hung up on a specific number. And I think it's, we have a range to work within. And a lot of people that seems to gray, I think, cause I'll, I might have a range of like eight to 12. They're like, what if I do 13 or what if I do seven? It's like, man, better luck next week. You totally ruined your workout. Right. It's like, no, that's not the case at all. It's like, we have some suggested ranges where probably for this exercise within this rep range, it makes a lot of sense. Like, Hey, a barbell squat, something a little bit in the lower rep range. If you go a rep shy, it's still all good. Uh, it's, it's more like, we know in hypertrophy, actually like five to like 30 reps kind of works. Um, but to do a 30 rep on a squat would be crazy to do like a, a five rep or a lateral raise that might not make a lot of sense. So it's kind of based on the rep ranges around exercise profiles that, and safety, and also considering like cardiovascular, uh, capacity for these movements of, of where we would program them. But even, you know, we have guys that are doing hypertrophy programs in the, the three and four rep ranges, and those can still be very effective for certain individuals. But we had to group everyone in to like, you know, a big generalization. I wouldn't tell a lot of people to go less than five reps. Um, but not that that can't work. So a lot works for hypertrophy, like Luke said earlier, it's a forgiving adaptation. So I would say, don't get tied up on rep ranges. There's more important things to, to focus on of like training close proximity to failure and putting high efforts into your sets and where the reps fall, the reps fall. Like that, that's kind of how I see it. So if I have a load, that's probably close within this rep range that I'm going to hit, take my set all out. If I'm a little over, if I'm a little under, it's all good. Like that, that doesn't matter as much on the big scheme of programming. No, no. And I think I get like, I'm a three headed monster when I tell people that they're just suggestions. So don't stress over it. Cause it's like, you know, people like to be rules. They like to follow rules. Right. So, um, that's where you go to like the plus two, right? Like progress your patterns to plus one or plus two over the rep range and then use that to pull load back. But, um, I think that's pretty much it for rep ranges, man. Like keep it eight to 15. You're probably good. Yeah, no, that's a, that's a, that's a good generalization around it. And, but Luke, do I start at 15 or do I start at eight? It's like, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter. Like truly like some days I feel like I want to hit something heavy. And so I start with a set of something set of eight ish. And then I drop my load as I, as I go, or I go high because I'm like, oh, this feels a little off today. My joints feel a little achy or whatever. I go 15 and then I just stay with the same way and let the reps drop. Both can work just as effectively, which it gives you freedom. You have freedom now for training. Go hang your, uh, your, uh, what are those things called? Soul catchers? A dream catcher? Is that what they're called? Dream catcher. Soul catcher. You can go. That's, that's what Satan has on his car. It's a soul catcher. But for the rest of us, we have dream catchers. All right. Intensity techniques, which we could throw these into a big bundle of, uh, could be force reps, um, eccentric overloading. Someone pushing down. Why? After your last rep, uh, drop sets, rest pause sets, anything like once you hit a failure point, you're jumping back in. Um, what are your, what are your thoughts? Are, are these overrated or not? Um, I think we're starting to get to a place where they're not as overrated as they used to be. Um, I, they look cool for social media. Um, I think there may be a little overrated in their benefit towards driving the hypertrophy adaptation. Um, I mean, you're talking it's utility being in like the last couple of weeks of program design when you've full on maxed out volume for someone and you can't even manage the idea of squeezing a full set in. So you kind of extend a set with some sort of intensity technique, but I would say 9.75 times out of 10, it's probably not needed. I think if you're like, Hey, you're not allowed to use those anymore. You'd be completely fine. Just doing straight sets and learning to, to maximize those as much as possible. I think where they have utility is some of these just save time and able to get your volume in. Yeah. But the, the counter to this may be that you're also not going to get as high of quality of volume by trying to save time. So we see like short rest times between sets makes the subsequent sets less effective. So you might need more of them, um, to, to, because of that. So your drop sets or your rest pause sets, that's where kind of that falls into. Uh, but with, uh, as far as like a forced rep, hit your failure point, got to set a 10 on bench. They're like, go for one more, bro. And you're like, your spotter's helping you. They're like, go for another one, bro. You're like, you already said that two reps ago and you keep going until your spotter's just doing upright rows and you're like, just kind of hanging on for the ride. By that point, this is very far productive. Like maybe after the first one, you get like this little squeeze out of a little more stimulus, but the fatigue is just paramount. Right. Um, on top. And so your next set after that, you're like, all right, set to a bench press. You're like, dude, I went five reps past failure. Like I'm smoked. Like mentally I'm in a cloud. Like there's nothing left for the day. It's like, well, now you can't get in the rest of your work that you need to. So there's this point of very much diminishing returns for, as you get to failure and beyond, when you probably would have, um, that extra little stimulus, you eke out for one set. You now just totally ruin it for the rest of your following sets of getting any stimulus. So in that situation, that's where it would be, I think, highly overrated. And, you know, people hate to say of like always training to failure. Like no one's always training to true muscular failure. Um, it's probably more technique failure is, uh, what we try to aim for before something breaks down. And, um, I think for a few exercises, doesn't even make sense to train that close to failure and save that for isolation exercises. So, uh, I think, uh, but these, these techniques, I think they are a bit overrated. Um, and even then for people that do like to utilize them, yeah, sure. They're fun. They get a big pump, like save them for, for the right applications though. That's all, that's all I would say. Yeah. 100% agree. Uh, the, the last or the next one is pretty interesting. Training splits. Training splits. Yeah. Overrated. I, I, I struggle saying that's overrated. Is it underrated? It sure is, uh, over talked about. That is one, one thing. It, it is over talked about. I think, I think the people who should be concerned with maybe, maybe this is it. Maybe the, the overrated aspect is people are obsessing over the training split too early in their career. Is it a necessary part? I have to know what days to train what. It is, it is, but just, there's so much general global tissue development that has to happen that it's like, just pick the one that fits your schedule. Hit your volume landmarks and make sure you have frequency twice a week and you're probably doing a lot right. I think that's where you just spoke to the, the overrated part is a lot of people are asking about what training split I should be on. But the, really the first correct question you bring up is like, where's your total like volume landmarks for the week that you need to be hitting. And that in turn dictates the training split. The split. But I understand when someone asks this question, cause it's like the easier question to ask. And we know like off someone's like where they're at training wise, what those volume landmarks are probably close to being. And I'm like, yeah, okay. This fits well with like upper lower or maybe a push pull legs that fits well with. And so it's an easy way to like convey the information back and forth. But what we're really conveying is how, how to organize volume throughout the week to try to maximize stimulus and mitigate fatigue. So we've kind of jumped a few questions forward just to be able to like, you know, answer this easily. But I think a lot of people do get a little hung up where it starts getting overrated, where they're starting to get into, like you said, a advanced split design when it's not even close to being needed yet. And I think there's a lot, lot more underrated things that we should be focusing on before then. And I think with that being said, Luke, maybe we wrap it up there and we save diving into the underrated aspects for the follow up podcast. 100% right. Well, if you out there think of something that's else is overrated, this is driving you crazy to leave it down in the comments on YouTube. Until then, next time we will talk to you then.