 Welcome to the J3. Welcome to the J3 university podcast. I'm your host John Jewett. I'm your host John Jewett. And I'm your co-host. Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Optimizing PED protocols. We take all of your questions that we got off Instagram and we're going to answer him. So I know PD is always a popular topic. And there's a lot of repeat offender questions. We won't call them offenders, but again, just a lot of questions that we do get repetitive over and over. And I think it's always a good thing to go back and just give clarity to those that might have missed maybe previous podcasts or even answering thesEQuestions and help you fill in those gaps. So that's what we're going to talk about today all around PDs. Luke, how are you doing today? Great, man. I think this is a great one to hit. There's a lot of similar questions kind of throughout all thEQuestions we collected. So by answering one, we'll be able to answer many. So it serves the betterment of a lot of our audience. So I'm excited for this episode. It's always good to know you're helping the audience that takes the time to listen to us in the first place. Well, we will just jump in, guys. So our first question, again, these arEQuestions off Instagram. I don't know. People want their names shared, so I just won't even share their names. But anyway, someone asked, dosage for growth hormone hormone, what's the minimum for muscle building? Do you want me to start? Do you want to go? Yeah, yeah. Go ahead. You can start us off. Yeah. So when we kind of look at this, we kind of have a range in J3U that we cite with a bunch of different papers kind of behind it. You know, for on the male side, kind of starting somewhere between two to three IUs, getting all the way up into like the eight, nine-ish IU range. But we've kind of talked about this on the podcast before because we've had questions in the past, especially on the female side, of like people coming in with one IU of growth hormone hormone, like in that athlete process. And like then the argument becomes, is that even beneficial for a female because of the potential lower needs on the female side, even though arguably females are a bit less efficient at GH to IGF one conversion. This is kind of the big thing where if you were to just pull a quick anecdotal answer, I think you would start most people around the three IU mark. I think for the female side, probably two is okay, but I'd probably set that bottom end range at around three IUs if we were just pulling quick without going through like all the papers in J3U and everything. Yeah. IMean, the thing of this also is like your, your testosterone dosing, right? Like if you had your natural hormone levels of your testosterone and if you dosed under what your natural level would be, it probably wouldn't be that effective for muscle building. You actually probably be looking like you actually had low testosterone. The same idea with growth hormone hormones. So if you're dosing growth hormone hormone to a lower degree than what you could endogenously produce, that's probably not as efficient for fat loss and muscle building, but reaching to at least optimize up to the high end of norm and then beyond. Beyond is kind of where you might see a classify a minimum type dosing being around and, you know, Luke gave those insights where, where at least some starting points would be. But, you know, definitely you can look at your baseline labs, how you implement your growth hormone hormone and then go from there. We're, we'll try to go a bit more rapid through our questions. Everyone, Luke and I can just answer something forever. We could do a whole podcast just on dosing with GH. Why, why we have whole lectures on these things. But I'll jump into a related question that we got was okay to inject all I use growth hormone. Talking about growth hormone hormone, six I use before bed. Hard to go three to four hours fasted during the day. So I think what this person's alluding to is that he's trying to take all his growth hormone hormone or some of it in the morning. And then growth hormone hormone usually has its peak action abouT3 to four, five hours after you have a subqtaneous injection. And I think trying to, the idea of like, he wants to make sure he's optimizing that for maybe a fatty acid mobilization point of view. And then, and that's hard to do if you're a bodybuilder when trying to eat frequently throughout the day. And so, cause it okay to do all at night. And what I would say is actually we have a bit more bias to starting someone off and doing most of their dosaging at nighttime. Because the thing is that yes, growth hormone hormone does peak in this three to five hour window. However, it also has a duration of action of like 10 to 12 hours. So if you, you know, do it before bed, you sleep for seven hours and you wake up, you're still in this great timeline where growth hormone hormone is taking a lot of his actions. And we look at the research around growth hormone hormone. A lot of people still wake up with high amounts of triglyceride, free fatty acids, ready to be utilized if you are doing some type of fasted cardio. The issue is like if you try to grow through in the morning and leverage fasted cardio is that a lot of times you're kind of missing that really window where you're lining up fatty acid mobilization. And when you're actually doing your cardio and then you'd have high growth hormone hormone the rest of the time when you're eating these meals. And so that's when the time when it could be a bit more insulin resistant. So growth hormone hormone at nighttime is a great application and you can do all of it at night. There's no problem around that would be actually a bit preferential. Yeah, I don't really have much to add. I think it's just it also makes the dosing process simpler, too. I know there's quite a few people that listen here in the bodybuilding that are running nine to five jobs and busy day schedules, especially if you have kids. And I really like the consistency of dosing it all before bed as well as like a secondary client adherence piece on top of like some of the actual mechanistic action based stuff, because it's super easy to remember to just take your full growth hormone hormone dose pre bed kind of aligns with the peaking growth hormone hormone anyways, as far as natural output peaking overnight. So I think it's a it's multiple benefits and just taking it all pre bed. I think it's just kind of bar none the way to go. My opinion. All right. Next question. The optimal test range for females using female TRT. Short answer. There's there's not one. It's very N equals one. So we'll start with like recommendations and guidelines and then kind of go into how we go about this process. So most females and I would say most because I've had a couple of cases that live outside of this range are going to be in thaT3 to 10 milligram mark. So that's a per week of test dosing of like a test step in eight. And that's going to be based off not just solely the lab work number. And so this is where I want to start to detach people from. lab work is almost like a way of telling you a suggestion of where things are at, but it has to be corroborated with the symptomology of the client. And so this is where we need to suggest like ideal ranges for females. It's going to largely be based on the symptomology of that female athlete. Are we getting reduction in the low T symptoms that we saw in the first place that sent us down this path of potentially plugging in the low testosterone? Are we seeing improvements on the in-between phases from a tissue retention perspective where someone's able to continue to make physique development progress? Are we avoiding the potential for side effects? Are we avoiding side effects with the testosterone play at the dosages it's at? And so that's kind of where you have to answer all of thesEQuestions as cooperation for the actual lab work that's there. Now, we can look at lab work and give like approximate ranges. Like I see a lot of females do really well anywhere from like that 50 to 100 or 110 nanograms per deciliter range. I do think a lot of females probably feel their best around that 65 to 75 where they're not getting side effects and they have a lot of energy throughout the day. They don't have any low T symptoms. They're helping their physique development process. But man, I just really hesitate to give a range on a lab work because lab work is such a tool that has to be corroborated across the symptomologies of the person that you're working with. And I just don't want people to use it as a rule of thumb. Yeah, I think just a slight add on there is consider where that female is coming from their baseline. Because you have a female that could be very feminine and low testosterone. And that's her starting baseline point. So consider if you now think, well, the optimal is 100 nanograms per deciliter. That's without consideration where that female is coming from because that would be multiplyinGHer test levels by five. So you actually might get that kind of female incurring side effects. And so you can always add more in as you're titrating someone up to their optimal spot. But consider where they're starting at because you have another female that's at 50 nanograms per deciliter. Where movinGHer to 100 is a lot different than a female from 20. So starting with like the lowest efficacious dose and then moving up. And for some females, if they were that low, three milligrams per week, five milligrams per week would just be a good start point. Measure the response and then move from there. Next question. How quickly would you titrate up every two weeks, month, starting at two IUs to mitigate side effects? And they didn't say titrating up what, but easily assumed they're talking about growth hormone hormone. And I had someone message me, a friend, that he's like, hey, my hands, man, they're super numb. I can't even tolerate this growth hormone hormone. Is this just what it's going to be like for me? I was like, well, what are you doing? He said, I'm taking six IUs. I was like, what'd you start at? And he said, six IUs. I'm like, oh, okay. So a lot of this is just compression of nerves from the fluid increase around growth hormone hormone causinGHand numbness. And when you stay in one position for a long time and you're gaining body weight and getting bigger, it's just morecompression on these nerves. Or you're sleeping. So some people wake up with numbness and tinglingness in their hands. So that's the common side effect I hear the biggest complaints on with growth hormone hormone. So to mitigate that, a lot of times fluid will regulate as you're on growth hormone hormone. A lot of things kind of regulate as you get on growth hormone hormone, like even blood glucose levels, thyroid levels. So it's just a matter of maintaining a dose at a steady state and then incrementally increasing. So at a minimum, I would say hold a dose for a week. But more so ideally, two weeks would be what I would say to hold a dose of JAT. That two to three IU mark is a pretty reasonable starting point, as we mentioned earlier. That's kind of like a baseline minimum dosing if you're a male. And then from there, I would say do half IU increments every two weeks up to the dosage that you're trying to reach for your peak. And that would be more of a strategic way to go about to try to manage side effects that could be incurring from what you've experienced. And then if you got to a dose where you saw a problem from, then you just move back to the previous dosage from there. It's really tough when you make too big of jumps because then you have to scale way back. And then you're kind of left shuffling between dosages and trying to then sort out where is your ideal spot versus just start low, slowly increment. And right when you feel a mild side effect coming on, it's a lot easier to scale back. And you can have a little bit of time trying to tolerate that side effect until it diminishes versus having like a full-blown issue with your hands tingling on an intolerable amount to where you just want to stop growth hormone from home. But anyway, that's how I would go about it. A secondary thing just to add on real quick before we move on to the next is smaller titrations up make the assessment process a bit easier on the coaching side as well as far as making accurate decision making about the changes that are occurring. For those of you who have ran out of growth hormone hormone and didn't have it in play for a week or you went on vacation, you didn't have it in play for a week or two weeks, and then you come back and you plug it back in. Some of you guys, what's the first thing that happens? Weight jumps up 5, 6, 7, 8 pounds if you just plug it in at the dose that you were at previously, right? So along a similar vein from a coaching process of like being able to accurately assess the direction that you're moving, whether it's up or down, those titrations will help you making sure that if you see shifts that they're a little bit more from a percentage basis plan related and not large jumps in GH related, if that makes sense. And next question, Luke, you want to touch on this one. Will it be better to inject more frequently to manage acne issues? Assuming we're shifting away from growth hormone hormone and we are talking about anabolic steroids. Yeah, yeah. Yes. I wanted to answer this question for a few reasons. One, just to set some realistic expectations for people with PD usage. I do think people come in with expecting to use PDs and have zero problems with acne. And I think we all we have to do is go to the side effect management lecture that I built. It is like freaking 85 slides long in level one. And in that in that lecture, I talk about all the potential inputs for acne. Androgens in and of itself are an input for increase in acne production or sebum production that causes acne or the inputs for acne to occur. So in and of itself, using PDs is an input for acne to happen. And so there should be an expectation or an understanding that some will occur. That being said, injecting more frequently will allow you to maintain more stable serum levels. As a result, with more stable serum levels, we're not getting peaks and valleys where potentially we're getting issues on large hormone fluctuations, which is another another input for acne to occur. And it is going to help with that process. So in short, yes, the more frequent the more frequent injection is going to be better for managing acne issues. Understand if you're beating down the path of super physiological PD usage. Anyways, you are plugging in an input that's going to increase acne in the first place. However, there's a bunch of different strategies to manage it with like skin products and taking care of your skin health and nutritionally and supplementally that we can implement here. But in the short, yes, ideally, your your injection frequency is daily or as frequent as possible, given your schedule. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Next question, more specific one is if estrogen slash estradiol levels are low and I'm using a gram, a primo 800 mast E testosterone E 900. These are all per week. dbol could help to rise, raise estrogen levels. And that's thEQuestion mark. And yes, but that wouldn't be the ideal way to go about it because dianabol, it is a testosterone derivative and it does aromatase. But it doesn't aromatase to like the bioidentical estradiol like testosterone does. It is this methyl estradiol which seems to be more potent than regular estradiol. So it very well might not have the same biological benefits that we see with normal estradiol. Also, it just is a – it's much more problematic because we see usually dbol you gain a lot of water weight off of, probably driven around that process. And then usually guys have issues with cardio work capacity, sustaining trening, and lower back pumps being pretty immense. And then you have to worry about blood pressure. Other issues with using an oral steroid is that it's very – looking at the short term of growth hormone when we're trying to string together in bodybuilding months to make tissue accrual. So we have just something that can be implemented for a very short time with a lot of organ stress that can't be sustained. So it doesn't really align with our goals best for bodybuilding. Now, if you're running into the issue of having low estrogen and this is your cycle design, I would simply just shift the cycle design and let that play out to where then you have appropriate amounts of estradiol level. So looking at the cycle design, and there's a lot of questions around primo, mast, EQ, and managing estrogen. So I think this will tackle a few that we have gotten. But comparatively, like primobolin and mastron, primobolin off lots of lab work that I've seen seems to actually lower estradiol much more to a greater degree than mastron. However, mastron has this kind of bantering effect with shifting your androgens to estrogen ratio. So you might just – even though your estradiol levels are the same, you might not be noticing as much side effects from those from it just being more of an androgenic stack design. So with that being said, if you're running this type of stack, it would be shifting down the primo, which would have more of the aromatase inhibition effect, and raising up testosterone, which this could be like 100 to 150 milligram shift. Might be just a good start point to then see how estradiol comes up from there. And just a side note, I would just make sure that you are measuring an ultra-sensitive estradiol for accuracy within this, and then also going off of symptomology as well for what you're able to maintain and manage with estrogen. Because a lot of guys are just jumping at a number and forgettinGHow they actually feel. So usually with low estrogen, it can feel like really dry joints. You can feel very low energy. You can also feel like connective tissue is problematic. And then you also could have low libido and trouble with ED. So those are kind of your – some other symptomology signs around low estrogen and dry skin can start being problematic too. Yeah. Luke, did you – there's like other questions around EQ, which we could hit because they're on this one too. Yeah. It's just like – How does EQ compare to primo in a gaining phase? Yeah. It's – a lot of thEQuestions around EQ are like anecdotal grabs. Like I think there's one somewhere in here. Yeah, it's right there. Like is EQ still widely used in bodybuilding? Because it seems like all of the big blokes are running it. And sorry for the U.S. pronunciation of blokes there. But look, it's – they're androgens, right? So like you have milligram per milligram comparisons of these androgens. They're going to elicit action at the AR. They're all going to be beneficial for protein accretion and building more tissue, right? Do I think that EQ is a preferential choice over a total stack design that meets the same milligram needs as like a test DHT derivative? I would argue no. I don't think that you are gaining any benefit by pulling in EQ because you have the estradiol input of the equation with the testosterone where you're able to pull that testosterone up to match estradiol to where you think you're having the best outcome. So like not too low, not too high. From an estrogen-based perspective, you can use DHT derivatives that aren't going to have off-site action to reach your total milligram needs. And you're not going to have issues with potentially managing that outside of just making sure that your test DHT derivative ratio is correct from a long-term trying to progress a physique over the duration of an off-season. However, if you don't have access to certain compounds, it doesn't rule out EQ as a possibility to be used because it will be productive in accruing tissue. It just would not be my first choice for a variety of different reasons. But that's kind of how I would go about that explanation from the coaching side. Now, we can dive into like why would you not see EQ being the primary suggestion? I kind of hinted at it with like managing a client from a side effect profile perspective. But in what all these compounds provide us from in-stack design value. But I just don't – I'm going to let you take it from here just because like I don't see it fitting a goal that we can't achieve with something else. Yeah, thEQuestion back is like, well, what's wrong with using it? And again, with – you have testosterone as a base and I would argue this is like your primary and most advantageous compound to utilize and maximize testosterone as much as you can. But for a secondary choice, we usually don't have a lot of compounds that we're looking through. There's Primo, Mast, Boldenone, and Angelone. It's really your four main ones that you're really seeing people use. EQ has been popular for a long period of time. There's a few pros around Equipoise being that it's pretty accessible. It's not faked very often. And a lot of times we see Primo, Boldenone, and that's actually Boldenone anyway because they're very similar in action with lowering estrogen. And you really be able to tell clearly differences. And the high milligram per mil is very favorable for those that have high shot volume requirements. So you might very well fit into that category. And really what it should come down to for a secondary compound choice is being able to sustain bodybuilding over courses of months and string those together. So if Nangelone, a lot of times guys have gyno issues pop up just running tests of Nangelone. Well, that a lot of times rolls that out or Primo Mast access could be problematic, especially Primo. Boldenone. With Boldenone, a lot of people get anxiety, high blood pressure, and just don't tolerate the compound. And so you're really looking for which one of these options is best suited for you. And so for either one of us to say, like, this is never to be used, is this not the truth? And we've just seen throughout time certain compounds have stuck around in bodybuilding for a long time until you still see them used. And access to different regions absolutely influences that. Who coaches in those regions will influence it too. So, you know, depending on what the current cultural influences are, which compounds you're going to see. But for you as a user, you need to find that individual response and what is in favor for you to be utilizing. And that's going to be your best avenue to be the most benign for your health. And then in turn, that's going to be able to sustain progress. So when you're making arguments about what's going to grow me more between Boldenone, Primo Mast, or Nangelone, you're looking at marginal differences here. What's going to be more limiting to your growing is running into side effects and that creating the bottleneck for you not to be able to sustain that progress. So I could sit here and say, yeah, more Nangelone is going to get you a bit more gains. But also, if you have to stop your cycle, you know, 10 weeks in because of problems and backpedal and add in AIs or CERMs to combat things, and that is not going to be creating the most growth hormone. So, again, lots of things to consider and a long-winded answer to questions that we're trying to blaze through. If you want more, just get level one. It breaks all this down in detail. Next question. We're actually going to take these threEQuestions and put them into one because there's tren and bulk phase have tolerated nicely. I guess that is thEQuestion. And it says, what about Anadrol? Is tren okay to take in the off-season? Another question was, any use for low-dose tren in the off-season for putting on size at the end of a push? And then there was one more of low-dose tren, 6,800 milligrams per week for fat loss. Worth it or not? So, low-dose tren in the off-season. We just have to keep in mind what is our main goal in the off-season, of course, add muscle, limit body fat. Then we also have to ask questions of what's going to limit us or the main big-ticket items that we need to be in place to grow. And that's going to be able to sustain a calorie surplus, right? So, we're going to need to be able to eat the amount of food we need and have proper digestion, no loss of appetite. We also need to have sleep to maximize recovery, and that's going to manage our ability to have higher stimulus and trening volume. And then also be able to tren, right? Not incur injuries and also have good work capacity and stamina to uphold this volume as we get stronger and we're not need a ventilator between our leg day sets. So, with that in mind, certain compounds in the off-season, we run into common issues around these. And one well-known is going to be Tremblone. Tremblone is well-known for causing problems with digestion. A lot of guys get reflux with using tren. And then also sleep issues are a big problem. And so, it's quickly to rise into these issues. But I guess the thinGHere is like, hey, it's well-tolerated, a low dose. I don't get any side effects from it. And somebody brought in like, hey, the tail end of a push. And so, you say like, hey, maybe this is more of a total dosing question than, you know, the tail end of the push. But also consider, you know, what are you trying to do long-term here? And it's stringed together these off-season periods. And if you're running up to the end of a push phase, you don't want to have to make up ground in your cruise phase for just taking like an extra four or five weeks just to, you know, deteriorate your health. It's the same concept goes with, he asked about Anadrol as well or adding an oral in, you know, the last few weeks. That's like, well, man, I have only four weeks of this push left. Might as well throw the gas can into the fire, right, and get some extra gains. And that's just, it's, again, getting a little short-sighted because you're going to have to pay back that organ stress debt into your cruise phase. And that's going to have just more of a pendulum swing to the other side of the equation, making it harder to sustain and maintain that progress that you created. And then that also might extend that cruise phase to make up for the organ stress that you incurred. And then that's now further pushing out your next push phase. So that's part of the problems around using Trimbalone. Trimbalone's actions really shine, creating like an anti-catabolic action. That's why it's really good in prep. But again, from a muscle accrual point of view, I don't see it being to a greater degree in the off-season than other compounds. I think you have to just remove some of the subjective areas where you feel like you're making more progress on tren because it can make you feel a little crazy in the head. And maybe make you tren like a maniac. Or you might leverage a bit more strength gain out of it, which strength doesn't necessarily mean that's trenslating to actual muscle gain. And so those are a few points. But Luke, I can let you take over and hit anything else you went to or about the fat loss aspect around using Trim in that type of phase for low dosages. Yeah, I think Trim obviously shines in contest prep for a variety of different reasons. You kind of cited the anti-catabolic ones, but you kind of beat me to one of the points with Trimbalone in the off-season that it's most of the time just a milligram need conversation, not a need to plug in Trimbalone. I've found that it's probably just more of a time that in this next push phase that you go through, I'd rather not use the Trimbalone on the back end of the push phase. Get someone rinsed back down to where I want them to be for the next push. Health metrics are going to come back down fast and then be able to progress the stack design to a higher total milligrams in the next push for the vision of being as efficient as possible across the entirety of the athlete's process between the last time they competed and whatever time you needed to improve before you competed again. And I think it's just, and I wanted to pull that out because I feel like all of these last minute additions are just people not realizing that it is time to progress the stack design in order for them to make the progress they need to make at the rate they're supposed to make it. So all of these D-ball and a draw additions at the back end of push phases, trying to pull in Trimbalone at the back end of push phases, it's all from the scope of a coaching process of like objectively looking at the athlete. I think these decisions are athletes emotionally involved in their process, not seeing a tree for a tree, like for what it actually is, right? It's wanting the shortcut to make the most progress in this push phase when in reality, if we zoomed out, it's more that the athlete process needs to progress to a higher level. And I think that's where the objectivity of a coach can be huge because we aren't going to make decisions that are potentially short-term beneficial, long-term detrimental. And that's kind of where I would place this category of Trimbalone usage in an off-season for the majority of people in regards to that. Well, well said, Luke. And that wraps us up, guys, on our time for PEDQ&A. Hope you all had some great takeaways. You can leave your questions down below if you're on YouTube watching. But we still have a bunch of questions that we had, so we might have to do a follow-up episode and hit some of the other questions that have been coming up. But thank you all for tuning in, and we will talk to you next time.