 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. All right. Today, we have a special guest, Dr. Todd Lee, which normally it's just Luke and I, but we're so intrigued in such a PED and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone mood mood mood that we wanted to bring someone on that's starting to just really lead the front on PED information, which, uh, IFPB Pro, Dr. Todd Lee is a 212 competitor, a medical doctor, and, uh, also at Anabolic University where he's, uh, leading a lot of great information on PEDs and, uh, is, uh, is been a member around J3 University for a long time too. So Dr. Todd Lee, welcome to our podcast. Great to have you on. Thanks, John. I want to, thanks for having me on as well, Luke. I wanted to say that, um, I think the biggest change for my approach came from J3 University that, uh, I would say that, and I often do this on my stories that J3 University is the best education you can get about your body, especially for coaches or competitors. And that I learned more with J3 University than I did in 15 years of higher education. It's, it's funny cause I, I, I, it's makes you take a step back. I've heard that feel like, man, I did my masters in exercise, whatever, and learn more at J3. And learn more at J3. It's like, you probably learn more about what you specifically want to know about. Yeah. But yeah, yeah, no, thank you. I'm glad that we have that influence and it's led people to just disseminate the information and make their clients better and make themselves better. And that's always the goal. And you're now spreading that message as well, which honored to have you on, on board doing so. And thank you. Thank you. You, uh, you definitely go on deep dive into PDs, which I've seen you like start popping up more and more in my YouTube feed or Instagram. And, uh, just highly going into that area, going to the, the chem chemical aspect around PDs and kind of create, you know, coming to your own conclusions about some other areas too. So yeah, we had a lot of questions pouring around people, what people wanted to know from you, but I thought it would be just a, probably a good start with just laying. And this should kind of cover a lot around anabolic steroids and growth hormone hormone hormone hormone because it was far reaching what people want to talk about. But I think starting around maybe the, the core framework of, you know, cycle design with what, what is this base kind of look like? And then how do we, how are we building into these other compound selections? Cause that was what a lot of people want to know is what do you do? So maybe take, take it off there, Todd, of like where, where you're at with like kind of a, a base framework. We have intermediate guy coming in, you're assessing and trying to see, is he meeting this framework of what you would do with him? It's very similar to what I learned through J3 university. I just almost standardized it because I found that people accused me of not using nuance. They accused me of not using nuance in a 60 second reel. Well, I don't have time to do nuance in a 60 second reel. The nuance comes from the personal consultation or the phone call with clients and stuff where I tailor it specifically to that person. But basically if you got 30,000 people watching a video, like you gotta be able to have some basic standard framework that people can use as a vanilla. And then they can add mix ins later. Right? So the vanilla approach is start with an HRT base, which I found if you use 20 milligrams of testis epionate and two, I use a GH every day. I often see patients having 1500 milligrams of nanograms per deciliter testosterone. They have under 100 DHT and they usually have around 40 estradiol. And that 40 estradiol with the two units of GH generally gets people above a 300 IGF one. And that to me is good enough for HRT. So basically you can shoot from the hip, go 20 and two and 90% of dudes. They don't ever have to fuck with it. After that, they can just use whatever they want or nothing. And that is their HRT base that you've graduated from kindergarten and you can choose to go to first grade or you can stay in kindergarten like Billy Madison. And so then from there, if we had Masteron available, Masteron E, I only like long acting drugs and there's a number of reasons for that. If we had Masteron E available, I would say Masteron is the next step. And that you could titrate up Masteron until you're growing muscle. How do you know if you're growing muscle? Your log books progress. If your log books not progressing, then you have to reevaluate. Do I need more sleep? Am I eating enough food? Is the trening good enough? And that's where you would look at something J3 university and watch the hypertrophy module or the trening videos or, you know, you would. I've got a sleep hygiene video on my YouTube channel. And if your sleep's perfect, your food's perfect, your trening's perfect. That's a big if. But if it is, then you're still not growing. You can use a little bit more Masteron. Even 20 milligrams a day is enough to push you over that limit because that's 140 a week. That's a pretty good amount. And that could probably help you grow. Because there's the shortage of Masteron, I had to do some creative stuff. So what I did is I did an experiment with DHB. Is DHB a good alternative to Masteron? Because I know Primo is different than Masteron. Primo is an aromatase inhibitor. As you add in Primo, your estrogen goes down. So which means your test has to go up. Which means your DHT is going to go up. Which then means you might start losing your hair, getting oily skin, getting prostate issues, etc. Whereas Masteron seems to be a competitive inhibitor or an allosteric inhibitor at estrogen receptor alpha, not beta. So it seems Masteron prevents the downsides of estrogen in men without preventing you from getting the IGF-1 conversion from the GH. So therefore, that's why I like Masteron more than Primo for that purpose. So DHB, I discovered, is not an AI. So DHB is neutral. It doesn't affect your estrogen. DHB is just like Masteron, except it seems to be a lot stronger. And in me, it caused some liver damage. So that's where it gets a little bit more nuanced. And so that's why it gets a little morecomplicated. So it was safer when we had Masteron-E available. Now that Masteron-E is not really available, now we get morecomplicated with using DHB or other drugs as the next step when you introduce mild anabolics to drive the equation. Okay. We went from zero to 100 pretty quick and there you covered a lot. No, that's good. Because it gives a lot of good overview of how the framework would escalate up from there. You have a testosterone base, which as we know, we want some physiological amount of estradiol as it has its neuroprotective, renal protective, cardioprotective, penal protective, you know, does a lot of aspects for growth hormone hormone hormone as well, right? And so then titrating in more non-aromatizing compounds per needs in the most benign way possible. But going back, like you have this HRT base, testosterone, and where I have people come in that, and I'd like to hear from you because you probably see the extremes of the equation because 140 milligram of test is a good general starting point. But some guys have a hard time even tolerating that. Right. That's an extreme. Then we also have guys that need more and have a greater metabolism of it or maybe it's just gene changes that cause that as well. So with those individuals, how do you manage them if you have the guy that is more prone to aromatization and still is TRT based? Do you have lower tests? Do you use AI? Do you bring in a mastron or another compound? And then flip it too. Rather than adding a mastron, do you just go higher on someone that would have a low aromatization with testosterone? So I'm going to start with the second one first because it's simpler. Yeah. So in someone like me, I have to use 70 to 80 tests a day to get the same amount of estrogen a normal guy does with 20. It could be because I'm lean. It could be because I have a certain amount of muscle mass. My theory, and I don't know if this has been proven, is the more muscle you have, the more receptors you're going to have for androgen receptors in the muscle because you have more muscle. So it means you can get away with more gear before it starts spilling over into other body parts like hair, skin, prostate, breast tissue. And so for me, I have to use 70 or 80 to get to my offseason ideal amount of estradiol, which if I was to push the IGF-1 conversion to the limit, that's so much estrogen for me that I would start having fat accumulations in certain locations that won't come off during contest prep in a timely fashion. That it'll distort my look on stage because it'll stretch up my skin around my nipples or my butt. So I pretty much have to stay around 50 is a good amount of estrogen for me offseason, not because it's the best estrogen conversion. I can get away with 80 to 100 without having any issues and having the best estrogen conversion from GH to IGF-1, but for the best stage look, I don't want to get a lot of feminine fat deposits. Now, with someone else, I have one guy in particular I'm thinking of, I won't say his name. He has very little muscle and had a lot of baby fat. And so even 20 milligrams of test put them up to 120 estradiol. So in him, I could lower his test and then add in something like DHB or Masteron. Or you could leave his testolone and add in something like Primo or EQ. I prefer EQ over Primo because you get more bang for your buck. With a lot of people, when they're paying for the blood work, they're paying for the GH, they're paying for their tests, they're paying for coaching, you know, then you can geT3 grams of EQ for the price. Or you get six grams of EQ for the price of one gram of Primo. When you like a whole bottle of Primo, you get two bottles of EQ at 300 milligrams per milliliter or one bottle of Primo at 100 milligrams per milliliter. So at that point, and you can get away with less, like 15 milligrams of EQ per day can cut your estrogen down from like 60 all the way to like 20 or 30. Whereas you might need to use 30 or 40 or 20 or 30 Primo to get the same results. So it's six times, it's six times the price and it's half as strong as an AI to use Primo, which means it's really 12 times the price if you're using Primo as an AI over using EQ. And then some people would say, well, the logic would be then why don't you just use arimidex? And it's like, because you can't really control it, you're taking a half a pill every other day, the blood valves are like this, you'd have to use liquid arimidex and then use an oral syringe to measure it. And then you could titrate it. But a lot of these people aren't great at math. So that's even more work for them. So I found that EQ has that anabolic component to it, whereas arimidex doesn't. But Primo is so expensive. And sometimes apparently it's fake. I've never really had to deal with fake gear, but some people say it's fake. So I've always leaned towards EQ and on somebody who is a high estrogen converter versus someone who's a low estrogen converter. You can just drive up the test, assuming that their DHT doesn't get so high that it's going to make their hair fall out. Well, that's another conversation too, right? Because we have these choices of compounds that to control estradiol, but they're also going to control DHT to agree. And we could definitely make a point that the least hair friendly compound is testosterone as it converts to DHT. And the DHT derivatives of themselves are more hair friendly than testosterone would be. Now, I think in this comparison that you made, like I want to use test and AI and control estradiol versus I want to use test and EQ to control or Primo. I want to use Primo. I think that would be a better one. Okay. And so, you know, one has some competitive, you know, inhibition with aromatase with Primo. And also you very well can make a case that it has competitive inhibition with 5-alpha reductase. And in turn would have a lower serum DHT versus just using test AI and driving more tests down the DHT pathway. I know you've spoken on this before, so maybe you'd want to elaborate a little bit around that. And because it gets in a bit more, I think people oversimplify some of this sometimes. Well, all right. So if we inhibit aromatase, then what's going to happen in the test? Well, there's still the 5-alpha reductase available. So it's going to upregulate the 5-alpha reductase activity to some degree. So the best way to look at it is, think of a freeway. And the freeway is pretty busy. And there's a hundred cars per hour that get off at the mile marker 23 and a hundred cars per hour get off at mile marker 24. Well, if you close mile marker 23, you're going to have 200 cars getting off per hour at mile marker 24. So I feel like if you're using an aromatase inhibitor, you're going to have more DHT conversion. Now I haven't heard about Primo being a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor before. Is it a subtype 1, 2, or 3 inhibitor? I couldn't say that. That was going to be a theoretical. So we'd have to look at some like actual. Yeah. I've never seen literature to say that, but I, that's coming from the idea of seeing people using like a 5-alpha reductase blocker, like a finasteride and seeing estradiol raise up and shift more that pathway. Right. And then you get into very genetic, unique individuals. So we're like, how much 5-alpha reductase do they have? And what is the saturation point? Right. And then also arguing, is it, do you have more of 5-alpha 1 or 5-alpha 2? And what effect that might be. And so I love for you to expand in those areas too, because people are going to want to know about their hair and test and Masteron or Primo or whatever they're using. Then they're like, all good, Todd. I'm just going to use the AI, but I'm going to use finasteride. And there's issues around these too. And also tying into your estradiol and GH. So, no, that's a lot, but you're kind of, you're going there. So let's, let's, let's start there about starting with DHT and how these other compounds might have some influence and what effects might be happening where the guys around some side effects they might not want. So the, the biggest problem I run into for the last, like, I want to say like 12 years is people misunderstanding finasteride. So I'm going to back it up. ProScar was developed as a prostate cancer medication. It is a 5-alpha reductase type 2 inhibitor. They found that a bit, that it also results in people not losing their hair. Now they started manufacturing it at one milligram for, and calling it finasteride. And I'm calling it a Propecia. And this does kind of work, but it'd be like blowing off someone's arm to trim their fingernails. That what you're doing is you're nuking all of the five, the DHT in the body at, because the 5-alpha sub reductase type 2 enzyme is located at the prostate, not at the hair. So what you're doing is you're wiping out the conversion, 70 to 80% of the body's conversion of testosterone to DHT. So you're going to bring down a DHT level, let's say from 80 down to let's say 16, right? That means there's going to be less passive diffusion of DHT into the hair follicle, less binding to the androgen receptor, and less miniaturization of the hair follicles. But that is what we really want to do. That the testosterone goes into the hair follicle and gets converted by 5-alpha reductase type 1 at the hair follicle. And that's where most of the actual hair loss is occurring. So the correct way to prevent hair loss would be to knock out 5-alpha reductase type 1. And that way, we're only preventing the hair loss. We're not stopping the other effects of DHT, which is balancing and feminizing effects by the DHV binding to the breast tissue. The DHT also binds to the penis and provides sensitivity. DHT also has some type of neuromuscular activity that I'm not sure on the exact binding site is, but it basically makes you stronger. And so that's why we don't want to just nuke all the DHT in your body. We want to take, we want to protect your hair. So that's why my protocol for hair is using a dermaroller, using topical dutesteride, which is not funesteride, dutesteride, and RU58841. Because the dutesteride stops the testosterone from getting DHT. The RU binds to the androdeceptor of the hair and stops anything from binding to it, whether it's Masteron, Tren, whatever. And you've got the dermaroller, which is irrigating it. You can also use minoxidil. You can also use isotretinoin. You can also use ketoconazole shampoo. But if you have a budget, then I would say number one is RU. And if you're running a lot of tests, that HRT test, you definitely want to use topical dutesteride, which is way more expensive than RU. So a lot of the times people hear a piece of the model and they don't see the whole model. And so it doesn't make as much sense. But when they know the whole model, they realize that there's other factors. It's kind of four dimensional. So the last thing I want to say is saturation point. I found in me, I never get over a 175 DHT. It doesn't matter if I'm using 350 tests a day, 100 tests a day, 150 tests a day, 200 tests a day. Once I get over about 100 tests a day, it doesn't matter. My body will not make more DHT. So if I'm going to run 100 a day, IMight as well run as more because I'm already at that saturation point for DHT. It's not the same thing for the estrogen. With estrogen, I'd have to control it with EQ or Primo. But there is a such thing as a saturation point for these enzymes. I think in your general population, anything over 600 milligrams of testosterone a week is not going to be more DHT or estrogen conversion. I think most people's saturation point is around that. That's why you hear a lot of people leaning on the 1000 test base or the 1200 test base or the 1500 test base. It's because if you're going to cross the 600 threshold, then test might as well be your primary anabolic agent because it's the cheapest. Yeah, I've noticed that even anecdotally for myself too. Like once I got above a gram of testosterone, whether I went to 1500 or more, like estradiol didn't change. The only thing that changed it was if I was swapping out another compound that would lower estradiol in turn. And I'm one that's not sensitive to estradiol. DHT is probably maxed out, but hey, I lost my hair like in my 20s. So I'm not concerned around that point. But yeah, I think those are some good points to make. And I think especially you see a lot of people said just throw in the finasteride and then systemically lower DHT. And would you say that at some point your total androgen load can serve all the functions that DHT would have around having an HRT base? You know, like, you know what IMean by that? Yeah, like, okay. Let's talk about the binding affinity of the androgen receptor. All right. So I would think that the DHT derivatives, the reason why they're not going to be as strong as DHT is I don't think they bind as strongly to the androgen receptor as DHT does. There's steric hindrance by the two prime methyl addition or the two prime addition. Basically on the A-ring, the molecular structure of the testosterone molecule, the primary binding site is a three prime carbon where there's a ketone group. And if there isn't a double bonded position for inside the cell, three alpha HSD D dissolves that molecule. That's why DHT isn't anabolic is because it gets chewed up by three alpha HSD. Putting a methyl group on position two, like with masteron or replacing them of the carbon position two with an oxygen like with an of our, this creates enough steric hindrance that it doesn't get chewed up by three alpha HSD. The downside of that is it doesn't bind as strongly to the androgen receptor as DHT does. So it's not going to be as androgenic. Now there's some molecules like Tren that have the triple conjugated double bond that provides so much stability and it's so resistant that even if it doesn't quite bind as strong or it might bind as strong, it never gets broken down. So the same Tren molecule can bind to the androgen receptor, go to the genome, initiate trenscription trenslation, bump off of the androgen receptor, and then bind to a different androgen receptor and go through it again. So you get multiple uses out of Tren because it just doesn't get broken down. So the only drugs that I think are going to be as strong as binding to the androgen receptor as actual DHT would be like Tren, maybe DHB, maybe MENT, you know, things that are just going to keep binding those receptors. Now there's genomic, which we just talked about non-genomic is stuff like in the hair follicle that we don't want. Very few things have more non-genomic function than genomic except for stuff like halo testin has a terrible ratio of androgenic to anabolic. It's like nine to one. It's where we want something like a one to a six where it's way more anabolic than it is androgenic like anivar, like the perfect drug almost. Then halo is like the polar opposite, whereas on paper is the worst drug. It's just going to do a ton of androgenic damage. It's not going to grow any tissue. Now, do the metabolites actually have a different effect? Maybe they didn't really study it. It's one of those drugs where it never really went to market, so they didn't really study it that much. But I get back to your point that if you just saturate a reaction with substrate, you're eventually going to get product. So if you put enough androgens in someone's bloodstream, even if they have a lower binding affinity for the androgen receptor, there's so many molecules. One of them is going to bind. One of them is going to cause the signal to be trensduced, whether it's non-genomic or not. So whereas people misunderstand me when I say stuff like Mastron isn't going to make you lose your hair. What IMean is Mastron isn't more likely to make you lose your hair than something else and less likely the testosterone. But if you're taking a thousand milligrams of Mastron, then yes, that's going to be about as much as if you had a 200 DHT or a 300 DHT in your bloodstream. Again, I also always advocate everybody should be using RU58841, which people don't hear that part because they're only watching the reels. They're not watching the YouTube videos, so they don't get the whole picture. So that's why they get so feisty in the comments section about this Mastron and hair loss thing. Because I guarantee you all those guys that lost their hair with using Mastron, they were not using RU before they started the Mastron. Yeah, they're usually I've done the hooks too, right? I want to catch someone's attention. Mastron won't make you lose your hair. You're like, what? And they just comment right away. Like, no, my hair fell off. Like they didn't even listen to this a reel or watching long form. Right. So you're very easily and this short form content, it's frustrating. So yes. Yeah. Luke, did you want to interject with it? Yeah, I think it's an interesting dynamic because people, people forget that androgens in and of itself is going to be a primary input for this, just like elevation and total milligram load. And like, there's ways to manage it. Like Todd mentioned with the RU and derma roller and everything along those lines. I think one of the primary clarifications that I think we should start to progress into is because I know, Todd, you spent a lot of time on the base, but we've got to progress into like competitive bodybuilding and like how we look into progressing this from a total androgen load perspective for the competitive bodybuilder. And then kind of starting to dive into that because the management of that does get a little bit. It's not hard. It's just, you need to understand what you're doing and the classifications of like how the the trening stimulus is going to be. And then kind of starting to kind of build that out because we are going to see. And then we're going to have to bring in secondary compounds in order to get total milligram progressive enough in order to see new limits from a total Tissue perspective. And then kind of starting to dive into that because the management of that does get a little bit. It's not hard. It's just need to understand what you're doing and the classifications of like how these interact with each other and these drugs and starting to kind of build that out because we are going to see. So many like you mentioned. It equals one cases where starting to kind of map out like the progressions of all the pathways that we're going to be using for this would be smart. All right. So I have a very unique take on this as well. I think that I have a controversial take that 10 milligrams of Treninathate is a very reasonable thing to use even in the offseason. And the reason why is because we're pretty much above the threshold for the anti glucocorticoid effect because 10 milligrams of Treninathate is about six milligrams of actual. Treninathate is about five to cut off for the Nandrolone class to get some anti glucocorticoid effect. But 10 is the upper limit for neurological damage or the minimum for neurological damage. So if we're able to ride in between five and 10 actual milligrams of Treninathate per day, in theory, we're in a safe zone. We're still in the green. We're not going to get brain damage, but we are going to prevent. We're going to take our foot off the brake while our foot's on the gas. Right. We're going to. Yeah. And then I interject around that. Are you pulling that dosing effect from the rodent model Trenin studies seeing, you know, beta amyloid deposition, neurological changes, or is that from another data set? Those, those numbers. Got it from J3 university originally. And then I went through it. Yeah. So I wrote it. And then I went through and I looked into it some more, you know, the beta amyloid deposition can be cleared up. Right. And that million. Yeah. Yeah. So we got some sleep going. We'll clear out those beta amyloids. But I was thinking of mostly the anti-glucocorticoid effect, but estrogen can also compensate for the lack of the glucocorticoid effect too, in that regard. So if your estrogen is high enough, it's okay to have more anti-glucocorticoid. But the point is, is with 10 milligrams a day of Tren, nobody's going to kick their dog. No one's going to tell their boss to go F himself. And they're going to get, take their foot off the brakes and they're going to get some of the theoretical IGF-1 conversion benefits through, I think the PK-1-3 pathway. There's some non-genomic pathway that I don't have memorized that Tren is supposed to work on. And I think that's an interesting thing to add in that can leverage some other non-genomic growth hormone hormone hormone. I think that you can tolerate DHB. DHB might be a good thing to use. If you can find Mastron and Athate, Mastron's a good thing to use. And you might find that you don't need the typical 1000 test 800 EQ. That's the happy meal that is the bodybuildinGHappy meal. You could probably get away with using enough test to get your astrodial where you want it for your GH to IGF-1 conversion. Leverage that GH up until the point where it's not giving you any more IGF-1. Introduce a baby dose of Tren of 10 milligrams a day. If it's an Athate, not acetate. And then you can leverage DHB or Mastron for additional growth hormone hormone hormone. If DHB is too harsh, you have to roll it back. I don't ever, I've never seen someone run into a brick wall with Mastron where it screws up their blood work so bad that they have to reduce the dose. It seems that there's a point where more doesn't do anything in theory, but I think that by that point, if you're not growing, it's not because of the drugs. It's because of the trening, the sleep, and the food. I think you made your biggest growth hormone hormone hormone progress. I think when you, IMean, can I talk about this? Okay. Your biggest growth hormone hormone hormone progress, I believe, was two years ago when you did 1000 tests, 2000 Mast. And then halfway through the cycle, there's all this peer pressure about test and Primo. So you went up to 1400 tests, 700 Primo when you filled in the rest with mass, but the total milligrams was the same. And I think you said you didn't grow any better with the test and the Primo versus the test and the mass, but your skin wasn't as dry. Yeah, that was basically the. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. The end outcome of that in to further on with that, having done more iterations of this, correlating my estradiol and serum IGF-1 as well. Bring in the Primo lowered serum estradiol over what I've seen in my serum IGF-1 in turn. So this last offseason, a bigger, so I wouldn't grow quite as much. However, my estradiol and IGF-1 were lower too. So now to go forward in the next cycle would be, well, let me bring tests back up less Primo and see the effect from there. Yeah. Anyway, not about me, but to this cycle design proposed here. Why does Todd, why does he only use Masteron? You're the Masteron guy. And I know like, you're like, damn it. That's not me. It's just like, it's a really good tool in the box as the first option because it doesn't influence estradiol much. So, right. So it's a clener, simpler way to start a cycle design, right? You have a test and estradiol set with your testosterone dosage. You bring in Masteron to fill in milligram total That you need without influence to estradiol. Cause that's when it gets messy, right? Todd is I'm going to bring in Primo or Boldenone. Well, then your EQ, your, your estradiol smashed down. And so now you have to adjust testosterone back up or lower your EQ and then bring in Mastron. And it's like, how do you manage that? So maybe you should touch on this because that's a point of contention that you get a lot. So I think analogies works the best to teach people things because it's abstraction. So everyone knows that you eat a fixed amount of protein. Basically, if you're 200 pounds, you eat about 300 grams of protein. And everyone knows you eat enough fat to digest your food, somewhere between five and 15 grams of fat per meal. Right. You don't need more than that. And maybe, maybe you do, maybe don't, but this is like a general rule that people get is like, you have about 300 grams of protein a day. You have maybe five, 10, 15 grams of fat per meal. And that doesn't change. What changes is your carbs. Right? So think of your GH like your protein. It's great up to a point. More doesn't hurt you, but it doesn't do anything anyway. And then think of your test like your fat. It's a necessary evil. You use enough of it to get you to digest the protein. Because the test is where the estradiol comes in. Test is a pro. If you think of test as only a pro hormone to estradiol, then you need the test to convert to estradiol to get anything out of the GH. Just like you need to add fat to every meal so you can actually digest the protein. Because if you don't have any fat, the pylorus doesn't close. There's not enough time in the stomach for the protein. Not enough acid gets to the protein to denitrate. So then when it gets into duodenum, the different enzymes don't cleave it and it doesn't get absorbed through the genome. Right? They'd be like, what the fuck did he just say? Just play it back. It'll make sense. And then when what you do is you titrate up on the carbs to increase your caloric load. And then when you're dieting, you decrease on the carbs. Kind of like Mastron. Mastron is like white rice. You can just add it. It doesn't have anything special. It's not like potatoes. It doesn't come with potassium. Mastron is just anabolic. It doesn't do shit other than that. And it just, you add it in to drive the equation. You add in white rice, you add in sets, and you add in Mastron. Those are your three tools to keep turning up the knobs to make the signal louder so that your body starts growing. And at some point, you blew your eardrums out. You got to back everything off. You turn the volume down. You turn the mass down. You turn the carbs down. And you do it, you know, a mini cut. Almost like a, I don't, I call it like a bulk break. Rather than, you know, you got diet breaks. Well, I, rather than doing a mini cut, sometimes all you need is a bulk break. And then it'll just let your body de-inflame from forcing food, forcing trening, forcing gear. Okay. I hope you'll follow along with that analogy or some analogy that helps them understand this, this breakdown. Right. I think where people might want to go from there with, all right, Mastron's a good, a decent choice to start as you're not having to adjust your estradiol component. But there are like pros and cons to each of these choices and cons with, with Mastron. Right now in the moment is, can you get it? And the shortage. Then another con that people don't consider is like, can you tolerate injections? This is kind of more of a con with Primo Bolin. But I see like, Hey, what do you want to choose? I'm not a Mastron guy. I'm just the pro and con list. And what do we end up for that person? So maybe we, we have this, just kind of a breakdown of your choices, Todd, from Mast, Primo, Boldenone. You can use DHB. Okay. And actually before, we should probably hit touch on this, the tren aspect in the off. I'm going to say that. Okay. Yeah. Before I just, cause I easily jump ahead. I just threw a lot in there. Yeah. I was going to ask you basically banking on the fact, like with that, as you go through this, that the 10 milligrams is not going to see like histamine elevation related issues because we're going to see like, not only issues from like sleep perspective, we can see breathing, net inflammation, but also like GI permeability, everything along those lines with tren inclusion that I can see be an issue. Um, but just touch on that tren fact on the back end, as you're working through these compounds. And maybe Todd too, like, are you seeing this like more of the advanced guy? Because it's complicating your framework right away. Right. If we have a test base, add in the simplest anabolic, then we roll. So yeah. Right. Go ahead. I would, the context was Luke wanted to say, what are we doing for actual competitive pro bodybuilders or people who want to be pros. And then I would be like, okay, well, if they're already a hundred pounds of muscle, I think they can absorb six milligrams of tren a day without it doing a whole bunch of damage. Um, it's better. I would rather see them using tren than nandrolone or NPP because it's less progesterone downsides, less prone for the guy. No. And as far as the histamine, I learned from J three university that a Dio inhibitor would probably knock that shit out or similar ad in or surdazine. So chances are people are going to be running either second generation antihistamines or even first generation antihistamines before bed, like Benadryl to help them sleep, especially if their sleep disturbance is coming from tren. And the antihistamine is the logical choice along with, uh, magnesium bisglycinate and melatonin before bed. And you can, you know, people are like, well, you're not supposed to use that much of this stuff. It's like, you're not supposed to use any of this shit. Like, so we gotta just, if you're gonna be using certain drugs that need rescue drugs, they use the right rescue drugs. Right? So, and I'd rather see someone if they're sophisticated enough to do a bodybuilding show, then they're sophisticated enough to use low dose of four different drugs to not get the side effects of any of them. We get all the benefits. So the downside to mast cholesterol hit that Anvar is even better than mast, but it's a bigger HDL hit. All right. But I see an upper limit on mastron. Like whether you're using A-50 a day, a hundred a day, a 200 day, 300 a day, it's the same cholesterol. Anavar, the more Anavar you use, the lower that HDL goes until it's single digits. So 25 milligrams of Anavar pre-trening would be a good thing in the offseason. I think, cause it's not too much, but you get the benefits of getting that pre-workout oral effect. So that for the context of a bodybuilder, right? So 25 milligrams of Anavar pre-trening, the 10 milligrams of atreninathate. The downside of the DHB is your liver may not be able to handle it. The downside of Nandrolone is there's a myriad of downsides, but the upside of Nandrolone is it's hair safe. So that's something I only see people come into problems, especially if they're not someone who's like 200 pounds of solid muscle. If they're not 200 pounds of solid muscle, any Nandrolone is more than an Nandrolone their body's going to be able to handle. They're going to get gyno. If I have an HRT guy and his HRT clinic gave him a hundred milligrams of test twice a week with a half of an arimidex and they put them on a hundred Nandrolone, dude's got gyno before I ever met him. You know, it's guaranteed. So as far as the Primo, I simply don't bother with Primo because of the price relative to the EQ. If I'm only going to use Primo as an AI and I can get EQ for basically 12th, 1 12th the cost, then why would anyone use the Primo rather than the EQ? And I could see someone say, well, I can use Primo as a primary anabolic, but then you've got to drive up the test so high that you're doing shot volume of Primo and of enormous amount of Primo shot volume and Primo is extremely painful shots. So no matter how you slice it, Primo never does stack up against EQ. The problem of course is EQ has limited human data, whereas Primo is an actual pharmaceutical drug made for humans. But if you'recomparing underground Primo to underground EQ, then it doesn't really matter because they didn't do these studies on underground gear. So the whole shield, the security people have from usinGhuman grade drugs, well, it's only human grade if it's pharma. So it's otherwise it's all underground. So it's all the same. Yeah. No, I think that is a great point because even in J3 right now, you can go look, we have our boldenone pros and cons. So it's a way out of using boldenone pro and con the studies around renal toxicity. They're all in surrogates models of rodents, rabbits, and a lot of them don't have, or they're sort of human study well, but they're also like retrospective studies on total gear use, or they don't have controls. And so it's really hard to pull away. Is it, it very well could just be, Hey, you took a certain amount of antibiotics steroids and either way messed up kidneys. Um, so I think other issues we see with boldenone that people might shy away is, uh, anxiety or some people want it because of hunger. And I would say both of these issues come from the mismanagement of estradiol. And cause if people aren't aware, like estradiol has a role in, uh, appetite suppression through hypothalamic regulation. And when ET drops too low, the brain sees less saddenity signal and hunger increases. So what do you have with boldenone is man, people slash the rest of dial pretty hard. And you might see a rise in hunger just from that. It's extra with estrell. It's like a U-shaped curve as well. That's how it gets too high. There could also be some dysregulation appetite too. So, so a hunger signaling could be a sign that estradiol is not in the sweet spot. If you're using boldenone, you know, it's like this, oh, my appetite tire. You might actually have estradiol too low and couple that with like my joints feel terrible. Um, or you have like high anxiety and, uh, that very well could be around the estradiol component too. So I think the problem with EQ is not looking at lab work and being able to adjust your, your dosage and utilize it. And that's also probably where you could have more risk for neurocognitive issues, renal issues, and cardio protective issues from low estradiol. Would you agree around those statements? Todd? Absolutely. I think that I'll even take it one step further. This is my pathophysiology model for why people think it hurts your kidneys. All right. So it drives down estrogen, which no one really seemed to know until a couple of years ago. So no one really approached this. They used EQ at 800 milligrams a week. They didn't even test your estrogen. Um, and so if you have a low estrogen, you're going to have dehydration because nobody was salting their water, right? And they were just drinking free water and pissing it right out because the estrogen works through aldosterone directly and indirectly to withhold sodium in the body. So if you're not replacing the sodium, you're losing from a low estrogen, you're going to pee it all out. And then you're going to have dehydration, which is going to put stress on the kidneys. The stress on the kidneys is going to cause EPO to be released. EPO is going to drive up red blood cell production. The decrease in the fluid volume and the increase of the red blood cell is going to drive up your hematocrit. Then they go to their doctor and the doctor says, you have to give blood and they get blood and they lose a bunch of blood. And so now their body makes more EPO to produce more red blood cells when really they just needed to be hydrated the whole time. All of this eventually results in glomerulonephritis because you've got increased blood pressure from a sympathetic tone from dehydration and thicker blood, which is then going to blow out the galmerioli. And so you're going to have damaged kidneys, which is going to exacerbate the high blood pressure and it's going to exacerbate the EPO. And so you've got this downward spiral effect. Whereas if they were simply high, they only used it as an AI, not as a primary anabolic. None of this would have happened. And again, this is why using a baby dose of four or five drugs can give you way better results than using a tsunami of one or two drugs. And you're going to have almost none of the side effects. Got you. So I guess this arrives at our current situation for some that pre-bone masteron just the access in there or they have access, but maybe don't quite trust their access. And so we're left with like, Hey, I have access to testosterone, boldenone. I guess they would have DHB, Nangelone, Trimbalone. Like you said, Nangelone is a real mess to manage. It's usually almost off the table for most of the guys. I can't even, I try to justify it. Then I'm like, I can't even justify it because it's now unjustifiable causing more problems to manage. So we're kind of left with just those few drugs. Trimbalone for many could be tougher to manage long-term. There could be a question mark of even, Hey, does a low dose accumulation over, we're going to do repetitive 20 week offseason phases. Is that worse or not as worse as doing maybe double the amount of whatever other compound. So I guess before we rabbit hole down any one of those past, Todd, back to my, my question of this, this individual that has tests, boldenone, DHB, Trimbalone, Nangelone available. Like since there's no mass primo, how do you build out the framework for someone from there? So in this case, we would use what Dave Palumbo did back in the day, which is we're going to rely on test and EQ, probably a five to four ratio. And we're going to have a little bit of tren in there to give it an edge and 25 milligrams of anivar pre lift. And once we hit that upper limit on tests where we can't handle any more tests, we probably can use DHB. But if you can't handle DHB, then we're going to have to use more tests in EQ. And we're just going to have to protect your hair through brute force approach. Like are you do test a ride, derma roller, minoxidil and save up for a trensplant? Yeah. Because IMean, I know there's the guys because I'm one of them that I can handle a lot of tests and a little bit of a compound that like prevents aromatization could crash my S-dowel. So it's like the guy that needs three grams, is he doing 2500 mgs of test and 500 mgs of EQ? And that's kind of the rarity out there. Right. But how do you build out someone on the pro that needs two and a half grams or something? Right. Well, okay. So let's say I was let's say I was your coach. All right. And I know what works for you because I've seen it work. And I would be like, all right, this worked. We're going to go 1000 tests, 2000 mast. And that worked last time. It'll work this time. And if we need to, we can use a little bit of EQ to mitigate some E2. We don't have to worry about DHT. We're good. Right. As long as your blood works good, we're good. And then, but let's say we don't have access to mast. In that case, you know, I was like, we don't have to worry about DHT because your hair is gone. So we'll just use more test and we'll use two grams of test. If your prostate can handle it, who cares? Like if it's, it works, it's cheap and there's no reason not to. And we can control that E2 with EQ. And IMean, once we're dealing with doses that high, it's risk mitigation, not risk elimination. You know, like at that point, I have to think. I once Luke said in an interview, it's like in the end, we're a coach and we're beinGHired to get a result. So it's, you got to weigh safety versus efficacy. And you have to say, you know, you have to have a very strong talk with this person is like, how much are you willing to risk for this show? You know what IMean? Is, is, and if they, it's the Olympia and they have no plan B that they burnt the boats, like they have to take at Technotillin that. So they have to take out Montezuma. There's no other option. Then you're like, we're going to hit it hard and fast. And then we're going to make sure that we're going to clear you after the show and make your blood work look as good as possible before we do it again. And that's why I think these Olympian guys, they only do one show a year because they probably stay off for it or close to off for as long as they can or HRT. They hit it pretty fuckinGHard for like 15 to 20 weeks. And then they hit it even harder for another 20 weeks. And then they cool for a few, like three, four months after that show. And that's the best they can hope for because they're going to try to rack up as much branding as possible in their five year run and the Olympia stage. Then pull out by the time that their blood works to distort, which isn't the way I like to do medicine. It isn't the like how I approach bodybuilding. I like rather let's run you up to the point where you're just above the point of perfect safety. We're at like the green, maybe like lime green, not into the yellow. We're in the lime green and we stay there all the fucking time and we put on muscle slowly. And then when it's time to cut, since you didn't bulk, you just lean mass build it. We can just put you in A-500 calorie deficit, ideally through cardio, and it'll just pull off the fat. And then when it comes time to like four weeks out, now we can get nutty if we have to go for a look and introduce more dangerous shit like windstraw or something to get a look. And then when it comes time to get a look at the cosmetic changes. Yeah, I just I think this is the conversations that are the most productive because it gets to asking the right questions. I think people a lot of times start at the wrong point like they're asking, is this safe to do where they're asking likEQuestions that aren't appropriate for what we're actually trying to accomplish like that. I think I know which interview you pulled that from where I said that and it's like thEQuestions you're asking are, is this appropriate for the goal set that we have? And then that's where you're kind of going through this thought process of like it's equal to one and we can talk like vanilla all day, but this is where we don't have ways of doing stuff. I used to hate like two years ago, two and a half years ago, we used to kind of get pinned with like this is the J3 way of doing PDs. Right. And it was horrible because it's like I've got people in my roster that are doing like the exact opposite of what they were promoting is like the J3 way. Right. Because from a logical like critical thinking perspective, this is what fits the profile of that athlete. Right. And so this is where like listening to stuff like this and like doing your research and taking the coursework of like knowing when you plug something in what all it does, we can actually start to iterate on these processes. And then you look at all these points across the board and it's like, it's like, what is going on? Like I remember the longest time people would tell me you don't use EQ. It's like, no, it fits in certain situations. And it's like I had, I had a guy winning Olympia qualification with it. It's not that it can't be used. Like there's, there's depth to the conversation. And I think when you start to pull this out, this is kind of where the best coachinGHappens because we can work in, in perfect situations and still create a result. Well, IMean, people, they're not getting enough credit and they're not being like, they don't look at it from your point of view. You're making a documented video course that ideally is going to build your brand as educators. So you have to disclose that this drug is a veterinary drug and it's never been tested on humans and that it's not the safest option for you to use this drug. Because I don't want to see you have to cover your ass because you do care about people and you want them to be safe and you want to be honest with the material. But you also have to understand that not everyone is going to be at your level. Some people are going to think they are and they're not. And so you give them a, you give a little kid a knife and tell them to go run around the block with it. At least 10% of those kids are going to have it sticking out of their side by the time they come back to you. So, IMean, therefore they have to look at it like this is a packaged publicized document that you're legally kind of can be held accountable for if someone gets hurt. So you have to be as clear as possible when something isn't medical, it isn't medicine, it's veterinary medicine. And therefore it wouldn't fit in your perfect model to use it because it simply isn't as safe as something that's been tested on humans. That doesn't mean you wouldn't do it on the person if it was the right tool. And that I don't want to say it's not intended for, but the J3 university is for coaches and athletes, in my opinion, that seem to be at the upper level of the amateur circuit. It isn't designed for Olympians, although John is an Olympian and it works on John what he does and he might coach Olympians or you coach Olympians. Luke, the level one is called level one for a reason. It's not called level infinity. Yeah. And since you've gone through, Todd, we've actually brought more of some of the advanced stuff in to kind of back off some of the stamps that we've gotten around your low dose safety guys and I won't get the result. So that's kind of been built more in. So people have that, that understanding now, but you're, but you're in all the things you've stated, you're absolutely right. Uh, people need to understand the decision process that leads them there. And through that of like, Hey, as the goal raises, so does the risk. And in turn, you make more aggressive choices. Like that's, that's really the model. And so how far does that model go? Well, as far as you need it to, to get to within that goal set. Like for me, I want to be like open Olympian. Olympian, that's a lot different framework than being the two 12 Olympian that I needed. And so, you know, we, we showcase that and, uh, they're, they're all tools along the way of what you need to do to, to get there. But again, it's a, it's a decision process that we teach, not protocols. Everyone wants the protocol. Right. Um, and that's why we have to be careful. Cause if I, we say, like you just said, Todd, yeah, trim below an anivar in the offseason, we're going to have the new guy like, yeah, I'm going to turn in anivar all offseason. It's like, no, we don't really want everyone to probably needing to even be doing that. But there's a decision process of when someone might want to explore and do that. And the context was Luke said, okay, enough with the stuff. What about a actual bodybuilder? It's like, this is what I'm going to do. And then everyone's like, I don't want to hear about safety. I want to do what Todd Lee does. But then I want to say, I don't want to be a bodybuilder. I just want to look like one. Oh, cause we work this hard for no reason. We just work hard cause we hate ourselves. We really could do it easily and get the same results. We choose not to, we choose to do it the hardest way possible. No, the reason why pro bodybuilders look that way is because they're doing the hard stuff, not because they're doing it the easy way. And so one could go one step further. And like, if you can't say out of one side of your mouth, all I care about is beinGHealthy. And then on the other side of your mouth is like, when can I use more drugs? You know, it's like, they're contradictory statements. It's like, if you want to be the healthiest possible, then you run HRT, hormone replacement therapy, testosterone is a hormone, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone is a hormone. Anolvar is not a hormone. If you're using Anolvar, you're not on HRT. You're using steroids. It's okay. It's no judgment. It's just at least be honest with yourself about what you are. You are now a steroid user. You're in that box. So you might as well compete because you're already in lumped in with the rest of us. You know, everyone's, we get constant questions in the forum of like, Hey, I'm running one and a half grams of gear, but I want to have a baby. I want to keep my hair and I want to have perfect libido and I don't want acne and great erections. You're like, okay, well, you're going to have some issues in those at some point. If you keep bodybuilding, it's just going to be a trade-off. So everyone wants their cake and frosting and eat it too. And that's just not how it's going to be if you're going to explore beyond the HRT means. But we are, we're at time here, Todd, and we didn't even get into like, there was a whole thing on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. And I wanted to, I wanted to hit with you. Definitely. Like I really liked the conversation around me inching estradiol, estradiol's effects around serum versus localized and liver conversion, GHIGF1. And what is the serum IGF-1 versus localized? So we might have to just do another episode just so we could check in too. Like I don't think enough people consider like E1, E2, E3 crossing, checking for that. If you're getting issues as well, like we could check that into that conversation as well. Right. IMean, my understanding is E1 is 130th as strong of a signal trensducer is E2. So it's almost irrelevant. But IMean, if you're sitting in an ocean of it, it's going to gum up that receptor. It's going to do something. We'll save it for another day. But anyway, I know IMentioned some of your, where to reach you in the beginning of the episode and we'll leave it in the description below too. But anything that I didn't mention that for people that want to learn more from what you're teaching or from coaching, where can they reach and find you? All right. Anything Todd Lee MD. So at Todd Lee MD on TikTok, Todd Lee MD on Instagram, not YouTube that got banned. So the current channel is Dr. Todd Lee's Anabolic University on YouTube, but everything else is at Todd Lee MD. Also Todd Lee MD.com. If you want to talk to me, get a consult, you want me to read your blood work, or if you want me to coach you, or if you want me to do your HRT for you, because I am a doctor. So just reach out and I'll be there. All right. Well, thank you everyone for tuning in and Todd truly appreciate you taking the time. I know you're a busy coach and educator like us. So we do very much appreciate it and look forward to the next episode. Thank you.