 The time is now to step into changing the industry worldwide. Welcome to the J3 coaching podcast. Welcome back to the J3 coaching podcast. Super excited for today's episode. We got some interesting case study work that we're going to walk through with you guys. I think one of the things with this podcast that I really wanted to make sure we did a really good job of is showinGHow we can handle different coaching situations and client situations and how we can handle different coaching situations and client situations and how we can handle different coaching situations and client situations. See, geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez- geez geez- geez geez- geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez So I head out to the Detroit program next week with Callie, one of my wellness girls. I'm looking for – I won the overall there last year with Law, so looking for a repeat this year. And I've got two studs, Tyler Neely that's super heavy, and then a classic physique amateur doing the Branch Warren in Denver in May. Then I have a first-timer doing the Sidney Gillen in Georgia, and then we crank it up for a Pro Card run here in the Junior Nats coming up. Man, love it. Pro Card season, when that starts, is a lot of fun, because especially when you've got athletes at the level, some of the ones you're putting on stage, it's like – We've got 22 to break from last year, so it's going to be a feat, but I think we can do it. Dude, I've got to go. So I've got Junior Nats, Universe, Masters Nats, and USAs. Like, we're running – You can do it right off June and July. Yeah. There – You've got – you've got Whitey competing soon. I know you're – Yeah. You're doing that. All-time pressure clients. Yeah. And that's my – kick off the season with no pressure. My wife's doing the bigger Pro in Pittsburgh, and then straight on to New York. So that's where the season's starting for me. And then a couple of guys now just getting ready to start sort of preps for their sort of national qualifiers and stuff. I think in terms of national competitions, the first one we have been in is at the end of August. Okay. Yeah. And 27th, 30th of August. I've got a couple of guys going to be in that one as well. It's – Masters, one going for heavyweights. Yeah. So we've got a – got a few. It's always a fun time now. The fun starts now with the season kicking off. Yeah. It's like you're starting to see everybody kind of gear up. And it's so funny as coaches. You have, like, weird years where, like, you don't have much in the spring, but then your fall will be slammed, or you'll have, like, a hellacious spring and summer, and then your fall is kind of slow. And it's just all dependent on where people compete from a roster perspective. And I think the fact that happens shows that we're 100% invested in making sure the best version is going on stage, right, because you're not just picking people's shows based off where you're going to be that year. You're actually making sure that people are taking their best to the stage. So I really want to just kind of dive into the case studies. I'm really excited to go through an episode like this. I think there's a lot of value in being able to kind of see what the process looks like. And we're going to start with Abby, one of Alex's bikini girls, just missed out on her pro card by one spot this past year, right, back in August. One point in one spot. Point. Yeah. Okay. So kind of the epitome of someone that has had a pretty quick meteoric rise, you know, to being competitive at a national level. So I just want you to set the stage for that because, like, correct me if I'm wrong, but you guys weren't even thinking about doing a pro qualifier last year, right? No, no. So we made a deal. So the goal was to do, so Abby's won like three or four overalls. Like, she's just the overall girl, but she had taken a year off. And so coming back to this, I set the goal for the National Fit Show. And for those listening, the National Fit Show, to me, is like the biggest bikini wellness show you could do in the Southeast for sure. Yeah. And so IMade a deal with her because her mom, who turned pro at North Americans, like two weeks after, her mom was already going. And so I said, hey, look, if you win the overall, they're paying your entry anyway. We'll do it. So glad I did, right? Because it's one of those, like, I almost put too much respect on nationals that I almost need to send, like, one of my best bikini girls there. But when you see her on stage, it just, she fit right in. Yeah. And so I do want to kind of pull out a few things about this process because the interesting piece about it is just kind of the amount of progress that happens with these photos. Like the left being the start of prep, right? That left photo being the start of prep. And then that middle photo being kind of the package that she put on stage. Man, it looks not only like she got leaner, but that she actually progressed her physique from a perspective of, like, skeletal muscle tissue. So kind of walk us through, like, the big ticket items that, because I know you spend a lot of time on the trening side with her. She's pretty close to you, so you're able to do that kind of stuff. But what were, like, the big ticket items you felt led to such a change like this? So a lot of it was coming off of her time off. I feel like her body, because, again, we had, you know, won three overalls, like, three years in a row. And so she never really took a break. So coming off that break, not only were we able to get, like, a whole new trening block put in and, like, proper movement patterns for her physique, really bringing up her, like, weak points, which was her glutes and her hamstrings. But we were able to, you know, and IMentioned, like, I talk about the cycle duration. And, you know, it was something that you might not see it in the level one coursework, but you'll probably see something somewhere in the level two coursework of, you know, we ran Primo for, like, 14 weeks, you know, and I got it up to 25 milligrams a week. But I didn't start it there. You know, I started at 12, and I titrated up, titrated up. But the look just kept improving, and it was something that I couldn't pull it away with the amount of tissue she was gaining. And then, you know, the duration just comes about, like, she could have been ready to compete three weeks sooner, but it just allowed me to feed her more and really, you know, keep her, you know, fueled properly throughout the prep. I think that was another thing, is I was able to really diGHer out early and then feed her up into the show. I was able to let her rest, you know, as she needed to. And the way it worked out was, okay, yeah, you know, you're 14 weeks, you know, taking Primo or whatever, but it was only 25 milligrams. She never saw any, you know, side effects, anything like that. And the reason I kept it at 25 milligrams, the only thing she noticed was, like, her voice cracked once. And I was like, okay. I was like, well, let me, I was like, you're really close to, like, looking good. Can we just keep it here? She said, yeah, sure, that's fine. I was like, but just let me know if it gets any worse. You know, obviously, we'll bring it back down. So that was kind of my limit for, hey, that's the amount we're going to use. But the duration just kept going because that's what we needed to do to get that quality physique. But yeah, I think, you know, the gear duration, the trening, and being able to feed her. Now, I dieted her very hard, like 80, 80 minutes of cardio and two rice cakes was a lot of her days. On the flip side, I was able to feed her for two, three days, fill her back out, you know, high carb meals on top of sushi. Like, I was able to really, you know, push and pull with her, which really helped that long duration of her prep, for sure. Yeah. And I think, and we'll cut some of this on some of Darren's stuff, too. Like, PD exposure is so relative to needs of the athlete. Like, so in reality, like 25 milligrams a week of Primo is still extremely low total milligram exposure, right? Like, you have girls on 10 milligrams of Anabar a day that are going to be over double what that 25 milligrams a week of Primo is. So, like, we're still on the really early side. And the point to kind of pull out here is habits go a long ways. And you're going to see this in some of Darren's case studies, too. And Darren, feel free To hop in and comment here because, like, I know this is something you spend a lot of time on, Alex. I know you do this a lot with your athletes as well. The ability to perfect your process of sleep, trening, nutrition, your schedule, how you execute everything, like, up to a higher level allows for this PD use to maybe not get quite as extreme. And the other thing, too, with bikini, and this is, Alex, something that you kind of noted, the femininity aspect of it. Like, we have a role of maintaining femininity with these classes because it's part of the judging criteria. Like, some of that is part of the judging criteria. If you go into the IFBB rules or you've taken the female module, I've detailed out what the criteria is for each class. And presentation and the visuals are part of the criteria for bikini. So we need to be able to keep that femininity, limit compound exposure, pull as much progress out of these habits-based things because it's so impactful. Like, and you can see it here in this change. Like, there might be some genetic predisposition for bodybuilding. But with her mom turning pro and, you know, there's obviously some genetic predisposition. But it's unreal what these habits can do with just limited compound exposure because I would call that limited in my opinion. Yeah. It really breaks that stigma. So for me, man, like, you see bikini and everyone wants to do six weeks of anivar, six weeks of this. And it's like, well, you have to break that stigma that sometimes you just need more than six weeks of use to get something out of it, right? But like you said, the overall milligram exposure is less than someone who would run somethinGHigh for six weeks. So I think hopefully this helps break that stigma that, like, cycles don't have to be just six weeks. Um, but the, the biggest thing I really wanted to focus in on was from the show to her offseason look now. And that was really, you know, it's been, I knew we were going back to USAs. So I knew we had, you know, what, like 10 months between stage time. Um, and so that to me was where, okay, what do I need to focus on? Well, I don't need to, we just did had 14 weeks of gear exposure. So I don't really need to like push any of that right now. And I pushed her so hard with high cardio and low food. I really need her body to rest. And so how I set up her offseason was, you know, upper lower sessions, um, you know, four days a week. We eventually got it to five. The only PD she's ran is three I use of GH at that tone. Um, and that's been, and she's literally now 13 pounds heavier than her first offseason. Um, knowing that she was going right back into prep here in March. Another thing was I, I wanted to get new foods into her, like lettinGHer do yogurt, to let her do cereals, something to where she's not like mentally burned out because I knew that first one. IMean, that's a lot like you diet for 16 weeks and, oh, coach wants me to do another one. And then I was lettinGHer have like a clen free meal with her family and then a dirty free meal. So like, I was really like letting the reins loose a little bit in terms of like nutrition or treninGHas been flawless. Um, correct me if I'm wrong, but she nailed that post show phase, right? Like there wasn't a fast accumulation of body fat. Like these are habits slowly pulling in across that offseason phase, right? Yeah. Yeah. She dominates. Yeah. Yeah. So, and this is like a point, and this is where like, I love conversations with you guys because you get the developed athlete to be an athlete, right? Like these are intangible stuff as coaches that she's now mentally so ready to execute on this prep. She's maintained her femininity with limited compound exposure. She's made progress. She's psychologically in a better spot to prep again. She's already at that standard where she's competing at a national level. These decisions you make in the offseason are, are massive for, for doing that. For those of you guys watching like that progression from prep into all season is the middle picture to the right photo. Uh, so it's literally just like a timeline on those and thaT3 photo thing. But, um, it's, it's unreal to see like how much progress can be made and like sticking to non-androgenics like GH or L-carnitine or things that would just be beneficial without androgen influence. Restore the health metrics, restore menstrual cycles as best as possible, and then crack on. And I'm excited to see y'all's prep this year. I think it's going to be really cool. Yeah. It's a really good case. Shout out to Abby. She actually had her period going to North Americans. So, hey, nothing like making a P card. Oh man, it's so funny when you see that. It's just like, you're just trying to, um, and then the deload fatigue drop with food availability coming back and it just comes back and it's, it's just so funny. But, um, all right, let's pivot. Let's pivot a bit. Cause this, this is Darren, this is wild. Um, this is an unbelievable change. I'm looking at this side. We're looking at the side by side here with her and her house on the left and then her on the stage on the right. And this is just correct me if I'm wrong. A 10 week change. Is that a 10 week prep? Yeah. So Amy came to me, we had something. She was like, I want to do this show 10 weeks. So, um, huge amount of about the background, which isn't exactly ideal. Like you always, the ideal scenario with the client is to have a work with them for a previous month, you know, a minimum of like 16 weeks to take your time. But listen, not everything is going to be perfect. So it meant a lot of communication from the, um, in terms of just checking the communication every day as we set things up, because our biggest issue previously that she had been working with the coach was, you didn't have structure and in place. There was a lot of macro tracking and not day to day, nothing the same. Our structure with trening was just bringing in trenings. But the first of all, the first thing we wanted to do was look at her trening structure and put things in place based off of what I saw from her physique that we needed. And primarily sort of a lower, lower body focus split on the upper glutes. She had a very well developed like delt back region, which we didn't really want to push any further. So it meant just like touch up on delt work, no back trening, and then, um, a lot of lower work with a glute focus, uh, primarily on that sort of upper glute area. Um, but it was, it was very apparent pretty quickly that Amy is a very hard worker. Um, you know, from, you can see, if you look at like the stock points where a picture from left to right, it's very hard to believe that there's only a 10 pound difference there. You know, she actually, in my opinion, grew somewhat into that show in terms of muscle tissue, you know, uh, in the 10 weeks, she went from 140 pounds to 129 at the lowest. I think by the time we got on stage, I think it was 130, 1.5 ish. It was 130.5 in the morning, couple of meals in, um, during the prep, like we pushed it. We're from a point with pretty aggressive from the start, um, with output, you know, a tactic it was cardio stuff and everything straight away. Um, however, like after a couple of weeks, things were coming together very quickly. Um, and from four weeks out, I was like, okay, this look has materialized to something I'm very happy with. And from like four weeks out, it was actually pulling back. But her cardio, I think only went to, or did, I'm sorry, I didn't do nothing, only went to 45 maximum a day. Um, and we had to regularly feed from about six weeks out because she was having some large drops. So we sort of pulled the, pulled the deficit back up a little bit. We never went crazy. No, she's just someone who, I won't say she's genetically gifted. She trens really hard. You saw the videos of her trening. It was incredible. Like she puts in work like, like an open body builder on the leg breast and stuff like that. So, um, yeah, but it meant a side of it that I wasn't expecting, um, from that two week out, it was, oh, we gotta, we gotta stop this look from getting too hard. Um, so it meant an increase of sort of food, particularly true, like fats, um, making sure of finding sort of a look that was nice because there was times we checked in and I'm like, okay, these boots are like better. We need to, to pull this back, um, and get less separation, which I think is like, play in with. If you get a bikini athlete really, really in shape, you can just, you peak for the look, um, other than trying to peak for fullness, still have a condition. So, um, things were from that side were very, very good for her. Um, and the look, the look she brought to stage was a few things. Sorry. I don't, don't want to, I just want to keep going too far. There's a few things I want to pull out here because I don't want to go over the fact that you completely restructured the trening. Like, and people, people like ask me all the time. Cause like being with J3 university, like we teach on PDs, nutrition, all that kind of stuff. Right. And it's pretty easy to kind of go down the rabbit hole of just only doing is sharing information on PDs. It's sensationalized. People want to learn about it. Right. But in this case, like full overview of video analysis on trening, right. A full restructure of the trening plan to match the needs of the client, creating a response that is more efficient, that almost rewards her work ethic. Right. Because she's applying it to things that need to be happening. It's like the value in that piece of the puzzle, which is crazy, right. It's so crazy that the one thing that drives hypertrophy trening could potentially be the most valuable piece of the puzzle. Like it just drives me nuts that people don't think of this. Like the one thing that we're supposed to do to drive that adaptation, like led to a 10 week change. That was almost like a recon. If we're honest. Yeah, absolutely. I like I was I was looking at this one as an example. I used to some of the younger bikini girls I work with or have worked with in the past when it comes to PD use. You know, they're getting told things about how much they need to use and what they need to do. I always use Amy as an example in terms of, you know. PD use with her might have actually been a negative effect. You look at the outcome from her physique on stage that, you know, her feedback from unfortunately the particular set of judges she was in front of in Europe. They didn't reward her look. They wanted a softer bikini look. And just to put things in perspective, the girl who placed behind her actually won the show the week later. She went and did another pro show at that show. And her and Amy were identical in terms of conditioning. And from that, I had from America comment and message me privately about the should come over and America wouldn't do well. So that was something there. So that particular show she did, you know, if you think if there was PD use in play and she was fuller and she was harder looking, it would have been a negative for her. So something girls need to take in care is look at your physique. And it's like if you're a bikini athlete from the side of PD exposure, do you need to be bigger or do you need more? You know, often that can be damaging. If that's where you want to stay or you potentially are pushing yourself into the realms of the next category. Yeah. And it's the dichotomy you'll see with bikini, right? It's like one physique look is recorded one week and then it's not the next, right? So it's the tough dichotomy with bikini to run, but it is something that's important because there are cases in bikini that compound exposure is absolutely needed to elevate that physique to the level of development that's needed, especially with kind of one of the things I'm wondering with the introduction of fit model is, is bikini going to become slightly bigger, slightly harder relative to fit model, right? So because we see that every time, right? Like every time a class is introduced in between the relativeness of those to the other classes changes what that ideal look is, right? So it's, it's interesting. It's an interesting dynamic. And I want to save a lot of peak week stuff for Joey because Joey's going to be the fun one here. So we're going to, we're going to pivot over into, into Tyler here for a second. So Tyler Neely, my boy, who is just an ogre and had a lot of fun doing some stuff at Evagen with him and Alex, when he came in town for nationals. And you guys can check that out. It's on the YouTube. If you guys want to see what all we did, but man, this side-by-side 308 to 276 is, uh, is, is pretty wild. So set stage for us, like kind of describe Tyler and kind of what went into this beginning portion. So the biggest thing I wanted to talk on, you know, Tyler is he's, you know, this is so ever, um, I think it's his fourth cycle ever. Um, you know, so he's very new to all of this, right? You know, like people weren't believing like his milligram dosage on John's post about him. They were like, yeah, he's lying. Like, you know, but it's, it's genuine. Um, that being said, obviously he's never been this big. So like, you know, his first prep, we started at 268, 265 this time. You know, so we're 40 pounds bigger, right? So it's, but at the same time, a lot of that, as you know, as you get the heavier, bigger guys, they're offseason, they drop fast. Like they, I call it, you know, just to be put it bluntly, I call it the bullshit weight on my head. Like we're just going to get the bullshit weight off the body fountain water that we don't need. That just kind of lingers in the offseason. That's what's going to fall first. Let's not paint. So that was a lot of his first initial part of the prep. Then we started getting into the low two 90s. So you drop 17 pounds pretty fast, but then it comes into like, okay, well, how do I, you know, cause we prepped for 20 weeks. It's like, how do I fill this guy up? Like, how do I keep them going? I need to start using this process now of like how his body responds to food and rest and all that. I'm so against the, a mock peak, right? Like to a, to an extent, because it's like, that's what your whole data is. Your whole prep. Like I should know the peak week, what, how this guy responds to like low food, low food, low rest, high rest. Like, yes, I need to try it, but that's what this part's for. So the first time feedinGHim again, we dropped, you know, pretty fast. And I was like, Hey, you know what, man, like we're still 17 weeks out. Like, I just want you to just eat, like, just go eat a big free meal, dessert, whatever. But it was just one, one big dinner dessert type thing. And he woke up the next day, look great. He's like, bro, I've never had veins like this in my life. Like, you know, he was so, you know, write that down. All right. Looks good. You know, next, next time it comes, you know, we're down in like the low two eighties, I believe. Um, so again, another six, seven pound drop over a couple of weeks and like, all right, like he could handle junk food. So let's hand, like, let's see, like, I feel like I can feed, you know, so I fed him three days, you know, I believe it was around 550, 600 grams of carbs, somewhere like that. Nothing crazy. Day two, after day two, he looked great. By day three, he was a wreck, like stomach distension, digestion issues, gained nine pounds, like water buffalo look terrible. So write that down. Not doing that. The next time I found him using like this in the 276 range and I was like, okay, let's pull the high days down from like the 550, 600 to about like 354. And I started it with a dirty meal. So I did three days, but it was like, you know, Friday night I did his little dirty meal that we did first. And then we went into two days and the goal is like, yes, I am going to spill him because it's not just the look I'm looking for. I need to fill him back up and fuel him for the next push of digging. But what happened was, is he looked great. His pumps were better. His digestion wasn't his fault. So I was like, okay, obviously I'm not going to go feed him, you know, a dirty meal into a peak, but it's something that I know I have that somewhere in the back corner if I need it, because when you're dealing with these big guys, it's a very, I like painting this analogy. It's like landing a big, you know, 747 jet, right? It takes a while to like, you got to start further out preparing to land. Whereas a big girl, we can keep up, up, down pretty fast. So with him, like I needed all this data to know going into peak week. Okay. I have that emergency free meal because that's what it's been every time. If for some reason, you know, he needs to fill out or whatever, but I know moderate amounts of carbs and rest is his best. Um, but had I not done all this prior and I was just like, Hey man, yeah, like let's get high days, let's get refeed days. And like, I didn't pay attention to it. I would be going into, into peak week. Yeah. And you're essentially like mock frontloading them with that meal on the front end. And then kind of the lower days, right? You're like purposely pushing them over the edge and then bringing them back down. And I like that Boeing 747 analogy. Cause I've had some of my larger guys start loading for show 14 days out. Like that's when the process starts. Right. So when, with these larger, and Darren, you're, IMean, you've done this in the past, like with like the way that you respond to food. Like if it's not stabilized out and like coming into a shallow landing on show day, you are done for it. Like, it's just so hard to pull it up without GI issue. When you have these larger guys, it's a big aspect of, like you said, paying attention while you're prepping someone to the things that drive issues. And you're not doing mock peak weeks this far out, but it's going to guide your decision making when you do tests, like how many days is this going to take? And how many days is this going to be to be able to get them back up to where I need them? So it's, it's cool, man, because coaching guys like this are a lot of fun. Things change so quickly. They can move really fast either direction. Um, but it also takes a lot to land a peak and really consistency and variables makes this as easy as possible. And so like a lot of these cases work really well with linear loading pretty far out and or frontloading, like getting full, getting them high and then coasting them back down. Um, and so it's, it's an interesting dichotomy, but the final product's not done. We'll have to do another one when you get on stage of like that prep progression. Right. But IMean, this side-by-side photo correct. What was the time duration between these photos? Just a few, I don't remember. I believe it was, what was that? It was like, you know, 20 weeks out to eight weeks out or something like that. Or 10 weeks out. It's just a wild change. Like the left is kind of where I saw him at Evagen almost. And, uh, just like, and there was a lot of trening stuff that went into that too, which you guys can watch that Evagen video to catch all that. But, um, such an interesting case. Like, is there anything else that you would kind of point out with Tyler before we pivot into this last one? Yeah. And so Tyler and big guys in general is, is a lot of times like you can't, while the scale is very important, him gaining three to five pounds is like a bikini girl gaining a pound. Like, so you, you can't get, like, he can't get emotionally carried away that his weight goes up after we eat or drops, you know, like the numbers are going to be so much bigger than a normal person because they're just so much bigger. So you can't let that scare you as a, as a prep coach. You can't let that scare you into, oh gosh, IMessed up. Like, you just have to understand it's because this surface area of human is so much bigger. Like that's the response. And so that's kind of why I frontload him a little bit is because I don't want this. Like, I don't have enough time in his prep to feed him for seven days. Like his body probably could use. So it's like, okay, how can I get more calories in a short period of time and not have to worry about that water retention when I want to look at his look again. And so that's kind of where the frontload kind of came about. Love it. It's just classic example of how the art of coaching can change person to person, man. I just, cause I'm like, like the majority of the people that work with me, I'm like not using free meals and stuff like that as part of that loading process most of the time. But, you know, every once in a while you come across that case where it fits and this is one of those cases, right? So pretty cool. Some guys have to because you can't, they just can't get the calories in or calories to stick without something like that. I've had a client too in the past where, you know, I could go twice the amount of food with clen, like from clen. And it just doesn't sit like if you give them a burger and fries with a moderate amount and it just looks a lot better. The important thinGHere that I think is proximity to checking the visual. Like you're not doing this in close proximity to this is the best visual. You're doing this in the sense of like front end, get them back up. Like you said there and help make it stick and then letting them coast back down where hydration status, sodium fluid, all that is kind of back to baseline. And what we would call like baseline normal. And they're able to present that physique on stage, just a fuller version of it. So a lot of it has to do like when you do use this proximity of time for general, you know, retentive response is going to be the big thing. Yeah, it's a very, and for me, and he does the same meal every time. To me, it's just a, it's that if I have to hit that emergency button, like you don't want to do it. I feel like if I have to do something like that before a show, I'm, I did something wrong along the way, but it's like, Hey, you know, it's, I wish everyone could be John. I wish everyone could be John. I do. IMean, I tell, I tell my clients that. John, we love you. But like, it's just, there's just times where you just have to hit the, the NOS button that you're like, man. And that's just what it comes for. Oh goodness. All right. Well, let's, let's dive into this last one. This one's a fun one. IMean, I think, you know, there's, and Darren, I'm gonna let you set the stage more, but being semi-involved with this kind of on that front end, especially it's cool to see someone who could have easily exited and lost the love for what we do, be able to do it in a way that presents themselves on stage and, and wins. Right. And so, um, I've got, I've got a side-by-side of, of Joey that I believe is where he started with you on the left and then kind of fairly close proximity to stage on the right, both gym photos and, um, that we're looking at. So walk us through this case, man, because like you see that left to right photo and you're thinking like a year and a half and a lot of exogenous PD exposure and all these types of things. Right. But this, uh, this case doesn't warrant that. No, Joey, Joey is like, honestly, I'd say in all my, like what, 12 years of coaching, probably one of the most rewarding clients I've worked with for a number of reasons. Like when Luke says about someone who could have fallen away from the sport, that is the position Joey was in when he came to me. When I initially spoke to him, it wasn't like as a client or anything else. I just met, met him at an event. Um, I've known Joey for years when I first started out, um, bumped into an event, which was just like, how's things going? And he was just like, not good at all. He's like, I've been told I can't bodybuild again. You know, he had got back some very serious, like reports from him regardinGHis health in terms of blood work was absolutely terrible. Like you looked at this as well. It's probably one of the worst I've seen anyway. Uh, blood work was bad. Blood pressure was bad. Cardiac MRI, which showed like, I think it was a 37% function of like his right ventricle just in a terrible place. And from, from my side of things, I just, I just didn't want to leave him still like that. I was like, right, listen, it's not the end of the world. You may not compete competitively bodybuilding again, but we can certainly get you back to a place where you can enjoy your trening and you don't have to worry about this as like, it's like dying, which is where he was thinkinGHe was going. So the initial start point with us was never about stage. It was just getting Joey back in a healthy position. And I knew from talking to him, going over everything and then receivinGHis blood work and getting everything in play, that there was a number of avenues we could come from in terms of to improve things. Did I, did I know it would improve to the level we got it to? No, that's just amazing. And like, nobody can guarantee that sort of things. And I'm not saying I'm an expert on taking someone from where he was to there. It's just, there was stuff we could do to help him and it worked out. So initially it was like hugely amount, like around his lifestyle, you know, to put things into context, Joey previously, like in the previous few years have been working towards being like a super heavyweight bodybuilder and had been pushing the boat in terms of, you know, total milligram usage was very high for a long period of time. You know, food was very high and not in the best place in terms of lots of, you know, dirty bulking. And so there was a lot of things weren't leading to a healthy, healthy lifestyle. So initially he was looking at his, his, his lifestyle and food choices. So we looked at bringinGHis protein content down to like 230 to 250 grams per day, introducinGHigh intensity cardio or minimum of three times a week. We just put it in three times a week and then with Joey, he's a very active guy in terms of walking, which we'll get to a little bit later. We had to take that away while we got to prep because he was doing like 18 to 20,000 steps per day on average because he likes to walk. He loves the fresh air. So we had three HIIT sessions of cardio per week, pull protein down to 250 grams a day, introduce a very micronutrient dense diet, like fruit with every meal, loads of fiber with every meal, like fruit, veg, where the like scope of things, even like bringing in yogurt and things into his diet, all to just make a morecomplete nutrition profile for him. And then from a simple and sided thing, you know, ancillaries, glutathione and Cialis were used to sort of attack things. And I believe it was like a four month process of doing this and got back to a place where we, his right ventricle function was back to normal. His blood work was really good. His blood pressure, which we monitored daily was back in range, like complete turnaround, you know, complete like 180 on it, which was amazing. And that led to the conversation of getting on stage again, which from my side was like, okay, he wants to get on stage again. This does have to be approached with, you know, a very cautious, listen, I said to him straight up, you're never going to be the bodybuilder you were before in terms of the way you approach things. That's just not going to be the case. You have to be a lot more cautious, even like you can do his prep, but even your lifestyle has to change that you can't be that guy who's, you know, after prep, you're going to go and have pizzas, you're going to have this thing. You have to be healthy and responsible year round. And with prep, that's also going to mean, you know, being very responsible with what we look to use. So it's like, even when I see the visuals from where we started to, to where we ended, and I look at things, I'm like, I don't know how, because the majority of prep was done on TRT, 175 milligram of tests per week. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. Yeah. 170 milligram of tests per week. We did introduce 200 milligram of Mastron at the back end of prep, which I'll get into the timeline of that. But as we initially went into it with, we were like going to do a regional show because his goal was classic, which he thought based on his height was going to be 92 kilo limit. So I was like, from where we were to the regional, I was like, okay, that level of weight loss in that timeframe I don't think is going to be the most productive for you from both a physique standpoint and a health standpoint, because we have to control things. So I was like, but there's no rule says you have to do the regional in the class. You're going to compete for a qualifier. So I was like, we'll do the regional as a heavyweight bodybuilder because I know we can get you to around 94, 95 kilo without having to do any drastic measures or push too hard. And then we're going to have a further six, seven weeks to the pro qualifier because he hadn't actually picked the exact pro qualifier. But I was always, while he was going up, he wasn't too sure of his height. So I was like, we need you to clarify this height and weight when you do this regional. So go there. I want you to get them to officially measure you in your heights. We have an official measurement, not just you checking it at home because that mightn't be right. Get an official measurement so we know what your weight limit is for the pro qualifier. So we did the regional. He won his class and missed out on the overall there to the super at 95.2 kilo on stage. But the caveat to this was he's shorter than he thinks and his weight limit for classic was going to be 88 kilo. And listen, you guys can see these visuals there. This guy is not an 88 kilo bodybuilder. At this point, I was like, mate, I think you can do well as a heavyweight bodybuilder. And I think you're going to look. Can we get you to that 88 kilo limit? Yeah. Potentially. Will you look good at it? Absolutely not. Absolutely not. So at this point, we pivoted from a weight loss goal of getting to a weight to just a visual goal. What's going to make you look the best? And because we've done this regional and we had six weeks to the pro qualifier, it was like, all right, we're in a nice spot here. Your condition is pretty much there. Could be a little bit better. But I also feel by just, you know, doing things right in this time frame, we can just get better. We don't necessarily have to focus on weight loss. So we actually pulled his cardio right there. And he was doing very, very little cardio in this time frame. And also in this prep, we had to get him to go and get himself a car so he wasn't walking to the gym because the step count was just through the roof. And his food just went up and up and up. You know, we were controlling every variable. I was having to regularly give him like deloads from output, pull him back from trening, not tren a couple of days, just feed up, rest, ease, relax, focus on all that. And the result was at the end of it, you know, he stepped on stage at a pro qualifier at 98 and a half kilo and won the overall with a much better like visuals. And again, to emphasize the total milligram usage was less than 400 milligrams. Yeah. There's guys doing prep right there. Like doing their first show using that a day. He was doing that a week. Yeah. Yeah. And look, he's earned that right to do that. Right. Like we're not saying you can do this and get to the highest levels with 400 milligrams of usage. It's just this is a byproduct of the health management piece of the equation. And this is kind of what I want to pull out here is bodybuilders love to think that they're immune to health complications and or needing to be aware of like what goes into their body from like a micronutrient density perspective, a supplementation perspective, all of these type of things that if you look at it from like the nutritional density and likEQuality of the nutrition perspective, like we're seen as healthy in the public view because people get shredded. But like there is a large differential between like shredded for a bodybuilding show and actually truly healthy. And in that first portion of the phase, like the whole focus being let's get you back to a health metric that is going to allow you to sustain, you know, a healthy, long lifestyle. And then if competing comes back on the conversation, we'll have it. But it doesn't surprise me that going through that process and fixing all that and having better nutrition metrics, gettinGHeart rate elevation high with the hit cardiovascular activity, improving these, doing on things we did supplementally as well in order to kind of help this. Set him up for a prep that was super easy and smooth. Like it's not a coincidence that a body and a physique that is in a better place from a health perspective is going to respond better to a contest prep. And it's you can look at this photo with him standing with the pro card like he just casually standing there flexing next to the pro card and like just dug out like absolutely dug out. Yeah. It's a thing. People are surprised to see the result relative to the compound usage. And I know a lot of people won't believe it, but listen, it's out there. It's the truth. This guy couldn't use more than this. Like if there was no health issues, is this what I would have done? No, but listen, look at it. It's there. And you must remember is through having the health issues and everything we did, Joey locked in a routine and consistency with all variables that was like flawless, like absolutely flawless. So when you do that, like when we got to the point when I think it was from the five week out from the pro qualifier, when we added in 200 milligram of Mastron, that is going to make a huge difference. Most guys could add that in and it's not going to make any difference because the variables that they don't have consistent are going to negate that amount of PE usage. But with Joey, when everything's perfect and you add in 200 milligrams of Mastron, it's going to have a big change. Yeah. And I just panned over to these photos in the garden, I think probably right before he headed to the show. Just unbelievable. Yeah, it was the peak week. Yeah. And again, going back to what we discussed about loading and stuff, we were like, you know, not having a weight cap anymore and knowing we were comfortably within the heavyweight cap. It meant for just like a little, like from my side of things, a really easy job. Because we had time, Joey was in condition. We were linearly loading it. We were gradually just from about two and a half weeks out. We were just steadily increasinGHis food to a point where it was at 550 gram of carbs a day. And we were just holding there. Went up a little bit higher from like seven days out. We went to sort of 700, 800 at the front of the week. And then just tapered it back to baseline of like 500. We knew exactly where fluid needed to be. Joey's actually from doing, from the peak week, we did visuals every second meal. And across the day, post-workout, everywhere in the same lighting, different lighting, everything. And one thing that was really apparent with Joey was he needed a lot of fluid in his body. So he wasn't someone that we restricted fluid on the day of show. We kept it exactly normal. By the time he was on stage, which was 6 p.m., 6 or 7 p.m., he had had his normal five, five and a half liters of fluid in by that time, his normal meals. He had had five meals, his normal amount in, like a regular trening day. Yeah. Okay. And that's kind of where, again, larger athlete, easy to keep it steady throughout like the entire process. And honestly, predictable is always best, right? And so like you have that information kind of coming in because he was ready to head. So guys, I really appreciate this podcast because I think this is like the peak behind the curtain of like non-ideal situations, right? And I think this is exactly why we coach, why we have a job. It's like people don't pay us for when things are going 100% smoothly and the check-in update is like no change or you don't have a problem to solve or whatever, right? Like we're paid for when shit hits the ceiling fan and we're trying to step in and solve it. So if any of you guys are interested in working with either, you know, Alex or Darren, you guys can just inquire at the J2 Coaching Link. We've got it on the social medias, Instagram. We've got it in the comments below, in the description below the video. So you guys can just use that and sign up and we'll get you a free console call, kind of go over everything, kind of what that process looks like. But a lot of attention to detail has to happen to be able to coach like this because it's not ideal. It's not scripted. It's very pivot-based. And I think this is – when we have conversations like this, it's one of the reasons I love both of your coaching styles is you understand the coursework. You understand the ideal. You understand the tracking of the metrics and the processes that would look like, the John cases where everything's perfect. It just kind of goes smooth and you just kind of dot your eyes across your teeth, right? But where we earn our keep is in these situations where things are not ideal, right? And we create an outcome in a 10-week prep for Darren or, you know, in Tyler's situation, unconventional loading metrics to test some like peak week looks that we could potentially use later in prep or whatever that might be, right? So thank you, boys, so much for this episode. I'm really excited to get this one up. And if you guys have any questions, put them in the comments below. I'll be down there answering them. I'm sure Alex and Darren would be happy to be in there and answer them. Make sure you guys click that link so that you guys can get set up with either Alex or Darren and we will talk to you next time.