 Theirethireth, out like 308 305 about 308 yeah starting prep this week-ish so everybody's in town for national so we're gonna go through a little push session did some prep work earlier we kind of just did some like serratus work some serratus releases and rotation stuff but uh starting with a single arm lateral kind of get moving and take y'all through a session today how's that feel alex is that good in my front delt too much turn here you go yeah better yeah so people's scapular planes are different right so like how much you turn on this is kind of relative to where your scapular plane is in your rib cage side so you'll see like alex might turn a little bit less than me uh versus big boy over there who is a scapular plane is probably going to be pointed directly out to the side so uh you'll see different levels of turn based on kind of how big someone's structure is but really important to get this in that single arm plane because where this wants to take you is going to be a lot of traps so um definitely really good for lateral delt here though raw shit because you got like a fly first before you get into pressing i'm gonna you have like a fly first before you get into pressing i'm gonna modify your session just a little see if i can't get a little bit more out of your chest fibers uh just while we're here let's test some things right might as well right so um lateral adult first always can't have too much of an x-frame but a lot of chest needed with this physique alex i think you can talk to that a little bit more here the program writer yeah so a lot of uh what we're trying to do with neely is um creating his push sessions tends to deal with a little bit of like elbow like tendonitis and all that it's a lot of push sessions we really try to get you know chest and shoulders in them not all the real delt work but focusing a lot of like medial delt right into his pressing patterns so this pressing is going to do it's going to cover like a lot of pec fiber it's also going to hit a lot of this front delt too so with him being so big you know he's damn 300 pounds it's about positioning him and like finding the right pressing patterns to where we don't focus so much on this delt get a lot more in the pec that's why i'll start trying to activate it with a little bit more fly into the presses and then most of his shoulder work you'll see is just majority like side delt and that's just from building out his x-frame you see he's got massive arms so in order to keep up with arms we need to get wider here and yeah there you go good reps good there you go shameless plug new j3 coaching shirts i've got like the uh what do you call this heather green yeah yeah three three new colors really excited about them love the new quality on these shirts we change companies so really awesome shirt so super excited about these you guys want them they're on the website um for j3 university so check them out oh god jesus if you guys if you guys have seen my stuff before y'all know what we're about to do um chest activation especially with like some of the serrated stuff you deal with really good to get into fully shortened from a neural position so what you're going to do is you're going to start here you're going to try to jam this bicep into your rib cage hold this for five seconds you're going to do short three reps from there and then holding that contraction you're going to pull your arm up and you're going to feel like those upper clavicular fibers contract and then same thing three short reps and then come back down here and then release it cool um so really like so five seconds three yeah yeah yep and so i really want you what you're going to have to think about is either bicep to rib cage or pull this scap as far down and around as rib cage as you can so it should be like right here right now so three four five three short reps there yep intentional with them don't rush them there you go now hold it and then slowly bring that up and use your um hand to feel yeah it come up jam it across a little bit more there you go now three short reps intentional yeah good good one more and then hold it and then come down and then release it then we're going to do the same thing on the other side all right so what we're looking for back to what we're trying to do um cable going through shoulder in the bottom end range so here he can actually cue like driving this shoulder down and across jamming that bicep into the side of his chest but that cable's still going through his shoulder where it won't take him into rotation so like this is money this is going to not be great for us it's going to be too high okay we're going to leave it here because we don't matter anymore right he matters feel good yeah all right leave it because if i start going like this you see where my shoulders go yeah so we don't want to like overdo the pronation because then the shoulders elevate and it defeats the purpose of the pattern we're doing yeah so this is a little high on me but it feels pretty good we can just get me a booster seat or something that feel good good good good you feel good to go go though yeah yeah all right let's let's send it on this next one that was really light probably yeah all right yeah so just go yeah hypertrophy is a rather forgiving adaptation good try not to let it off in the bottom pause and go there you go that's the rep jam that bicep into that chest and pull that shoulder down there you go good he's got a lot of muscle really good he's like a great dane puppy still good good breathing there you go good same thing same thing don't let it off in the bottom for me please control that stretch there you go there you go there you go find that rhythm good wrap there right here yes same wrap same wrap same wrap same wrap same wrap come on there you go it's a little light but keep it going yep same wrap don't change the wrap just because you're fatiguing you know it's the partial there you go don't don't rush it don't rush it there you go good good feels good yeah absolutely so like all pack yeah yeah so that's the thing it's like people you just said upper chest but look at the plane you're working in right like people think upper pack fiber has to be like in the uh doing the hallelujah above their head or like strength and turn to the side yeah so like we can we can take peck fibers into length in with some elevation like we're doing here and shorten it by depressing the shoulder and across and it's going to be a lot more overall peck fiber which for someone who needs a lot of pack overall peck fiber is always going to be the better solution overall peck fiber is always going to be the better solution no It's been getting better. The more body work I've been doing. Now it's just knees. So elbow 101, like how to make it more painful, is what you did on those last few reps of like... Trying to muscle through it. And change the rep. Prop yourself up a little. Right there. Go. Better? Better. Anyways. So trying to muscle things up. From a pressing perspective. Like you've heard of a hip shift in squatting, right? You can actually have what's called a torso shift. Changes the pressure in your hands. And it can actually drive more of like a tricep moment. And it can like disperse force in the joints. So like even though this is not a lot of elbow. Come on out. Come on out. If you learn how to keep it stagnant here, we can then transfer that to pressing and then potentially long term not have as many elbow issues. Right. So. Really excited to see. You did two or three below that. I would do it again because you did like 900 reps. Come on. Give it to me. Yep. Don't change the rep. Remember what we said. There you go. Even if it's halfway down. Keep the shoulders down. There you go. Better rep. You got to get out of that habit. You're going to cause more problems than you're going to cause good. Sorry. I don't mean to cut you off, but. There you go. Hard. No. No. Hard. No. Don't have it. You coach a lot of bigger guys. Like what are some of the things you see as trends that you have to like do to pull more out of them? Like you're just having that conversation of like, this is what it looks like to be a pro bodybuilder. It's like the habits at the end of a set are what change physiques. Right? Like you've been training long enough where if you don't do those last two reps the same as the first 10, 12, 15, your physique's not going to change. So like you can, I mean, he's 305. You coach a lot of guys that are like massive. What is that? The thing I notice is, you know, he could easily be in here bench pressing five plates. Like we could easily do that, but it gets to a point in, you know, bodybuilding and developing his physique. You've got to break that habit and say, Hey, what do I need to improve? That's going to translate to stage. And it's a lot further away from a flat barbell press. And so the bigger guys, usually guys, they are strong and they're powerful. They've been bodybuilding a long time. They come in here and they think, Oh, we're going to honey's gym. We got the 200 pound dumbbells. We're going to take advantage of that. But it's like, you, you can't do that. You just flew in three hours ago. How can I apply what I'm going to do today and make me a better bodybuilder? And that to me is what, you know, only the big bodybuilders can learn from, but everyone can learn from. It's like, Hey, what can I take from today? And that's kind of what I was explaining to him was, you know, while we are going to have those sessions of the music blaring and hitting the ammonia salts and getting wild and, you know, nose bleeding, those are sessions are so limited. And what's going to make you a good athlete is like getting the most out of these sessions where it is quiet and where it's like, Hmm, I don't know, but going a hundred on these sets where it's not so like nitty gritty, people who can do this can, they can do anything with their physique. But it's also like habit implementation here, right? Like I purposely did no music. Like Dylan came up and said, turn the music on, but it's a teaching opportunity, like learning in a learning environment. Like, are you sitting in class with Eminem rapping till I collapse in the background? Or are we here to do something that's going to make them a better bodybuilder in nine months? Right. Right. And that's the takeaway, you know, again, it's like, Hey, we have me, him and Luke in one room probably once this entire year. So like, yeah, we'd be like, man, you remember that chess session? Or it's like, man, you remember that chess session? And now you know how to have a successful prep. That's what today's about. Yep. One, two, three, pause. Boom. Good. Every rep is just like that. Good. Good. One, two, three, pause. There we go. Two, three, pause. Good. Come on, Neely. Go. Yep. Two, three, pause. Good. Even if you can't finish, just get halfway. Good. Come on. Come on. Good. One more. One more. One more. One more. Heart contraction. Heart contraction. Good. That's it. That's it. What I try to get my guys to do, like bigger guys, is like, I don't, yes, they have a rep range, but I try to get them to find a cadence. Rep ranges are suggestions. That's how I word it. Okay. Okay. So, like, we use the rep range as a suggestion of, hey, I want your load to have you failing somewhere around this ballpark, but, like, if you miss it, as long as you keep the rep the same from rep one to rep failure, and you go to failure, I'm cool. Okay. So, that's the two things that I, because, like, the higher the training experience, the more important that rep is at the failure point. Yeah. But if you think about it, a lot of guys, they do something to get to that failure point. They start momentum. They move their torso. They move something. Right. That's not as much stimulus in that rep as the amount of stimulus you developed or you did in rep one, but that's in the rep that's the most important to get the most stimulus out of. Okay. So, you hear all this foreign stuff that we talk about. And people think that's, like, lifting a library. It's not. It's just, like, it's so important to make sure that whatever you're doing goes towards the body part. Right. Right. That's where I've been big on is even some of my best sets. Like, I don't even know how many reps I would get, but it's because I find this pattern. Yeah. And I'm, like, one, two, three. So, cadence would be a good way to talk about it. That'd be your way of terming it, right? Yeah. I think that's an important thing. Like, some people are going to relate to that more than my way of saying it, right? Right. But cadence is a good way. I think it's more just repeatability. And when me and you would train together, and this is how, when I realized we were different, is you would go in, you'd be like, I got 13 reps. And you, like, I'm talking, Luke's like, fuck that number 13. Like, he was angry at 13. But I was like, all right, well, I just need to go hard as I can until I can't do it anymore. And there was two different motivational factors, but we both got to where we wanted to be with it. But that's how I picked up the cadence thing, and then I was like, okay, like, if I can zone out, like, the point you can't even hear your music, but I'm keeping that tempo, it's like, yeah, shit, how many did I get? Nine? Okay, cool. Well, probably one at 13, but okay, I'm cool with that nine. The zoom out, though, should also look at the numbers of, like, is the trend moving in the direction of progression? Because we can't progress a physique without performance progression. Right. Yeah, yeah, like, I would rather someone put away the logbook and have rep one to the failure rep look the exact same, and then we zoom out across four to five weeks and see, like, is the performance trending in the right direction? Because if we do that, then we're taking care of the performance piece, but we're also making sure that the failure rep has all the stimulus we want out of the movement we're doing. I hate to do this, but a finger width in on the grip. There you go. So on converging presses, you want the wrist stacking on the elbow to follow the cross path. Too light, yeah? Yeah. All right. Feel good. Feel pretty good. All right, let's try three. As you fail, I'd rather you do a partial rep that looks exactly like the first rep than try to get it up, because that's when that hand pressure is going to shift. We're going to shift it to something that's going to cause elbow pain or shoulder pain. There's probably a lot of where that is coming from. Yeah, especially, like, probably back in May, April, May, I was really focused on just weight. Yeah. You see the Broncos in arm rust. You're like, yeah. Yeah. So I got him for like 12. And then, like, going to that Rajen, I did a one rep max on the bench for five. Yeah. Feel the shoulder. What am I doing? I'm like, I'm not a power lift. Yeah, yeah. So there's two ways to think about it. You keep your hand pressure in the same way, or think about pushing your back into that pad and keeping it in the same spot. Yeah. Whatever one works better for you. I don't care. Just same rep and keep the torso slash hand pressure exactly the same. So hand pressure you wanted in here, right? Kind of like medial going. Yeah. Yeah. I want you, like, almost thinking like you're pulling it across, but obviously your hand won't move. Yeah. Good. Come on, Neely. All right. Don't change the rep. Same rep every time. Go. Yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep, yep. Yep, rack. Feel the difference in that? No elbow pain probably. No shoulder pain. Yeah. That's perfect. You still get some out of it, too. Well, that's the thing. Like, the partials is not just a partial that you get nothing out of, right? Because you start it the exact same way, it's still pretty. You still get a lot of guys do partials and it's thrusting. Thrusting or bouncing or whatever that looks like, right? But if you keep the partial the same, it's still going to be some sort of stimulus, especially in the lengthened, which we want lengthened stimulus to grow. But it's like, what does that look like? It's not. Yeah. You built a lot of hams, a lot of quads, too. You built a lot of hams, a lot of quads. You built a lot of quads in that program. Well, but I'm going to prioritize a quads. What do you want me to do? Your quads are still there. Do you want to do a figure? I'm happy with it. Yeah. You're probably good, actually. Yeah. Yeah. And so, like, we are choosing externally stabilized patterns, right, for a reason. It's helpful, you know, when you get into, like, people sometimes get worried because, like, oh, I didn't get my reps I want or, you know, I didn't do the sets. It's just like, hey, we're trying to train a failure. I'm not trying to train you to perform. Like, yeah, I want you to perform, but only to an extent. Yeah. There you go. It just takes discipline. That's all it is. Yeah. It's like it's not sexy to do it. Right. Yeah. That way, but it'll look sexy when you're on stage with a massive chest. That's the difference, right? It's not confused bodybuilding for what it's not. Yeah. It's hard because a lot of people, like, psychologically, people get into bodybuilding emotionally a lot of times. There's a ton of people who emotionally outlet it to bodybuilding. So it's like you're telling them to remove the emotion out of something they're extremely passionate about. It's like I'm not doing it because I don't want you to have that outlet. Let's use it to make you a better athlete, but let's also control it. Come on. Come on. So with him just starting his prep, it was like we were like two days in his diet. He was like, should I be feeling weak? I was like, no, dude. So in my head, I didn't say this. I'll tell him now. I was like, dude, I could drop you off in the forest for 30 days. Still have glycogen loaded. But that's a commonality like we see when, like, prep starts is people like, oh, I'm flat on this. I know, dude, like your glycogen stores are. People, and if you've taken our courses, you would know this. People think or forget that a caloric intake as far as a surplus is food intake plus body fat percentage. That body fat percentage plays a part in that surplus. Yeah. And so it's not exactly that mathematically right, but just, like, conceptually, like, your body fat percentage plays a role in what that surplus is. Yeah. So when you switch into a deficit, it's like, yeah, sure, your body weight's turning down, you're losing fat, but you have plenty. You stole it up. Yeah. And it's not, like, physiologically it's not that simple, but, like, for the confines of a YouTube video. We're going to leave it there. Yeah. Yeah. Rack it. You rack it all the way up there. That's part of your problem. No, seriously, like, racking it too high. Like, when you go to unrack it, you're going to pull your shoulders out forward, and then it's going to. All right, I'm going to have you do one thing. Let's get a plate on so you can feel it. This is not going to be about load on the bar. You're going to feel like. Yeah. Yeah. I want you to pause in the stretch position, but I don't want you to rest it on your chest. Right above it. Right above it. If it touches your chest, fine, but stay active on it. Like, don't just let it go. I want you to pull your shoulders down and back a hair more than when you set into it. So if you want to visually see it, I don't know if you're visual or verbal. So you're, like, when you're getting into it, and it's going to be hard for me to do because I've trained myself to do this. But, like, you're kind of here. I want you to think, like, here and then go. Like, I'm not asking you to power lift here. Right. Right? But I do want some arch because our pack is going to lengthen around the rib cage. So when you inhale and that rib cage gets a bit bigger, it's going to stretch. You're going to get a little bit lengthened. Right? So slight pull down. So I think about it like I'm doing a row. And then here, set it. And then same inward hand pressure. So the pressure is, like, between my thumb and my forefinger and my palm. And then pause. And then you're going to there. We're not going there. Internalize what you're feeling right now. And then we're just going to put more load on it and then rack it. So something like we're doing a lot of warm-ups today because we're teaching. This would be something that, like, if you were doing this session by yourself, like, you would just throw whatever your work weight is. Make sure you set it up and send it. But do you want to feel this at all? Or I'm good. I just want to go. Yeah, let's just go. How do you give me that much? Sure. Yeah. How do you feel? This fit amazing. Yeah. The body bag collection. God damn. Oh. That's making me feel like a little girl. He's not looking. He's not looking. Wait, wait. Yeah, there you go. Be patient in the bottom. Give me two. Give me two. Yep. Hand in the internal pressure. Slight pause. And then go. There you go. We're going to. We're going to not look like a douchebag here. Good. Yeah, great reps. This is about length and loading. So just this is where I want you feeling it the most. Good. You want me to get a side angle of this? Good. Yeah, good rep. Take it. Pause it. I'll help you up. Go. Yeah, good. Good last rep there. Right. Better. No shoulder pain. No elbow pain. All pack. Yeah, that was great. This is where when you hear me talk like every movement has a goal. The goal here is lengthened. So you heard me middle set say like, I want you feeling this in the length and I don't care if you lose it a bit in the short and right. There's a reason for that because bar does not converge. So we want length and loading. So good set. Yeah, this is really good. So that's how all your pressing should look. Yeah. Right. So this is for you, like Alex, like when we're talking on these calls about the pressing work, it's like what is the goal of every pattern? We talked about like here depression with some internal rotation because they were wanting to get it as short as possible. But here it's like I told them mid set, like if you feel it a ton in the stretch but then lose it in the short and I'm okay with that because I want you gaining the lengthened end because the goal here is always lengthened. There's never a barbell movement that is about the shortened range. Okay. Because what happens, right? As you press out, that hand's coming over the shoulder. Yeah. Gravity exerts force down. So it's just structurally into the shoulder joint. Even if it's slightly out here, it's barely loading the pack. It's maximally loading the pack here. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. The shoulder joint. take that Cameron if you're watching bro there you go big yep come on good stay tight come on yep there you go come on I'm with you I'm with you this looks really good on him so what you're looking for is like as he goes see how that cables like almost perfect alignment with the shoulder so online what you do is you have people set the camera right here okay so you can see that rear 45 okay so this is where it's like I can we can talk about stuff we look at for in person but then we need to translate it to like what are we doing with clients online like how do we find this because I mean we don't get to meet with clients once a year maybe yeah so but I mean all of this is findable in camera angles if you know how to if you know what you're looking for and find it right okay going through the shoulder so it's not pulling him in like an up or down direction so like in that top position you do it that's a perfect for you I want to show it in line with his arm yeah so it's probably right here honestly so you'll see when he gets to the top that cable like runs through his shoulder that's like what you're wanting just like that okay ideally because if it's above it right then he's going to be wanting to do retraction okay like if that cable is coming keep going I'm not going to touch you if it's coming from up here right it's going to buy a scapular attraction so it's going to pull in a lot of trap right if it's coming from too low and it's going like really vertical it's going to be a lot of front delt okay so I'm just trying to find the plane that's keeping it lateral the happy medium okay yeah that's a wrap boys just two sets here yeah just two sets here yeah