 You ask, we ask, we answer, we answer, we are doing another Q&A, as everyone enjoyed the last one, more specifically around PDs, so we had some other questions come in that of course there's PD questions, but also a variety of topics around programming pool for instance, and even using some nutrition aspects, and then again, PDs, like we all love to talk about. Luke and I, we just want to dive in, we enjoy doing like thEQuick firEQuestions, and try to try to give you a lot of questions, and try to give you a lot of questions, and try to give you a lot of questions, and try to give you a lot of value back, so that's what we're gonna dive in today, guys. Luke, how are you doing? Yeah. I'm great, man. Life's good, works good, we've got so much positive going on with the courses, and the coaches are just killing it, show season's about to get started, and we got a ton of athletes on the team that are going, so momentum's high, I'm just loving every second of it, man, it's a lot of fun to do my job, so just, you wake up every day looking forward to what crazy physique you're gonna get sent to from the team, you know, whether it's, you know, Darren, Alex, Neto, Colton, whoever's sending it, it's, it's really awesome to see, so it makes for a lot of fun on the day-to-day solving all these different problems with these coaches, and putting some killer athletes on stage, so I think, I think that's part of the reason I like thesEQuick fires, because it's like solving people's problems in the here and now, so let's just dive in, man, let's just, let's hit this first question, you know, do you think there's a place for T3 in the off-season? Yeah, and so, around thyroid hormone use, and really, in prep or off-season, it comes down to just basically looking at your lab to begin with, and that kind of decides on the need relative to where your labs are, usually I hear people ask about T4 in the off-season, that are using growth hormone hormone, there is an idea a long time ago that, you know, growth hormone hormone lowers T4 levels, but growth hormone hormone increases peripheral conversion of T4 to T3, so in turn, you might see a little bit lower free T4 in the serum, but you'll actually have increased T3 levels, and you might see an acute rise in TSH, also, you're just using growth hormone hormone, if you had like a pre-existing thyroid issue, it might bring it about, and just more expose it, rather than create it, so if you already had a predisposition to beinGHypothyroidism, you might see that if you're using growth hormone hormone, but back on thEQuestion of like using T3 or not, still like monotherapy T4 of levothyroxine is still like the first-line therapy for hormone replacement, as we have to consider like in the endocrine world, in the western medicine world, that you try to get people to just be adherent, so if you have something you only take once a day versus multiple times a day, it's a lot better route, T4 has a relatively very lonGHalf-life, nearly a week, so you can get steady levels easily within a week's time, and once a day dosing can work really well, the issue kind of comes about if you have someone with that could have limitations within T4 to T3 conversion, or maybe someone that actually has a little bit higher needs than what T4 could provide solely, and that's where the conversation around adding in a little bit of T3 might come about, and if you go into like beyond, if you're meeting with your like general physician, or your endocrinologist and looking at someone in the anti-aging world, or the wellness clinics, a lot of times they're using desiccated thyroid like armor or NP thyroid, which is a combo of T4, T3, or they might be using something that has been actually compounded with adjusted amounts of T4 to T3, and in result-wise, you really could get the same lab effects using either one, however, some people just subjectively feel better using the combo therapy, so that's kind of where it differentiates. Now, I like combo therapy going into prep because you see a lower T4 to T3 conversion as you're dieting, or even if you had like a monotherapy, being able to bring in a little extra T3, if you see that conversion starts to get limited, and you're trying to uphold physiological amounts of T3, but long story, not short, is it purely depends on your lab work. Go off that. Don't make assumptions and just use T3. It's not necessarily going to like keep you lean or something in the off-season. You're looking for like a normal physiological amount. Yeah, I think the mistake with this that you often see is people expect that, you know, for people that do use it in the off-season, they expect that that replacement therapy will sustain them throughout the entirety of the contest prep with no expectations to have to increase any variable of it, which is not going to be the case. There's certainly going to still be adaptations that occur that might require you to increase your dosing or add in T3 or whatever that might be. Multiple ways to go about it. That'd be kind of like the last little caveat is, if you do have the need for replacement therapy based on symptomology and labs in an off-season setting, be aware that that doesn't mean you won't see adaptations across a contest prep. All right. Next question. Thoughts. I lovEQuestions that start about thoughts. So thoughts on everyone taking all the new peptides. And there's a few questions kind of lumped within this around other peptides that are out there, right? So IGF-1, LR3, they brought up SLU-PP332, which it's actually not a – it's a molecule. I don't know if you really want to classify it as like a peptide hormone, but it's just like this synthetic molecule. But I guess people are probably bringing up like MOTC as well within the conversation. But again, some of these are peptides. Some of them are not peptides. However, there's a huge exploration right now of all these different compounds. Is it fair to answer that I don't have thoughts on it yet? Like I just – man, I keep up with it. And the reason I keep up with it is in case there's something intriguing enough that I could see the value in it. But I've yet to see something that doesn't feel like chasing polypharm. And polypharm in the bodybuilding world is something that allows for people to get the most out of the process when it's like deployed correctly and we understand these off-site actions of some of these compounds. But I do think we start to get into the peptide world and we're chasing so many off-site mechanistic actions and lower efficacy versions of that for the majority of them that in the realm of the majority of physique-based processes for competitive bodybuilders, I don't see a lot of utility. Now, some of these like certainly I could see outside of that realm potentially having some fits. But big needle movers for me, not yet. But it intrigues me. I keep up with it because I want to be aware if something comes to market that does feel like a game changer. But I don't know that I have thoughts on it because nothinGHas changed the game for me, in my opinion. Yeah, a lot of them have been kind of sensationalized as being with the novelty of them and the excitement around research and mechanisms of action and potential. And so like for instance SLU PP332 is, we'll call it SLU for a simple sake. We basically just have rodent data on it. So there's not even human data to be able to trenslate that into what should a dosing protocol even be? What does safety long-term even look like? What does it look like when it's combined with other drugs like we're using in bodybuilding? And you could very well have just because it's not a human-approved, you know, an FDA-trialed drug, right, gone through all the clinical rigors of testing. That it's not safe, but there's kind of a question mark there. And then around actually trenslating it to the effects in humans, like is it that large of an effect or not? With SLU kind of being this exercise memetic, so it increases for one mitochondrial efficiency. A lot of people get improved endurance capacity and increased fatty acid oxidation with it, improved insulin sensitivity. And I've heard people speak to it like it is a game changer. Some insights is that I've known some people that actually use this that are very, very close to me that I have eyes over. And at least in my experiences thus far, I have seen it to be very lackluster. Lackluster. And I would have multiple other things that I would deploy way before this. And thinking back on these people calling it a game changer, what I would look for, especially with peptides, is if there is a motivation behind pushing something like this. So if there's someone that is connected to a peptide site and they say use code JOHN20 for discounts under SLU, maybe there's another motive there of trying to really sell these because someone's making money off of them. Or there's just, hey, I need to sell the excitement of new things coming out because I can only talk about test primo GH for so long. I need some new things, right? And that's not to diminish any information that's out there around it. Like, you know, we should discuss these compounds because they're of interest. But, you know, like Luke said, I would want a lot more information out on them before I decide to implement them already amongst a list of polypharmacy that we're already utilizing within bodybuilding. And, again, what I said in my experience is that SLU so far looks to be very overrated in my opinion. Again, I'm not the only opinion. That's just opinion. And same with a lot of the other compounds like IGF-1, LR3. IGF-1 is fairly overrated for its effects. I think a lot of the main effects you're going to get with using growth hormone hormone is direct from growth hormone hormone. And with the idea around IGF-1, LR3, it doesn't have a strong binding affinity. The idea of one binding proteins. So you kind of have the problem is like you have a compound that can just have a more of a systemic effect versus localized effect, which I find that scary for around organ size increases. And, again, this is another compound with just a ton of lack of human research around it. And still GH trumps all of these. I think the ones that have the best data around are maybe MK-677. The ones with the most interest would be BPC or TB-500 as far as these healing-type peptides. But, again, even those like GH trumps them. It's like these are just, you know, the B team coming in because they're more accessible for some people. But, anyway, that's at least some initial thoughts around these. Could those thoughts change in the future as more data comes out? Sure. But at least as of right now, these are not things that I would put weight into and also things that I would not be interested in like trialing myself. Yeah. One last thing. It's like you see this with like the methylene blue stuff too. But you know what else improves mitochondrial efficiency? Exercise. Exercise and sleep. Your big ticket items. Yeah. Like, Jesus, guys. Like, can we not forget that these things improve that? Like, let's just focus on like what we can actually show large improvements in efficacy. I just. Yeah. That's where my head goes with it currently. Like, if there's something that comes out that does game change, I'll detail it out and go into it and see utility in it. But just not there yet. All right. Next question. How much fruit and veggies should we be eating no matter the phase? Yeah. That's a tough question. I tend to set like minimums at around 200 grams of each. Um, the veggie piece is a little bit fluctuating based on like phasic because you get in prep and like I'll allow that to kind of creep up quite a bit. You know, 300, 400 grams kind of throughout the day with food coming down for satiety purposes and keeping fiber intact and micronutrients intact. Um, but minimums that I put for most people that are on the macro side of the equation with coaching is 200 grams of each. Yeah, that for sure would be a minimum. I like if you looked at like current U.S. like health recommendations, it's like three to five sources of fruit and veggies per day. Yeah. Just serving a fruit or veggies is around 100 grams depending on the fruit or veggie. Um, so you're looking aT3 to 500 grams ish. Um, so the, so definitely like at the minimum gear, dear Lord, just hit these right. Hit those at the bottom end. Uh, but if you could hit a gram total of all of them together for the day, that would be pretty ideal to not have enough, uh, fruit, veggie diversity to cover a lot of your micronutrient needs to get a diverse amount of fiber. So yes, total fiber is very important. Also soluble and insoluble, but there's also different types of fibers within soluble and insoluble fibers that do a lot for, uh, gut health. Um, and so that's what we absolutely would want a variety of those items. Um, all your different type of strens of gut bugs that are really healthy use different types of fibers. So if you want a really healthy microbiome community, eat a lot of a variety of fiber sources. Um, now where this kind of can, can flux a bit is, you know, are the goal is the goal, right? And if we're bodybuilding, trying to put on a lot of size in the offseason is kind of the main goal there. So if you're running into limitations around food volumes from high amounts of voluminous veggies, it's a time of, of, Hey, we might need to lower these down for a bit of time and kind of accept that. But just moving to more like dense condensed or higher starch veggies. Um, and even maybe moving to like dried fruits, which a third, the weight of, uh, a whole fruit would be accounted as still a veggies, a fruit serving. So like 30 grams of raisins would count as doing like a hundred grams of grapes. So we might have times where that number, those numbers kind of shift. Uh, then like you said in, in prep, Luke, um, those veggies might creep up some. I try to maintain the fruit amount and lower the other starchy components in the diet as we go through. And then you were going to have some times where, Hey, a lot of this might get pulled out just at the end of prep, just to control like bloating distinction before going onto stage. And I don't mean bloating distinction. Like you have some weird GI problem that you need a gut health specialist that you just like these foods just cause volume expansion. And we've got to lower it. Right. And then on that point around gut issues, we have the rare individuals that might need a bit more modulation of these items or from some that are just very intolerant to them where there might be some restrictions in place. But as a, as a generality, um, I think we, we cover that. Yeah. On to the next. Yeah. Okay. What are the basic vitamin Supplements for bodybuilding? Ah, there's so many ways to go about this. Like the, the interesting part about there's a lot of companies that make some great, like mixed products. And so like, I'll use those depending on where someone's located and if they have access to it. Um, just so like, I have no brand affiliation, so I'll just, uh, spit these out. Um, trened by JP, make some great ones. I love love heart with vital support. Um, I do tend to go the route with morphogen. Morphogen has some great products as well. Um, prime and there's another one they have that's really good. Their kidney products really good. Um, but as far as like the minimums, basic vitamin Supplements, like I wouldn't even classify way in that category. Um, I, my head goes to health supplementation, but creatine, um, make sure that you've got a multi on board. More than likely a vitamin D three is going to be needed because most people are going to be deficient in that. And then health supplementation based off the things that you struggle with on lab work. And then there's like a whole gamut list of that, that we could go through. And then the more budget you have available, the more of those things that you're going to take for precautionary purposes. Remember supplementation is not as efficacious as medication, but it can be helpful. Yeah, I think, right. Some of the, some of the like combo products are very convenient for a lot of people. Yeah. Some people might want to be more specific with their dosing or the product that they take then. Cause sometimes you find a blend, you're like, ah, it's not quite right on that dose. Yeah. I don't need that necessarily. Yeah. So again, like with supplements, they are meant to supplement the diet. So if you're not, you know, log into chronometer, see what you're hitting for your micronutrients and then fill in the gaps from there. But common gaps that need to be filled. Cause that's what I think of like the basics. If we're not covering these by the diet, these are probably the first things that we should be going in place, which you absolutely could do a multi kind of just does a shock on blast of all, all your micronutrients, vitamins and minerals to cover those needs. Um, but from there, I would say in omega three as that one could just be a hard one to get for everyone daily. Yeah. You know, and then like you mentioned, vitamin D three, which I would pair that with, uh, K two as well. Magnesium can be a struggle for a lot of people and it shows even in athletic populations. We do have a higher magnesium needs, which I would do something like a magnesium three or eight around bedtime, especially if you have issues with sleeping or even, um, magnesium glycinate would be a viable option from there to, uh, creating monohydrate just because like, geez, it does so much. It's so evidence-based around muscle, but also even for brain health too. And then I, I really like curcumin as well. Um, that's kind of starting to jump into the realm of yeah, maybe, but, uh, the expansive effects were like an anti inflammatory aspect for the whole body. Um, a lot of health benefits around it. I think it's a one to have in outside from there. I think that's when you jump into like the real little bit more nuanced to the enhanced bodybuilder realm of supplements that would need to be in place. Yeah. I would agree with that. 100%. Okay. Next question. When should I take glutamine before or after trening, John? Or at all? Yeah, you should take it, uh, at either time. So glutamine for a while was really popular. Yeah. And it was, uh, the, the thing to be taking, um, all around trening, which, uh, with glutamine, IMean, the thing about it is that we get a ton of it out of, if you're on a high protein diet, uh, most of your glutamine is utilized by the enterocytes, uh, as a fuel source. And so a lot of that does go to the gut. That's why a lot of people now take it actually for gut health. It's around 15 grams per day is utilized by the gut and has a big component around, uh, the immune system. So, um, some people are just saying, oh, for gut health, I take 15 grams of gluten first thing in the morning. Uh, but where this glutamine research really comes from is from the clinical side of issues with inflammatory bowel diseases like ulcerative colitis or Crohn's or other GI issues. And in this inflammatory state, glutamine has a huge role as its needs increase, but also has some components around, um, just improving like the tight gap junctions in the gut and, uh, preventing like you quote unquote leaky gut. Some people hate saying that term, but anyway, in those conditions, it has great roles for GI health and, uh, inflammation. But if you don't have those issues, well, there's no increased need for that. And then around as far as building muscle, you're going to have plenty of adequate amount of amino acids if you're just following a high protein diet. So do you really need to be taking glutamine is the thing. And around trening, it doesn't make a lot of sense. If you don't have some type of inflammatory gut issue, it also doesn't make a lot of sense. So it's one of those supplements, what I would say to save your money and just get some whey protein and just utilize your way. Preach. Ditto. Retweet. Move on. Okay. Uh, pharma versus generic GH on quality and insulin resistance. Oh, Lord. Um, I just use. It used to be a big deal, right? Yeah. I just, I kind of want to just send them to the Kurt Havens podcast that we did that kind of goes into that in depth about all the potential issues. But, um, a lot of this has to do with getting your GH tested and making sure that, um, it's actually the right amino acid sequence, all of these kinds of things. IMean, there's a lot of great generics on the market. I think you can see some pretty efficacious usage from generic GH. Um, you've even seen like probably the prices dropped over time. I think arguably pharma is probably going to be your best bet if we don't dive into the weeds of just like the full conversation we had on, on the podcast with Kurt. But, um, man, I just want to direct in there. It's like probably the best thing to do because we build the whole conversation out about the positives, negatives, what you should expect. Can you test for it? All that. Like there's like full depth there. Yeah. I think thEQuick takeaway is like, Hey, if, if your GH is a hundred percent GH, then it's going to have the same effects relatively as pharma GH without much differentiation, just from the anecdotal of using all of these things too. Yeah. That man, it doesn't really differentiate. So, um, it used to be that generics are real hit or miss. Um, who knows? Like, and now it's come so far that we have much better ways to test availability to test and just availability, a better product that's cheaper too. So back, you know, when I was kind of getting into the pro ranks, it's like you just bought pharma to make sure you had quality GH and it was so expensive. Generics were like, I don't know, but now it's like, you know, you can get like a tested generic. That's a really good quality. That's like a sixth of the cost of pharma. So that's at least kind of where that, that all stands. But please check out the podcast with Kurt. Yeah. Go pretty heavy on the GH side there. Yeah. Especially like the testing. Like I've had so many generics with clients that have tested so unbelievably. Like I hate the argument. It's just like, make sure it's quality and tested and move on. Um, all right. Struggling with how to program pull days, please help. Oh, wow. This person's struggling with their back development exercise for lower lats too. Yeah. There was actually two questions in this Q and a about just specific to lower, lower lats. So, um, well with, with pull days, just a generalized structure is like, I would just always start with a lat movement first. And if this person's more of talking around the lower lat, you're talking more about the vertical fibers of the lat, which are going to work good, more pulling from an overhead position and keeping the arm tight to the body. So you're going to look for some type of pattern that can keep you in that position. That could be a bilateral pull down, uh, with like more of a shoulder with grip. It could be aromasingle arm pull down of some variation. Um, so that would be your first movement to have like vertical lat fibers and prioritize that body part. You could then move to, IMean, you could go to an upper back from there. If you, if you need like some general balance and back development, which that's how I like to structure mine. IMoved to like an upper back based row. That could be a T bar row, could be a prime extreme row, uh, could be a chest supported incline row. But again, the idea is the elbows a bit more flared out from the body. Uh, then you could do something for lats again, uh, doing something for like the horizontal fibers, which would still elbow close to the body. Um, doing aromasingle arm row or a horizontal row. And then lastly, you might have something for even upper, upper back. So you might've done something that was kind of a horizontal row with the elbows flared out a bit, but you could do something with the elbows flared out, low and really low towards like bottom sternum, belly button area, which kind of hits towards that scapula retraction, upward rotation of more or nearly like a shrug pattern. So this might be looking at like, um, could do a seated cable row where your torso is lean back, um, more like the 120 degree angle. So not upright or even a hammer strength, isolateral low row. Uh, just something. The idea is the elbow path is moving back and upward and the grip is not quite as narrow. Um, but that would fully cover like all the angles of, of trening back, uh, for lats. Do you have something overhead vertical for upper back? You have something with, um, horizontal and then even a high steeper angle as well. Um, and then it just shift that order around, around priority. But Luke, right. It's not often we see guys with like huge lats and no traps. A lot of times it's a lot of trap and no lat. So programming lats first kind of makes a lot of sense. And it's also what's going to improve more of your stage shots than programming upper back first. Yeah. And a little bit equipment specific to not a lot of lap patterns load, very lengthened unless you have like, uh, like in the horizontal plane, unless you have like a Nautilus row or gym shop row, um, or unless you have like a prime pull down for that, that lap prime pull down that I covered in a YouTube video. Um, so I do like it earlier in the session because of that. Um, just a lot of mid shortened work for a lot of patterns. So would you say in that case, like if you don't have those pieces that when you get to towards the end of your failure point in full range to hit a few lengthened partials, is that the application there of lengthened partials now? Um, I would, I would get as much out of the full range as you could because you're going to be able to initiate that rep and get it probably halfway or threEQuarters of the way. And that shortened end range is just going to fatigue and it's going to be the heaviest where I would, this would be a place where I would implement that. The caveat here is you're just not changing the rep. Like people think this is an opportunity to add a rep to the log book and change form or change position or use momentum. Like it should initiate the same way your first rep did. Just, it's not going to get all the way there. Yep. Gotcha. Gotcha. Um, yeah, I think that would be very balanced in programming to how you can start with the pull day. So, um, anyway, uh, next question trening at 5am, should I split an of our AM and PM? So, um, to add on, let's for just some context, let's say this person's taking 10 milligrams of an of our would be taking five milligrams in the morning, five milligrams at night, or what would be the application? Yeah, I'm splitting it with the tren AM PM midday, whatever, uh, very short half-life. Um, usually splitting that dose AM PM. I do like one of the doses to be pre-trening. So that would be like the one caveat. Um, and so I do like in this scenario, five milligrams pre-trening in the morning, five milligrams later in the afternoon or at night. Um, and just kind of have that a little bit more coverage with that short half-life. Yeah. Yeah. The idea with bodybuilding and hypertrophy is for, to take advantage of all the pathways you're stimulating for hypertrophy is more of this long-term thing that needs to take place or rather just acute flood of androgens around the trening window to leverage some strength. So ideally, yes, splitting it and keeping your levels more stable would be again, big picture. This is getting nuanced, but yeah, get your total anivar dosing for the day and you're probably doing everything you need to, but I would say splitting it. If you're getting into like strength sport, that might change a bit with dosing a lot of it pre-trening only. Um, but again, that's a different application from bodybuilding. Yep. One hundred percent. Well, man, we've been 40 minutes. Do you want to hit these last few or do you want to? No, I think we'll stop there. That just, uh, these fly by when we're talking about them. Yeah. They're so good. I love it. Well, anyway, we appreciate everyone asking thEQuestions and hope you got some value from it. If you have other questions, you're welcome to leave them down below and look, and I can tackle those on another Q and a until next time we will talk to you then.