 cuando la Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent Zent competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. It's so interesting. It's almost like this whole peptide area. I know we're going to stay focused on Reddit today, but it just feels like another SARM kick. And like, it just like I was getting into bodybuilding almost kind of in the like, back into the SARM or the, I guess the early days of the SARM era. Right. And it's just like, it feels like everybody's talking about this grandiose new thing. And it's funny because like you look through the clientele roster of like everyone that's won pro shows and like pro cards and all these things. And like none of these processes have actually needed them, but let's talk at length today. Cause I think there is potential use case. And I think there's a lot of detriment we need to consider. And I think that this is how we objectively assess a tool is like, what are the positives? What are the negatives? Where are the applications? Do we potentially see this working and not working? And why would we potentially not use it or use it? Um, and I know, I don't know where you want to start, but I know you had an experiment with it. So we'll definitely probably need to talk about that at some point today as well. Yeah, definitely. I think getting to the actual application, cause there's a lot of theory of what people say it can do. And like, it all seems like it's amazing thing. Um, I, I do think it is, uh, for one, at least even the GLP ones and GIPS that have come out are, if you really could say they're game changers for the obesity aspect and metabolic syndrome. And we will get into like why those are the way they are, but Loretta is like on the forefront. And so maybe just breaking down how these drugs work, just, I don't want to go deep, deep dive science. It's not really us. We're more deep dive in application, but I think having some like framework around, so people do understand how, how the things work. Um, so, uh, GLP one stands for a glucon like peptide one. These are, this is an incredible hormone. So it is secreted through like food intake released primarily through, through the gut. Uh, the main, the main effects of like your GLP one. So we're have like increased insulin secretion. So you're going to help outputting insulin and control blood glucose. And the big thing is delayed gastric emptying. So you eat food, it makes you feel full. And that's what GLP ones naturally. And while you're taking a GLP one agonist, so, uh, food moves slower through your gut and you're not going to want to eat as much. And that is the big, big ticket item for the initial GLP ones, which that is where they're really hard hitting. Now, this is where our dual agonist comes about and you have get added to it was like the, the more recent drug you've seen in play is trizapatide. And so it's a dual agonist, which we had, it's a GIP is glucose dependent insulin, a tropic polypeptide. So it's another increased hormone, but when you combine these together and also not needing as much, um, GLP one agonism, it does have a little bit less side effects, but you do see more improvement in the metabolic aspect with a GIP added in. So improved it means in lipolysis and metabolic efficiency. Uh, now though we enter right, right at true tide, uh, the triple agonist pathway, which I, I think, I think it's, it's, they're really cool to look at. They really are. They are cool. Um, so, you know, with adding in like the Google on receptor piece to these, uh, it's when you can really see that you're, are able to now bring about, uh, increases in energy expenditure and fat mobilization. And there's even studies with, uh, people with, um, alcoholic or not even alcoholic, but just fatty liver in general decreasing fatty liver disease, um, has roles in being able to be neuroprotective, uh, increasing bone metabolism. And you have all the same benefits of your GLPs and your GIPs. So lower food intake, delay gastric emptying, improvements in insulin secretion, but also improvements in lipolysis. And now this increases in thermogenesis. So you're working on multiple pathways to make these drugs really, really effective in red at true tide has far outperformed the previous generations of these GLP ones, GIPs, uh, nearly double in some of the studies that I've seen, like you're able to get 15, 20% body weight loss. And it was, it was nearly cut in half from comparing to like trisipatide, which is significant. Um, so it's, it's no wonder, uh, bodybuilders are interested in, in these areas. And so that's kind of the rundown of how they work in general and their, their benefits around which we would see. But I think what we kind of need to get into is, you know, what, uh, we're looking at what would really be the, you know, competitors experimenting where we're actually observing into these specific competitors right now. What's what, what would be the, the purpose for a competitor? And so like, what are, what are you saying is like really the purpose driving forehand usage? It seems obvious, but we should talk about it. Yeah. And I think it gets like, I think it gets cross applied in a bunch of different applications that like take it out of context because some of the secondary benefits people see, like they improve lipid profiles and then potential for like lowered inflammation and things on those lines. And so like people want to kind of use it cross, cross, uh, not year round, but like cross multiple different phases and like phases that it wouldn't necessarily actually necessarily fit for with like some of these primary things that we've discussed kind of like walking through why, you know, it's kind of, uh, shining above the GLP ones and the gyps. And so, um, as a triple agonist, um, and, and for me, like how I'm using it with my clientele, um, I think there's a couple of places where it shines heavily. And the first one that I like think from an application standpoint that I've seen it, um, is in the females that are potentially a little bit more stubborn on the body fat side. Like they have a lot of trouble getting into true contest shape alongside the potential for psychological stress management within those phases that get really hard for these girls. So the reality for perhaps for these individuals is that getting in true contest shape is hard in and of itself. If you have a predisposition, uh, to not get into true contest shape, it makes your contest perhaps even harder and makes the food focus even higher. Um, and this is kind of potentially where like, I've seen the application be the most robust. Now it does come with like some things you've really got to watch for. And this is kind of where I want to get into like the benefits of attractions a lot, because like, I know you saw this, but like some of the, the lack of sleep improvement or the, the taking away from the sleep is a big one just from like increased central nervous system stimulation. Um, but the other one is like the delayed gastric emptying. When you go to peak these people on the backend, um, I think is something to bring up because the delayed gastric emptying component, um, can really make this tough. Um, if there ends up being a place where you need quite a bit of food. Now in this population that I talk about this female who has a lot of trouble getting into true contest shape, I think it's so ideal of a fit in this case study because the peaks don't often require much food, right? Like a lot of their preps, like the surplus that you're building and the fatigue drop that you're building in order to peak these girls is purely activity drop driven. Right. And so, you know, we can discuss like some applications of like, do you remove it at certain points for different people or not? But to me, like that's the gold star application. Like I know people are going to bring up the post show is like the, the one that they probably see is like the gold star. But like, if we're actually looking at like primary usage, primary potential of why it's better than these other drugs, that's where the application for me and where I'm actually like potentially using it in a couple client cases, it just stands out more than anything else in, in any other client case that it's been tested in. And I think there's a lot of misapplication because of the secondary benefits, because we start, we've created polypharm conversations due to the way that PDs are ran now of like all these things that come in from a, like a prophylactic standpoint. And so people start going down that path and trying to apply it. But would you agree that that's kind of like gold star primary application that you see potentially? Yeah, it's, it's primarily, if it means primary role, like what does it do? What does the drug do? And it's so you can control appetite and it has also some metabolic effects. When do you need the most appetite control? Like when food is lower and also can remove some just, you know, food drive for even food focus. So yeah, prep makes the most sense. And there's been a lot of resistance from people too on using because the quote unquote suffering and bodybuilding is like a rite of passage. And the idea of like making something easier, it just angers people. It's, it goes back to almost like you don't have to train to failure to grow muscle. It's like, it's kind of dogmatic. And you take that up as your own like belief system of I outwork people. And then you now have something where they can outwork you with a pharmacological agent and it's upsetting. However, these things are tools and you're using all a whole slew of drugs to get on a bodybuilding stage for some, but I've talked to, and I've used this in some clients where the, the real, I mean, the, I could beat them to death with training. They train hard and everything, but the, there's such a burden on the calorie deficit side that limits a lot of them getting to stage. Um, and also just managing their own fatigue and stress from hunger. And by even doing that, you're removing some of the mental stress load. I think people don't really consider that piece. So when you're that food focused, it can be very difficult for the psychological reasons, but also the actual true physiological reasons. So I have people now that like, they can diet on low food and it's like a tool to like, man, I can, if you, if you like reframe your thinking, I can push this even harder to get even in crazier condition. It's like, that's really what we want, like the outcome. Right. And so in that context, like I, I don't see an issue with using it. Uh, but there's some things just to consider with it that we should talk about as we get into the post-show period, uh, with this, you know, area, I think it's just really still use with any of the drugs that we talk about in bodybuilding is still using the lowest effective dosage to get the effect and then scale from there. And what you mentioned earlier that there is a polypharmacy that's occurring with a several different peptides and molecules that could have a lot of overlap in place. And it might be creating limitations and maintaining tissue, or even driving too low of blood glucose to where you have problem, like even fueling training. And so that's such a huge conversation on its own. Uh, I would, we really need to keep this in the context of this red, uh, though, but we, if anyone's out there wants us to do a full dive on the interactions between all these things and how to go about it would, would definitely be one to cover, but to stay just on the topic of RETA, you know, one part of its actions is increasing gluconeogenesis, which is creating glucose from, you know, acids. And the, the real reason why people lose tissue on some, some like semaglutide, trisipatide, even RETA for that matter is the rate of fat loss is so fast that you're going to, you're going to pull off some tissue from it as well. But these are also like the studies that people aren't training, you know, so just have to keep that your, if you kept your rate of fat loss well and able to sustain adequate amount of protein dieting in resistance training, like what lose tissue. Um, but you just don't need that much of it for an effect to really occur on the, on the fat loss side. Um, no problem talking about dosing either. Uh, what, I guess we, let's starting to stay, keep it in prep, Luke. Like what, what dosing wise have you seen, a range of effectiveness with? I haven't seen anything needed above two milligrams a week, to be honest with you. Now, are you doing that once a week dosing? Cause twice, okay. Twice a week. Yeah. Twice a week dosing. Have that's been the balance for you from not getting like a hard hit of it and impacting appetite. And then. I think, I think one of the things that like people need to understand is that because the way that my athletes execute and the way my athletes execute, how tight these, my athletes take their offseason and then how I transition these people into preps, like my need for it, I think relative is much lower than a lot of prep coaches because I'm, I'm dealing with a pretty high level athlete, right? Who most of them have built skills around like managing prep hunger signaling where that benefit doesn't really, it's not a big one for them. Um, so I think it's partly like, that's the client that I have predominantly on my roster. A lot of it from like a J3 coaching perspective. So like going over all the clients in J3 coaching and see the application across like a multiple different varieties of people. It's like, man, like these, these like benefits that we're seeing at such low dosing, like kind of outweigh the potential side effects you could see by pulling it way up. But yes, like the twice a week dosing is kind of my like balance. I tend to find with not hitting a massive dose, but also giving them like a little bit better of a spread with the, with the dosing. Yeah. That's what I had found too. If you give like, I mean, it does have a long half-life, but that doesn't mean that you should dose it based necessarily off just the half-life. Uh, just don't want you would, you will find that you'll get like hard appetite suppression those first days. Then it kind of tails off. Yeah. Which, uh, for our purposes in prep, we're kind of want this like more sustained. So just spreading your dosage out. Um, I, I do think the term micro dosing is kind of funny because taking it more frequently doesn't mean the dose. I mean, yes, there are smaller dosages, but I think if micro dosing is dosing as it relative to like the clinical studies at a low amount in any way, like in, in the studies, like you even like one milligram does a ton. So from someone that for a bodybuilding where we have other drugs present, and you're also going to be able to pull your food down and, and have cardio or steps or whatever, um, a little bit goes a long way, which like starting points could be, you know, I start people like 0.25 migs per week and then half a milligram can go really far. Um, even up to like one milligram is I can get a lot out of without having to go farther. Now there are outliers for sure. Like there's, um, I have some people that have gone up to like two milligram range and that, that just does a lot. Uh, but it does. Yeah. That would be the, the kind of the, the rare aspects in prep. Um, one thing I would bring up though, is that it can be, it can make you a little flatter and not able to be as full. And I mean, whatever being flat is fine. That's part of the prep process, but more so what's the issue is being fueled for training. And also if you're having like refeeds on the end of prep, not being able to get full and also having GI distress when you try to bring in those refeeds. And so that's, we're talking now on the tail end of prep. So as you're getting into shape, I would be titrating this dose down. And what you need to remember is with the, with the six day half-life, you're looking at a five time F5X rotation until you would completely remove it from your system. Yeah. So you're talking a whole month here before you'd zero out right on your system. So this is something that you need to consider. Like four to six weeks after your show, you should probably start titrating down this reddit to where you zero out on your peak week, uh, to have the best chance to actually fill back up. I think you wouldn't even need a zester zero out, but just having it to where you're back to a reasonable baseline dosage. Have you used any different strategies with it? Yeah. I've actually started titration at like six to seven and had full removal, like three to four. Okay. Because the, are these for people that are continuing to prep or people that are then moving to offseason or continuing to prep? Yeah. And I think this comes back to like my psychological profile predominantly on my team is like not an issue with hunger signal management. So like I, I can do this. Um, what would you do if it wasn't, I would tie trade all the way through till peak week. Okay. Yeah. I think that's a bit, cause for me, what's more important is that I'm getting the response that I want out of the peak, any potential peak loading testing, like any numbers that I'm collecting to help guide peak week. To me, that's more important because like, if I'm already starting titration, like six this week's out, like we've got like, you know, about four weeks for full clearance, we've got a little bit of dosing still going in. I'm getting some pretty accurate data, like 10 days out, right? Like 10 days out. It's like some pretty, really accurate data that's kind of guiding that peaking process. Um, but man, like I, I just see like the, the benefit of it and using it in the right cases is so high. And if you do this well, you can keep it from like ruining your peaks, but like, just from an anecdotal observation standpoint, like, I don't think it was, and we said this before, but I don't think you saw, I don't think it was a coincidence. You saw so many people miss peaks at the Olympia this past year due to this potentially being in play. Um, and it's not being able to gauge the response from a peaking perspective due to fluctuations in like how the delayed gastric emptying can change that, not only from like a food absorption perspective, but also potentially like an electrolyte balance perspective. Like, um, I just think you're just not getting consistency in the response. That's enough to predict a, uh, a visual on stage. Um, especially when you start using it with larger athletes. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and live Q and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah. I know, I know situations are on that. So that, that would be a great guideline. Just taper this out as you're getting into peak week. And, um, so you actually load and have better accuracy of gauging the response. Um, other things within prep that I think are something to bring up. And I, I know, uh, one individual is gone through J three. Oh, he ended up getting hospitalized because he got pancreatitis, uh, because it, it does reduce gastric acid secretion, which can impair pancreatic enzyme release. And, uh, can that one of the, one of the potentials and rare potential could be pancreatitis. So one thing you, you might need to think on, if you might need to be adding in like a betaine HCL to just help with protein digestion, pepsin, uh, that could aid the process as well. And how to just keep you digesting food well. And even, um, you know, we still keep in Tokyo or maybe even ox bile for, for digestive support. Um, those are some, some, some main things along with lines with that, uh, other things, at least, uh, you know, I'll, I'll, I'll save my case for like the offseason situation. Cause we'll, we'll talk about that. Yeah. But I think that needs to be brought up. Anything else in prep that comes to mind with, with its usage or limit limitations? The training performance one is the one, like we can't get into a ton because we're going to be giving a dissertation if we do, but like the potential for training performance detriment due to cross is like so high and I've just seen it. And it's like people who are test junkies, it's just like, so, so like that. And then the other thing is like, and just sharing this, like more, like we mentioned, like on the dosing, like more is not better. I did a consult. You'll laugh and then we'll get into your story. I did a consult a month ago, three weeks ago. And he was like, Hey, like, where would you like consider dosing? And I was like, yeah, I mean, like, I think probably max one or two milligrams. I didn't say like per week. He's like, Oh, per day. And I was like, what? And he's like, yeah, people over here doing it, like, you know, one to three milligrams a day. And I was like, what? Like, I don't, can't imagine how these people feel, but, um, the training performance one is a big one that I would just say, Hey, like for now, like, understand, like, this is something to consider and watch for, but maybe we can have a separate episode. Yeah, no, no. I mean, this always into it. Like you're yes. You want to be lean on stage, but you also need to bring the muscle with you too. And that requires being able to train at a high level. Well, let's, let's transition. Like this is moving now into prep from prep peak week and now post show. Cause I do find it has a, a great role post show. Cause I don't, maybe or post show is harder than prep to control appetite and hunger, especially, you know, you get that, that first taste of something tasty and that dopey bean hits you. And you're like, Oh man, it's, it's on. So, you know, that is the unique thing with, with red. It's not only just an appetite suppression actually can change this, the neurochemistry signaling around the cravings. Um, now they're not completely gone though. I will say even the guys that I have, like that have run it, there it's still there. Cause I have people that are like, I'm not hungry, but I still want the food. And that's like, sounds very typical post post show. Uh, so at least the people that I've implemented with post show is similar dosing that hasn't really changed. Um, basically started up like weekend of the show and titrate up as we need, uh, and then titrate back down as we get into offseason. Um, main thing is like as foods moving up, that's when you start moving red it down. I've had some people that just keep moving it up and they get a little hungry. They add a little more in and then it's just like, man, my appetite skewed. I feel really bloated. It's like, okay, yeah, this is, this is the problem. So, uh, what, what I, what I never wanted to use these for and why I was more resistant at first was because it's removing you having to learn, uh, for one, use hunger signaling and manage your, your meal timing and your actual food sources to become like a strategic dieter. And for some, it's just like, I just take this and it doesn't matter. It's like, you need to learn the skills and by doing so you won't need so much red as well. So always, you know, always put those things first and just take as little as you need to, to age you to get adherent to that type of eating patterns. Um, uh, another unique thing that I saw was, um, people going hypo post-show hypo and having like barely able to secrete insulin. Um, have you, have you seen this or heard of some people who haven't grown into that issue? I haven't seen it personally because like my usage is so mild in the few post showcases I've used it. I've kind of found like the dosing needs as much less usually, but again, psychological profile of my athletes probably contributing here. Um, I have heard other people talk about like the hypo piece, but not personally on like my roster with it. Have you run into issues with people who have come to you post-show with it or no, not really. How have you used it in the post-show period? I'm not even going above a milligram usually like, cause a lot of those cases that I'm using it, it's like I've had it in at some perspective within some combines of the contest prep. So like, I'm kind of using that as like my guide of like, okay, like if we saw two milligrams of the peak dose in the contest prep, I'm not re plugging back in because I've done the titration and removal for peak week. So I'm kind of following a similar, like plugging in guideline of like starting pretty low. I've just kind of found that like, by putting a lot of my effort into like diet adjustments and education on food and things along those lines, using this as almost like a training wheels. Like this is where I think post-show it's huge. Like it can be a training wheels for a successful post-show that creates a better relationship with post-show that then following post-shows will probably be even better. Um, because that relationship with food starts to improve. Um, cause the goal, and this is, this is where people think miss the goal is to get to a place where you wouldn't need it potentially. Right? Like that's the ideal scenario for like a really advanced, experienced dieter. Um, I honestly haven't been going above a milligram a week in those cases. So it's like been pretty low exposure relative to what I've seen some other people do. Um, but I've even had like half a milligram accomplish the goal in those situations. Okay. Yeah. It's, you know, basically like these are people that are, have removed the drug at the same time going into post-show like dieting. Yeah. And so probably from coming from a high, very high dosage is where you run in, into the problem. And the drug has been driving a lot of that insulin response. And then you don't have your own ability to keep that same response up. Um, so yeah, you have a, just a low insulin, your insulin sensitive, but a low insulin, uh, secretion environment. So you just have to bring food up slow, pace out meal timing accordingly. Uh, but it's, it's not going to be the best place to build muscle post-show. Like don't have a lot of insulin. It's a very important hormone to build tissue with. Uh, so yeah, some, it's something that just to reinstate like low dosing is really key here, but transitioning now to offseason, right? So, um, I, yeah, I had my own thing. I wanted, I wanted to try it in the offseason. That's just when this was all really getting hot. I'm like, all right, people talking about the offseason. The thing that really, uh, spurred my interest was how it was changing lipid profiles. Like it was actually raising HDL levels, lowering LDL and triglyceride levels. Um, you know, people were having really great A1Cs taking it, which makes a lot of sense if you're taking growth hormone, high amounts of food and more, or if you just run into that issue. So I tried it. I started low. I was doing a half a milligram spread throughout the week, four weeks in this seemed okay. I moved up to one milligram and from that point I was really starting to get like poor sleep. But at the same time, my, my gear was escalating too. So I'm like, well, which, which one is it? And then I'm like watching my resting heart rate data and I'm like starting to get up to higher, like 15 beats per minute over my baseline. And my sleep was just tanking bad. And I was waking up to pee and my heart was pounding. And like so much where you're like laying there, you're like, I can't, I can't sleep because my heart is so distracting. And I, there's a mix there of just having poor sleep from the drug, but also your heart rate, not able to allow you to have great sleep, but you're just in this constant, like revved up position on top of using steroids as well, growth hormone. And man, I was, I was not recovering for crap, even with a lot of gear present. And when I finally got that out of my system and sleep improved is when training finally took off for me. Like, man, I was recovering crap at that time. And that was only off a milligram for me. And for me, I was just like, this isn't, this isn't worth it because if you do all the things you need to in the offseason, staying lean, not eating like ridiculous cheat meals and gaining all your fat in one go, uh, keeping cardio in training, hard, all the basics, eat fruits and vegetables, et cetera. Uh, you will maintain really good insulin sensitivity and you won't need all these things and stacking them. People are stacking metformin and their MOTC and taking RETA and, uh, taking SLU and you're stacking on top all these things that are really fat loss agents. And on top of it, no one, no one talks about like all the stacking effects around, uh, increasing AMPK and it's in what could do that do with around mTOR and a protein synthesis. It's like, yeah, you're in a lot of drugs. Maybe you don't notice it. But again, if you're combining all these things for mitochondrial efficiency, a lot of longevity drugs, a lot of those aren't in favor of building muscle. So there's limitations there, but you know, I, I digress on that. Just going back to just the RETA piece. What does the drug do? And it doesn't really align well with the offseason. I think there's a lot of other tools you can use to keep your metabolic profile in a really good spot. But something that's going to be slowing gastric emptying when you're trying to drive a lot of food in is not the best tool to use. Yeah, no. And this is the one where I feel the most passionate about people trying to use it as a patch for habits because it's almost like they're trying to get away with murder in the offseason. Like have their cake and eat it too. Right. It's like, man, if you were just like a better athlete, you could just run a really tight, good process. You would see there's no need for this. And I get it. This is my comment I made at the beginning of the podcast. Like the potential for polypharm benefit and prophylactic improvements in lipids. Like you told me a drug could do that. It's like, yeah, dude, like sure. That sounds like a great thing. But like, then you circle back to the primary use case and like the primary benefit of this drug. It's like, this just directly opposes everything I'm trying to accomplish right now. Yeah. I mean, that was my thing. If I, if I, this thing really does that much for your metabolic profile, like, oh yeah, I'm all, I'm all for it. But if it's taken away from my ultimate goal of bodybuilding, then I'm, I'm not going to use it during that time. Uh, so, but now where does it apply? Uh, I think if you have individuals that, and I have a distinct client that I keep in mind, not does not need a lot of food in the offseason has a family history predisposition to diabetes and still wants to grow, get big using growth hormone, this, this tool fits in well with that, that individual, uh, this guy also like his A1c quickly skews up and his lipid panel quickly goes to crap. And it's just like you, uh, that becomes the bottleneck for him. And this is with all the other things already in place too. This is for that, that guy. And I mean, a low dose can go a long way for him when, when, when the high food is not the issue. Um, but again, that's the rare context. So people are talking like everyone should be taking it in the offseason, but that's, this is, it's just not the case. So. Nope. And it's just, I just, I, this, the, the blanket statements are what kill me. And then the reaction to potentially proposing that there's negatives we should consider, right? Cause there's certainly a use case for it. And I'll be the first one to say that, but I hope this sheds some really beneficial light because this is like so important to walk. Cause you do this with everything, right? Like, or if you're not, you should be right. Like everything you use with, yeah, I know, I know you should be, you should be right. You should be walking through the process of what's potential benefit, what's potential negative, what's the client profile. Does this match the need of that drug? Everything you use. I agree. I, the, the landscape around speaking to these other research chemicals has become like so desensitized and so many people are doing them that it becomes where it's acceptable and it's, it's okay. And if so many people are doing it, then it must be okay. And I think a lot of these have been simplified down to this drug does this for joint recovery, connective tissue. This one does it for fat loss. And they're just so simplified that you're don't, you lack a lot of understanding around like the mechanisms and do they apply, do they cross over? What are safety profiles? Like who is even the same for humans? Like all these drugs, they're only been in rodents. It's all theory. And the way I see people speak, I'm like, with such absolute like certainty around what it does. It's like, no, and we don't know what will happen in like 20 years, taking these things on top of all the other things that we do. Now, don't get me wrong. I, we're bodybuilders and using all kinds of crazy stuff. So yes, sure. We've, people have been experimenting since the beginning of time with supplements, drugs, all kinds of stuff. I would just always have a logical thought process before you're doing more experimentation on yourself. And Luke and I were, we are not a never use it or always use it. We are a understand it and see where it fits for the need of the client. And as a whole, is it moving you towards your goal or moving you away within also your risk profile? And so those are just all the things to, to consider around this and some things around some, I think some contraindications around it should be mentioned too. I think many people talk about these, but you know, if you have any type of digestive or motility issues already present in the GI tract could be problematic. If you had like something like gastroparesis, it could further that. Now we're getting kind of more into like the clinical side. People with adrenal insufficiency or impaired stress response, they could have risk of hypoglycemia or even having, if you had some type of history of eating disorders, I would really want someone to be managed by someone with specialty in that area than just self-prescribing or having your coach self-prescribed these things. And there's very well could be possible interactions if you are choosing to use certain diuretics, certain blood pressure medications, metformin as well. And so these are all things to consider in the hall of pharmacy area that you are combining these things in. So yeah, things to think about before you jump all onto, onto Retta. I love the contraindication conversation. I'll leave it there, but it's just so important. I'm married to practitioners. So like, I remember the first day I heard that word and I was like, talk to me woman. And I was like, this was like what, 2018 or whatever, 2017. And, uh, uh, man, it changed how I looked at everything we did right from like a screening perspective, but it's just, it's so important. Yeah. So, you know, with this stuff where, where it has its applications, we covered before you jump into this, go through your checklist. Is your diet structure optimized, making sure you have like, you know, adequate fiber intake on your prep to manage hunger, uh, high food quality and utilize voluminous foods, making sure you're leveraging steps and cardio to be able to have a high energy flux and, uh, you know, making sure you prioritize your sleep quality and not sacrificing on that because you're just going to be using Reta in it and realize Reta is driving a stress response in the body. If that's on top of, you already have a very stressful life. You're absolutely going to be limited and how lean you can actually get for stage and keep the tissue that you earned in the body fat or earned in the offseason. So, you know, our, our, our current stance around this thing is, you know, Reta, Reta True Tide is a tool. It's not a first line solution. Most physique athletes in our, and I would say in our opinion, Luke, right, do not necessarily need it. Um, and if it's set up wrong, it can really worsen your bodybuilding outcome. And so if you do use it, it's going to be something where you start low and you move up and this is moving up over weeks after assessing once it has a stable profile, but in very specific cases, you know, you can't really have improved adherence, but bodybuilding is not just about having the fastest weight loss, right? It's also about retaining tissue to stage and anything that appears with those outcomes, you really should have some hesitation with and consider if it's going to be right for you or not. But anyway, love to hear what anyone else thinks around Reta. You can comment and say, hey, I disagree completely with, with you and make sure you subscribe to the channel, catch on the, all the other topics that we cover and we will talk to you next time. you