 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Solving stubborn fat loss. Many of us have faced this problem in contest prep or just a fat loss phase in general, where things start slowing down or stopping at all. Or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, or hell, you start even gaining weight, and you're like, what in the world's going on? And are you really hitting a fat loss stall? How do you know that you are? And what should you do about it? And that's what Luke and I are going to address in today's podcast. It's a, it can be one of the most mind-boggling things when a prep is, like, stalling, and you're, like, trying to figure out why, and everything on paper looks like it's supposed to be moving the client in the right direction, and then, you know, you have to trenslate the paper to the actions, and then, you know, you have to trenslate the paper to the actions, and then, you know, you have to be able to do that. I think that's kind of some of what we're going to touch on today, because there can bEQuite an emotional attachment to kind of the rate of loss on the client side, wouldn't you say? Yeah, definitely, if you get a little scale-focused, and rightfully so, like, for the most part, the scale is going to need to go down for almost everyone in prep. IMean, I know using PEDs could maybe create some, like, re-compinGHappen, but these are relatively rare situations, and maybe that's more on the front part of our prep, but at some point, it usually trenslates to scale weight going down. The PED piece is probably the hardest part of coaching to see if you really are stalling or just, you know, mutating. But within the context for everyone else that is not in that situation, yeah, you do need to have, like, kind of this rate of loss, and for the most part, it should be on par with a good estimation of what a stage weight might be. And I think just starting to map that out for someone could be a good start point of where you should be tracking along to make sure you are on track. But, you know, definitely, if you're not seeing progress, the emotional side can get weighed in pretty heavy. It could cause you to make some rash decisions, right? And not only the rash decisions, but on the emotional side of the equation, it can lead to stress and anxiety buildup, which, if you combine that with any life variables that are potentially contributing to that as well, like extremely busy work schedule, or you're working with someone who's like a night shift worker, or even like relationship-based issues, you can see all of this start to compound and create issues within the contest prep. And it's pretty important to understand because there is certainly a human element to prepping people. It's kind of a big place of where the art of coaching takes place because we have, like, all the education and the textbook stuff that is physiological-based that we have to understand. But psychology can trump physiology in some cases. And so it makes the dynamic of, like, figuring out weight loss stalls sometimes pretty tough. Yeah, and even then, like, the emotional state plays into the physiological state. Like, they are 100% tied. Like, you could create an emotional state that absolutely does create a physiological response and cause you to stall out because of that. So all of those aspects really need to be managed. And I think the first thing to look at here is the basic of, are you truly stalled? And you have to define, like, what really is a stall out? And in a contest prep, we have a, you know, a finite timeline that we're working within. And usually this is going to be, when you're starting to see, like, that 10 to 14-day mark of just a body weight just maintaining and the visuals also maintaining. And there's a difference there between, like, stall and just slow fat loss. Because someone might still be moving along. It's just slower because of maybe several reasons that we could go into. But when someone's just not moving at all and you even, and if you're a coach out there, you probably have lowered someone's food or raised up their cardio and just nothing still happens. And they still don't move. And you're like, well, that mathematically doesn't make sense, right? So, the first step in this is trying to confirm the deficit. So, make sure just errors aren't happening within all your variables that you have set for someone. Yeah. And you'll see this happen a lot with, like, especially the calories just sneaking into the diet. So, there's a bunch of different ways this can happen. But big ones that you'll see would be, like, excessive sauce use. You'll even see people starting to do this with, like, trying to feel full. So, they'll start adding things that, one, jack their sodium up pretty quick. But, two, also potentially bring in some untracked caloric intake. You'll see the veggie intake go up. You'll see, like, all these additional things being added to the meals. And it's pretty easy to add up, you know, over time. You start doing this across the board with multiple things. This could be drink flavorings. This could be gums, like, excessive chewing gum, things along those lines. It really can start to add up in a bunch of different places. Because it's super easy for someone who, especially the people who are in their earlier years of prepping, to start to introduce these things. And it can be pretty, pretty. I have a funny story that I have to share. Neto had a client, and I'll leave their name out of it. But, you know, the, if it's not, you can't believe it's not butter spray? They were opening the, if you can't believe it's not butter spray, and pouring it on their meals. Because it says zero calories on the back of the bottle. Yeah. That poor, poor person. And then when you do have that, like, teaching moment, you're like, oh, it's such a letdown. Yeah, it is. But I think that's an important point, is just to take an inventory of all the nutritional inputs. So everything that goes in your mouth, if you can track it, then you should be. Now, this is in the situation of a prep, right, when we are trying to get to these, you know, lower ends of body fat. For, like, a lifestyle client, there could be some air there, and maybe that is enough to get them to their goal. But when you're really having to get and address these issues where someone's stalling, you really have to take a pretty hard inventory. So I would recommend, like, tracking all your food with chronometer. And some people are following a strict plan, but, and I've done this with plans of, like, where you give them, you know, your set foods, and maybe you have some, like, general guidelines around, all right, only calorie-free sauces. It's like, well, what does that mean for someone? Like, let me see all the sauces that you are using. And maybe some of these are just low calorie, and how much are you using? And can we track these things? Other things that, you know, you need to realize about food labels is that some things don't need to be counted as calories. One that I've come across is, like, amino acids. Amino acids don't count as a protein under FDA labeling, so they don't have to contribute to calorie counting either. So a lot of times you'll see in your EAAs or BCAs or whatever, your glutamine, that it's zero calorie. That doesn't mean it's a freebie calorie. So I've seen people add up to an extra 100 grams of protein, all from amino acids, which, regardless, you know, some of these amino acids vary. They're not actually four calories per gram. They're very close. But it could be easily another 400 calories from protein. Now, given that protein is very hard to store as body fat, and also it has a greater thermic effect of food. So, you know, you could have a higher protein intake and have it, like, stall you necessarily because it's not a great fuel source. But nonetheless, it's still calories. And correcting those issues and bringing that amount down could get someone moving again. But that's just another area where it might be a calorie that's not being tracked that you wouldn't know otherwise. Same thing goes for, you know, low calorie, non-nutritive sweeteners. Every packet of, you know, Sweet Low or, you know, Splenda, they have dextrose or maltodextrin added to it. Now, it's such a small amount. It's like 0.7 gram of carbohydrate. But I had a client one time putting 20 packets in oatmeal. Now, do the math on that. That's 14 grams of carbohydrate from dextrose. When someone's on maybe only 100 grams of carbs, you just made a 15% increase in your carbohydrate intake. So all these things are needing to add up, and that's when we have to get really get the microscope out and look over everything that could be calorie contributing. And maybe it's not a stall. It's more just an inaccuracy of the calorie deficit. But I don't know if you have anything else to add around that, Luke, but otherwise shifting over to overestimations of output. Yeah, I think it's the last thing I would say is the more you can keep the stuff consistent from the beginning of prep to the end of prep is where you kind of avoid some of this stuff. Like I know people want to, you know, deal with cravings or whatever it might be. And there's, I guess, ways to do that as long as you're tracking it. But when in doubt, like that consistency is always going to be king. I think the energy expenditure one is one that's not discussed very often because this can come from a couple of different places. But the biggest place that I see this is effort. Motivation at the beginning of prep is high. Go in for your, you know, 10,000 steps in your maybe 20-minute cardio session or whatever. And that 20-minute cardio session is like efficient. You're like looking at, you're like on a high. You're like, we're starting prep. I'm about to get shredded, whatever. And you get like 10 weeks into prep. And that saying, cardiovascular activity is like much slower. There's not as much effort put into it. You've already started adapting to cardiovascular activity. So you're not getting the heart rate elevations that you were seeing. And so this is kind of like one of the places you can easily overestimate the energy expenditure that's going in. It's just straight from like an effort portion of the equation. Yeah. You'll have someone that's, for one, getting lighter in body weight. Also, they're getting cardiovascular adapted. So you're getting more efficient with utilizing calories for cardio. And all that can lead to just burning less calories. So let's see, at least on the cardio side, have a way we can track effort level. And not just effort, but more so heart rate, I think, is a relatively good tool because you're more somewhat tracking the adaptation and making sure you can keep heart rate up at a range. The issue around that too is going to be that at some point to keep that heart rate up, fatigue might become a real problem. And that's when you kind of need to balance some fatigue metrics, which we'll talk about here in a bit. But, you know, from that point of view, I need to also be checking, you know, what modality you're doing for your cardio. What does that even look like? Because I know we've used the step mill a lot in bodybuilding. But then you see how someone does the step mill and they're like draped over it, right? And I've watched my heart rate doing the step mill. And, like, when I hold on, my heart rate will drop, like, 10 beats per minute compared to when I'm not. But if I was just told, like, hey, step mill, level eight, it's like, okay, there's going to be a whole lot of difference in calorie burn with how I implement that cardio. Same thing goes with incline treadmill walking. Like, holding on and not holding on is a big difference. Because when you're leaning back so far that it no longer looks like an incline, you know, you're more like now a flat walk. So those are things to think about. Like, hey, no holding on. Like, you might need to leave notes on your clients for what that might look like. And then some way to be tracking just daily activity. Because I used to do the prep where I didn't track activity at all, no steps. And you just preserve your energy. So you, like, I work at the hospital. I have a wheelie chair. I used to get up and, like, walk over to get, like, you know, whatever paper for the printer or whatever I needed. Instead, I just kind of, like, push back and, like, roll each air back over to the other room, this side of the room where I need things. So you just get super lazy. And you end up decreasing your output, whether it's just how you sit, your posture, all the way to, like, creating the most efficient routes for you to take to preserve that energy. So things to start thinking about. And, like, that's why we track steps as kind of an indirect measure of NEAT. But, again, some things that you just need to standardize and make sure and be conscious of. Because before, just being, like, conscious of that piece, you'll start catching it more often of how you might be getting a little lazier on prep and making up that deficit through just outputting less. Yeah, 100%. There's also the component of fluid retention, which I think can be a couple different inputs. Fatigue is kind of typically the first one that comes to mind. But that kind of goes with, like, the energy expenditure, in my opinion. Like, how you see someone not only executing that energy expenditure, but, like, the effect that it's having and making sure that, you know, kind of pushing into point number two of checking trening. Like, fatigue management is a part of prep. It doesn't mean that it's not going to be challenging. But we need to be aware of that component of the fat loss process. Yeah, with fatigue, and I know we've seen, like, the Minnesota starvation study where they take people to dieting extremes. And basically, it's showing, like, everyone will keep losing at a certain number. That it may get really slow. But even through, like, you know, adaptive processes, if you keep getting someone lower in food and higher in output, they will keep moving. So it doesn't seem like there's as much of a true stall. However, we do see it happen in practice. So I know some people like to quote that study, and those were males in the military that were in that study. However, we definitely see, like, some people that are just more resistant to weight loss. And with fatigue and high cortisol levels, you know, again, we're not just working within this math model of calories in, calories out. Within a person and all the physiological processes, you've seen some wild stuff happen to where you absolutely can create a negative hormonal state that can just be so resistant to losing body fat. Because we're not just talking about weight loss at this point. Like, we have an aesthetic that we're looking for of low body fat and high muscularity. So if this hormonal state through dieting extremes is swaying into the negative realm, it absolutely doesn't lend to our goal and could cause someone to have a true stall out. And it does happen. But one thing to hopefully look over that I like to review when someone is stalling is that fatigue metric. And look into that one pretty hard because a lot of times it's someone that likely has been getting pushed enough. And if you have all the signs of high fatigue, like, hey, you know, I have zero energy during the day. Maybe there's a decline in sleep. What's trening performance doing? Is it on the decline? Yes. Yes. Okay. So fatigue could be a problem. What areas can we drop off fatigue? And which one area to look at is trening? So I've seen programs that have insanity volume in contest prep with set extenders, short rest periods, almost creating like a cardio metabolic type of workout out of their weight trening. This goes for guys. I'm not just talking about females as well. But just the volume levels that just extend way beyond what's needed and is a very fatiguing way to create for your weight trening. And then in turn, you're on a per set basis. Your effort's just not there to create a good stimulus to retain tissue. And that just causes you. And that just causes you to just turn into a smaller version of yourself. So maybe this evening, the person that's like dropping some, but they're not gettinGHard and leaner. And that's usually a trening effort piece or trening effort plus too much volume. So those are things to address around the trening side and kind of look through and sort like what exercises could be driving like excessive fatigue, where volume might be too high, then also setting of like, hey, we want straight sets. We want adequate rest times. And then really trying to increase thEQuality of that volume and do less of it. Yeah, and I think it's just even to like a point of understanding it's okay to deload during a prep and you should plan for that within mapping your timelines out. I actually gave – we did an education – I did an education session with the coaches like a couple weeks ago, kind of showing what the stereotypical prep looks like and kind of where you see a lot of deloads fall. If it's like the ideal scenario of a client, kind of where you'll commonly see like volume drops where potentially a deload comes in. And building that into your timeline is huge because it allows you to hit the reset button a bit in case you don't get it exactly right as far as when to pull volume back and like keeping that recovery capacity kind of right at above where you're capable of recovering from. And it can really save contest perhaps if it's pulled at the right time. And so I think that's kind of the last piece that I would say with the trening status is giving yourself time on the timeline side to have that deload at some point so that you don't get into the mistake of having to push so aggressively that you just accumulate fatigue more because you are behind. And I think that's – it's so, so overlooked of like picking your timeline for prep plays a huge role in how well you manage the trening side of keeping fat loss rolling. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the off-season? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from off-season to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, and with deloading, like the idea here is just take the shortest amount of time needed to get back into a productive fat loss and trening state. So, you know, the real truth here is like likely you're not going to have like a, you know, 7, 10-day deload in your contest prep, and there might be a degree of fatigue that's just going to be staying there. But we are looking for like, hey, the nexT3 days we're taking off from trening low steps with maintenance food, see what that does impact-wise. We keep going, and then we kind of adjust as we need around that. But it's not typical that we're running a traditional, whatever a traditional is for, usually you hear a 7-day deload is kind of the norm, right? We like everything mapped out in weeks. That's just not the case. A lot of times it can be just a couple days off from trening and pushing, and that gets someone enough back on track and drops off fatigue. But the problem is is when you get that person that's been going nonstop for weeks on end, it can take a while to really bring someone back and drop off enough fatigue that they are able to keep the dieting process going. And a lot of times that's the person that's way better for their second show because usually they go into peak week, they drop off fatigue, they have some more food, and then finally towards like the next week they start moving again, and they're dieting and more food. You're like, what? It was this magic that's happening. And usually it was just such a fatigue drop that their output increases that much. And now that the deficit is far greater than when they even had lower food because of that increase in need, increase in trening output. So that might be the case for a lot of people that have been strening together a lot of cumulatural weeks of fatigue that they need a really big drop back to keep that moving. And one other thing to address here too when you're getting into this is the adaptive component for individuals. So you're going to see that there's people that are more metabolically flexible and unflexible, and we could even call these like a conservative versus more of a liberal dieter. With that conservative person being like a little food decrease goes really far. So those are your clients that likely are not seeing fat loss stalls. You lower food a little bit, and they just keep moving all prep long. But then you have more of the liberal dieter where they will keep adapting as you lower food. And that's the person that likely can run into stalls pretty quickly. It's the person that usually might get up to really high food offseason, but also gets really low food in contest prep. But regardless, with either person, you should be checking lab work before prep begins. To make sure they're in a hormonal state that will be positive and help them carry out the process. Nothing that needs to be addressed like thyroid hormone before. And then always try to play in labs like mid-prep when you're kind of getting into that digging phase of prep to confirm if we've already made some type of thyroid implementation or maybe other hormone areas that could be addressed. And then from there, we can adjust it. Or if that's something that has not been implemented yet, maybe it very well could be time to be implemented. And I will say like the reality of coaching is a lot of times this stuff is going in more on the biofeedback basis with thyroid hormone for the enhanced competitor that a lot of times on the front of prep, we're just already putting thyroid in to account for the inevitable decline in thyroid that's taking place. Then when you're really that mid-prep lab pull, you can adjust dosaging from there. Versus, oh, I think someone's stalling out. Then you waste two weeks. Then you pull labs. Then it takes another week to get labs back. Then it takes another week for this competitor to get in the right thing that you want them to be running. And then here we go. We're four weeks down the road of like suboptimal thyroid and also taken away from the timeline. So the reality is you're not going to see like thEQuote-unquote right approach to addressing thyroid by, oh, yeah, we're seeing maybe a thyroid decline, pull labs, and then dress it. We kind of have to really stick to our timeline, and that's how it kind of works in the coaching world and in reality. Yeah, and I don't really want to – I'm going to do it anyways. Kind of skipping to like a later point that we were going to make is we don't want to use that, oh, I'm just plugging this in kind of excuse so that I don't waste time into being – using PDs as a crutch. Because I do think that we do kind of potentially have some people that will use that as a lean-to to say, cling goes in at this point in prep or T3 goes in at this point in prep without actually seeing the biofeedback there. I think it's pretty important to understand when we talk about bringing the best physiques to stage that we're really in tune with the biofeedback for each athlete. Like I just had an athlete who won a classic as you can bodybuilding overall at a regional show in Canada, Alex, and he is – I think it was like seven or eight weeks out from the pro qualifier that he was doing, and he was pretty much – he was like a pound away, maybe two pounds away from fully stage ready that we're planning for the pro qualifier with no T3 usage whatsoever, just like a conservative-type dieter where you make one change and he just keeps moving. It's like you're not really seeing any presentation of adaptations in the hypothyroid-based portion of the spectrum. And so there was no need to plug it in, and he's still moving, so I still haven't plugged it in like for the pro qualifier. It's like not everyone sees the adaptive response to the level that intervention is needed, and I think that's where being a coach and having good tracking metrics and understanding the biofeedback response that you would see for someone hypothyroid, like what are those biofeedback metrics that you need to be asking questions or looking for in your tracker in order to see that it is time to plug these in is huge because it's like there's two sides of the aisle, right? Like we can't waste time always because the reality of coaching is, like John pointed out, the lab work thing can take forever. It needs to be a part of the preps, but we also need to be making decisions based off accurate biofeedback the client's giving us and not just using it as this is the time point in which XYZ goes in. I didn't even plug in Trinblone for the regional yet. He was like the hardest on stage. Like it's just you don't have to use everything on the table for every show. Like it's just so important. Yeah, I have one client right now, very conservative diet, right? Make a couple changes, he just will move and he's like, man, I haven't even used Trin or Clin yet. It's like, yeah, like honestly, we probably won't need to. Like it's just how your response is to fat loss and importantly, managing all these things that we're talking about on the front end to where you don't, you try not to run into these problems, which for everyone, I'm going to just quickly kind of hit a few bullet point list items of where you can prevent yourself from shooting yourself in the foot on a planning perspective. For one, just dieting too aggressively increases fatigue and poor trening, right? And so that usually we see happen on the back end of prep when you're trying to catch up. The other issue is on the front end of prep, dieting too slow, which can lead someone like just mentally burnout. Maybe no visual changes are really happening. And then you go back to point number one, dieting too aggressively. So there needs to be a balance here of, and usually what we aim for is a little bit more aggressive out the gate dieting. It's motivating, see somEQuick changes. You have higher body fat and able to retain tissue really easily. And then you slow it down as someone's getting leaner. How you run into not having to go back into aggressive, aggressive dieting is you just allocated plenty of prep timeline. Luke and I keep harping on prep timelines because it is that important. It's the number one reason people do not get stage lean is they run out of time to diet. So have enough time that can solve a lot of your problems that you run into with someone stalling out from fatigue or overaggressive dieting and then making up the deficit by other means. Another one too is mismanaged refeeds, cheat meals used in prep. These things are highly items that you likely won't need until you're really stage lean. We've well established here that they're not going to be metabolism boosters. They absolutely will bring you a little bit out of a state to where you can keep trening performance up, and that's how they should be intended. We're not on the early end of prep trying to look at how refeeds are going to be utilized to like peak for a show yet, that you're not there yet. So you're better off on the front end of prep using more de-output days, lowering fatigue through less cardiovascular activity, or taking off from trening versus having more food going in and then making up your deficit for the week and in turn taking away weeks of dieting in your process. And then the other last point I want to give you too is not setting up your program to have like overly aggressive output structure, which this is the person just doing like hard style cardio and not tracking steps at all. So people doing it on the step mill, high level for long durations at a time, easily accumulate a ton of fatigue, and then that same person might not be moving for the rest of the day. So these are some few items I'm planning that can prevent a lot of the stall stuff from happening to begin with. But I'll throw this back to you, Luke, now of like you have done all this or maybe not, and you still have someone that's stalled out. We get to now like the what to do. What do you do once you are in that situation? We talked a lot about kind of why it happens, how to prevent yourself from getting there. But if you are there, what do we do at that point? Yeah, it's kind of variable depending on the client. And I know some of my clients, like I sometimes I'll respond to a check-in, like initially asking some like pointed questions. Like I'll have like a bullet point list of pointed questions based off what I've read on there, check-in response, and I wait for them to respond to that before I kind of go in and make a decision. It's because I'm looking at these what to do aspects of kind of like how do I either improve their variables, like I'm asking about how are they executing their cardio, what does their everyday process look like, kind of what does their day-to-day schedule look like if I haven't already covered that with them, ensuring that sleep is intact, doing all the like foundational variable stuff, and then kind of looking for anything else that could address to any of the other things we covered as a root issue in order to try and address it. Now the one that I do think is overlooked sometimes is, especially on the female side, if you haven't been on top of potentially addressinGHormone profiles or potentially it's an early competitor who hasn't ran into hormone profile issues, this can be something you want to make sure that you check as well. And this just comes with some pre-planning on the lab work side from a prep perspective. But once you cover all of these things, we really have to start asking thEQuestions of, is it, does the timeline make sense? And I think that that's kind of the hardest question to ask is, as a coach, if you go through on the what to do and you check all the foundational variables, you double check that the deficit's actually the deficit, you're looking at fatigue and already manage that aspect of it, and you're still not seeing that person move, it might be the call that the best package or the best physique that gets put on stage is not within the confines of this contest prep. Yeah, I've had some females where, gosh, we're moving like half a pound a week, if that, some weeks not, and we still have weeks left of dieting. And you see it in like, the math is like, they're not going to get down to the estimated stage weight of what they need. So we're looking at like, well, we could extend this out. And there's just nothing left to play. Like, they're already high cardio, they're already with low food, and fatigue is also a problem. You've done everything, and it still accumulates over a few days where they kind of hit the wall, you need to pull back, and there's just nothing really much left to do. So the only thing that you do have left is more time to get them down. And when you're looking at someone that's like seven plus weeks to continue that, and they still won't make it, it's like, man, maybe we should reconsider here, and that this prep needs to get pulled back some, bring up food, kind of run the longer diet break period, and then maybe go back to a fat loss phase from there. You know, there's situations where like, again, it's the female side, it's just more detrimental on the hormonal piece. But you have a female, and say this isn't you prepping them, but they've dieted pretty hard, and they got conditioned for their first show. Maybe they were able to do that a second time as well. But eventually they might come to you when things stop working, and you're left in the position to diet them for this next show, and they just don't respond. And we see this, like when you keep dieting people really, really hard, and not doing the off-season work that needs to happen, to not just get them to a point of improvement for stage, but metabolically to a place to be able to repeat the diet process, that eventually they just will stop responding over time to prep. It's not the new coach that you worked with, it's just the accumulation over years of what you've been doing. And so that is time to like, hey, do you need to take a step back from prepping, and actually have a duration sitting with a higher calorie surplus, probably a higher body fat level as well, before continuing this prep. And that's a lot of times we run into those type of clients that, yeah, they hope it will come to us with all the tricks to be able to utilize, and it's like just everything's already been played. And it is time to like back off from competing for a bit to be able to repeat that again. So, and that goes into the thing about, you know, addressinGHormones just like we talked about. Now there is the more the short term, as like I have some clients now that they are slow to drop body fat, and I had someone just recently look like it's a stall. They work hard during the week, but then they have the weekends off. So usually you might see you kind of weight climb during the week, then it drops off on the weekends, which that's kind of that client you see where like fatigue management is going to be a real challenge for them. And then when you do see them kind of stall out, you're left with some options here of like testing out, dropping output, maybe a little more food, see if that gives them moving. Then off that, you know, okay, this is someone that's just having more of a fatigue masking the deficit. But then if that's not the case, if I challenge them with that and nothinGHappens, I don't see them drop. It's like, all right, I'm dropping food pretty aggressively. And through that is usually when someone will keep moving, when they just need more deficit present. And that is that type of liberal dieter where you just get to keep pushing them, keep pushing them. And there's going to be a point maybe where you'll run out of tools left to play. But that was kind of the first area that I look at when I do have some variables left to play. Like let me create the deficit with the least fatiguing means possible. So for like the client that I have in mind, hunger is not a big issue. It's a busy individual. So doing extra activity is kind of a problem. So if you're not hungry, hey, let's lower the deficit and leverage that part of the diet. And usually that can keep someone moving. So I'm always looking at where can I create deficit with the least fatigue possible as that type of dieter usually is going to be very problematic with fatigue. 100%. And I think that's kind of where the decision-making process can leave someone in a better spot at the end of prep too. Like there are some of those preps with liberal dieters that it just sucks. Like you cringe at some of the decisions you have to make to get them all the way there because of how quick they are to adapt to changes that you make. But those decisions, eight weeks, 10 weeks, 12 weeks out that kind of bias it towards the lifestyle that they have or what can a lot of times get them over the finish line, in my opinion. Yeah. Yeah. It's a lot of times it's what's needed and you know, you shouldn't see a program and criticize a coach of like other, it seems like we're a little sensitive now to seeing someone like a, you know, a female on a thousand calories in two hours of cardio. Like if this is the tail end of prep, that very well can be reasonable for certain people that have that genetic proclivity. Um, but the problem is more so if they're like 20 weeks out and that's the start of their plan. So, you know, always have context when you're looking at what someone's doing, but all that matters is what do you need to be doing? Because you're going to see people that are dieting on 4,000 calories and it's disgusting than other people that are extremely low and is one doing a secret that you need to know about and is another one doing something wrong that you definitely don't want to be doing. And that might not just be the case, just the genetic variance that we see within the process. So, you know, again, compare it to yourself and just to keep improving your own process, be analytical, dive in through your variables and see where you can leverage and create more efficiency and make your dieting process run smoother. And that's what we're always aiming to do. And after years and years of doing this, still trying to find areas to improve. That's part of the fun in bodybuilding. So, hope you all enjoyed this one. Hope you don't run into a fat loss stall and you just keep getting shredded. Anyway, thank you everyone for tuning in and we'll talk to you next time.