 tisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesisesises A lot of aspects that we can talk about coaching on the X's and O's. And we do that in the coursework in level one and all the other courses that we've built. Why are we doing what we're doing with the physiology of it? But the reality of coaching is there's truly an art. Not every person is going to be the same or be able to apply these principles in the same way. We have to learn to be able to pull the most out of clients. And I think it's a really great place to kind of have this art of coaching conversation. And I think it starts with communication. So, Braden, I think with the communication side, something that I would propose is obviously we have check-in systems, right? But sometimes that check-in system from a communication standpoint is going to look a bit different. Like what's some of the ways that you're looking to make sure that communication is sufficient with the athletes that you work with? Yeah, so, yeah, like you said, Luke, not every client is going to respond the same. Not every client is going to fill out everything that's required on the check-in forms, right? So you have to definitely be able to listen and assess each client differently and then interpret, you know, the details coming back and then be able to communicate that back with the client. Say how important each item is on that check-in form. That's usually what I do to start off. And, you know, there will be some clients that just won't do it. They just won't fill out everything. They'll get you the bare minimum stuff and you have to work with that from week to week, which makes it challenging, right? I think the big thing is just with that client, making sure that whichever formalities of communication that they're good at, you'd kind of double down on that. Double down on that. So, you know, if the check-in isn't filled out 100%, you know, at least shoot them a message, talk to them in a chat or whatever the case is. Maybe, you know, you have to have a phone call with them every week to pull that information out of them. Or if they're better, you know, from like an audio perspective, get them to send you a voice message or a loom video kind of talking about their week. So that's usually what I do. It's some great tools to use. I use the voice message and the loom videos quite a bit. I do set time limits to them. So typically it's in that four to five minute, like don't go over this. Like you should be focused on delivering me the deliverables of the check-in of like things that happened or things that went poorly or things along those lines. Because you'll see a lot of weeks like for the clients to do that. The audios and the videos are one to two minutes because everything's going great. They're progressing, all that kind of stuff. They don't really have much to share. But where I think coaches really start to come in, I think this is where the art of coaching comes in, is like when stuff starts to hit the ceiling fan to avoid some of the four-letter words, knowing that I have a two-year-old daughter, it's one of those things that that's where the importance of a coach comes in. It's like how are we going to fix this? And with communication being a two-way street, it's so hard for us to fix a problem if we don't even know fully what's going on and like all the potential variables that can affect that. And I'm going to kick this second question to you, Colton, because I think this is something you do really well as a coach, is the ability to read between the lines and the ability to listen is a skill from an emotional intelligence standpoint you have to have. And I think it's something you develop over time with athletes as you work with them because people express things differently. You have people who shut down in times of challenge. You have people that get more expressive in times of challenge depending on their psychological profile, right? So, Colton, I think this is something you do well. Is there any tips, tricks, things that you focus on when you're kind of going through this screening process of whether it's listening to the client in a voice note or a call or reading between the lines if they're not doing a great job with that written communication to try to start to pull out this information you need? Yeah. So kind of like you said, I kind of call it like reading the subtext. So, you know, they're saying one thing, but in their check-in, they're kind of like telling you another thing, right? So like it's like I feel good. Everything's going great. And then you kind of read through like fatigue is like really high or stress is really high. And so I think something that like takes time and it takes like kind of knowing your athletes is like when that's real, like when they're actually feeling super stressed or super high fatigue or something along those lines, right? And again, I think that just kind of takes time into kind of understanding your athletes. And kind of like Brady, you both touched on with like the videos and the voice chats, man, you can, especially if someone's like, like really digging and prep their voice will kind of tell you a lot more than what they're actually saying. You know what I mean? You can, you can get a lot out of just like how they're talking or, or how drawn out their sentences are. So I think you can, you can pull a lot from that too. So is there any objective metrics you're using to kind of confirm that like scale weights or anything like that? Like, is there anything in that more objective side you use to try to confirm this objective? Well, so, I mean, yeah, like if, I mean, if they're for, to me, right, if that scale weight started to trend up, like it probably means like we probably need a break somewhere, right? Like we're building a lot of inflammation and fatigue or whatever that looks like. And it's like, Hey, maybe we need to pump the brakes for a little bit. Or like my, my favorite saying is like, bring them up for air. You know what I mean? Maybe a week and a half of hard digging and then like they're beat up. And something I really respect a lot about my athletes is they're willing to just to keep going. Like if I say like, Hey, we're, you got more. They're like, Hey, we can keep going. Right. And so that's something where like, you're talking about being the coach and knowing like, Hey, can they dig, but is it going to be beneficial or is it going to set us back a little more? We're having to dig out of this bigger hole. It's huge. Braden, is there anything you use as far as like trying to screen for this outside of just like learning someone's communication styles? Well, I think it's a two way street, right? Cause you'll get the client that, you know, he might cry wolf a little bit too early where, you know, he's saying, or she's saying like, Oh, I'm gas. Like I'm fatigued. My legs feel heavy, all this stuff. But is that really true? Right. So sometimes getting that voice message from them or jumping on a quick call to kind of assess that further can give you a better understanding or idea because maybe the weights are still moving in the gym. You know, appetite is still in a normal spot. Their sleep is still good. Right. So that could be a false indication of them, you know, feeling fatigued, but it could be a mental, it could be a mental battle at the same time. I have, I have such a good client story for this. It's, it's, uh, the longer you do this, the more of these you gather up. I had a client and I'm gonna leave their name out of it. Um, that when you look at their metrics, like sleeping seven and a half hours at night at like six weeks out, weight trend was averaging about half a kilo to three quarters of a kilo down each week. Performance in the gym was going really well, but they had some outside life stress that was going on. And it was like, this is horrible. I can't manage this. And it was one of those clients that wanted to be a pro and you just have to sit this person down. And it's like, Hey man, like I get that this can feel overwhelming, but there is nothing here that tells me you're not adapting to prep the way that you need to. You need to have a better control on your outside life and manage that well. Because if that continues for a long period of time, it will start to show up in how well someone progresses in a prep. Right. And so I do think it's important to screen when someone brings this up, because it might be something that's going to be a problem down the road. And you need to have that, for lack of a better word, come to Jesus of like, Hey, you've got six weeks left. Get your stuff together and let's focus and nail this because there's nothing here that tells me you need to deload. And it's just, it's time to win. Right. And so it's really hard to start to pull that out. But I like to use those other metrics to screen for that, like sleep quality, digestion quality. You can see even like, if you have mood ratings on yours, like rapid declines in mood or anything along those lines. I've even seen like people start to say work gets overwhelming just because they're so less efficient because fatigue is so high. Like these are those in between the line things. And I think it's, it's huge, but I think that kind of starts to bring us into your ability to problem solve from that point. Right. It's like, how do you build solutions for clients? Well, to kind of jump back into that, kind of your, what you're talking about with athletes and potentially crying wolf and stuff like that. I think part of our job, and since all of us are all athletes and we've kind of already been there, I think an important thing for us is to kind of explain some of these processes and what they're going to feel like. Um, you know, coming from a guy until I was with J3U that had never like been fully like, we'll call it like stage lean. That feeling between like being lean and stage lean is a huge difference. Right. And I don't think you truly understand that feeling until you've been there. So I think with, with some of the athletes, like kind of explain to them, like, man, this is, this is what it feels like. This is what you got to do to get your goal, man. Like you said, like, even if you break it down into smaller metrics, like I need you to dig hard for another week. And then we're going to like, we'll bring you up for air. Or if it means like another two weeks, like, I think even setting those smaller, like, uh, goals for them to make it is like, it's huge too. Um, so that's, I think that's a huge piece is just kind of also letting me know that that's normal. Like nothing's wrong with them. It's just, that's part of the process. Yeah. And, and identifying the different personalities. Right. Because like, as you said, Colton, speaking from experience of being an athlete yourself, right? Like my, my personality and the way I approach my prep processes, I'm like, I'll eat dirt. I'll die before I give up on anything. Or like, you know, if, if there's like, you gotta do more cardio. Yeah, no problem. Right. Um, and you have to pull yourself away from that because not everyone operates the same way or thinks the same way. Right. Yeah. It's a, it's a knowledge is power situation. Like the relief that someone gets when they're like, Oh, this is normal. Especially if they haven't been there before. They're like, guys, like it hurts to sit on my butt. Why does this hurt? It's like, yeah, man, this is your first time getting actually in content shape. Like I, and then you share like some butt pad stories of like pads you've gotten for different parts of the house or whatever. It's like, this is normal. Or like the wardrobe one, like the contest prep wardrobe versus the all season wardrobe. Like just sharing some funny tenants like that, I think helps normalize it a bit in something that's so far from normal that even people have competed two, three, four times. They come to us and they get in true content shape for the first time. And they're like six weeks out, eight weeks out in their stage condition of last time. It's like, this is new territory for them, even though they've competed before. And so there's a empathetic side of normalizing it, that if you've been there before, which all of us have, right? Like all of us have done this, that I think there's tips and tricks you can share too, right? Like with, with, with these people to be able to manage this, like, this is your new normal. It's so funny. I, I brain, I know, like, I hate to, I hate to call you out, but your meal prep is like, we have a running joke called brain. When he preps, meal time is an ordeal. So like we even like when we're peaking, I'll like look at him 45 minutes ahead of when I need him to eat because I need to give him his food and enough time to prepare his food so that he can actually eat the food. Right. But I mean, that's brain takes a little far sometimes, but that's a normal thing. Right. It's like, stop everything, sit down. I want to enjoy my food. And like, that's a normal thing in prep where like, if, if you're not familiar with it and maybe you have people in your circle that are outsiders to it, you're like, man, what are you doing? It's taking you 40 minutes just to make your food and sit down and eat. Like by the time you finish, it's going to be time for you to eat again. Right. And I think like the, the food portion of being in prep, especially being like at that far out is like, that's such a rewarding piece that everything has to be perfect, man. Like I'd even been to that point too, where like, you know, you're cooking oats and they're either too watery or too dry. And you're like, well, it's time. I have to start over now. You know what I mean? Like it has to be, it has to be perfect. I think like for me, like, especially like dieting phases, there's, there's one meal of the day that I look forward to most. And that's like post-cardio breakfast, man. And like, like I'm like brain, man, I'll take 30 minutes to make it exactly perfect because that like shoots the rest of my day forward. See, right. Yeah. No, it's even a broken egg yolk. It's, I'm starting over. So yeah, it's, it gets extreme. It definitely gets extreme, but that just tells you the level, how deep you are into prep, you know, how long those meals take. It's for some people, it's a process and then others it's not right. So. Yeah. I, I got extremely unemotional about it. I was the opposite. Like I was like, as long as it takes, I get done and it takes me the least amount of time to do it. Like, that's kind of the direction I start to head. I actually used to put more effort in an all season to making my food taste good than it would in a prep because prep was just kind of like, make sure I get my boxes done. And then let me go handle all this other crap I got to handle. But it's funny, like I've even had people cry over a cream of rice over spilling in the microwave. And so it's like, it's like, these are signs that you can start to pick up on though. Like, cause a lot of the time those athletes will comment on that. Like, ah, I just got thrown out of my morning routine. My bowl over flew and all this other stuff. It's like, okay, we're really starting to get into this place where we need to be aware of potentially some of these red flags starting to come up. I do think something that makes a really good coach though, is to the ability to adapt that into the prep timeframe. And I know this is starting to get into a lot of like prep type scenarios, but I think, I think this is where this skill as a coach shines is like your ability to pull the most out of someone when they're in a state that they can't really hold themselves to being able to critically think at a high level, like they can in all season. I think this is where this shines and the adaptive ability of that. And, uh, I think all of us use this, I'm pretty sure, but like pivoting communication. So like being able to have those check-ins, but then opening another line of communication for quicker contact the last week to two weeks, three weeks, man, I think that's a huge adaptive skill of a coach that is, is, is integral. Like, I mean, I know Brayden, we've used it a ton between you and I when you prep. Right. And, um, I think it's something that has to be touched on. Right. You guys both use WhatsApp for this, correct? Cause I know that's what I use, but what do you guys use for this as far as like opening that communication line? Yeah. I use WhatsApp. Yeah. Colton. I use WhatsApp for a little bit, but lately if like, I've just been given like my actual, my actual number out just cause I, I just have my phone all the time. I know that's like, Oh, you don't want everyone going the same thing, but man, just especially when they're on peak week, I want to make sure that I have, like, I'm right there all the time. So sometimes with me, that WhatsApp doesn't always send me notifications and then they're like, Hey, what's going on? So with the text, like there's no, there's no doubt that I'm going to get the message. Yeah. Yeah. Usually like inside of two weeks, two, three weeks, depending on the client. If you're doing some, if you're running some tests to like some test peaks and stuff, um, you want to make sure that you know what variables are going on and just keeping that open communication and feedback coming in. Um, it just, it makes a huge difference. And the adaptive piece of this is like, think about the different ways that people communicate, right? Like Alicia, my girl that won a card at nationals, she did that whole process through email and drive. And it's because she documents things so efficiently that to her, it was just so easy to just have her communicated through email. And I just kept my email long 24 seven, right? Those last couple of weeks. But there's some people who like, like sending the voice note or likes dropping the pictures immediately when they get them before they actually log them in the, in the app or log them in the drive. Right. So, um, there's, there's that enjoyment piece of like things starting to happen and you need to be adaptive that really helps. And I think part of that adaptive piece too, is how you communicate the plan going in the peak week. Like, how are we going to land this package? Right. Cause I know brain, this is something you, I think with the guy that you had that won a pro card, this was something that you did quite, quite well was. This adaptive nature of, Hey, this is where we're at. This is what I think we need to be, to be able to get into loading and look the best on stage and, um, your ability to communicate. That was pretty well. Like if you want to walk through some of those things that you think about when you're trying to communicate, uh, or how to communicate with a client when it comes to that last piece. Yeah. So I was lucky enough with my client, Neil, that I saw him stage lean about 10 weeks before we did North Americans. Right. So I had to bridge the gap between that. Um, so we knew what his stage weight was. We knew what that look was. We knew what improvements we needed to make. And then based off of that, I had an idea of, um, kind of the weight that we should be going into, you know, North Americans. So as we got closer to the show, keeping that communication open through WhatsApp, but also making sure we had a plan of action in place. Um, you know, showing the rate of loss throughout that timeline and then communicating that back with him, you know, making sure that he knew, okay, this weight is a little bit lighter than you were in your previous show, but it's for these reasons. Um, and then now we can load you a little bit harder going into that show, bringing a more full look and package on stage. Um, and that was, that was some of the critique we got from his previous show, um, was that he could have come in a little bit, a little bit, uh, more full. Um, and condition could be a little bit more improved. So that just tells me he was a little bit flat because I think he was pretty much all the way there in terms of, um, condition. Um, so yeah, so it was communicating that with him because there were some doubts, obviously. Right. Especially for someone who's, who's, um, you know, who stepped on stage, who looked great. And now we're coming in a little bit lighter, you know, three or four days before the show, before we start, before we start loading. Right. So communicating that process was key. Um, and having that trust in the client, trusting you is, is that sec is just as important. Right. And we are, we're able to execute that perfectly. And we, uh, we got them that pro card. So. Man, Brad, and I think you, I mean, the, the last part, the trust piece is one of the biggest pieces. And I feel like we should cover that a lot earlier, but like, like you, you said it. And, and I think that we can take that back a little bit further too, is whenever you get a client, you can kind of feel like when you first start off, like, I wouldn't say they're second guessing, but they're still like unsure about kind of everything that's being said. And like, as you keep like more and more communication, you keep learning more and more about them. And they keep like, you keep showing them that like, Hey, this works. What we're doing is on the right track. I think you build that trust. So exactly what you're saying, going into peak week, telling Neil, like, Hey man, we need to be between. Like maybe like one 85 to one 87. Like we're on, if we're in that range is a huge piece. And he's like, yeah, Braden's got it. All I need to do is like, do my job, which is not stress and follow the plan and Braden will do the rest. So I think that's huge for, for an athlete's perspective too. You know, same for me when with John, like, I don't think about anything, man. I just do what he tells me to do and do my job, practice posing, uh, eat my food and keep my feet up. You know? Yeah. I think, I think when it comes to that too, it's like managing the emotional stage of the athletes, huge, especially for the coaches that are there in person. I'm a big fan of like stepping out of the room to be able to give meals and do all that if you need to. So that there's not any reactionary based stuff happening, like your reaction to the check-in or their reaction to what you give them food wise or fluid wise or anything like that. It's, it's a, it's a skill that has to be learned for the in-person dynamic that when you're coaching from afar, it doesn't exactly really happen unless you're talking on a phone. Right? Like if you are talking on a phone, big fan of saying, Hey, let me look at my metrics, make sure that I get this right. And then send it to them via something written. So they have exactly what they're supposed to do written down. Um, and nothing gets lost in translation. Uh, we all have had prep brain where we forget what's told to us. Right? So, um, I think it's, it's a big aspect. It helps with the tracking. It helps with the emotional management of the state. And I think it's, um, when it comes to like being adaptive and being able to manage a situation. Allows you to stay objective, but also like be able to give that client enough to know that they're on the right track. So like a lot of times that communication style looks like you see the check-in and you get the photos. Like, yeah, this is perfect. Let me go get set up on my laptop somewhere. Check some metrics. I'll shoot you. I want you to eat. And then you shoot that to them. And that way everybody's happy. Right. And everybody knows where they're going to be. Even if your brain, you're like, boom, no, they're like three pounds heavier than I need. And then you're like, we need to go do some things in order to fix this. It's like, they're not seeing that. Right. So it's, it's like a poker face sometimes. Yeah. It's like a poker face type of thing. But always like providing that initial feedback of, Hey, this is moving in the direction I need us to go. Or even if they mess up, like I've had some people mess up like four or five, six days out. It's like that initial reaction you have tells you a lot about how that coach can handle themselves of being adaptive in a situation. And it's, I had a situation this year that I won't share their name, like really screwed up. I think it was five days out. When I came in, we can't change it. It's not ideal, but I know that I can fix this. Like, just trust me to do what I need to do over the next three days and I'll get you back to where you need to be. And that person ended up winning their class and almost winning their card. So it's like, it's like those kinds of initial reactions, instead of them being reactionary, you respond to it in a way that allows you to be objective. I think it's a huge adaptive skill as a coach. Wouldn't y'all agree? No, that's huge. I think, you know, just for that example, Luke, how many people know that that client you put on stage had a mishap, you know, five days out, right? They just see what the package was presented on stage, right? And that's just one example, right? How many other people you see up there on stage who are, you know, winning shows, winning cards, who have had mess ups coming down the stretch, right? And that just shows the level of coaching that you have to be able to adapt. You have to be able to make the quick decisions, problem solve and figure it out. And then communicate that back with a client with a game plan that you can execute. Yeah, it's huge. I do think the last thing we kind of had on the docket to cover is an interesting one. I think it falls on communication a lot, but being able to make some tough decisions that have to be made is a big skill of coach, I think, needs in the art of coaching realm. Because, like, especially when you coach females, right? Like, this is a big one. It's like, where do you draw the line? And, like, where does risk go and things along those lines? And in my opinion, it needs to be something that's a dual decision. Like, the coach presents all the information of all the possible pathways, the positive and negative outcomes of it. And then allows that client to verbalize questions back and has time to think on what the best direction is. And most of the time, this is centered around the direction of, you know, how far do I want to take this bodybuilding career? Is it time for me to hang it up? Is it time to take more risk and step on gas so that we get to Olympia or we get to that next level? Whatever that looks like for that client. Is there, like, a process or a system that you use, Colton, in regards to, like, managing those conversations? Or, like, just, like, these times where tough decisions have to be made? Whether it's what I just laid out or ending preps or pushing back preps. Like, these are all things that fall in that tough decisions category. Right. So, again, based on, man, I think through, like, text and things like that or even just messaging, like, tone in that can really get changed. And someone can read what you're saying totally different than how you mean it. So, like, if it's something like pulling out of a prep or something like that, you know, a lot of times we'll be kind of, like, having some back and forth about what's going on and things like that before we kind of come to an agreement. And when we come to that agreement, usually I like to do, like, more of a loom video. Or sometimes we'll just jump on a call and I think that alleviates a lot more questions. And you're not sitting there kind of, like, stewing on things or, oh, he said this or whatever. That way the communication is super open. They can ask whatever questions they need to and then you can kind of move on to the next phase or even if it's not always just stopping a prep but maybe, like, pushing a prep back or working around injuries or things like that. So, kind of, like, an interesting topic you just covered. I just have a guy with me, a bikini pro, and she's kind of getting into her 40s. So, we're kind of working into getting some HRT stuff in play for her just to, again, make her more optimized and keep her healthy. And so, exactly kind of what you talked about is, you know, we got the labs pulled. I did a loom video on all the labs and kind of what they mean and where we could potentially optimize from, like, a natural over-the-counter standpoint. The benefits, the downsides, how long it takes to regulate. Or even the fact of, like, seeing her provider and potentially getting on some exogenous forms. And what that looks like, not only in, like, an off-season phase, not only today and tomorrow, but, like, three years down the road. And then also, like, how that's going to also affect her during her preps, you know, especially as a female. And we know, like, dieting hormones, you know, plummet. And we've seen some, like, coming out of preps is even some of the worst things for hormones trying to – or females trying to bring hormones back. So, I always try and, for the preference of, you know, keeping them safe, try to have some sort of optimization in play. Yeah. I think, Brayden, this is something you could touch on as well because I know we've had to make some hard decisions around your process personally. But I know you've had some clients where you've had to make some hard decisions as well. Like, that skill of communicating short-term and long-term to make a point that Colton, you know, pointed out. It's like sometimes you have to show them that you're saying some of these things out of their best interest, right? Like, and out of the ideal or the desire to put the best version of them on stage or bring the best version of them that can. And what does the best version of them look like short-term and long-term? So, I know this is something that you've been on both the giving in as a coach and receiving in as an athlete. Like, some perspectives from both ends that I think helps with that art of coaching ability to communicate it. Yeah, it can be a challenging topic to talk about with a client. I'll give one example. I had a client and we were approaching his show date. And that was exactly the conversation I had to have with him, you know, talking about, like, are we going to be presenting your best physique on stage, right? He had some troubles throughout his prep, you know, some exterior stress due to work and, like, different variables that were in place. And that was a really tough discussion to have. We ended up pushing his show to the later show to get him on stage. And we were able to present a better physique, but it's more so of communicating that with him, you know, getting on the same page of, like, you know, if this is what you expect to present on stage, if this is better or worse than your previous showing, then we can make a decision. I mean, ultimately, the goal, you know, putting any client on stage is to win, right? That's bottom. So you need to have that conversation with them because their expectations of what they want to get out of this prep, depending on their experience level, may be slightly different. At the same time, we do have a standard to uphold, you know, coaching our clients through J3U and just our coaching in general, right? You know, we go in to win. So, I mean, you have to have that discussion with your client and talk to them to find out what the best solution is. You know, that's an example of a client that I was working with for just over a year. Now, on the flip side, this was a more recent client that I've had. You know, they came to me and they wanted to jump into a prep right away, a 20-week prep, right? What's the first thing I do with my clients? We run blood work to make sure that they're healthy enough to go into a contest prep, right? Now, there's some transparency with the Q&A, the form that they fill out to know what their experience was with past cycles and stuff like that. And I'm looking at their blood work and I'm like, you know, you're not healthy enough to go into this prep, right? Blood work was a mess, right? So communicating that with the client. And there are some coaches out there who probably won't even run blood work and just run them into a prep going off of their word saying, oh, their last cycle was X time ago. It was six months ago, 10 months ago. They may just throw them into a prep, right? So I think it's analyzing that and then communicating that back with the client to determine the best course of action timeline for them as a client. That's going to give them the best result on stage, but also, you know, best result long term. Yeah. And just to kind of start to wrap this up, I'd like to leave one or two things on the client side because like the art of coaching is made so much easier when the client is more bought in. And I think that that's a huge piece that we said this a few times throughout the podcast, communication is a two-way street, right? And I can sit here and use all these tactics to try to pull more out of you and pull more out of you and pull more out of you or help me have more information to make the best decision or read between the lines. But the more that the athlete and the client works on developing those skills, and I think there's things we can do as coaches to help with athlete development over time of like lowering that barrier of some athletes, like some athletes are truly concerned that they're bothering you when they talk about things like this, right? And so learning to be able to massage those people into, hey, like I want to be here and know what's going on so that I can do my best job. Like I just need you to do your part. I think it's a big thing on the athlete side where if you are hiring a coach, like whether it's Braden or Colton or one of the J3 coaches, come into it with that as the goal. Like, hey, be upfront, be focused on the things that impact your progress and be open about these things so that we can do our jobs, right? Because a lot of this art of coaching stuff comes from solving communication dynamics or trying to develop an athlete to a place where they do communicate more clearly. Wouldn't you agree? Yeah, absolutely. You know, be the coach that you'd like to be coached by. Yeah. Yeah, that's huge, right? So if you were selecting a coach, would you select yourself, you know, to be coached by, right? Absolutely. No one can get me more shredded. But anyways, all right, guys. Well, I think that I think that kind of wraps it up for today. A lot of great tangents and a lot of great takeaways and case studies of like some things from the art of coaching side. You guys are interested in working with either Braden or Colton, check them out at J3 Coaching. We have free contact calls available. You guys can check out all their work on the social media pages and everything. I'll also link some of their work below kind of in the comments. But we will talk to you next time in the next episode of the J3 Coaching Podcast. And until next time, take no Auschwitz in the pursuit of results.