 n incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, naringin, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, naringin, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, naringin, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, incorrectly, podcast. Welcome back to the J3U coaching podcast, where we're going to be diving into a really cool topic with two more of the J3U coaches and Netta Donati and Jamie Granville. I'm really excited to dive into this topic with you guys today. I know both of you coach quite a few females and that topic is going to be issues we see with females during the bodybuilding process. And just like comprehensively, I want to kind of state that like this isn't true for everyone. It's just some trends and problems that we tend to see within that female competitor and kind of how we want to talk about going and addressing it and things along those lines. So it's a really fun topic. I think the female competing space is bigger than it's ever been. And it's really cool to see. Netta and I are coming off of two female pro cards at nationals. Netta winning one in wellness and me winning one in figure. So I'm really excited to dive into today's topic. And Netta, I think you had like an initial point that you've seen on the training side that I think would kick us off in like a great direction. Yes, it's something that I usually see because sometimes I give some PT classes. Yeah. And usually I don't remember when was the last time that I asked some female to drop the weight off the bar. Yeah. It's like training hard enough to make sure they drive adaptation, right? Yeah. They always can train heavier than they think, you know? Yeah. And do you think any of that has to do with like seeing some of the social media stuff that they see in regards to like the athletes they follow, like the top level bikini athletes and the top level wellness athletes and stuff along those lines? So usually they do like a lot of crazy techniques and all they have to do is just train simple and heavier, hit the failure, rest and go again. I think this is such a big piece. And I know, Jamie, like you've dealt with this with some of your wellness competitors too, of like, we got to fix the execution piece first. And that's the number one piece. But once that's fixed, like we have to find that red line. And I know, Jamie, this is like something that drives you nuts because you're like, you know, in the WPD class and train your butt off to add the tissue that you need to be competitive. And when you're coaching people, it's like, how do you go into that conversation about trying to pull more out of athletes when you, when you see this happening? Well, I mean, I think it's just a lot of females don't like to be uncomfortable. Yeah. Right. And either that, or they could just come from a background of, I mean, doing fitness classes and, and, you know, cardio based activities. And so I think it's, I mean, one, it can be difficult when you're, if you like, Neto, you said that you meet with people and like, it's not very often that we do actually like in person sessions. Right. And so it's being able to like, how do we translate that into when we're, we're doing online? Like, how do we translate that to them to say like, no, like you need to, this needs, you need to have higher intensity. Right. And with also, if they're training, their setup and execution isn't fantastic, which we tend to have to work on them with as well. It's like, you know, telling them to increase their intensity, but if they're set up and execution isn't great, then that can also be an issue too. Yeah. We're not going to drive the training stimulus that we need. I know Neto, we've been spending some time. I'm, I'm lucky with Neto, like being local in Dallas, we get to kind of get together and do some stuff in person. And we've been doing a lot on the, on the setup side. Do you, do you find like when, with the training videos, we have clients in, like you're pretty much working through a lot of the execution stuff by the time they're coming to you and you get to do a session with them or anything? Yeah, for sure. Especially, especially because the video tells us like a lot about the execution. Something that I like to, to see, uh, it's like the tempo of the rep, because usually the last reps, when they are hitting like the true failure, the tempo starts to get slow. So, uh, that's something that I like to watch, like the videos until the last reps, because that's tell us how intense it is. The, the exercise. It's also going to tell you where they're going to break down too. Right. Like it's, it's kind of where you see the rep breakdown start to happen. Like what they're going to compensate with. Yes. And we asked too, it's like, can you send us your top working set? Yeah. And so, you know, they send you their top working set and they do that last rep that they consider their last rep. And it's like, it's like, they just have had the last sip of coffee and they put their coffee down and they go and turn the, turn the camera off. Whereas it's like, just an example for me, cause yes, I'm female. I train really hard. It's like, if I've Luke, if I was to send you a top working set of something, that last rep, I would likely have to take a couple breathers and sit for a few seconds before I go turn the camera off. Yeah. You shouldn't be popping up from your hack squat set to go grab the camera as soon as you rack it. Like you need to sit there and debate your, um, prep or your ability to function there for a second and then get up and go from there. Especially if you have girls that are like a wellness girl or bikini wear, where is the majority of their volume going to be? It's going to be in a lower, right? It's going to be training lower. Which is most definitely going to be higher expenditure than say training, like a shoulders and arms day for a female. Right. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I do think just to throw a curveball at you, which we, I didn't bring this up before we hopped on, but we're in this topic and we're going to go down this road. We put so much effort into the pre-setup information. So like the movement screening, the physique analysis, comparing the physique analysis to the class standard, and then making sure program design matches the gaps in the class standards relative to the person that we're working with. And one of my biggest pet peeves with females, and this is like a dual problem is not wanting to do the training program design because they train with their boyfriend or their significant other or whatever the reason is they don't want to have like training as a part of the coaching. It's like, this is literally the most valuable portion of our process that's going to drive the hypertrophy stimulus. I'm sure your boyfriend's a smart dude, but just training with your boyfriend is not going to match your class needs. Yeah. Like he needs like something that's totally different than you. So yeah. Now this doesn't mean that sessions couldn't cross. Like we could set up sessions where you guys can train together, you know, some through the week, but then even setting up a figure girl relative to a bodybuilder, like those push days are just wildly different. Well, that's like when I come to Texas and we train, I'm like, I can't train a push day with you guys and I'm WPD. Yeah. Right. So I can, I'll go do my own thing because I have one push exercise, incline, right? We can do pull with you as well. So that's okay. So I mean, for females, we're not most majority of females. If you're doing any type of push, it's going to be pretty limited to a very, very few exercises, right? Yeah. It's going to be all shoulder development based, super high incline pressing, like kind of based on your needs for the class for your adult development. But this is like my biggest thing. It's like, I get training with your boyfriend and like, or your husband or whoever your significant other is. Right. But there's some class standards that we go into to like write these program designs. And there's reasons why we string them together in a certain way. Like it's not just here's your sessions. Like there's a reason our onboarding process takes four to five days. Like it's, it's a process. Like Ned and I were talking pre-camera, like, like we've got a client that's onboarding right now, wellness client that is getting us like the movement analysis stuff. And we're gonna have to go through all of this and make sure that we set up the movement analysis relative to program design that we're, you know, screening for to make sure that when we go to write the program, like it's, it's where it needs to be. Especially if they come to you and they already have preexisting, like, like you say injuries that they're dealing with. Then it's even more so that it's like, you might, we might have to ask for more movement assessment videos. Yeah. Yeah. So Benetta or either of you guys, do you ever find like the training footage that y'all get is not like you mentioned, Jamie, like making sure they send top sets. Like I get quite a few of them will just send me like their last warmup. I'm like, that's great. But like your last warmup is always going to look good. Like, let's get like nasty. Like let's, let's, let's make sure that we get these work sets that are just like taking it. Okay. So this is, I'm probably going to get hate for this, but it's just made me think of something that drives me absolutely mental. And I've had to have conversations with clients or athletes about this is wear some clothes when you're training. I am sorry. But if you're where, if you are training at full intensity and like, and you're wearing a tube top and you're trying to do a leg day, guaranteed you are not training within like zero reps in reserve. Sorry, but you're too worried about your video and like holding your top up so that your boobs don't pop out. Like, yeah, that's, I mean, does that ever happen with guys? Very seldom that someone's wearing booty shorts and worried about stuff falling out, right? Like I haven't come across it with guys yet, but it definitely is something that happens with women. Yeah. Yeah. It's only on the training. There's something that I see very often as well. It's when they want to change the order of the exercise. Like doing the sessions out of order. Yeah. Yeah. Like, oh, the hip press was like, there was someone there. So I just went up and did like some abductions before. And it's like, we strong these movements together in a certain sequence because of like the needs of your class. I do think some of that sometimes comes from like being a little bit hesitant to ask like, how many sets do you have left? Or can I work in, especially if it's a guy like loading plates on and off and like doing that or whatever. But the other thing too, is, is that I have a lot of females that'll come in that don't understand progressive overload. Yeah. So they'll say to me, this has been so awesome because I used to train my, my training sessions used to be like an hour and a half and now I'm only training for 35 minutes. So it's really great. And I'm like, wait, what? Because, and of course we go over with them, like if they don't understand progressive overload, we talk about warmups and, and then moving into the top working set and whatnot. But sometimes it's just not absorbed at the beginning. It's something they have to learn. And so when you have, you know, they're, they're only training, you know, 35 minutes, but they're, they don't actually have a top working set. Yeah. Their, their warmups are kind of what they've listed. And that's like on that lower end spectrum of competitors. Typically, if you do have some of that type of level coming in, a lot of people are aware enough with kind of the content that we put out, right guys, like that, a lot of them kind of know where they're headed. I think with this, like, I know, and just like some solutions from a coaching perspective, the logbook stuff and making sure people are trained to failure. Some of the resistance sometimes comes from tracking like the entirety of the session. I think there's quite a bit of resistance. Like I know Neto, for example, like in some of the sessions you write, like you've got quite a bit of isolation group work kind of towards the end of the sessions because you're predominantly coaching bikini and wellness. So there's going to be like a certain sector of that population of females that come in that are going to be a little bit resistant to log books and not really wanting to track. And like, how do we go about like handling that? And I think you can do your job as a coach, getting one or two movements tracked a session and making sure those are at least reported on like those primary movements that your biggest bang for your buck exercises, whether it's the squat of that day or the hip thrusts or the RDL or whatever it may be. And I think this is a great way to kind of find a middle ground because Neto, like you work with so many females across many different spectrums. And I think one reason you do so well with them and produce so many winning athletes is you kind of aim to find that middle ground pretty easily. Don't you think? Yes. And something that helps as well is the app. Yeah, because before the app was like launched, it was really hard to ask them to track the ways. But now that I have the app, I have the feeling that they think it's fun, you know, to track the exercise to see how much they did like last week and try to beat this week. So the app is helping a lot as well. And of course, just having like the key movements, I always said like, so this is the key movements for you. Of course, all the movements are important, but they're always like one or two per session. That's really important. And that's the one that I want them like giving their best. Yeah. And it's, it's good to have that because it allows them to really focus on like developing the skills within those big bang for buck patterns straight out the gate. Then we can kind of go into some of the isolation patterns and getting the most out of those. It's almost like narrowing their focus to make them a better athlete before we start to like throw everything at them because onboarding can be overwhelming. Like it's a lot of information, like new nutrition plan, new supplementation plan, full new training plan, right? I need training videos for the coach. Like, so I think there's some aspects of that with like, especially with female athletes, like narrowing the focus a bit of like, these are your things that are going to move the needle the biggest for you. Yeah. Can be, can be pretty huge. And I think it's, it's something that really kind of develops better athletes over the long haul in regards to that. Now, just to kind of get into like maybe the last one or the last two. Yeah. Neto, I know you had talked about cardiovascular activity. Jamie, we've talked about this adenolium, especially with your preps. Yeah. Um, the choice of cardiovascular activity being a big one, Neto, I know this is kind of your thing. So I'm gonna let you kind of kick this off. Like, what are you seeing with like the choices in the cardiovascular activity and where does that start to become a problem? Yeah. Especially in prep. I mean, I want to say just in prep because, uh, I see a lot of females doing like stair master and, uh, especially in bikini and wellness, we have to hit legs like three times a week. And, uh, when you're doing stair master, like 20, 30 minutes or rest days in tomorrow, you need to do a heavy leg press. But yesterday you did like 30 minutes of stair master. Of course, your training intensity will be lower because of it. So, uh, when I see like some clients posting a story, like doing stair master, I was like, man, tomorrow, the training session will be shit. Right. Right now. I always try to ask, like, you can do a stair master, but only if you really want to, because this will impact your recovery in the, this will impact your training session as well. I want you saving energy for the, the most important exercise. Yeah. I think it's, um, it's funny. And this is another thing you see with the female athletes is the social media pages, man. Can you find out what an athlete's doing real quick by following the social media page? I've had preps in the past where, um, athletes shall remain unnamed, but adding things into the meal plan that weren't there, like putting low fat cream cheese on the English muffin that they had with their meal one, or like you mentioned, doing cardiovascular activity on stair master when their plan specifically says like, you know, elliptical or bike or whatever that low impact version of cardiovascular activity is like that, that social media, like, I don't want to say rat, but it's almost like the social media posts are writing them out for what they're actually doing. It's something like on the coaching perspective inside, like understanding to your point, Jamie, the social aspect of females is something to understand when it comes to coaching females. Yeah. And it could be even something like, well, my girlfriends invited me to go to like a hot yoga class. Yeah. Um, not understanding that that's going to impact their recovery because of dehydration and, um, you know, it's like, oh, but it's yoga. Yeah. But you're in a 40 degree room. Sorry. I'm Canada here. So that's like what 90 something. And in freedom units, that's like 95 degrees or nine. Right. So, um, so that's, or a fitness class, like a spin class, but it was just for fun. I needed to, a social event and I just wanted to do a different kind of cardio. Well, that's cool, but it's just, it doesn't keep up with the consistency and we can't measure that. Right. Yeah. Because the intensity changes throughout that class and you know, it's, um, so things like that, but it is the social aspect for female, which we kind of brought up just about around food. Yeah. With, with women. And seeing that like food variety and that food variance kind of on the day to day. And this is something we've worked on with clients on, on y'all's rosters. Like it's like that consistency, like you give it most of the time there's exceptions to the rule, right? Most of the time you get most guys in bodybuilding meal plan. They're like, cool, I'm gonna go do this. And then they just kind of go off and they get their food and they, they do the meal plan. Right. Where like the, like you mentioned, the social aspect of females is they're wanting to try different foods or go into outings with their girls or do whatever it may be. Right. And the, the new recipe that they just saw, uh, oats plus 20 grams of dark chocolate, then you made the chocolate and you do a cake. They want to try this. Uh, it's really hard, especially when they allow themselves like to have want something extra seems like they just lose the control. It's like one thing I'll plan or one thing extra added to the, it just like becomes a slippery slope into. Yeah. Or it's the, or it's just menstrual cycle too. Right. So you have to think about that. So because there are lots of women that still have their menstrual cycle throat contest prep, right. So it's hormone fluctuations that might cause cravings and it doesn't happen with all women, but it definitely does pop up with, with some. And so then that's when, um, you know, it's hopefully if you've coached them previously and so that you can be proactive with it and understand that it's like a week away from my cycle, this happens. And so you, you know, you kind of give them some tools to deal with that. Um, or just making sure that you have open communication so that they're like, Hey, um, ready to slide down the Haagen-Dazs slide here. So like, help me out. What can I do here? Can we put an Indra creamy in just for right now to get me through? Um, and then we go back to normal because most of the lives you don't have to do that with, right. They're just like, whatever, robot. Um, but it's like the girls, the girl days and the spa days and, Oh, we're going for manicures and pedicures and they're going to be drinking mimosas. And what am I going to do? Yeah. Do you, I know this is a big thing and I'll kick it to Nitto here to start. And then Jamie, cause I know you've got a couple too. It's like that transition from offseason to prep where things need to like tighten up. Like, how are you guys communicating that with the clients that you, you work with as far as tightening up the reins from that offseason, a little bit more flexibility in the offseason into that contest prep where even adjustments on food intake could affect your assessment process, right? Like you, you, you plug in a lot of fiber space foods compared to the day before where you had a little bit less fiber, like not only could you run into digestion problems, but just your body weight fluctuations day to day. Like how are you guys doing about that conversation from, uh, adjustment from offseason into prep? Usually, um, I like to set up up at the timelines, like a pre prep phase. That's like three to four weeks, uh, where I do the changes of not allowing themselves to have the extra foods or the extra sauces anymore. And, uh, but I try to keep the plan basically the same. I just ask to try to stay really into that foods. So don't try to not switch like the rice for potato anymore. If you want a potato, I, you can have the potato. Just let me know which meal you want to have it, uh, just for me to have the control to see the wave fluctuations over the, uh, this time in the, usually like in this three weeks of pre prep phase, they just like get super yeah. Yeah. I, I like that thought process too, because it's almost like a trial period before the prep. Like it's almost like a cleanup phase before the prep. Like let's get these new habits plugged in during a time. That's not yet contest prep, but still an opportunity to progress their physique towards prep. Right. Yeah. And when they start, they start the prep, the habits are already there. So it's pretty easy to do the changes and keep them moving. Yeah. Yeah. And I just explain it to them as, you know, this is just a, an opportunity for you to, to get this stuff in line so that it's far easier to do this now while your sleep is good and you don't have hours of cardio and, um, you know, you have more mental capacity. So practice it now, get it dialed because it just, it makes prep easier in the long run when you start. Right. Yes. You don't have anything to worry about, about changing habits, putting new routines in. Um, it's just already, it's already there and that's an expectation before you even enter into prep. And I find that they just do better if you present it ahead of time, as opposed to like, you know, 18 weeks out, it's like, okay, now I want you to start using chronometer. Yeah. It's like a massive change into measuring your, your mustard and, you know, weighing your spinach. Yeah. I do think as coaches, we have a job and not assuming that, and this is a lesson I've learned the hard way, a job and not assuming that someone knows those things as well. Um, especially like bringing in foods to manage hunger or things like that. And like, not understanding how much that can fluctuate sodium on the day to day, um, or even fiber intake from the day to day by bringing in some of these different foods. Like if you're using to control hunger and that's where I think an app like chronometer helps. Like, I don't think as a coach, you don't have to require a client to use chronometer daily, but I think what you can do is show them the chronometer with food changes. Right. And like, hey, this is why we have this food set up this way. Um, you know, these are your numbers, macros and micros. Uh, you know, let's, let's move into this meal plan or this setup so that we can keep this pretty consistent. Um, I think that's enough to create buy-in with people typically, um, where at least if they do make changes, they're aware of that and they try not to fluctuate it too much from those baseline numbers. Yeah. Because I mean, you could add three grams of sodium like that, and you add in three grams of sodium on accident, like you could be up quite a bit the next day or two days later. Right. If you look at the majority of females, their, their calories aren't going to be very high in the first place. Right. So you're not going to have, it's going to be an anomaly if you have a female that's sitting at 3,500 calories in contest prep. Right. And so getting them, making them aware of them adding even the smallest amount of say, like, like a, like a stir fry mix or extra green vegetables that when your food is sitting at 1200 calories or a thousand calories, which lots of females get down that low, um, adding that extra say 45 or 50 calories four times a day. It's a lot up to daily. And then across the week, because I think that there are still lots of females that don't understand that green vegetables still do have calories. They're not free. They're not free. Nothing's free. Right. And then, so let's, so I know, actually, let's just touch on this then quickly too, about like free calories. Yeah. It says it doesn't have any calories. Right. So mustard has calories. Um, like G Hughes has calories, all of that, but because it says, you know, calories free or like no sugar, um, lots of times females think it's like, oh, cool. There's there, I can just use as much as I want. I was talking to, to Jamie other day, look, and, uh, do you know that butter? Like, I can't believe this is butter. Yeah. The spray it's got. Yes. And, uh, I had a client competing and, uh, we needed to get her like at 800 calories. And she wasn't getting lean at all. And it was like, I was like, man, what's happening? She's suffering too much. Every time that I was like doing their uh, her update, I was like, man, this is not normal. This is too low. But then I saw her, uh, in a show, like I was watching a show. I had a client competing and she went to watch the show and she was having her meal. And then, uh, her boyfriend, uh, he told me, oh, uh, I was, I look at her meal and I was like, oh, this seems good. And she was like, oh, it just has like some, uh, they spray. I can't believe this is butter. And I was like, um, how much are you using? And then her boyfriend started laughing and I was like, yeah, she was like seasoning the chicken, opening the, opening the bottle and throwing it on top. And then I went to look like the whole, uh, the whole bottle, it has like 5,000 calories, something like that. And like the whole, uh, bottle. Oh, man. So you got like, you got like whatever you had on the list, right? 850 calories that you think she's consuming that. And she's probably more consuming like 1400 a day with that. Yeah. She was using one bottle per week, I guess. A bottle per week. Holy crap. Here's your deficit right there. Just saying, I can't believe it's not butter. Just fly, take off. That's like a pound down. But it's, but if you look at the back of the label, it actually says zero calories. Yeah. Yeah. Right. And even like, like coconut, you know, like the coconut spray you use at your house loop, like for cooking, if you look at the back of the label, it says zero calories. Right. It's coconut oil. Like when it, the longer you use the bottle, like the coconut oil actually like stays on the sprayer. So you see, it's like the coconut oil is just in the jar. It's just air. How can oil not have calories? I'm sorry. Like if it's still says it's not butter, it still has calories in it. And I think about like those bottles of, I can't believe it's not butter. I think like I have one at your house, Luke, but I use like a couple of sprays. I've had it there for what, like a year, probably two years or something. Yeah. It's like, it's like a, like three quarters full still. I can't imagine using like being in prep and being like, Oh, I'm just going to should be good. Yeah. I think something too. And we'll, we'll maybe wrap it up on this point on the nutrition side, just to be aware of for international clients that travel is like checking sodium on the back of foods, especially if you're using like frozen foods and stuff. Yeah. Like if you go from a international country to the States, like you have shrimp in your plant, like a lot of the shrimp here in the States has significant amounts of sodium that could change how much sodium in a day that you're consuming. And the fish like, and that I ran into that. Right. So Canada, the sodium content in our frozen food is like, there's not very much. Like if I go to Costco and buy shrimp, it's not full of sodium. Whereas when I was there in Texas, it was like, I had to like search to find seafood that wasn't completely pumped full of sodium. Yeah. And it's, it's something to be aware of just from the coaching or athlete perspective of like why you could see fluctuations in a prep situation of like, so you're jumping up and this is where like chronometer can help if you're traveling, like making sure your foods don't have a ton of added sodium in it. And I think this is where my main argument with, if it fits your macros, why I don't see it standing up a lot or very well is if you don't go to that level of detail in order to track, like this is why you could see issues crop up or fluctuations. It's like inaccuracies in tracking that, that really crop up a lot in the female realm because of the social aspect or fitting different foods or trying the new recipes or whatever it may be. I know Neto, Pam is the recipe person in the household there. You would not believe Luke. Yeah. The IFBB wellness bro trying every recipe that she comes across. But now I, uh, I, Pam, you know, I'm just joking. Um, but guys, I, I really, I really appreciate this conversation. I think just to like kind of summarize, like coaching females competitors can be one of the most fun things to do in regards to like how much they buy into the process. I think you get a ton of buy-in and, and they'll work extremely hard towards the goal. You know, most of the time, if they, if they know like where the pitfalls are, I think a lot of what we brought up today are just pitfalls from not knowing more than it is. They're purposely like doing something that's, that's, uh, detrimental to their process. And so I do think there's a note of like, Hey, like, let's just make sure in the plans, we have these like details lined out. You know, we go through this in as much detail as possible and kind of dot your I's, cross your T's and, and go from there, which I think is why we have the process that we have for onboarding being a little bit longer is like, Hey, we want all of this to be tidy from the very beginning, like from the very beginning of your plan starting, we want you to have everything in front of you that you need specific to what you need to make and progress. And so, um, if you guys have any questions, as far as the audience, any questions, put them in the comments below. You guys can also reach out directly to Neto or Jamie for, for questions as well. I know they're, they're happy to answer anything that you guys got. Um, stay tuned for, for next year. Uh, we've got a lot of female athletes coming to the stage next year that I'm super, super excited about. So I wasn't almost next year already. Oh, I know. You're like in for next year. And I'm like, wait, what? Oh yeah. That's only a couple of weeks away. Yeah. I think we're going to wrap up 20, 24 with 22 cards total for the team. Well, 22 or 23, I'll have to go back and double check and do the math, but really productive year in 24. So we've got some high standards to beat in 25, but Yeah. We'll be ready. If you guys have any questions, put them in the comments below. Um, until next time, take no all switch and the pursuit of results.