 naringin, bathtiende, bathtiende, bathtiende, bathtiende, bathtiende, bathtiende, There are phases of prep that are going to determine how you really truly walk on stage. And there's four, and most people maybe do two. And if they do all four, a lot of times you're missing the mark on those. And so today we will dive into how you truly nail it on all four phases of prep to walk on stage fully peaked as you should be. Welcome to the J3 University Podcast. I'm your host, Jon Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Love this. This has been so heavy on my brain, Jon. I am so excited to talk about this today. I know we go back and forth quite a bit on running preps and like the best way to do it. Yeah, it's, I mean, it all starts with our phase one, doesn't it? Which, you call it the get ahead phase. It's probably a cooler name, but that is the idea of it, right? I guess, want to just lay out like what is the start of this phase look like? Yeah, I, so I call it the get ahead phase because I really think like you have an opportunity where physiologically, you're probably the most prepared to handle the ability to retain training performance and retain tissue as a result. Kind of straight off the cuff of contest prep. And so like body fat's higher. Food is higher. Cardiovascular activity is lower. People don't consider this, but the duration at which you've been going through the process of being in a deficit is like obviously much shorter because you're just kickstarting the contest prep. But for some of you that like use the pre-prep phase as like some level of dieting, you might be like three to five weeks in the dieting. But really like you're really early in this process. And so you're going to see like how important getting ahead is on this beginning portion when we get into like, you know, phase two or phase three and phase four. But I really like pushing the rate of loss here at like somewhere up near 1%. So we've talked about this. Like when I make spreadsheets for athletes or rate of loss charts for athletes, like a lot of times I'll put 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%. And that's just so that I can get an average rate of loss for the contest prep and keep an idea of like where they need to be. But really the biggest thing is for me to pace like different sections of these phases because like each phase is like a check mark. And if you tick it off well, it really sets you up to move into the next phase like ideally. And there's so much in this first phase that can step you forward. Like it's just like taking low-hanging fruit, lay-hanging fruit, low-hanging fruit. And I really find that people oftentimes are just too bashful in this phase. Would you agree? It can be. Or also a lot of people aren't prepared for the response that might be lagging if they're not familiar with someone. You know, you pull food and raise up cardio and then like not a lot happens. Yeah. And then it takes you a few weeks to actually even try to get ahead, but you're really like getting behind in this phase. But I think being more aggressive, and I know you said 1% body weight, but I think, oh, no, you mentioned 1.5% in there. But I think going even as fast as that is absolutely acceptable. It's more of the fact like does someone have the resources to be able to go that fast? A lot of females might not be able to. But I think some mistakes, yeah, truly the first one in this phase is not doing a big enough aggressive pull. And with, I remember like earlier on coaching, like when I was with Matt being coached, I'd be pulling like 1,000 calories out. Like this seems like a lot. Shouldn't we go like 300 at a time? Like make the most, you know, the least pull? It's like not at all like get out the gate and like make a big response because like you said, you have the greatest ability to retain tissue right now. So, yeah, make a big drop. I think going beyond probably creating the 35% deficit, and this is what we laid out in J3U, is where you might push someone quickly to potentially have too much adaptation, especially in a female in a negative way, or be able to quickly dig yourself into a, truly dig yourself into a hole, not be able to really sustain it. But this phase isn't necessarily about being, having to sustain it, but it's not a mini cut either. I think that's the part that we have to kind of differentiate between. Yeah, and I think like the client in front of you will dictate what this phase looks like, because like on the male side, oftentimes this phase includes compound inclusion. So you will have some like potential skewing of data if you are seeing a pretty robust elevation in compound load. Potentially where like the visuals will start changing quite a bit, but the weight on the scale might not change the most for some athletes. And so we have to contextualize that sometimes as far as like being a coach outside of the numbers and understanding percentage-wise what that rate of loss looks like. And I think that's where I get some of the 1%, John, is like the goal might be 1.5, but in some of these athletes you include PDs in in this earlier phase, it's like it kind of on paper ends up landing closer to 1%. Because I would agree, I think you could run 1.5% with a lot of people. And then with the girls that are set up well to go into contest prep, so like the all-season phase has left them in a body composition spot, it really pushes them to having the faculty. So caloric availability plus lack of cardiovascular activity to start the prep really allows them to get ahead. And I'm going to talk about something that we've repeatedly seen at J3 coaching with the female athletes and the male athletes, but just like over time in phase 3 and a bit when we kind of come through all these phases. But that kind of leads you into phase 2. And to me like phase 2, like phase 2 is almost a confirmation of phase 1. And I call it the grinded out phase. And I call it that because there's like a couple things going on. Obviously the rate of loss slows down. But man, psychologically it can be the hardest. Because you're still not, you're not fat, but you're not lean. You're in a deficit and you've been in a deficit long enough to trend towards the flatter side. So like mirrors are your worst enemy. You're like, you don't feel big in your clothes. You're not really shredded enough to like love the visuals yet. So it's like it can be, it can be a little bit of a grind for the athlete in my opinion. Do you think there's mistakes that get made in this phase because of those things? Because I come across them myself. Like the first one, I'll say, I'll go ahead and leave my one. This is when like people are getting emotional and wanting to do refeeds early. And I think just based off of how they feel. And feel like they're smaller and still soft. But like training is going to get, not stagnant, but it just won't have the same emotional drive of like feeling pumped and big. So you feel like you're losing size. So it's like, damn, I should refeed. But that's not the call to make. This is the one that like it, like the name is like grind it out. Like you just have to sit in the phase and let fat loss happen. Yeah. And I think that's probably the biggest mistake I see. The other one is like potentially chasing that feeling like they realize it's not there. And so they kind of slowly maybe like try to do a little bit extra to chase that like full pump feeling. When in reality, this is the section of prep that I think volume needs to start titrating down a little bit to account for the ability to maintain the rate of loss adaptation from a fat loss perspective. Because I'm probably looking a little bit closer to 0.5 to 0.75% in this phase as far as like a rate of loss, as far as a numbers perspective goes. It's like when I pivot over into that portion of the chart and like kind of get an idea of like what I'm wanting to run. And really just being patient with the athlete. And if you feel like you get to a place where prep is not productive, like you're not seeing the fat loss adaptation occur the way that you would expect with the variable changes you're making. This is where the coin phrase from the J3 University courses of D output days just live so well. I think like this is like the opportunity to psychologically, if someone's struggling and not seeing the progressions you would expect within this phase, like man, some D output days can be really valuable here. You know, what came to mind, Luke, is you might want to assign some weeks to this to give some people some time frames. Yeah. Hopefully to work with here. The get ahead phase, I imagine this would be the first like four to six weeks of a prep. Then from there, say you're doing a 20-week prep, this leads you to that kind of probably 16, call it 14 weeks out. From 14 weeks out on to this phase is probably getting close to the maybe six, seven weeks out mark until we hit like into the next phase. Again, the ranges, right? But this is this mark of your call it 15 to five weeks out, the 10-week mark of just having to grind this piece out. Would you agree kind of roughly on the weeks out? 100%. Yeah, I would even say like, yeah, I would say probably 15 to five weeks. And then if you're a longer prep person, like if you're one of those like 24-weekers, like the grind it out probably starts a bit earlier, right? It probably starts 17-ish to 18 weeks out if you're like a 24-weeker, right? So yeah, like it's the longest phase of prep. And I think that's why I give it the grind it out phase label, right? Because it's like it comes with psychologically some of the more challenging portions of prep as far as like what you're seeing in a visual perspective. It comes with a lot of trust in the coach that you're working with, predominantly a J3U coach if you want to actually nail it on stage. And then it also comes with the ability to just sit in this phase for a while because it's really the place where you like set yourself up to start to have the fun that comes in phase three, phase four. Yeah, I think towards the tail end of phase two is where a lot of people have the biggest trouble. And if you're type A and you're just a killer with it, it won't necessarily matter. But a lot of people is this is where adherence becomes issues. And you also start ingraining poor habits in your prep, which on the nutrition side, this could be like bringing in the extra little snacky things or putting more condiments that still have calories in there onto your food. Or just inadvertently finding ways to move more efficiently to where you're burning less calories. And to where like that deficit's slowing down, even though on paper your coach hasn't changed that. And so it becomes really hard to get to the next level of where phase three is like actually like gets to be fun. And a lot of people don't have a phase three. And the reality is most people only have phase two. And that carries all the way into peak week form. Yeah, man. Like we should probably list some of those things that can really ruin phase two as far as like the negatives, right? Because like I've seen this happen a ton. Like excessive use of fiber to try to feel full. Like that's a classic one. Like drink flavorings and or gum. Like adding caloric intake accidentally with like you said it with the sauces, right? Like excessive gum use, excessive sweetener use. Wrecking GI. Like this is the phase where people like absolutely ruin digestion. Just absolutely horrible. Like it's like it's a sauce company's favorite portion of prep because they see like those profit margins just increase, right? But it's definitely like as a contest prep coach. Like it's the one where you have to be the tightest in a regulatory standpoint. I have a client who went through this recently. And like I did a – for coaches who like maybe are feeling like they're making changes that aren't like actually progressing the athlete the way you would expect through this phase. Like I actually did like a full day log of everything that gets put into that athlete's mouth when this comes up. And like I require them to send it daily so that they can modify their behavior day to day. Yeah. You know, modifying behavior I think is a good point in bringing it to the aspect of this phase of being – you know, it's such a mental battle. I think for a lot of people you need to focus on just the – it's the one meal at a time. Like because if you look at this whole day and by the end of the day I'm going to be starving so I'm going to like save macros and then eat them all at the end of the day, which a lot of people can go overboard by doing that. Or they're just running macros on prep and they create the most elaborate things or inaccurate or implementing it too. So it's just, you know, when the mental aspect gets tough, it's just take your moments at a time. Like I get through this meal, then you get to the next meal. And you just focus on those individual moments rather than trying to just see out the whole day ahead. And then also lean into – I like to lean into it. You know, when you are facing like, hey, I'm hungry or I have fatigue, like there's some other person you're going to be competing against that's feeling that exact same thing in that moment. And they're going to make the easy or the hard choice. And so it's in those times you have your chance to beat your competitor. And that's how I like to feel. Like the daily fights of like beating someone on stage comes in the grind out phase. And so use that mental strategy throughout your prep to just try to beat your competitors that you're going to be going against. And you'll be able to out some people just by outworking them simply from that. Training-wise, though, also in the grind out phase, I remember I – I'll say in a hypothetical situation for, say, a client, you're like, how do you work out in only like 40 minutes? It's like, oh, well, I shorten my rest times to get through the workout that's on paper so I'm more time efficient for my day. And I can get to eating my meal sooner. It's like, oh, okay. So that's one aspect is don't change your training to like rush through it just to try to be fitting things into your day. Like this phase is also going to take a lot of your life. And you're going to have to make sure you're making that a priority and not taking on too much that's going to take away from this prep. Because prep does kind of become priority if you really want to make the most of it. So if you said yes to too many things in your life, a lot of things are just going to be dwindling and poor effort amongst all of them rather than doing the few things really good. That's just the reality of it. So make sure you have like time allocated to your prep for this phase. But on the training piece, like it can't change like how you execute it. I've been so fatigued in prep before. I've had some shitty preps. I'm sure if you're listening, you maybe have had a shitty prep. Hopefully not to where you're sitting in the gym and resting between your set. And it's like the meal to meal. You're just thinking like you look at you're like, damn, I got like five more lifts to go. And that's 15 sets. So it's like, no, you just have one set left and I give it to that one set. Then I sit down and I have, all right, here's my next set. It's the workout where you go set by set just to get through it. But you don't rush it. You don't worry about the 15th set. You just live in that moment and kill it. So things that are going to have to just be the reality and there's not going to be workarounds to do for it. I mean, just like you brought up on the nutrition side, Luke, like about hunger and adherence. And I know we did our whole Retta Truatide GLP podcast on an episode ago. Listen to that one if you like. But again, around GI distress and stuff, there's aspects you shouldn't fully want to suppress because there is positive pieces to having them in negative consequences for trying to remove normal physiological responses that could have you pay a price for in your physique when you come later into this next phase that we're going to be getting into. Which we'll talk about unless you have something else to add on phase two. No, let's make some of this grinding worth it and have some fun. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and live Q&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Phase three is I haven't written out what you gave me, but it's basically hold the look and slow down the rate of gain, which there's a way cooler way to say that. If someone out there has a cool way to say phase three or what we're going to describe, you're welcome to put a name to it. But anyway, this is when you've done the work and you're actually starting to look like you're getting ahead. And rather than the output days, we can start implementing refeed days to keep training performance up and also start testing visuals of how you look with some food in you. So this becomes finally like the really fun part of prep where you're getting to the point where body fat is off. And now it's more about the balance of finding the fullness and hardness to bring to stage. Yeah. And in the early portion of this, you might hit some new lows because like you might realize a little bit of progress just from like dropping a bit of fatigue, psychological fatigue, too. Like especially if you use a high day or two, like it's pretty easy. Like I remember in Maya's prep for Arnold's, like the first one or two that happened, it was like kind of a tick up and then it just like ripped off. And then it's just like a new low and then you can rinse and repeat it again. And it's great because each time you do it, it like becomes a better response and a more stable response. And like I would say phase three is probably the most variable, like anywhere from two to four weeks long, depending on when you start it. Right. Like for someone like Maya who is ready, like fully skinned out, ready at like three and a half, four weeks out, like it kind of started for her like six weeks out. And I was able to kind of stretch this all the way into what I would call peak week, which like for her was like a 10 to 12 day process. But into kind of like that last phase where you're like testing the fullness barrier, bringing it back down, testing the fullness barrier and bringing it back down. And I love that dynamic. I really think long term it, if you do it this way, the physique you put on stage tolerates a much higher level of fullness without sacrificing conditioning than running the grind it out in the peak week. Yeah. And, you know, that's the kind of unfortunate pieces that sometimes the phase two, it has to go all the way because you just don't have the time to get someone that far ahead. And or hiccups happen along the way, right? In your prep and you need the extra weeks. And for a lot of people and people are like, well, I don't know what phase three is going to be like if you've, if you've been like just made it to stage for one show. And then the next show you're like eating more food and you feel like you're leaner and you look bigger. That's like that. That was your phase three basically. And that's what we're trying to get to. Like that in between when you do two shows, that phase, having that before your first show is what you're trying to get to. But again, it won't, it won't always happen. But the start of this, like this transition point is, it's like Luke said, it's like starts with like a refeed day. And then through that response, if you grind it hard enough, you'll start hitting lows with bringing in those refeed days. And then you'll need to bring food eventually just to a baseline up and eventually to a maintenance level because you'll be ready. Where I think a lot of this doesn't happen for people is if you didn't grind it out hard enough in that phase two. And if you're just trying to test refeeds and stuff too early when you're not truly stage lean is another place where you might not see that type of same response. So there's kind of this blending of the phase two, phase three, I think, that there's like a transition to it that happens. But eventually once you're full on in phase three, it should be like pretty frequent getting more refeed days. And eventually getting to where you're just at a maintenance amount of calories and holding there. And there's also a transition in this phase two of like when you're getting close to this like four, five week out mark. And you're like, is that as far as I want to take someone or not? And you might refeed them, see their body weight come up, see how the visuals look, and then let them keep pulling back down and go to a new low. Then is that new low look better? You know, is there more detail without in the fullness sacrifice was worth it or is it not? And then you're like, okay, it wasn't. Then you like bring them back up and you're like, I'm not going to let them go back to that low. So there's a little bit of playing to like truly find if you do want to keep digging them down or not. But then it gets to the later part of the phase where truly you're like, all right, phallus is over. We're just, you're just bringing food up. With training, do you change anything with training around here? At this point, I've probably done the training changes like from a volume perspective. I've already got them to their like rock bottom because I'm doing a lot of those through phase two most of the time. Like by the time they're doing like that transitionary period, like that two to three weeks of like kind of ending phase two going into phase three, they're already at the lowest volume set that they're going to see for prep outside of maybe peak week. Yet on the cardio side of the equation too, this would be the phase where I would be trying to get someone back to a baseline of offseason, if that is possible. Don't think because we said it, that's like the reality. A lot of people might need to have a higher baseline amount than offseason. But it's a balance to strike between like how much food you have in versus how much output you have. But for a lot of people, like I've had a lot of clients that male clients that just go to steps and just have their maintenance calories. Or females with like 35 minutes of cardio in, set up some steps in their food. But, you know, I don't think like what Emily, can she like no cardio by that time, right? Yeah, by the end. She's such like a high food female. Yeah. That cardio wouldn't make sense. So, you know, it just varies. But again, the idea is like there's a balance between trying to reduce like the greatest evil in your prep to drop off fatigue and have a look that's like going to be full and supporting training. Yeah, I would. The only add on I would add to this is that. In the earlier portions of it, I don't rip that cardio out on plan because like I'm still figuring out whether the new lows are worth it or not. So when I get them back to deficit, I want that rate of loss to be similar to what I've already got in place so that I see that realized and then pull them back out of it. And so what ends up happening is like when I do high days, I pull out cardio. So the total across the week drops. But like when I'm actually running my deficit days, like it's full on. But when I'm running my refeed, it's like pulled out. So like that's a great way that I've found to do it of like you're kind of reducing cardio across the week, but you're more so like thinking of it as like rate of loss, rate of gain and pushing them and pulling them based on where they are in that early phase. And then like once you've found it, then you're going to start pulling it out. Well, even at that point too, like the diet is becoming more of the fatiguing issue. Yeah. Like the big push of food, like high days, like that supports like training and more fatigue drop than the early on de-output days. It will have to happen with cardio drops, but if you do need to pull someone back into a deficit to add more cardio back in, mentally it just sucks, but I think also it's more fatiguing for someone. It'd be easier just to hold a constant variable there because they're pretty adapted to doing it by then. And with more food, they can keep the output going and it's easier to diet, which is high food and high output versus just like dropping all the output and having to put it back in if you need to. So, yeah. But I think this would bring us over to phase four. Yes. You're, you found that look, you, you have your food at maintenance calories and now we're in our peak week. Welcome to phase four. This is so much fun. Like a phase four to me is the easiest, which is so funny because people like so eff it up. Like, oh my goodness. That, and that comes as mistake number one, making peak week the most complicated. Yeah. It's like, just like, if you, if you ran this prep this way, like it is so predictable. Like you have all the data you need. Like really the only thing that's stressful is like making sure tan is set up, good to go, done early enough and high quality. If you're a girl getting your makeup times at like something like not at an ungodly hour and roll with it. And it's just like, just rinse it. Now, if you have travel, there is the potential to speed up where you just need to watch it. But it's usually, like if you've done it this way, like the speed up is so much less. Like you're just like toggling the food that goes in. Like it goes up just a hair in order to keep up with that speed up. Where like, if you do it where you grind it out all the way to peak week, drop the fatigue, start pulling food in and start speeding up. Like those, those are the people you start chasing and never can catch. Yeah, that was a tough one for, we were at the Arnold with Anthony Williams and a different situation. He had been ready, but got sick and had to pull it back down. So I didn't really have time to keep the food up and feed him until his digestion was cleared and we're just like one day out. And then started feeling good and taking off, which it's like we can only put so much food in in the time that we have to also keep your waist in check. So it's just the reality of limitation sometimes in prep. But yeah, that's the thing. If you had the phase three, you can usually catch that before you got to peak week. So you still have someone on the diet where you've been adapted and no longer having to chase them down. Or if they, if you know they're like that, hitting with the frontload and loading them hard to where they can hold it like all the way through peak week. Yeah. 100%. Biggest mistakes. Like obviously like the biggest ones are like trying to change too much, which we kind of already touched on making it too complicated. Is there anything else that you see people effing this up? Like I, we could do a whole podcast on peak week, but at the same time, like I think if you run this prep this way, like it is so hard to eff this up. Yeah. It's funny because there's not as much to say about this peak week without going into just here are the common peak week mistakes that people make. Because if you, if you've run the four phases, which most people don't have maybe the phase three or the phase one is limiting right in speed to where that's what impacts them. Like getting to a successful peak and begin with. So I think when you have that situation where you didn't get ahead, you had to grind it out all the way to peak week and maybe you didn't get all the way there either. I think that becomes also another mistake of that people mistake body fat for water and that we, we see so many protocols for peak week is trying to manipulate fat off someone with water protocols. So, which isn't going to work. So you see time, which I think that that's a big one. If you have someone that didn't get there that, I mean, some, some water manipulation could improve it. But man, if you didn't see a visual that looks like you could walk on stage at some moment of peak week or the week before there's body fat to lose. Or you're doing some crazy ass protocol where you are retaining a bunch of water that you shouldn't have been running any with because it doesn't give you a clear assessment of visuals. So, you know, I would rewind a second of that phase three is for us is also if there is variables that could possibly cause water retention. We've tested those in that phase, whether this be like the amount of growth hormone we're doing or making adjustments to testosterone or estrogen to where there's not something to have to play with on peak week for water manipulation. So, but I think that's, that's a big one is people are trying to rely on, Hey, I'll manipulate water and I'm going to land it on stage and look amazing. But most times if you haven't got the fat off, like there's not much you're going to be able to manipulate to change that. Yeah, that's it. That buttons it up. I think in my opinion, I just. The amount of people that don't think this way just shocks me because like if you do it this way, it just makes your life as a coach. So it makes your life as a coach so predictable, but at the same time, it also presents so much better athletes on stage. Yeah. And all, a lot of this phase, it's like, there's a lot of mapping out timelines and tracking. Data. And I know like people listen, they're all plugged into what we talk about with data. It's not that complicated data. We're not making some, some wild ass, you know, algorithm to figure out a peak week. It's just looking at visuals and body weights and understanding how someone reacts to food, just like any, any coach would do. But if you've done that close enough, you really monitor them well and you documented it, you can look at these things and be more predictable in your peak week. And so I think when you're doing that, you won't wind up on that peak week where, and I still see the protocol because it's been around for a long time is where you get in peak week and you've been ready, but then we're going to deplete and dig someone down even harder. And then we're going to do like a crazy carb load of like, you know, thousand plus grams of carbs. And then there's, they can't fill out. And so they have GI issues, but then, or, or the other thing they spill because it's way too much carbs and they have a day to like try to clean it up. And then they maybe take diuretics and it's like, man, you're like doing one protocol that causes another problem that you have to fix. When you look, when you look better before you did all this, all this crap. So that's the thing is like, if you are tracking and watching someone and using some common sense of like, all right, we got the fat off this much food. You look really good at, like we could put you on stage like this. Like, there you go. There you have your, your framework for your peak week. It's just making sure you can repeat that in that environment, because that's the problem. Like you said, Luke, is that people get a running around to their tan or to hair makeup. Or to check-ins or they have to wake up earlier than they're not used to. And it just throws off their routine to where that same plan that you had that was consistent is now within this inconsistent environment. So the best that you can do to control it. And if you're, it's not going to be that controllable or variable, you don't understand. It's just being able to map it out and plan the best that you can. And watching body weight and visuals so you can get really close on stage. But man, if you're lean, if you're skinned out lean and just don't do anything crazy, you're going to walk on stage really, really solid. So I mean, it's hard. If you're that good, it's hard to mess it up because the range of the look is pretty big at that point. Yeah. And it makes it so easy to land. But I think that wraps it up for us, yeah? Yeah, that is the four phases of prep. And to recap those, phase one, get ahead. Phase two, grind it out. It's going to be a while in prep, but just live that one out. Phase three, just start bringing in food, minimizing the rate of loss, coming up to holding that look. And then finally, you're fat free in your peak week. Don't do anything crazy. Walk on stage, loaded and ready to go. So if you have any comments on more you want to learn about CERN phase, you'll leave them down below if you're listening on YouTube. And otherwise, everyone else, we will talk to you next week.