 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, Jon Jewett. I'm your host, Jon Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Jon Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And deliver the highest level of competitors to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Post-show where champions are made or they are broken. And in our current contest prep season of the year, there's a lot of post-show periods happening. And so I thought we were very appropriate. See that previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously to make it more productive. Yeah, and I think it's truly kind of the phase that you would honestly call it dangerous in some senses of the way that you kind of verbalize this to clients because there is a pretty big loss of an external goal once the context prep is finished. So it can be a slippery slope, especially when we talk about in the fat accumulation side of the equation. We have plenty of data plus anecdotal experience that shows how quick that fat accumulation can occur. And honestly, I do think that it sets the stage for the next arguably 24 to 30 weeks of progress kind of in that post-show phase. And I think that the dangerous aspect of it is we can see two extremes. We can see the extreme of fat accumulation happening too fast and or pushing up too fast in regards to trying to take advantage of the post-show rebound. But I think it's just as much of an issue to stay on the too-shredded side where we're three, four weeks into the post-show phase and we're not even seeing really much improvement from a gym perspective or we're not kind of seeing ourselves set up for what the off-season to come to be. I think some context around that would be pretty huge to kind of start with, don't you think? Yeah. Yeah. IMean, with I've even personally, I've I haven't weighed too far into like totally blowing it post-show, like personally. I've had some rapid push-ups, but I think I probably lean more so into like staying lean for too long. And I think there you've been in the contest prep for so long that you forget what normal really is in the off-season to where you're like six weeks down the road, you're like still pretty lean. We're like, but yeah, no, I'm fully recovered. But you still have like some sleep derangement, but it feels a bit normal. Like, hey, this is already better than prep. But is it normal? Like for your off-season best. And I think that's when you kind of forget what it really should be like. And then you get deeper in your off-season like, oh, no, actually now I feel really good. So and what is the detriment in that? It's like, oh, yeah, poor sleep is not going to be an optimal environment to be able to actually truly grow. As you get to more of the enhanced side, which is kind of our audience, there is a bit more of a shift down to where you could very well stay leaner because we're not relying on endogenous hormone production to have to get back to normalize, to truly be optimized. We can make this happen even with lower body fat. However, even despite like replacement of hormones, you still can't get around when like sleep is having derangements or the psychology is all the same for all of us. So if you're not able to like maintain a body weight and stay on a regimented plan, you're still going to have to do some legwork here to get back to a normal. So where you can even be productive in the off-season. So this phase truly can make or break a lot of people and for newer competitors or even ones that just haven't had that regiment of putting in practice, like trensitioning your prep routine into an off-season routine. They end up like six weeks down the road ready to start their off-season. And it looks like they're already 18, 20 weeks out from a show again. It's like, where do we go from here? Because we could start an off-season, but then what does that look like in 16, 20 weeks? Well, then you're going to be 30, 35 weeks out from a show. Like for a lot of people, that timeline just doesn't make sense. And that body fat level from 20 to 30 weeks out, I find it's just far inferior for making progress with just being able to partition food towards muscle, even staying lean or even keeping your health metrics in a better place. So it's almost best in the situation that you move. Once someone's stable and able to maintain their body weight and not having this lack of routine, then you do a fat loss phase and then you get them back into off-season. But I think for what probably more so, some people just are staying lean because of the social pressures around having a social media presence and marketing. I hear a lot of people speak to this as well too. But you need to put your competitive goals in the forefront and make sure that is the priority because end of day, what are you really doing this for? But I think the mind shift from an earlier competitor to that of what a champion really entails is what we are trying to strive for everyone to move towards. Yeah, and I think the big thinGHere is just making sure that you kind of have those deliverables mapped out. So one of the things I've done from a schedule perspective is the first thing when I wake up in the morning is IMap out the three most important items to deliver on every day as far as work goes. You can use that framework within being a competitor in this post-show phase. I think it still gives you process-oriented goals to kind of keep you minded on what can I do in the now in order to create the outcome for what's next. And those three most important things would be based on what people struggle with, but the tendency tends to be towards execute on the nutrition aspect, execute on trening requirements, and execute on the sleep routine. I tend to find focusing on those three as process-oriented goals really starts to shift that mindset towards kind of what improvement needs to look like in the off-season. And we can take that hyper-focus that prep gives us of an end date and a stage date and what that looks like and put that into those daily deliverables and making sure that we execute on those. Yeah, I do like that. IMean, if you're checking off those three areas, that's going to get you a lot of the way there. I also think there is a shift towards trening performance goals. Not that it's not there in contest prep, but at least for me what's gotten me the most excited coming off of prep is being able to improve my physique. And people are starting to map out, like, you know, what does that look like for them and what trening might need to be. And that's where I start to get excited. I think others should shift towards that too because what is going to change your physique? And that is trening. So looking at, you know, what exercises are going to be the most key ones to be able to move up these body parts that I need. And so on a week-to-week basis, my goal is trying to execute these better and better every week and then increase load reps across the board on every set for those lifts. And so now we can move to having this, like, weekly target that you can actually move the needle on because in prep you can't really do that. We're very focused on visuals or scale weight and losing body fat. So a quicker short-term to look at is trening performance and keeping in mind that the more on point you are with what Luke mentioned, your nutrition and your sleep, the greater you're going to be able to drive up these lifts. So that acute change in the short-term goals of, like, what you're doing in trening week-to-week and then having the long-term goal of the show, the physique, is a good trensition shift of where you can see that kind of champion mindset come about. Yeah. There's probably also data, too, like, for others to be able to stay accountable as well. Yeah, so I tend to try to remove scale focus. I know a lot of people in prep like rate of loss charts. I tend to stay away from rate of gain charts because you get quite a bit of instability on the first week or two. You don't really know kind of how someone's going to respond the first two weeks. More so from a data perspective, the things that I'm looking for are performance metrics and then watching some of the health metrics, watching, making sure that we're not getting large fluctuations in, like, blood pressure or anything along those lines. But I am watching that rate of change on the weight accumulation because you can see it, like, and you've seen this before, John, I know you have, where it's like that week-to-week visual side-by-side is just incrementally softer week-to-week than what you saw the improvement in the body fat on the way down. And it's like this rate of jumping up is just way too rapid, no matter what that kind of weight data says. That's where I'm using that art of coaching eye a bit more to confirm the data in that post-show phase because I do think that rate of change in the visual week-to-week is pretty important to track in this phase in particular. Yeah. And maybe just to have some insight out there for everyone is that, I would say in a general sense, if you wanted to look back on your contest prep photos, roughly maybe your eight-week outlook would be a look to strive for by the end of your post-show phase. Like that could be an acceptable body fat range because if you dieted for whatever, 10, 12 weeks, pulling down body fat off across that, you shouldn't be gaining body fat nearly at the rate that you're able to lose it in prep. So that should extend you out. If we said, hey, 10 weeks, 12 weeks of that dieting body fat, that should get you like 24 weeks of off-season body fat accrual. And then you wind up back at that contest prep start point. So that's just a rough idea of like looking at those visuals and whatever, print them out, whatever you need to do. And like here's the end point that will be acceptable. And again, everyone, this is like a, maybe a rough tool to be able to utilize because for some eight weeks out and you're going to be peeled out of your mind, bodybuilder, and also you have a high body fat set point, that eight weeks out body fat is going to feel a little too rough for an off-season. Maybe opposed to the bikini competitor that has a very low body fat set point and doesn't take as much to get down to like an eight-week outlook, that might be even leaner for her to be able to have her off-season start point. So again, lots of variation, but it gives you some rough idea of like where you're kind of aiming for at the end of this phase. But I usually say as lean as you can be without any negatives from contest prep. And over time, I think you learn to keep refining what that means. And you're going to mess it up because I've messed up numerous times and just starting to get it down. And you'll also elude yourself that you're there and you're not. So again, like that's what we strive for. The nutrition piece kind of pivotinGHere a bit is where I think we see the most variability. And I'm actually interested to hear your thoughts on this because I've got a pretty variable approach to how I go about like caloric increases and reintroducing some flexibility person to person. And I think psychology matters quite a bit here. So I'm going to kind of let you tee this off because this and how you manage this, I think is a large part of the success of an athlete in the post-show phase. And I tend to change this quite a bit depending on the psychology of the athlete. Gosh, with the increase in food and rate of gain for that initial, like if you have that, and I guess let me say what would be ideal here and then we can kind of like work backwards from there, would be the athlete that, you know, the day after the show or night of the show, they can go out and have a reasonable meal, something they enjoy and not let you to be overeating. The next day, they could be fully back on a bodybuilding looking plan. Maybe that night they have another meal out of something they like. Monday, if this was a Saturday show, they're 100% on the new diet plan. And they can execute that out throughout the entire week without little snack foods coming in, keeping a regulated water, sodium intake, so we drop off any water from the show. And then by that Saturday, they could do a reasonable meal out again. And what I would guide people to do is, again, this is saying I don't know the person, is that you're not going to be able to go out and have pizza burgers every week post-show, at least initially, okay? For the most part, nobody can do that. And this would be a meal out that's something close within the realm of bodybuilding, right? So steak, potato, fajitas, Greek food or something, right? Something where you get meat, veggies, et cetera. So then from there, if we see body weight stability, we start moving up food and their daily calorie intake could increase to where also they begin to have more flexibility and a greater caloric allowance for that meal on the weekend. And then if it's not of detriment, what I also like to say, hey, make macro meals during the week whenever you want. So I don't have people, I start to trensition people from a strict meal plan to be able to macro match and have something they enjoy. And that can do that anytime, as long as that's not detracting from the ultimate physique goal here and keeping them on track. And that rate of gain kind of is where I have to judge how flexible do I need to be with someone's untracked meal or not. So I start with have something you enjoy, just regulate yourself. If I notice like, hey, that's the only weight gain they get is that one, two days after that meal and the rest of the time maintaining weight, it's like, okay, we need to scale that back and we have to put a little bit of restrictors around that meal, whether it be a calorie allowance or we just pick foods that would be okay to go out and have. And then we just go from there. That's kind of ideal. Now, not everyone can execute like that. And you have some people that are going to be, need more of the big push. And look, maybe I'll let you speak to that because there's a vast variability there and where you might need to take a newer competitor that's really struggling to like stay on it. And they just feel like they're failing, failing, failing every week. It's an interesting dynamic because the structure should provide success. But if we can't follow the structure, then it, like you said, it leads to these feelings of failure. Something I'll use to try to get the point across to people is like how this should scale up over time is looking at it mathematically. So like if you eat 500 calories over your meal plan when you're eating 2,000 calories a day versus eating 5,000 calories a day, that's the difference between about a 25% increase in caloric intake total and a 10% increase in caloric intake total. And so then I try to trenslate that into kind of like off-season eating. So when we look at flexibility around like meals off plan, we need to kind of have an idea of how do we keep it within this 5% to 10% range of caloric intake relative to the meal plan that we're having. And I'll tend to use that as my flexible rule in regards to educating them on looking things up, caloric intakes, giving them the autonomy to adjust food through the day in order to make that work. And I'll actually give them sometimes, depending on how new the competitor, like examples of how this might look so they can take it and use it and go do it in success. So like if they have a restaurant that's like their favorite, like pulling a meal off that restaurant's list, here's what a day of eating may look like. And then they can kind of learn to go execute that and then see off the back end what that data looks like from a weight tren perspective. And it teaches them and reinforce them what normal looks like. And that's kind of where we can build some excess with more structure on people that might not be used to kind of this phase. But it is kind of dependent upon the person because you do have some people on the emotional regularity side who just can't handle eating off plan because they get caught up in the moment and then the emotions kind of drive their eatinGHabits and then that eatinGHabits lead to excessive eating, which is pushing kind of into the realm of eating disorder. And that's where potentially the skills aspect of through the week needs to be developed a little bit more to handle those off plan eating days or kind of how we treat the flexibility. A little bit more structure lead it into flexibility later in the offseason. Yeah, I've worked with some people that they are would-be classified like eating disorders or struggle with that in their past and how to under control and post-show just kind of reignites some of those feelings. And you do have to scale that person back to what's going to be a successful diet day. You know, it's like most people will stick to measuring protein or even eyeballing protein. Like, hey, eat protein and veggies first. Then it's okay with the other stuff that you do eat. And at least we have some fill in there. And then as they feel like, you know, I feel a little bit regulated, I'm ready to get back to like measuring a carb or something like this. And then also like, hey, other stuff that snack foods around the house, like just don't have those. Have healthier snack foods. And it's okay if you snack on these foods just to build successful days and then lead them back to that structure that they had in the past. But anyway, there's a large range. And so I think if you're new to coaching, a lot of times you want that instruction manual of here's the perfect post-show phase and this is what everyone gets. And it is just so variable and you're going to have to be very flexible as a coach and realize that many people aren't going to be ready for the optimal execution of a post-show. Now, to segue that into trening because there's other issues that crop up with trening too. And there's also this kind of false sense, I think, of recovery because you feel like a superhero post-show with this influx of food coming in. You probably had like, you finally had eight hours of solid sleep through the night and you woke up feeling like, what have I been doing all prep? I wasn't even sleeping. And then you have massive pumps in the gym. You're like, I am a trening god right now. But it's still this like a little bit of false there because you're still coming from a state where you're not optimally recovered and you've been beating up yourself and accumulating this total stress load, fatigue load on connective tissue. And so we also need to consider like, where are you going to take this in the offseason? So if you go all out in the post-show phase, what are you going to do in the next eight weeks and then the next 20 weeks? Can you sustain that? And this can quickly catch up to people. I've done this myself. Like post-show feel great. Go tren the legs like the couple days after the show and just blast them. And then fatigue. I was knocked out for the week with fatigue. And this is how some guys have gotten rhabdo post-show is doing stuff like this. So with trening, it needs to scale back to allow recovery to happen. And then as nutrition scales up, they'll start crossing lines where they start to line up where that recovery is matching the stimulus. And until then, you have to keep that stimulus pretty low. So ideally here, reduce your volume or it's going to be that volume that you had one week prior to peak week is probably what you can start your trening phase with. And just to air a little more on the side of caution here, I usually say add in an extra rest day. There's a lot of people on contest prep, they could be up with a higher frequency of trening. So just to spread out that trening frequency, I find is what can really aid a lot of people's connected tissue recovery. The thing is the mental side of someone trying to stay out of the gym and almost a bit obsessed with trening and not being able to put those days in or even their trening day diet is a lot more fun than their non-trening day diet. So they really just tren every day. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. So trening like in this post-show phase is probably one of my favorite things to cover because it's almost a tinkering phase for me in regards to, I love this phase for reorganizing what we need to be competitive in the class. And so I rip volume down pretty aggressively. I'll even go sub sometimes what I finish the prep at because I'm doing some like new movement introduction in order to kind of match the new goal sets of like what did we see on stage? Where did we win? Where did we lose? That might not match the same characteristics of the physique that we started with at the beginning of our process together where we've kind of ran this structure into a physique that we presented on stage. We've improved a lot and maybe now the detriments from what actually won and where this physique is at might be differential. So I'll at minimum hold volume from like a post-show phase from the pre-contest. Sometimes I drop it a smidge because of the new movement introduction. And then for some of the auxiliary patterns, I'll actually let my more advanced clients tinker some. So I'll give them like goals within a movement and I'll have them the first two to three weeks kind of test some of their auxiliary patterns that go after the primary patterns. And then we start to learn what that program design is going to look like from a movement selection. And then I go into kind of progressing volume from there. And what I do this for is a dual reason. One, my more advanced athletes provide better feedback in order to be able to pick patterns on their own. And then secondarily, they're also going to be able to understand what it looks like to tren the first week and two weeks of maybe not blasting themselves to all out failure the first week to two weeks back and being able to trensition into program design a bit smoother. So it's definitely something I love to do because it gives them some autonomy back. They've spent 18, 20, 24 weeks, maybe like everything to a T. So the trening side allows them to have some fun and get back into some of the creative autonomy that they might want and allow it to happen on that side than rather feeling like it has to happen on the nutrition side for some of the athletes. Yeah, and even that varies too, right? It's almost like matching your macros, but matching your equipment to your trening program. But I think some people just want the plan and execute it, right? Like, hey, Luke, you know better. Like, just give me what is going to be the best thing for me. But I think to that point that those type of athletes do need to realize that they need to be a little introspective to be able to say like the things that you would need back, Luke, to be able to even say that might be the best exercise. Because it can, I've seen videos trening where I'm like, hey, man, this looks perfect. They're like, but I don't feel anything where I should be feeling it. It's like, okay. So we should pivot that. And feel isn't everything. But just to give you an example of that, like with, I'm doing like Sean Corita's trening now and he's just an executor, man. And what's helpful with him is like, for one, he'll like send me his whole, a video tour of his gym, which this is what we do in J3U coaching. Like, this is how custom the trening would be when we program it. Like, I want to see the equipment you use. And then we start seeing you in those pieces of equipment and then changing the plan based on how you execute those. So Sean is like, he'll send me like his chest personal gym. It's like, dude, you have like eight different pressing machines. He's like, so I'll write out a plan with like three options. And then we kind of move through. He's like, hey, I really connect well on this one. Like, all right, that's the one we're going to run. Then we write that in the program. And then I can put some cues within that. So as we progress week to week, that program has gone from a little more bare bones with flexibility into something that he's had the autonomy to select. And also I built in thEQueuing that he knows to remember to execute on that movement that we picked. So that's just a way that you can have flexibility built into structure where like more experienced athletes are kind of leading that way. And I think as you're a beginner on in your career, you're trying to aim to get to that. So don't ever think like just follow the plan, bro. Like you need to be introspective to be able to get to that point, to be this educated lifter and provide coach with the right feedback. And just to make sure that we pivot here because trening is an extensive piece that Luke and I both love to speak to. But I know what everyone's probably waiting for is the PEDs, the fun stuff, right? Everyone loves this piece. And it's so funny because in the post-show phase, it's so simple. Like we can take so much progress without this taking away from the health side of the equation. And like general rules of thumb go a long ways. And it's kind of funny because we can use previous data in off-season baseline phases to help guide this post-show phase. Because in general, like things that are going to be happening from a PED side of the equation is we're going to be looking at tapering back in GH. What compound load is going to be good for this level of physique development from a baseline perspective? And there's a lot of conflating issues with the thought process of going into post-show pushing. So immediately getting back into super physiological exposure, immediately post-show. And I was kind of going to let you kind of start that conversation because I think that's the biggest like fallacy to debunk is this post-show time is not about maximizing rebound. Like you've got to prepare yourself. I almost think about it like a pre-prep phase. Like you do a pre-prep phase in order to prepare yourself for the contest prep. You do a pre-off-season phase in order to prepare yourself for the off-season phase to come. I like that term. We've shifted this term a lot around. It's like potentiation phase, right? Like, or yeah, pre-off-season phase. Wherever you need psychology-wise to call it so you can stay locked in. But, you know, if you had that post-show experience and you had those first few workouts with food back in place and trening performance is like an immediate jump up for most of us, it's like, gosh, that's what PD is like low. You know, you have some like tapering from what you were doing on prep. But for the most part, like you can have amazing workouts and make progress before you've even really brought a lot of gear back in. And then you also have this potential rapid increase in body weight and then add that along with someone that has a variability in their structure or their ability to even continue executing the plan. Bring a lot of PDs back in with that. You'rEQuickly going to see body weight skyrocket. And for the better and for the worse, like, yeah, you can make progress that way. And I have done it. But you'll quickly find yourself where this leads to if you're the one that's not able to execute tightly. Is that six, eight weeks later, you've had gear high. You've rapidly increased body weight. And now what? Is your offseason going to start now? No. You have to lower your gear because you can't stay on cycle for 30, 40 plus weeks of a prep into a post-show into offseason. You can. It's definitely a terrible idea. And then also with all this body weight accrual, man, I've seen guys needing blood pressure medications now. And health markers have not been addressed since coming off of prep because gear stayed high. And then with that being said, you have an artificial look of fullness with a lot of water that's there. When you pull that away, you're going to realize that you have a lot more body fat gaining in that phase than you really wanted to. And I found myself there is by the end, you're like kind of deflated. You're fatter. And the rest of offseason, like once you try to bring gear back up after you had a break, like, man, progress is just very subpar. And that post-show, you never get back that excitement from it. Now, if you're that person that can execute tightly, you're like, well, I'll maximize that phase. But my point to that is that if you are able to execute that tightly, you're going to get a lot more out of a little bit of gear. Find yourself eight weeks later without all the variability of more water increase and skewing your visuals to where now when progress is starting slow in your post-show period, now you're starting to increase gear and you just keep that momentum moving. You don't ever have the drop-off. And you're going to have a lot more runway being leaner. So that's where you can really line up having the post-show period, low PDs where food and increasing recovery is vastly going to be driving trening performance up. And in turn, your ability to accrue some tissue without a doubt during that phase and then carry that into your off-season from that point on. And as far as, well, is there a time to keep gear up? And it's really the only place where I see that being a thing is when this is not a post-show leading to an off-season. This is a post-show that might be actually doing more multiple shows. And that's going to have to be kept up because you're going to be having to stay relatively lean. So that's kind of the only caveat that I would put around that. I don't know if you have anything else to add on that. Yeah, career bodybuilders are the exception to the rule. Because of the way your competitive year falls sometimes, you have to kind of run the borderline of higher gear for a longer period of time. You might not run like full compound levels, that entire bridge of that off-season, but it might be higher than what you ran a post-show phase because you're, you got this like short, like this odd 12-week gap between shows. And then you've got this, so you got this like four to five or four to six week like break. And then you're kind of back into the depth of it, right? So that's kind of like the one exception to the rule, but it's still, unless it's like stringing back-to-back shows very closely together, I still do think there's a temporary drop before you go back into kind of escalating it. Yeah, and it's like you're going to need to pay that back at some point. So, IMean, like, hey, if you're going to extend this prep out and do multiple shows, like at some point you're going to have to have a longer phase on the tail end of that to bring just total stress load back down. And, you know, that's part of the game, but don't do that when you're just earlier on. And as far as like set up, what we speak to like baseline is like truly this could be like your lowest anabolic usage of the total whole year because your ability to drive performance with just nutrition alone is going to be pretty vast without it to hold that tissue even compared to like even your hold phases or your pre-prep phases where you brought gear down. So you can even look at those phases that you did in the offseason of like, yeah, I could easily hold tissue and performance on whatever, 300 milligrams of total anabolics per week. Very easily you could go back to a TRT level of likEQuote-unquote TRT at 200 mg per week and ride that out. But leverage growth hormone hormone hormone hormone, that's what I do with a lot of clients is like I bring that back in or up higher and that will vastly aid the ability to partition towards muscle and limit body fat. So just part of the stuff that we teach like within level one, and again, you're probably listening to Luke and I, you're like you're not nailing us down on like the protocol because there's not the protocol. It's a decision process based on assessing where the athlete is and on that structuring the program for their needs, but trying to move them towards what an optimal setup would be and maximize the progress. And so there's a pretty large spectrum of what it's going to have to work within this phase for all the different competitors. But if you want to learn more on this, we have an entire module in J3 level one just dedicated to handling post-show period. Luke has even handling in there multiple shows, has case studies to show this applied into the real world setting where it's not clen and cut and it's not just throw in the protocol and it's going to work the same for everybody because it doesn't. So thank you everyone for tuning in. That's our post-show wrap-up. Questions, comments, leave them down below and we will talk to you next week. We'll see you next week.