 Welcome to the J3, the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. The off-season look. The off-season look. The off-season look. How lean is too lean. The off-season look. How lean is too lean.! The goal is to add muscle, bring a different stage.! If you are trying to stay too lean, you might be leaving gains on the table. However, if you do the dirty bulk and just get too fat, you might have a really, really long prep ahead. So we're going to break this down today and try to meet in the middle of what we really need to accomplish here in the off-season with managing body fat. And not overshooting, not underdoing it. And let's dive in for today, Luke. Off-season. We're right around the off-season time. At least when we're shooting this, it's like just getting into fall here in Texas, which is still 90 degree weather. So it doesn't feel like fall. I was about to say, yesterday's fall afternoon was like 85 degrees. But either way, we're closing in on the Olympia. This is coming out after the Olympia now and it's the off-season. But if you, whatever, maybe you're listening to this, you're in the future three years from now in your off-season. So either way, you know, what is the idea, I guess, Luke, of like you want to have like lean gains in the off-season. Maybe let's set the framework of what should we really be achieving with body fat in the off-season at a macro level? I look in order for like management across the macro. I think it starts with where we start. And I really like looking at it from a rate of gain perspective. So if I was to run a rate of gain between 0.25 to 0.5% for the entirety of the off-season that I have planned, will I end up at a body fat percentage that is too high where I'm not making progress? Or will it be just at the point where it's time to switch phases again? That's thEQuestion I'm always trying to answer. And it's why we do so much on post-show because like obviously not all your off-seasons are going to be from a post-show phase into it. But we talk about managing body composition in the post-show phase where psychological and some of the physiological adaptations have started to come down. But we're not losing a lot of food sensitivity and things that are positive things of being lean kind of heading into that off-season phase. And so that's what I'm looking for is if I can take a timeline, I can build a phase that's 18 to 24 weeks long and run that rate of gain throughout the entirety of the off-season and not end up in a bad spot. Then I know I've done my homework on the front end. And then we can start to look at like what does that look like from a body fat percentage standpoint. But I want to be comfortable in knowing that I can drive performance up each week by improving the recovery capacity with food, progressively progressing PDs, but also allowing some of that body fat accumulation to happen to help with the ability to drive mechanical tension. And it is done in a way that's not putting us in a bad spot by the end. Yeah, I think to be able to be in a position for string together that many weeks, you have to start from position where you have that many weeks to give. And a lot of times I think that is looking at someone's probably eight to 10 week outlook because usually how fast you can rip off body fat, divide that by two. And that's probably maybe about the fat gain you could accept in most cases in the off-season. And so if you think about this math, all right, if you had a 20-week prep, you diet someone down for 10 weeks, they're 10 weeks out, that would be the start of where we'd want them to have a lean gain phase. So 10 weeks to drop off the fat, we could allow 20 weeks to put that same amount of fat back on to where then now we're back at our 20-week out spot to pull it back down. Now, say someone's dropping one and a half pounds per week, maybe that is 0.75 pounds of body fat gain on a weekly basis. Maybe a third of that's muscle, maybe 0.4, 0.3 pounds. So that could be muscle, maybe, depending on where they're at. That could significantly add up to a lot of stage weight. But as you quickly see, it's like, hey, well, I did that math and 0.3 pounds over 20 weeks. Like, that's quite a bit of stage weight. And you're right, that's going to slow down for a lot of people, which means you probably need a slower rate of gain. But that at least gives you some idea of, like, mapping out the overall timeline and the body fat leanness that you probably want to look at. So when you're looking at your off-season, you probably see, okay, how do I look when I'm 10 weeks out from my show? And how do I look when I'm 20 weeks out? There you go. There's your visuals for your start and the end of your off-season when you probably need to start pulling back down. You got too fat. And also to give you some guidance if you should do a mini cut or not. And then also if you're in a good position to start your off-season or not, as some people might need to pull down a little bit before they do. Now, I've had the preps, right, where you're like, man, that prep sucked. I had to pull 50 pounds off. And I don't ever want to do that again. And there was one off-season where I did that, and I was like, you know what? I'm lean gaining. So I ended up – it was really sad. I ended up coming back down to my, like, exact same stage weight. I was a little leaner. Maybe IMade a little progress, but still, like, man, it was not a productive year. And I just really tried to stay lean. I was really worried about the scale increasing. I had lots of weeks where it wouldn't increase because my calorie intake was so tight. And it just left me without making a lot of progress. But if you then go to the other end of the spectrum, like, well, I'm going to just let the fat gain happen. And I chased the scale, too. It just led to really hard dieting and long preps where eventually if your prep timeline is not long enough, you get too aggressive, you're actually going to pull a lot of that tissue off that you probably had gained. So that's where, like, that happy medium really does need to happen. And I know people out there – I posted this on, like, how many calories does it take to really grow on my YouTube? And there's lots of comments like, you know, people – everyone should have a dirty bulk. I don't – if you can avoid having a dirty bulk, I would because dirty bulking at this level, you don't see anyone do it. And why is that? Because it's not productive becausEQuickly, like, apt-type digestion goes to crap. You're choking down food. And I think that is one of the biggest contributors to, like, increasing your waist size is forcing food and not being able to pull your gut in all off-season long. Then also with high body fats, especially if you're using PDs, health metrics go to shit so quickly. So then you're going to have longer on the back end of your off-season to clen those up. So sleep, the extra 10 pounds of, like, fat and water is just worse for, like, your sleep. And then it trenslates into trening. So if your sleep's crap, your recovery's not as good. But then also if you're gassed, like, between your trening sets and it's taking away your ability for total work, less work being done potentially is going to mean less growth hormone hormone. And I know a lot of guys, like, we start, like, doing a mini cut, like, five, six weeks in or five, six weeks in to prep. And, like, lifts are now progressing back up. Like, they feel good. They have energy come back. So doing the dirty bulk and getting, like, too fat, like, yes, you can not leave gains on the table that way. However, on the back end is where you're going to see the problems arise. Or it's going to shortchange your off-season by, like, we're like, yeah, I'm going to have to have a 30-week prep now. It's like, yeah, we only got 14 weeks into your off-season. So you had more to give still. So I think there is the medium to strike there for sure. 100%. I think it's an interesting dynamic. And as a former member of the I Was Fat Club, it was something that I think I could have done better in my time competing and pursuing competing. Like, I already naturally maybe have a body fat set point, which I think we should touch on here, that's slightly higher than normal. Like, average where I feel my best at least, right? Like, I think part of that from a visual perspective is my lower body used to stay so lean relative to my upper. But it's something that can derail your ability to progress long term. And what IMean by this is, like, this is why I would agree with you being away from the dirty bulk. It's like, you know the person that struggles to lose body fat? Like, really adaptive to diet changes. Like, it's really a grind to get into shape. That trenslates into all of these other phases. So when you take someone too far in an off-season and then you go to mini-cut them, it's like that mini-cut turns into a diet phase. So it's like with that person, it might – you might, like, end up wasting a lot of time. So when we look at, like, body fat management, a lot of it has to do with keeping off-season links for that person relative to where I can run a rate of gain that's perspective or productive, I should say. But not take them past that point where you're now, like, trying to reverse in, like, sixth gear. And so that's where, like, the thought then comes for people of, like, oh, well, I should just stay leaner. It's like, no, you still have to have the phase where you run rates of gain that are appropriate for making maximal progress. Because thEQuestions you need to answer is how long is that for? Are you running them for too short? Are you running them for too long relative to what you had? And it's just like that's thEQuestions you need to start answering. Like, if I look back, I wish I would have done shorter pushes, stopping when I saw body composition skewing my health metrics, and then reeled it back in because that was my predisposition. If you're on the flip side of the coin where it's like you stay lean pretty much year-round, it's like you can maybe run these longer phases and take more progress. This is how I view it. It's like it's always relative to what is the person's problem. Is it getting in shape or is it adding tissue? And then that's kind of how we run the phase. Yeah. And if I had to make a generality, like most people are going to be on the average spectrum of like, hey, if they eat too much, they're going to gain body fat. And the rate of muscle gain was going to be relatively not too quick but also not going to be a freak out there. You'll know. If you're a freak, you know. And you're probably already a pro in not listening to us talk or something. But what I see a lot of times is like many people can string a good 16, 20-week growth hormone hormone phase, and it's likely time to either run into a prep from there or do a mini cut. And I know people want to do an extended growth hormone hormone phase where you need to have a lot of time to grow. And to string together 40 weeks of growing, usually there's a fat loss phase that has to happen in that. It's just I don't think I've rarely ever seen it happen where we could string one together unless you're counting like your post-show period within that or something. But usually it's like, hey, you have a growth hormone hormone phase. Then there's like maybe a fat loss phase. Then there's another growth hormone hormone phase that happens. And if you really manage the first growth hormone hormone phase well, that fat loss phase truly is a shorter one. And then off the back of that second growth hormone hormone phase, you run that into your prep. So to have like that extended growth hormone hormone phase, just be prepared. You're probably going to need a fat loss phase in there as well. And, you know, back on to the, you know, how lean is too lean. And when these things are like really holding you back is when, you know, when sleep is taking detriments because you are still too lean. And I think it's easy in the post-show phase to feel like you're normal, but you're not still. So if you're still waking up with like sleep disturbances or still having to fight hunger signaling. The caveat on that one is like some, if you're a female out there, some hunger is probably happening in the offseason. It could be, but I think those are at least some of the few that stand out around that. IMean, what you have other ones are like, Hey, when someone's just staying too lean in the offseason. Yeah. I think it's the rate of gain and performance metrics probably just are not moving. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, the performance one is where my head goes. All the ones you listed plus you don't feel strong under weights. Strength progressions are really hard to come by. You notice that even if you try to take volume progressions, you're tolerant, so that's pretty rough. People forget too that if we look at workload in general, it's like taking strength progressions is overall net stimulus progressions and the total volume that you're trening. And so we have to improve our ability to tolerate that performance level over time. So I think that's kind of a part of it as well where those trening metrics, for a lot of people, like they're the last ones to kind of kick in. But, man, you can get stuck into a phase where it's like you're struggling way too early to progress things if you're staying too lean. Like I've seen some of the ones that like stay too lean like six, seven weeks in. They're like, it's already heavy. Like, Jesus, you should just be picking up momentum right now. Yeah, I think thEQuick takeaway is like am I too lean? It's like here's what should happen. You should be able to wake up in the morning and feel rested and recovered. So that's your checkbox of like sleep is going well. Throughout the day before meals, you might have some slight hunger signaling that happens before your meal. Or you might not have a lot. You just like know it's time to eat and that's okay. You're not overly stuffed or bloated after your meals either. And then also throughout the day, you're not dwelling on what the next meal is going to be and having like all these cravings float around your head and scrolling IG. That's probably also another sign that you're a little bit too lean. Also, if you are only focused on food, likely you're not focused on your significant other. So we should have some libido coming back as well to a degree in the offseason for males and females. So that should be another good sign that you could be recovered. We have hunger, libido, sleep. The last one, are you able to progress to the gym? Like performance is there. You get great pumps as that could be a sign just of having enough food present. Not that there's all this thing around like pumps don't grow muscle or pumps do grow muscle or whatever. Anyway, so it's a marker. But I think, hey, go through thosEQuestions. If those things are not all happening, you might be too lean. And if they are all happening and they're in the positive, then you likely could be in a good place. But Luke, maybe we should trensition into the really good takeaways of how to execute the balance of offseason lean and productive muscle growth hormone hormone as well. So like. We have these checkboxes in place. Yeah. What would be some things that you see keep people productive? Yeah. This could be, you name it, cardio, monitoring labs. Yeah. Drugs, whatever. Yeah. So one of the biggest checkboxes is going to sound really odd is like the advanced dieting skills of being able to handle offseason. Things for lack of a better word, like part of the offseason is being able to give back to friends and family and managing the social environments and the skills of adjusting plans and being able to estimate food. I think is one of the most underrated skills in an offseason. Like, oh, I have seen so many offseasons derailed by this. Like you have the two weeks of like one's vacation and then one's these like family outing things. And it's like you've just lost six weeks of progress. Like it's just, it's traveling is such a. Man, it's, it's so tough. Bodybuilding. I'll be honest. Like I was, I traveled to see Sean Clarita like this week and tren with him. Right. Like no big deal. Like for me, like food, I had a kitchen or whatever. And talking with him, like we were, we have all these, these big shows planned like out of the country. And then I'm going out of the country and we're sitting there like thinking on how are you packing our chicken to here? And it's just, it's so easy to get off plan for a week. And even when you are well planned from higher outputs and then less food in turn, or you're having to change your diet and you don't account for things. It just makes it really hard to string together progress. But when you are a skilled dieter, you understand how to build that in. And also if you are at home and you can be consistent, but you want to live life, you need to be able to have a flexible dieting skill and know how to pull things in, pull things out. That doesn't detract from your goal. And that's truly is like a productive offseason rate of gain is where you can just hit your, your, your weekly caloric marker and not overshoot it or undershoot it. So that is a huge piece to it. And right. Sustainable dining. Yeah. Something that's enjoyable and fun. That doesn't lead to a burnout. I think that's a huge piece in the offseason, just the psychological burnout of feeling like you're on prep year round. I know for my machines out there that are listening, you're like, yeah, no problem. It's like, but the reality is like that becomes a problem for a lot of people and why a lot of people don't make progress. So yeah, you could say, Hey, toughen up out there. Just do it. You want your goal? Like motivation's bullshit. Just be disciplined. It's like, you know, I'm on board with that message. All good. But also if we can ease the burden of offseason and prep and just make it sustainable and enjoyable, it, it, why not? Like your partner's going to appreciate it. I'll tell you that. They got to think about other people too. So yeah, man. If anybody's waving the flag of that, it's me. I think it's just so massive. I think like of all the things you could go through of like what makes for productive offseasons, like obviously managing your hormones and, or not hormones, your lab work and your health metrics. And like, that's a big one to write, of course, and staying on top of your lifestyle metrics. So consistency and sleep and consistent meal times for digestion. And, and, you know, those types of things. I think like stacking food at the end of the day is like another horrible mistake people do when food gets high. It's like you miss one meal time kind of off. And then it's like hour and a half meals for the lasT3 meals of the day. It's like, I think that's a big one that can, but if I had to choose one thing, it's that advanced dieting skill set of like being able to manage. Like I would, I wouldn't take that 10 times out of 10. Yeah, that, that's a huge one. I, I am getting more leaning towards like cardio should happen. Uh, especially if you're an enhanced bodybuilder. Yeah. I think that keeps people really productive as well from, uh, keepinGHunger up. But I think from health is a priority there. And with the metabolic profile, being in a good position to switch between burning fat, burning glucose, uh, and also keeping work capacity up. I, I, you can absolutely gain a lot of that from weight trening alone. I know people say that, uh, but also depends on the type of weight trening that you're doing and how you structure that. Um, I don't think your weight trening should be structured to where it's a cardio circuit. And so I think that's where you need to bring a heart rate up to like some max levels, at least for moments of a day, like some hit cardio, or at least to a good range where you can get some cardiovascular positive adaptations. I think there's a lot of merit to that in keeping a productive offseason and trensitioning between, between phases. And I've been leaning more and more into that. I've been on the offseason with no cardio. And I find for all my athletes and myself, it's more productive with cardio being, being present. And on the cardio side, uh, steps, it's pretty easy for people to stop moving in the offseason. I think having walks and movement, uh, following meals, uh, keeps digestion moving along. And, uh, as a positive aspect for, for that piece as well. And if you are a low food dieter or surpluser or whatever, uh, can also keep a high energy flux to where you can handle more food in the offseason. And, uh, the caloric expenditure of just a little bit of walking is very, very low. So I think there's a, there is some positives to, to those things too, of having in place. Uh, one last thing that I will step touch on too is, uh, anyone resist out there to getting a sleep study done? Oh, highly, a big one that should take place. Uh, cause that's going to be a, uh, just a ceiling to how much recovery capacity you have tren all day, but you can't recover. You won't have the adaptations happen. So get a sleep study done. It's so easy. Now there's online tests that will mail to your house and you can check it out. So, uh, that would be another one. And just addressing your total sleep setup mechanics. Like you're cool while you sleep. Do you have good pillow positions? Like, uh, everything that would contribute to like improve sleep. I would be, uh, aiming towards and consistent sleep schedule. You go to bed at the same time you wake at the same time. Uh, when you are traveling, traveling, so it doesn't screw that up would be huge. Cause you know, if you go travel and listening right now, if you're someone that traveled somewhere and you had to get up extra early and travel, or, uh, it's took you, you know, stay up later because you got somewhere late, you know, that throws you off for a few days, add those days up and it does make a difference. So at least those are some of the bigger ticket items. I think really stand out to me for improving your ability to, to manage staying lean and be productive is a sleep. Is that, is that big one? Yeah. I think it's worth its weight in gold. To be honest, I think it's extremely undervalued. The amount of people that come in that are like 245 or 250 and then like, yeah, I've just never thought about it. It's like, dude, like, okay. Or like how good you think you sleep? Like, let's just make sure this is cause like, you don't some, IMean, sometimes like John, you can, I know I can attest to this. Sometimes you don't realize how bad you're actually sleeping. Like it's like, until you experience what truly sleeping with a CPAP machine is, if you have sleep apnea, like, woof, it makes such a difference. Yeah. Yeah. You know, for like tracking that, I know there's like whoop or or ring or Apple watches. And I really think just the subjective of like getting up and like, do you feel rested when you wake up in the morning and energetic throughout the day? And if not, like that's still, I think one of the best metrics to go off of as we get better, I'm sure we'll have some amazing sleep data to work around and not to dismiss things like that either. But I think just asking thosEQuestions are some good metrics to start with beyond just, you know, offseason productivity with scale weight and visuals and things. But with the last, let me, the last thing that we can touch on here is like monitoring the progress. Cause we talked a bit about scale weight and what that just said was visuals. So kind of my, my rule that I like to go off of is on a week to week basis. When I compare pictures, I should not be able to see fat gain. Uh, because if you're gaining fat, you can see it off one week, man, that's fast. It's really fast. Um, what I usually see if I compare back to maybe, maybe a three week apart or four week apart comparison, I could see someone soften slightly. That's, that's acceptable. And then I should be able to see like maybe that rate of gain falls within our, what we just mentioned for our target, the 0.25 to 0.5%. And if they're there, that's a great place to be at. But if on a week to week basis, I'm seeing them like visually getting softer, then also likely their rate of gain is maybe at that 0.5 or slightly above. It's probably a good sign. You need to slow that down. Uh, on the other side is like your rate of gain is less than that. The less than the 0.25 or some weeks are maintaining. And then you just visually week to week are always seeing them look very, very lean. You likely need to push them farther along. Uh, then if you're like, Hey man, I, I'm just, uh, only seeing fat gain. I'm within that target range, you will, you know, uh, congratulations and not congratulations. You're rightly just more advanced. And so you're just probably gonna have to move along at a slower rate now, especially if you're natural, that's going to be much slower. Um, or if you're, you know, if you're dabbling in the hand side and you checked all your boxes, everything's perfect trening, everything, you milked everything out of all those aspects. It might be time to escalate the usage of PDs. And I will just take a mention on PDs. IMentioned is that you can create a hormonal environment that gives you a lot of leverage to be able to stay a lot leaner in the offseason than what your natural counterpart could be. And so I would put more pressure on someone that is enhanced, that you have a greater, uh, reason to be able to stay leaner in your offseasons. And if you're getting fat in your offseasons, you're doing probably a piss poor job of managing your variables. And so that's to, to call you out up there that you are to operate a higher standard than what your lower PED natty scatter point was doing in the past. Um, but you will, you will see more progress. So don't let your PDs be masking your, your, uh, ability of what you're executing your variables at. Yeah. I think, um, before we kind of leave out, like all that stuff's in J3U, like all these things. Yeah. We, we change everything from how to manage your offseason, actually look at this stuff. We teach you how to, uh, learn the skillset of the eye of monitoring your progress. So check out our level one course. If you really want to learn about offseason, that's where we really have the, the guts of where we talked about today. So, but still, we're going to stay on our topic of get big for next week's podcast. We're going to talk about strong does not always equal big in the trap of just performance chasing and your hypertrophy blocks and where that can lead to some roadblocks. And what does it actually mean to being strong when you're a bodybuilder? So thank you all for tuning in. We will talk to you next week. We'll talk to you next week.