 You guys. You guys want the pro card but you have the execution level of a novice competitor. You have two of the execution level of a novice competitor. Today on the J3 coaching podcast. We're going to be talking about having those pro card expectations but only executing to the level of these novice classes. And we have two of the J3 coaches with us today and Alex and Darren. I'm super excited to dive in. appropriate that you two are joining the podcast today for this conversation with Darren, you being an Olympian, Alex, you coaching at a really high level with pro caliber athletes, you know, winning NPC nationals a few years back and kind of both of you guys knowing what that standard is. And I guess I'll just like kind of open the floor to any like initial opening comments of like, what do you guys see onboarding that kind of gives you the red flags that this might be coming as coaches when you kind of start to pick up athletes? You want to take it away? So initial sort of red flags, I think because the sort of pro cards, I'm going to say it seems more accessible rather than is more accessible. It's seen more now with social media, there is more shows around, but I don't think that makes it any easier to get. But people are seeing more and more people getting it and they're thinking, oh, I'm just going to start going to the gym and, you know, two years later get a pro card. For me, the big red flag is like people talking about pro card, they haven't even competed or gone through a practice to go and like, it's a lot harder than social media makes it look. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I know a lot of times too, you'll see like people promote that getting a pro card here in the States is a lot easier than getting it in like Europe or some of these international shows, which I don't think is fully the case. I think a lot of that comes down to like how many people actually show up. Like Darren, you were making this point earlier. Like you look at NPC nationals, I get two cards per class. Some of those classes have morecompetitors than the entire show has in some of the international. Yeah. I think if you're looking across 12 months, I reckon they might have pro cards given it per class. Pretty similar in Europe, but there's less opportunity in terms of shows in the States, but those shows give more. Oh, like I'm saying this for a very unbiased place. So I looking at it, I would say the American shows the standard to me looks higher across most of it. Yeah. And it's a lot of, it's just like the pool that you're pulling from. Right. But either way, I think the point here that we kind of need to dive into is the daily habits that it looks like to execute it like a pro. And I think this is not something that's talked about. I think a lot of coaches assume that people just do this automatically, or maybe they don't even like assume that, or they don't even realize the impact that these little daily habits have in regards to keeping someone on track. And I think a great place to start with this is sleep habits. Alex, I'm going to kick this to you because with like the clientele that you coach, like you coach a fair bit of the younger crowd and coach like some of those more experienced bodybuilders. So like, you've got a little bit of array of, of all the different types. And I know from a coaching side, like the sleep is is so impactful. I joke with Alex, I wear a boot band and I share my boot band status with Alex every once in a while, because my sleep habits up until like the last couple of weeks have not been great, making sure that all the businesses run smooth. And it's, it's, you know, you laugh about it, but in reality, like if, if bodybuilding was my biggest priority, or I had this big athletic endeavor, that was my biggest priority. Sleep is the biggest, one of the biggest recovery capacity tools that we have that just gets so overlooked. So like kind of diving into the coaching side, Alex, like what are some of the red flags you start seeing if this starts to get skewed? And like, how are you addressing this with clients to make them realize how important this is? Alex Blanche Yeah. So a lot of what's very common is just the inconsistency on like the, what time they go to bed. And a lot of it is, you know, it's not even like, you know, the majority of the ones who lack that consistency are the ones who don't have the schedule. So like a lot of the ones who even work, you know, nights or, you know, they work from 7pm to 7am, their sleep schedule is actually better than some of my people who aren't like in a rhythm or routine with a job. And so that's what I see a lot of is they'll just sporadically go to bed, they'll sporadically sleep late, and then they'll sporadically wake up early. And there's just no consistency. And each week they're checking in, like, I'm a little fatigued, I'm tired, and that I'm having trouble going to bed. And so a lot of what I look at first is just like, Hey, what are you, what are you doing before you go to sleep? Like, most of the people were on their phones, we're, you know, watching TV, we're in all these different forms of like being stimulated before bed. So what I'm big on first is just like, Hey, let's, you know, if you are a TV watcher, just get some blue light glasses, try to put your phone down near the last 45 minutes before bed, be in a cold, dark room, just little things that they might not think about. I actually am big on like, meditation. And I don't say I try not to like, pitch them on meditation, because they, you know, they start thinking I'm like, you know, like some weirdo. But I'm just like, Hey, why don't you like close your eyes and just start picturing things that make you happy for three minutes. And that that goes a long way. And some of my people who can like, they can understand that I'll even open up to some things that like, Hey, you know, you've got this stressing you out this week. Well, look, this is what I've got going on. This is what I use to help and just giving them some, Hey, this is normal, really helps them a lot, understand it and get back on track. The meditation piece is like, sounds so crunchy granola about the awesome avocado toast and go sit on a California beach. But it's, it's so important. Like I, I found the power of meditation in one of my first few contest preps, not pre bed, but during cardio sessions, like literally just, I would almost have love dog myself. I play the same playlist of songs, every single cardio session, and it would get me into this flow. And I would just close my eyes and picture myself like on stage or doing my posing routine or in comparisons or whatever. And it's like, it's such a powerful thing to be able to visualize yourself doing these things, or even just like different types of meditation as well. Like you guys could use any one of the apps that are out there and there's like a mindfulness app or a couple others, but it's like, so underrated. And I think it can integrate well into a sleep routine. I think some of the things like from a habits perspective to get lost is we can do things like hot shower, about 45 minutes prior to bed to kind of cool that core body temperature. Setting alarms, I think is a massive one for like when to start the bed routine. So not just like go to bed, but like when to turn off the TV, because Netflix does a great job from a brainy perspective of like keeping you in it. Like they had that little next episode button, right? Like what is the biggest thing Netflix is fighting? It's time, right? And if they can take more of your time, they're going to keep you on the platform longer. So having that alarm, like, Hey, it's time to start your bedtime routine, having a bedtime routine. Um, and then having those consistent wait times is huge. Um, but I think one of the big things too, is like the PD input, right? We know that like the PD input can be pretty detrimental to this. Just like can drive sympathetic activity with the total amount of food usage, that total androgen load. If estradiol skewed relative to androgens, estradiol is going to drive, um, weightfulness. And so like, we have that high estradiol environment that's too high could potentially be driving detriment to the sleep. So there is a supplementation side of the equation as well, but I think you could consider there's a lot of great products. I like the supplement needs one. It's just kind of a staple that I'll use alongside some like high melatonin usage. Um, but I think that, I think that the sleep routine also kind of comes with consistency in the meals. And then Darren, I'm going to have you like talk about this because we've all been there where we screwed the, screwed the day up and it's supposed to be a better at 10 and it's 9 45 and you have like two meals left or somethinGHappened during the day where you're, you're way behind on your food. And I think that, that day consistency, like what your day looks like is, is pretty massive too. What do you think Darren? Yeah, for me, like, I think we're hitting the nail on the head there when you talk about routine and something that I think always think of, um, I think you, you talk about with trening before, like the, that song that sets the trigger for a set. I have my routine that sets the trigger for relax. So like, listen, I'm overly like a robot. My day looks the exact same every day. I have meals same time, tren same time, wake same time, bed same time. But my, the way my evening looks is we have an agreement, both me and my wife, like we, we, we online coach, we're up on doing stuff all day. Once it gets to between seven and seven 30, our phones get turned over and put away at that point. Then we will shower if we need to shower, but always by eight o'clock we're set there and we watch a series like a 45 to an hour long episode on Netflix to kind of just switch your brains off from work. And the, for me, that sets the tone to, to bring it all down. So I don't think it matters. Like everyone's going to have a different routine, but I think it's having that consistent routine that sets that trigger in your brain that it's like, I'm sure enough by between, between nine and nine 30, I'm like ready for bed, no matter what I'm always going to straight to bed, straight to sleep. And like ours is so like this, that our dog will look at us at about nine o'clock and be like, I think it's the rare occasion where it gets a bit later. He'll just look at us and walk up the stairs himself. So like our routine is so locked in like that, that our dog knows. And he's like, no, I'm not the bed. He's like, I'm done. And that's something I use with clients. And I've used my past again, it's coming back to like the meditation. And I remember when I did like some therapy to kind of get around this anxiety things. And they told me to like, you know, write down things that are on your mind at night. I'm like, that's a load of shit. But I tried it. So like when I'm like in the evening, I've got a lot on my mind, like this client's competing and I'm thinking, I think, I think I go to bed, I'm still going to be thinking that, but I always write it down. So that's the first thing they didn't get to think about. So I was like, I'm taking it out of my mind to put it on the paper. So a lot of my clients who work like stressful jobs are living in high stress. Some just every night, just write down what's causing you stress, put it on the paper, get it out of your brain. You know, it's there. Then the next day. Yeah. There's like planning apps to like notion. Like, oh my gosh, my life is starting to run off of notion. I was joking with our calendars, block calendars and block schedules are massive for bodybuilders. I think building in your meal times into your calendar so that you know, like when you're supposed to have your meals, is pretty huge too. And I think it's just, it's, it's so simple. Like they're controllable tasks. And this is my main hang up with this is that I understand if, you know, stuff hits the ceiling fan for, for avoiding these four letter words, like you, you're going to have days where somethinGHappens that is out of your control. But 95% of the time, all of these variables are such controllable variables that you should be able to execute on and coming from someone who's had an individual tell me that I expect too much of my athletes that is competing at the highest level. It's like, I do not understand how you pull the most out of someone. If you can't even execute the simple daily controllable tasks. And this is the most frustrating thing as a coach is like when it's so controllable that you should just know how to do this, when you'recompeting, like looking for a pro card or you're wanting to be able to compete on the Olympia stage, like these should be non-negotiables that have already been implemented. And if they haven't, we need to spend some time working on it. And I'll even like, I have like little goals sections in my sheets where I'll set goals for them around routine. If routine is a problem, like documenting the fact that they executed on this routine, like that's how important I think this is. Because I think it sets the stage for high level of execution and every other aspect of the, of the client process. Right. And I think this is a big one as we start to kind of pivot into, you know, pro card desire with, you know, novice level of, of execution. The trening side, I think, is, is the next piece that kind of starts to wane. If even this routine is, is not there because you get hydration status, won't be the same every day that you go into trening. If you're like massively skewed on your meals, you're not going to have digestion, be in the same spot that you're going in trening. You're not going to be consistently taking trening footage. So like, this is kind of where I would want to push the conversation next is like on the trening side, like, what are the habits that you see people, you know, start to kind of lax on or aren't executing well on when it comes to, you know, having this pro card expectation, but aren't even doing the simple things right. Alex, start with you, kick it off. Yeah. A lot of it, man, is like just fighting through that barrier of, oh, well, I just, I wasn't motivated to go work out today. And then they take a rest day. And then the next day they're still not motivated. It's like, well, hold on now. Like, I'm not asking you to be motivated. You, you have to go. Like, it's just, it's just like, we get, you know, drink water and eat food. Like you, it's time to tren. You're going to tren. And so a lot of times it's just getting them on the gym floor. And IMake this joke with some people. I'm like, I can't even do half the cool stuff I know to do with a trening block because I can't even get them. Like, I'm still trying to get them in the gym consistently, you know, but then like, once you're in there, like you said, you know, trening for me is huge. Um, because like 90% of people don't know how to lateral raise. Um, including myself, when you pulled me aside and showed me how to lateral raise, I was like, oh, I've been doing that wrong. Um, but it's, it's, you know, it's not only like, cause well, some people who their effort is just a thousand and they're going through, you know, they're, they're hitting nose torque and they're, they're trening intense and they know like, they're, they're the people like I got trening. I don't need help with that. But then you break down their mechanics and you're like, oh, this is a disaster. Um, and so Tyler is the, and for you guys that like, we have that session on YouTube, if you guys want to go check it out where we, we trened at Evagen and kind of broke some things down. But IMean, that was a classic example of, and Darren, I'll kick it to you in a second, but that was a classic example of like, this dude's got the effort piece figured out, but like the effort's not the only piece that we've got to figure out. You know, that's something I explained to people. Like when I'm asking for footage, I'm like, look, I know you're going to want to like impress coach, but I promise you I'm not, I'm looking at that maybe for half a second. So, but, but yeah, that, that'd be the biggest thing is just, you know, getting them into the gym and then they're going to be the biggest thing. Yeah. And Darren, I know I kind of want you to kind of comment here as well. Cause we had a, what would you call that week that we spent here going through everything? Like, uh, like, uh, like break down, uh, like this whole sort of section is really, it was, it was reminded me recently of, I got asked thEQuestions through my Instagram, like someone asked me, what's the difference between pros and amateurs? Like they're expecting some big fancy answer. I think the biggest difference between pros and amateurs is pros do the simple things really well over and over again. And I remember a couple of years back, I remember talking about, you know, talking about my routine and you know, if you want to be a pro, you want to make progress, you have to do this, this, and this, and this. And I was alluding to the fact that eating the same food every day, eating at the same time every day, going to bed at the same time, doing the same movements over and over again in the gym. I remember like a couple of, you know, social media fitness people called me out and like, you don't need to do that, make progress and all this. And sure enough, here we are a couple of years later, they're doing the exact same thing and preaching the exact same thing. Cause they've got to that point where you realize to make those 1% differences that matter, you have to remove as much variables as possible. Variables equal, you know, distinct, like differences and potential mistakes. The better you can get, do get, get doing things over and over again, the more progress you make. That comes into trening as well. I think the biggest barrier with trening with people is, oh, on board, you know, a couple of weeks into a program on board, are we going to change up the movements? I'm like, you do realize if you change up the movements, you're going through a four to six week period of where you're just relearning the movement and not making movements. Skill acquisition, baby. I'd put up a post about how we should treat bodybuilding as athletics that some people got very, very upset about in the comments. But this is just like, it's so obvious. Like it, there's a skill aspect to trening that has to be developed. And like there, I'm just like, you've had one of the best trening blocks you've had, I think in probably your career right now. Like some small skill-based stuff that we fixed during that week that you were here. And it's like, you've been doing this for, for how long? 15 years, 10, 12, 15 years. Yeah. 12, 13 years. Yeah. 12, 13 years. So like, we're still working on skill. And Darren's an Olympian and John still works on skill and my pro athletes still work on the skill of trening. And it's, it just, it boggles my mind that we do not focus on perfecting this thing in trening that drives the hypertrophy adaptation. Like sure, PDs help with recovering to continue to drive that adaptation at a faster level. Nutrition does. Sleep helps with recovery capacity. All these things contribute, but like, this is the core stimulus that drive that adaptation. I don't understand like how perfecting it wouldn't be. And I think Darren sharing your, like your challenges with push would be a great example of like how this is like so impactful sometimes if you, if you just take the time to perfect it. Yeah, absolutely. I think we're kind of in that kind of brought up something that we need to go over. And that's like with, I'm sure you guys talked to the same as with clients is trying to get a video footage. Oh yeah. That's a little bit, but yeah. You know, I'm trying to press the people that, you know, I can give you your nutrition, we can correct all this stuff, we can do all that. But ultimately there's so much progress we made by just correcting movements. Like, and that comes with exactly what you're saying about me with push, a few little tweaks to push that you noticed and it's helping you progress loads. That's the same thing we can do for clients when we get trening footage from them. And some of them don't realize that, oh, I didn't want to get my phone out. I didn't want to set up a tripod. It's like, you know, is thaT3 minutes worth? What could potentially be a difference making you turn pro or not? Yeah. And it's like, I, and I get people and Alex and I, you've run into this too, embarrassed to take trening footage. You guys had that before? Yeah. It's like, man, like this is like, like you have a device that can tell you and give you feedback of how you're executing something immediately. Like one of the greatest tools that you have to help your process and you are embarrassed to use it. I feel like saying, if you're embarrassed to film in a gym, how are you going to get on stage in your pants? I can guarantee you when you are dead center on stage, you are not going to be embarrassed about the six months of trening footage you took in the last six months. I tell them, I'm like, Hey, you know, just give your phone to someone and say, Hey, would you mind recording me that recording this for me, for my coach? I was like, it's so much cooler than if you're like, Hey, we record the set, bro. If you like bench and, you know, like I promise you, they're going to respect you for what you're doing. Yeah. It's like, it's like such a, it's such a small task. It's so simple. And it's just like, we keep coming back to this, but these are small tasks. Like these are small controllable daily tasks that we can all execute on. And I think that's truly what separates high level professionals from there's a genetic skill component for sure. Like, I think that there is some genetic component contributing to the highest levels of bodybuilding, but for pulling the most out of your process and developing your physique, like these are small daily tasks that are easily controllable. Now I want to touch on one last one that I do think you can get a long ways without, but I think if you truly want to find like your highest level physique development, communication is massive and finding your ability to, as you both shake your heads, your ability to communicate with your coach clearly is thEQuickest way to create a coach client relationship that just elevates you to the next level. And I think that this is like massive with the check-in process. And I think it's like a two way street. And so like, like Darren, just kind of starting with you, like, how do you, how do you foster this in regards to like the check-in process? I know it's different client to client, but just some basics that I tried to like express that at the beginning, you know, when I initially have a call with the client is, you know, trying to get really into like, just relax the environment a little bit, you know, like how are you doing, you know, and all this, and then stress them that, you know, all of this is cool that you input every week. But what you tell me is more important. Don't, don't be afraid to tell me anything, you know, stuff going on, just tell me, you know, I'm here to do more than just write your nutrition and set your trening. And ultimately, I always stress, it's the fruits of the pudding, the clients you have the best relationships with, get the best results. You know, and the ones that you kind of will check in and they're like, all good this week. And then you look at their result, you're like, you ask thEQuestion, are you sure it is all right? You know, I'm surprised to see your weights come up, and then they are really stressed to work. My wife does this and this. You know, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think like you touched on it, it's, it just comes from like that relationship builds over time. You know, and once you get comfortable with the athlete, once the athlete is comfortable with you, I'm big, like I'm super sarcastic. And like, I like to make jokes and cut off. So, um, a lot of that I can usually get through the barrier like pretty quick. Um, but, but it just goes into the, to how, you know, they, they also like receive, like, you know, and interpret what you're saying. So, um, whether like, sometimes you have to go that extra mile as a coach and like, Hey, maybe they need a video of me, or maybe they need a voice note from me rather than just typing, you know, and some people, the more analytic people, they want to see the sheet updated and they don't really care to hear your voice. Um, but then you can tie it all together with like words, like ways you're saying things to them. Um, and just, and again, that over time that takes just, just from the, the jump, like how you say, Hey to like, you know, I've got, I got a young kid. He's 20. He just hit 200 pounds. Every time I talked to him, I was like, what's up, big man. Like every time. And he loves it. So it's just, it's little things like that that can go, you know, a long way. And in classic Luke fashion of reaching for something from his desk for a podcast. I think that this book is one of the just simple, it is like 125 pages. It is 160 pages. One of the most simple reads that I think as a simple prerequisite for coaching, like emotional intelligence is probably the biggest skill you can have. Like, I think it's pretty, uh, it's an expendable trait, I think, in my opinion, and, or a non expendable trait, like you have to have it. And it's, it's such a simple read and we'll start to push you in the direction of understanding people. And there's so many little things you can do with, with check-ins or like usinGHumor, or like, I have some people who send me voice notes, like they have like a two and a half minute, three minute time thing that they send me every, every week. And that works well for them rather than writing. Like some people are verbal communicators rather than writing. And you can hear it in their voice. Like when things change, like Darren, you talked about like not being able to pull something from a client. It's like, if they're verbal communicators, like you can just hear it from the moment they start the voice note. Right. And so there's certainly different ways to foster the check-in. Uh, I think making sure as a coach, like you keep them concise and on point is huge. Like there's a reason I put a time limit typically on voice notes. It's because like, I want them to get to what they're telling me and not drift off into storytelling. Right. So, um, I think it's, I think it's really important to foster that communication. And I think it's an aspect that the longer you work with someone, the better it typically gets. And I think that it delivers with better results year after year. Like you guys have worked with some of your clients for a long time. I've worked with a lot of my clients for a very long time. And like, it's at the point, like I see one or two words in a check-in and I know immediately like what's going on. And I think that that's a, a big aspect. I think it's why we delivered at such a high level this past year in 2024. I think we, 19, 20, 21 pro card, something like that. That communication piece is the core of how we run coaching. And it's like the entire check-in process is built around that. And I think when we look at people having that pro card expectation, but not delivering on things that keep them from actually getting there, that ability to communicate to coach and actually tell them what's going on is like the last piece to tie it all together because you don't pay us for when things are going well. I tell people this all the time. You pay me for the moment that stuff hits the ceiling fan and I've got to figure it out. And if you don't communicate well to me, I'm not going to be able to figure it out. Like that is just like the profession in general. Like if you don't track your data and consistently execute on the uncontrollable variables and then communicate with me things that are happening on a week to week basis. This is why when we do check-ins, like I switched to two times per week updates because I'm trying to make sure that I pick up on these things quicker, like before they actually become a big problem. And I think that it's, it's just so massive. I think it's, I've said to a couple of clients that like they're checking, they should imagine they're playing charades. The better your decision, the easier it is for me to come to the conclusion. Yeah. It's, that's a great way to put it. I've never thought about it that way. I'm gonna have to steal that one. It's pretty good. I'm not gonna lie. Yeah. It's, it's so huge. And I'll even like, like I'll even use my social media to try to help foster this. Like I do some mindset stuff on my, my, uh, my Instagram. Like, I think it, it drives people like Alex, you put one up the other day. That was so good. It was like, like the effort piece behind coaching and like being able to push like athletes to that level. Like it's like that level of buy-in is only going to improve that communication. Like when you bend over backwards for people, and this would be like the last point for coaches of like, if you're wanting to help foster your athletes to a place that allows them to execute at the highest level, like just buy in, buy in from the very beginning. And then I think that that's like our love for this sport and like this passion for this sport. And yeah, I'm calling bodybuilding a sport. So if you guys have a problem with this, you guys can just like, let us know in the comments below that your love for this and showing that to the athlete is like the last piece to get them to execute at the highest level they can on all these controllable variables. Like Alex, and I'll kind of keep this to you. Like, I think this is something you're so good at is like showing everyone that you work with how much it means to you. Yeah. Cause it's funny. You know, I was never like this amazing competitor or anything, but like I could get in shape and you know, in the gym, like I was able to gain respect from my peers, from my effort and just those little boxes that I would check. Cause I wasn't the genetically blessed guy who was, you know, going to go pro very easily. So it was something that, um, when I kind of will post like a throwback shot of me competing or, you know, something of me trening or something like it, it reminds them that, Oh, like coach still has it, or, you know, I'll go and, um, meet some people before their show. And, and, you know, they're like, God, you're, you're big, or you're in shape. What are you getting ready for? And I'm like, nothing. This is just me hanging out. Like, but my goal is I want to be able to take my shirt off and pose with you and show you like an avid thigh and I don't look stupid. So, and, and once they kind of see that, or, you know, you all go through some storytelling moments, they're like, Oh, like it almost fires them up. And, and, you know, it's funny, you mentioned that post. I had like four people message me like, Hey, sorry, man. Look, I know I've been slacking and, and it wasn't anything at them. Like I wasn't even thinking about them. Um, it was just like, Hey man, this is my standard that I'm trying to set. And, you know, I told him like, you can do this. Like, I know you can. And, you know, the, the whole thing behind this is we, we have like, you know, Darren was saying it's, it's the little things each day, but this is like the genetic outliers. We're going to go pro anyway. Like we've all seen it. Like they don't, it doesn't really take much to get them in pain. It doesn't really take much to get them huge, but we have to look for those little things to give us that edge where we can beat those genetic with less people. And that's where, you know, to tie all this back together, um, when athletes can see that buy-in, it's just, it, it, it gives them a amount of respect for us that they're, they just double down on effort. Yeah. Yeah. Um, well, I, I think this is a really good episode. Is there anything y'all want to leave the audience with before we kind of log off here? Nothing. Yeah. Like I would say, you know, we're in this sport that I heard this on podcast the other day, but we're in a sport where you can decide you want to be a pro at 20 years old, 25 years old, and you can achieve it. Right. Like most sports, like you can't come to us and say, Hey, I want to go to the NBA or I want to go to the U of D at 30. Like you can't, you can't do that. And so while people think, Oh, bodybuilding does take a long time. And yes, it does take a long time for most of us. It's still is attainable to a certain degree. But like, if you look at the Olympic level wrestlers, they've been wrestling since they were two years old. And that's why they're there. So take advantage of the fact that, Hey, this sport, if you decide later in life, you want to get into it, it can be achieved. You just have to really execute on a whole different level to make it. Yeah. I think that that's the end of it. I think it is a sport that you don't, it doesn't matter where, you know, you know, basketball, football, all these things to make it. You really do have to be a genetic elite. Right. Okay. But in bodybuilding, yes, to be like the Phil Heath or whatever, the seven times, you're certain to be, yeah, you're going to be the genetic elite. But I think this is a sport where the misfits and the non-genetic elite, the people who couldn't maybe run like 10 steps in school without falling over and make it with a certain amount of effort. You know, if you're willing to fully commit to it and go for it, you can, you can make it to a decent and high level pro in this sport. We've seen lots of people do it, but maybe it didn't look like much in their early years. They, you know, knuckle down and did it and they've madEQuite a career for it. Yeah. And I think it's, it's a time piece. Like how much time can you devote and give to the sport and execute at that high level for a long period of time. And, um, I think that's the expectation of like, if you're truly pursuing your best physique or competing at the highest level you're capable of, like devoting yourself to whatever that time piece looks like is the last component of like having that pro card expectation. And it's not, and I use this, I'll use this saying for people like fear is what if, and faith is even if, like, if you operate on this, like, what if IMake it or am I going to make it? Or what if I don't make it type of a place? Like you're probably not going to actually make it right. But it's, if you have this faith that I know that I execute the process to my highest level and the highest capability, even if I don't turn pro this year, I'm just going to go back and look at what I did, improve those aspects, execute my process and get better the following year. And those are the people that, that end up making it. And then that's like such a big thing to kind of grasp. And it takes stress off the process as well, because it, it allows them to kind of focus on these daily things that we're talking about. But yeah, this was a, this was a killer episode. I think it's just an expectation setting piece for people that is, is huge. And for you guys listening, like if you guys want us to talk about anything specific, like let us know in the comments below that there's other habits you guys see of people that tell you they want that pro card and, and, you know, they don't really kind of align with the, that thought process. Like let us know in the comments as well. I'm super excited for this J3 Cut coaching podcast kicking off. I think it's a great way for all of us to kind of share some of the anecdotal, what we're seeing in equals one type case study work. So yeah, until next time, take more all switch and consider results and we'll see you on the next episode. So