 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your cohost, John Jewett. And I'm your cohost, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. What the season taught me. What the season taught me. What the season taught me. And in today's episode, we want to jump through a little bit on my season, but it's just, it's not all about the problems that can come out of the process, the problems that can come out of the process, or even if you're coaching others, and trying to share an unemotional, more objective review of areas to improve on, maybe areas that you did well in your prep process, your peaking process, and then, what do you do with that, and how do you improve moving forward? Mm-hmm. Luke, hello. How are you? I'm good, man. This is a fun conversation, because I think me and you casually have these conversations kind of as it's happening, right? Like, we talk about all season split designs. We talk about like managing recovery capacity in all season, and like maximizing your potential to tren, and therefore maximizing progress with some small management stuff. Talk about your peaks, kind of when you're in your peaking process for the shows that you did. And it was interesting kind of seeing the difference, not only between the peak for Tampa and Texas, but how much progress you made from the previous year to this year, and kind of how easy it seemed. So, I don't know where you want to start, but I think just like a quick highlights of the primary two things you learned from that all season phase. I know we've talked about like the six days of trening, and like not kind of pushing that on the podcast before, and a few other things. But if there was like two things you would pull out that made your all season that much successful, I think that'd be a great place to start, because I think a lot of the conversation is going to be around the peaking. But I think that's kind of where you laid the groundwork, and you were, correct me if I'm wrong, six pounds, or seven pounds heavier from last year to this year? Yeah, at Olympia, I was, IMean, if we go off like what I walked on stage with, I was like 232 at Olympia, and the best for Texas was 240. So eight. Yeah, it is eight. I guess I think I loaded pretty hard, so maybe whatever, seven pounds, whatever you want to call it, seven pounds of tissue, doesn't matter. Yeah. It's like, yeah, yeah. So it's like, you go on stage real flat, you're like, oh, I only added five pounds of tissue. It's like, well, okay. You know, tick for tack, like, actually, it's probably is a fair assessment, because Olympia, you're on like at the nighttime anyway. So light bulb at nighttime, I'm like much better. Prejudge is a hard one. I think we'll get into that in a second, that part. But yeah, it was nonetheless, a lot of tissue added. Yeah. And even from the previous offseason, I was like 10 pounds up from that offseason. So 10, then eight. And it's just, which is surprising to keep stringing that along really well. But it's kind of like the process we do right now. You look back on the previous offseason, what worked well, and a lot worked well. And you kind of rinse and repeat that. And that's pretty much what happened. At this point, there's not, I'd say there's not major levers that I'm pulling that all of a sudden are revealing something that I wasn't doing. It's just more of the same. And that was probably a little bigger of a piece because the previous offseason was shorter. And so I gave myself more time. And I think time is what was needed as I knew the rate of progress was going to slow down. And then also off the last offseason, I prepped for a lot longer than I needed to. So I gained a lot of that time back by looking at the previous season, knowing like, all right, you absolutely dieted in like nine weeks for a show, basically. So I allocated like 12 weeks for a show and I still did an earlier show, Tampa. So I gained some offseason time back knowing off that past data that I could run a shorter prep. Yeah. So like, it's like timeline setup was still something that I was refining. And as I've gotten bigger and out of 212, the preps are a lot different. And they're not nearly as I don't want to say as as hard, but but yeah, to a degree, they're not quite as hard because you're not having to like suck down as much. And I was usually coming from sometimes roughly the same body weight as I've been in the offseason, but a lot higher body fat percentage. So being able to stay a lot leaner in the offseason has been a benefit to you, but that's nothing new. Like I did that this this past offseason as well. So I'd say a big timeline, a big big thing. Take away was still taking the past timeline and refining the next phase for it. The probably the detriment is that I ran a pretty similar split design that I had run in prep, which was just pushing. Push pull legs, push pull legs off day and the offseason prior. I didn't have that second leg day, but in prep, it worked fine. However, as I got stronger in offseason, that leg day into the push day in the middle of the week, what I later came to find out was like really limiting the push day. And I didn't find that out till IMoved into like my pre prep phase and I took out that leg day and added an off day. Then all of a sudden my push numbers were like coming up. I'm like, Oh, okay. The body parts I really need. I was, I was limiting. So I think that was like one of the learning aspects because I, I, there's a bit of an emotional connection with trening. I just like to tren. And I think some of those, you know, a lot of people, they like tren days cause you eat more food and maybe there was some driving factor there too. Like, Hey, I like my diet more and my day is more, more efficient on days that I tren. I just prefer it. And so I had to, I have to remove myself from that. So that was like the one I think negative I had. That was also limiting my ability to put a lot of volume into my push days where I needed it. So I think that was kind of like at least a few, few takeaways from the last offseason. Yeah. And I think, I think you see that in the new program design, right? Like being able to kind of move your work where push is getting the frequency that you're going to be having. It's like three times per rotation, I believe, if I remember correctly, when we talked about it. So it's interesting to see kind of some of the things that are changinGHeading into this one. But I think like coming off the back of that offseason, running a nine week prep, like the staples that still happened. I don't want people to get the wrong impression here because people hear nine week prep and they're like, or sorry, 12 week prep. And they're like, Oh, John diets in 12 weeks. I can diet in 12 weeks. It's like, no, that's just data off of previous rates of loss that set up the ability to diet that way and still be ready ahead of time. Um, kind of throughout that prep process, like I know it was pretty clockwork. Was there anything different from that prep process that led you into these peaks relative to the last one other than just having more tissue? Or was it fairly similar rates of loss, similar issues that crop up as far as managing that rate of loss? Um, was there anything kind of out of the norm that happened to that prep? You know, honestly, nothing that was terribly standout, uh, more. There's a lot more outside of the nuts and bolts of this is my diet. This is my cardio for this prep on like the, the, the life and emotional standpoint just with, uh, like relationship wise and where am I headed in the future with bodybuilding? A lot of stuff kind of left me in a weird spot for prep. Like I, I execute a course, all the things that I love trening. I love bodybuilding, but there was a question of like, am I going to keep doing this? And how do I do if I am to do this? How do I do it? And still like have good connections outside of bodybuilding, like with Renee or with friends. And so there's a lot of work put in there, which kind of opened my eyes a lot to that. I, there is a way where I can bodybuild at a high level and still have meaningful experiences with people that I love. And it kind of led into peak week, honestly, a feeling like reinvigorated for bodybuilding because I knew I could do this and keep doing it and not have any other detriments in other areas of my life. And I think that's when for a lot of people, bodybuilding probably should be coming to an end when all other aspects of people that you care about or other life situations are not developing the way that you want. And so seeing that was like a huge thing in this prep. So honestly, it was kind of like an emotionally like stressful prep, but that led to a positive. So yeah, kind of a newfound way of being able to nail the variables like I know how to do and also stay like really connected, which made it made it easier prep in a way. So, but yeah, as far as like nuts and bolts things, nothing terribly different that like just stands way out of my mind. Like I always, I've cut Cardi out into prep. There's like still steps on my walking pad, which, you know, I I've done it only on my walking pad. Like I rarely would walk long durations outside, which I know guys that do and it eats up their legs, which sounds ridiculous. But absolutely like the difference in like walking on concrete versus walking on a walking pad is pretty large regarding leg fatigue and not getting injured and keeping like your legs from getting beat up. But you know that that was the same for me. I think the last prep I walked a bit more outside and it's also summer in Texas. So it's like a hundred degrees. I don't know nothing like diet wise that really stood out different. So, all right, now getting into the peaks. This is where I think there was a lot of aha moments for you because I felt like every show you did this year. So for Tampa and Texas, you correct me if I'm wrong. There was like the holy crap. This night look is so good. Right. And I know kind of leading into Tampa, you were chasing a bit. But what is it that you think from the assessment piece you learned off the back of this show string is going to help you the next time you compete in regards to bringing the level of fullness that you brought like at the night shows, especially Texas night show, which I agree with you. I think was the best look for the assessment piece. Where are you going? What are you going to pull from that assessment process that you think you could kind of lean into potentially even being more aggressive than we're in these these last peaks? Yeah, I think with you know, if you're as a listener as well, picking up things like what Luke and I always teach on is understand what we're talking about when we're trying to find a look. Yep. And, you know, we're doing that even even before peak week really happens, trying to find what amount food and fluids and duration of time you need. To bring about like what could be a look you could walk on stage with. So we're looking at pigs throughout the day, looking at our meal and fluid schedules, and then you find a look you like and you're like, all right, let me try to repeat this on show day. And it's easy like coaching yourself to keep a little bit of the prep goggles on and know what you like to chase. And so what IMean by that is I like condition and so I can chase that down pretty hard. And so you understand the look that you need but also being able to document all this too is important because I have all my sheets like here in front of me of meals and times and notes of like decisions IMade. So I can look back and I'm easier now to pull out mistakes. So these are two things I would say if you're if you are going through this process is understand how we find the look and the data you need to make decisions. But but through having these things right. And and knowing that, you know, if we look at what was the best look was Texas at finals and what did I do different in Texas versus Tampa. And what happened in Tampa. I think that's where I can like finally see like mistakes and things that were made. So like prior prior to Tampa, I was looking at my looks throughout the day. And you know 237 to 238 looked look good. However, you know, you realize like, OK, I'm going to have some fiber stuff dropped out that might lower the weight a little bit. And then, you know, I reconfirm the look throughout peak week every day. And, you know, I sent you some visuals Luke on in the gym trening. I was a little over 237 still even with fiber and stuff pulled out. It looked pretty wild. And then as you keep feeding throughout the day, you're like, well, you know, I get fuller and they're a little condition slips. And like it's like, I don't want to sacrifice that. Like the 237 still good. So that's kind of like what I had in my mind. This this one visual and weight. Some of the problems that cropped up was one day out my weight just like dropped down. Like I kept dropping down from two days out to one day out actually held. It's like 234 in the morning, which was pretty light. And rather than two days out, like staying aggressive with food. I wasn't that aggressive. And so one day out. I kept my normal meal eating pattern that I had during prep to diet because I like to fast up in the morning, do five meals a day. It makes managing the deficit really easy for me and how I like to schedule my stuff. However, when when you're getting on stage at different times and also your person needs to make sure you get enough food in keeping that normal structure, you might want to shift it around. And so one error that IMade was starting my meals too late in Tampa. Like it was nearly 10 a.m. Before I would have my first meal. And this is with going on stage around 12. So basically, I'm like one meal in and I can go on stage, which finding my look was solid. Like I could do that. I could do that. The problem is there's no adjustment time if there's an error there, which what we run back to that one day out is that my weight came up to like 239 really quick. And I just kind of kept the same diet the rest of the day. And I ended up going in bed at 239, which I should have pushed it higher. But off my my past days, I knew like, hey, one meal and I usually come up to like 237. The but then the problem was that that that those meals that I was doing, it got pretty heavy in my waist. And so when I that first meal the day, I didn't feel fully emptied out, but I only have like one shot with one meal to make it all happen. And so I could only do so much in the morning. And that first meal brought me up to like 236.4. And then I was, you know, pretty much on stage. And also coming back from from prejudge, which it's a lot of rounds, right? I dropped down like a pound during prejudge. So I'm back to my room at 235, which I am. I faded. And that's something to note for me is that like even during prejudge, why I do these weights and all these things is because I know across a prejudge in a pro show, I could drop a pound of body weight. So I need to be putting in like 16 ounces of fluid, like as I'm posing with a little bit of carbohydrate. So these are notes and data that I have to look back on. And, you know, then I fed up a bit more into into finals and my weight came up some, but still, I was still shy with fluids because you worry about softening a look. And I just I didn't rely enough on my past days data that I had. And I was like, well, I definitely don't want to come into your show like softer, which if you look all the way to my like PM picks, like I stay very conditioned. So anyway, these were the issues, right? Starting meals too late, not enough meals throughout the day. And then being shy on show day. And then also being a little bit more conservative with fluid. So because even on show day, it was like 2.7 liters of fluid. And yeah, from from, you know, wake up time till, you know, 530. Yeah, in the afternoon coming down from I was like at five, five and a half liters. So, yeah, IMean, I can have your questions around that. I can fast forward to Texas about changes made based around that. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with J3 University? Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3 team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Well, no, I think the I think the biggest thing to pull out here is that. You you nailed the look, but you didn't nail the prejudging. It's kind of what I gathered from you talking to you after Tampa was that you knew how to get there, but that you didn't felt like the process of keeping it there for the entirety of the show was. Was possible. Was possible. And I think that opened the door to potentially you being a bit more aggressive in the Texas, which is what I want to talk about, because we were actually sitting in the Airbnb and talking about like. Like, when is the time to be aggressive like if we're going to if you're going to do it like when do you do it and I kind of want to go into that thought process because the interesting thing about Texas is I noticed in your assessment you felt much different about your pictures. And I don't know if that's because of what happened in pre judging at Tampa, but I want to hear that because you were like even getting excited seeing like two 40 at night when you were, you know, those last couple days in when you were loading kind of into Texas. And so some of the differences there, you also didn't lose your luggage heading into Texas either, which is a nice little drop in stress. But you've pulled those lessons out of Tampa, right? And you know that this has to be fixed in the Texas. Do you think that helped you with not being as gun shy? Gun shy, because like your standard is best conditioning on stage, right? And so you want to hold that and you want to maintain that. But we've also got to remember that it's the best physique on stage, right? And so where's John's best physique? And I definitely saw a John working through these visuals of like a lot more willing to go up and see like what what happened at these higher weights. Yeah, it puts something different in my mind when I did talk to Tyler Mannion after. Tampa is like, hey, where can I prove? Of course, you know, it gives me the bigger picture feedback of development wise, like up top and front shots. Keep building out extreme. Don't let don't let your waist grow. Basically, that's the summation of that. But he also said, you look like, you know, we've seen you fuller and we want that look because when I'm full up top is when condition also shines through more. And not that I was flat and like missed it. It's just there's a there's a range to work within there, right? Like he has. IMean, I guess he can recall that I I've pushed the fullness marker more and come to life in that doesn't mean softer. And some people might might take that away of like all the you know, you've heard people that go to shows and they're like, oh, they're not looking for condition. They just want, you know, size. And that doesn't mean softer. And so for some people, when you say fuller, it absolutely means you need more muscle. Yeah, because you can only feel like a balloon up so much before it pops. Sometimes you need to upgrade your balloon. So that means offseason. But for for what Tyler was referring to, he's like, you know, you still could probably push fullness a bit more, which I knew I could. And so going into Texas, I'm like, well, I have the feedback of what they're looking for. And I can I can do that. Like, I know I can. I knew looking at my weights and my assessments from the show that I I could go there with it. So it was like a repeat because it's one week later this show in two days out. I woke up at the same weight in the morning, like 234.2. I'm like, no, I do not. Not again. I do not accept this. Like I knew the exact diet I ran where my body weight starts slowing down. And so I was like every day I need to wake up heavier fasted and then keep building upon that. So when it does come show day, I'm not left like with one meal and a bunch of food to put in to try to catch back up. Like I want to be ahead before I land there. So like two days out. I put in like an extra 150 grams of carbs and what I did from Tampa. And instead of dropping down back down to 234.2 on one day out, I was 236.2. So like two pounds up. And now this is still like working through visuals and watching throughout the day. And even on one day out, I start slowing down. And just like I did for Tampa around like mid afternoon. And I was like, I was 239, just like I was in Tampa. And if I held back, I probably would still be at 239. But that's when like my normal like 120 grams of carbs went up to 150. The next meal, 170. And then finally, I'm looking at a meal six, which normally I've been only doing five meals a day. So I adding eating earlier to have an extra meal at night and the ability to do that. I had a last meal and then going to bed at like 242 basically. And even looking at those visuals, you're like, damn, this is still like pretty conditioned everywhere and very full. The problem becomes waste control because you have six meals and a ton of food in you. And this day, you know, I lower protein to 800 grams of carbs, 100 grams of fat and like 230 grams of protein. It's still a lot of food that you put in for the day and five liters of water. So it's like, well, I can't walk out that this because I need to still be able to control my waist. And yes, fuller is better, but not when you lose aesthetics. So. So at least the one day out changes that that led me to the setup on show day where I could be successful. So starting the meals earlier, which I started my meals like an hour and a half earlier for the day. And then being able to spread out fluids. So there's less fluid between each meal because of that same total fluids for the day. But it just gave me the ability to put in more food that I wasn't able to one day out. Yeah. I think what the cool thing to pull out is like we've talked about matrix, right? And we've talked about building your matrix is free peak. So first matrix being like food, fluid, sodium that brings your weight up, holds your weight or drops your weight down so that you can make those kind of game time decisions. But also the matrix of the visuals. Like there is a range of body weight that brings about what we would call the best visuals. One that leans more on the fuller side of that equation. One that leads on the slightly lower side of that equation. And kind of where you choose to kind of put that on stage is based on like what you think is going to be the best package to maintain through prejudging. Pro shows obviously are going to be longer in prejudging than maybe national shows. Obviously national shows going to be longer than a regional show. So these are all decisions you've got to take into account based on the show that you'recompeting in. But I think what was interesting is when we got to finals and you were backstage, you were like, holy, look at this, Luke. You like, I was like, my client was walking to go get her glaze and stuff. You're like, come look at this. And it was like two 40 ish. If I remember correctly, two 40.2 or something like that. And it was just bonkers. Yeah. I knew before, like, I just took my shorts off. I'm like, this is going to be something. So like, y'all, y'all want to see this. Yeah. Even I guess waking up on show day, I did what I wanted to do because I woke up at 2 37.4. Yep. With the idea to go on stage somewhere around 2 38 and still put in a meal earlier, way earlier than what I did for, for Tampa. And then I had another chance to put another meal in. And so what I did instead was more frequent assessments. So I kept the same, like, fluid rate, but I had, like, my meal two. And I weighed myself, like, an hour and a half of meal one after. And then I went ahead and ate that. So I'm not going to get behind and then have one big meal to eat. Then an hour and a half later, I, like, reassess and put in the other half of that meal. So the meal sizes gets lower, but let, but more frequent just so I can start managing it more acutely. Uh, and then that led into me going on stage right at 2 38.4 for pre judge, which what was far better than, than Tampa. But I, I still had more to go. And IMean, why not go fuller? Uh, and a bit of it was a surprise jump. I didn't think my weight would go up that much, but it did, but it looked positive. And that was still like for Tampa. Basically, it was like a meal and a snack before I had to go back on. We had to go back on at 4 30. Well, in Texas, I was going back on at, and it was nearly like 8 PM. So I just had more time to eat and have fluids, but it was a good teaching point of, of where I can really push this with fullness and what they want to see on stage. Cause yeah, then I was that two 40, which relatively was, you know, going back to my same meals. But by that point, they were starting to stick more with me. Um, so, and then seeing Bill Sylvia, the head judge after the show, he's like, what you did tonight for finals was the best. He's at all these shows. So he saw me four times on stage. He's like, this time was the best. He's like, you nailed this every time. So saying like, all right, you know, if I have a low of a two 34, I can come up all the way, like six pounds and have a best, best look. So for me, I know pushing fullness is what needs to happen. Mm-hmm . And I, I, I don't really sacrifice condition. And, uh, maybe that's, you know, been some just bias from coming from two 12 or habits of what I need to do for two 12. And just not the time to fill out of what that would look like without my waist becoming a problem. Cause you know, you gotta make weight. And I don't eat so much in that time period, but it's just a, it's, it's a different bodybuilder too. Like, um, we were driving up to Texas. I was like, Renee, can you imagine me like cutting 25 pounds right now to make weight? It's just like, it's just like, it's hard to fathom. You're ever two 12. It's like, I know. So, IMean, someone with a 25 more pounds of like tissue on them, like it is a different, different peak. And it's every year, it's been something a little different to learn on the frameworks there. And I'm the same human, but it's still having to refine the process. Cause when you're adding that much stage weight on a year, it does change. So. Yeah. It's, um, it's cool to see because the assessment process in and of itself hasn't changed, but where you feel like you look your best has changed like over the years. Like it's the same build the matrix, use those matrices fluctuate the food matrix, according to kind of how you're speeding up or slowing down. Um, and that's something that I would pull out. Like with, I've talked about before, like having a ballpark of what brings you up, what holds you, what drops you. There's certainly a component of like going into show week and like having all the responsibility to show athletes certainly can get a little more stress, have some digestion issues. You might need to watch out for, they might speed up on you. They might not. So a lot of that's dependent on kind of how you strung into the peak week. But, um, it's interesting because it's, I don't say it's foolproof, but it's, it's pretty close to foolproof. And you still have ways to improve in regards to how you push yourself in regards to like the best visual versus potentially your like favorite bias visual. And as coaches, like, I think that's the hardest part of self coaching is like with you self coaching, right? It's like, we love like a grainy look. It's like when you prep wellness, you know how you prep wellness and you're like, okay, this is like ideal for wellness, but I would love to see this like five pounds down and more shredded. Um, it's kind of a similar thought, right? It's like, ah, it's just seeing you like nasty pulled down shredded is cool. But we have to remember that it is bodybuilding and balancing the two of the criteria. And the divisions are still different. Like you have, I was listening to someone speak around classic physique and bodybuilding. And why, why don't the bodybuilders get like as conditioned as like a classic physique guy? And it's like, there is, I think, you know, the muscularity fullness aspect, it is weighed a bit heavier than the condition piece. And again, like with classic, the allies just have to make weight. So it's kind of like the necessity of the division of having to remove a lot of things that might hold the fullness just to get down. You end up being like really hard, but also a condition you kind of want this stream. Oh, with classic, you want the streamline look with bodybuilding. They want this round, like muscle exploding look to still happen. And that's kind of where you need to take your physique for the division. That doesn't mean out of shape. It just means you're not going to chase like every last line of detail. Like you might in classic as I do think at least how I, how I've been judged is that there is a differentiation there. Because coming from 212, I would kind of chase every last line of detail. And they absolutely do want to make sure that you're full and muscular and guys have beat me with less condition that have the muscularity card checked off. And even though I beat him in condition, that wasn't, you know, as, as much of a, a winning criteria card. So either way I did, I did exceptionally well, Tampa and Texas. Like I need to break apart these things and see where I can improve and not just look at, you know, placings or, you know, people say you should be higher. I'm sure other people say you should be lower or whatever it may be, but it's like, what, what can you control? And this is getting down to nitty gritty of things of where you can improve. Cause it wasn't like I went to Tampa and I was way off or missed a mark. It's just, it, it can be better. And so that's what we, we look to do. Yeah. And you know that you can run the process and repeat it and make sure it's there. And that's the, the beauty of it is it's very predictable and you know where you're going to put yourself kind of like that next time you go. But I think that's pretty much it for today. Yeah. Yeah. That covers the overview of just like looking back and assessing the season and off assessing your season. I think that will lead into some of the episodes, other episodes that we covered around your decision to take the next show or to take the next offseason and leading into like post-show phases. And, you know, we've already discussed that. So for me now, it made a lot of sense to do offseason, but. But anyway, for our next conversation, we'll do build your next split based on what show day revealed. So it's a good segment around trening and looking back and especially if you're going the offseason, how do we lay out trening now that the season's over looking at body parts. And we can go through some, some sample layouts too, of how we would structure things. So. Love it. Anyway, thank you all for, for one, if you follow along my, my journey of shows and the support. The guidepost.com. Thank you.