 Rep Rep Repillerilleriller,illeriller,iller,iller,iller,iller,iller, Am I, are we good? You're good. All right. You're good now. We're good. I think we're good now. I think we're good now. All right. We're back. Yeah. In summary of what we said previously that was not recorded last week, I was a bit of a Debbie downer on here. I just felt like the kind of loom and gloom coming back from the UK and just like whirlwind of brain function. So, but yeah, sorry about that if I was like a little off, but this week I'm back and ready to rock. I have a fresh new cut on my eye, which is great. And yeah, training's going well. A young Christopher Perry leaves for Columbus tomorrow. So that's exciting. Woo. Yeah, no, for sure. I am super excited. I am excited. I'm like, as we talked about off air, I, it hit me today that I have to like socially prepare myself and I'm, I don't want to. But this is how I work as a people pleaser where I agree to things. And then immediately I'm like, Oh my God, I have to be with crowds of people and talk a lot for three days and it'll be great. It'll be fun. I'd get to pack. So we're off to a great start, but I think it'll be pretty dope. It's my first time going to the Arnold. Um, and I did set a really silly goal years ago that I would only go to the Arnold if I was going with the sponsor and I get to fulfill that, which is kind of dope. So shout out to uphill battle and Jason. Um, but that leads us to our first topic, which is going to be our predictions. Do you real quick? Have you seen, do you remember the student kid from Hey Arnold? Yeah. You're the student kid. Don't like to leave the student. I just like, I like being my little space, man. Yeah. Oh, that's so funny. Dude. I hate the real talk. I hate that one. Congrats on getting to go to the Arnold with a sponsor. Ty texted me and was like, Hey, you going to the Arnold? And I was like, no, don't feel like that's my choice. Yeah. Um, but, but yeah, that, that, that really is huge, man. So, um, congrats on that. I'm bummed that this will air on Tuesday and our dumb ass predictions we're about to make are either going to shit the bed like the Olympia or like we're going to have called it. Um, cause I have no idea how to predict this on. Like I have what my heart wants, which my heart wants Andrew and Nick wanting to think it flop. I don't care. Um, Martin three, hottie four Brandon five would be my, what my heart wants. What my mind really thinks is going to happen. Either if I had to bet money, Andrew and hottie or wanting to, uh, I could flip and then three, four is going to be Nick and, uh, Martin. I think Nick does beat Martin, but I also think Martin could fucking be hottie too. And now Martin shows up. Um, so I'm very, yeah. Well, go ahead with your like official though. One through five. My official. All right. All right. My official is going to be Andrew. Oh God. I want Nick to fucking get second so bad. I'm going to do it. I'm going to go. Andrew, Nick, hottie, Martin. Brandon is on top five. Okay. I'm going. Cause always, they're always going to favor. See, this is like I'm in the same spot because logically, I think Andrew is going to win. If I'm, I don't, I think hottie is going to backslip just based on some of the more recent pictures I've seen. I feel like his legs are starting to hit that age where they're starting to come down, especially through the outer quad. Um, I could be wrong. I don't think I'm going to be on that one. So then it's like, it's Andrew, then Nick or Martin. Um, I would prefer Nick being the two spot. If we're judging waistline. And I feel like the Arnold tends to favor waistline. They might go Martin over Nick, but Nick's just so fucking big, dude. Fuck it. Andrew, Nick, Martin, hottie, Brandon. That's my five. I could see that happening too. And the reason being, I think Andrew, Andrew's going to be so dominant. And when you, and so that's the thing. It's like, when you look in the lineup, Derek's not there really to balance out the hottie. So like where Andrew was like the odd man out, like now it's just like an apple or an orange. And it's like, what do you got? Um, and then Nick can hang muscularity wise with Andrew. Um, and I think conditioning wise, if Nick's on, he can hang with both Martin and, um, hottie. I think if Martin and Prague shows up, he beats hottie as well. Absolutely. I very much agree with that. Yeah. Um, do we want to do predictions for the other divisions or, or I'll be honest. I don't know who's competing in the other divisions. Yeah. I don't, I don't know. Classic. I don't even, it's between Mike and Vissers. If I had to guess I'm choosing, there's this momoli guy who looks insane. Let's see. Yeah. Momoli's nuts. Yeah. Most of these names, like, dude, I, for being in classic physique, I really don't know any of these names. It's incredible. Um, there's just so many, you know, yeah, dude, they're all just great. What, where would you put? And again, I don't foresee it being very high, but I know it's going to be a hot topic. Where do you put Sam? How many are in it? Two, four, let's see, four, eight, 12. I'm putting them in the top 10. I can see them nine or 10. Yeah. Eight. And that's the things like, like, you know, we'll obviously get to recap it after people start talking shit on them. But like, what's the kid? Like the kid doesn't miss. Like, he's gonna, he's gonna be in shape. He's going to be conditioned. So like, you know, anything they hate on is like something he's going to have to fix structurally. Um, the reason he's at the Arnold is because he qualified for the Arnold last, like by winning the Arnold last year. So like he belongs there as much as any other first time pro should. Um, so like, I think this is good for him to do. I hope he also goes on and maybe does Detroit or something after. Yeah. Um, but yeah, I think like Sam's going to do everything that he would have and should have done as a competitor to be good. Like anything that we're going to critique, he just needs more time. Yeah. I think too, the other thing that I know he's not going to get grace for, and then he deserves it is this is his second show. Yeah. Yeah. Like he's probably going to go up there and pose and present like it's his second show compared to someone who has like the track record, like Vissers who's been competing for 20 some years or Mike who's been competing for 15 years. Um, I hope he does well, man. Like I don't, I don't really understand the, the hate that people have or some people have towards him. I think he's got a great physique. I think he poses more like an open bodybuilder, but who gives a shit? I've seen, I saw much more hate of him as an amateur than I'm seeing now. Like, like going into the Arnold, like amateur, I think there was, it was a lot more trending hate than like now. I think it's just like, yeah, okay. Like there's Sam from what I've seen, but like, I don't really pay too much attention to it. Yeah. Yeah. I'm excited though. I think it was going to be a cool show overall. Like, I don't know how much of it I'm really going to get to see, but I'm hoping to see some of these people in person for sure. Um, kind of move into the next question, which was brought by our boss. Um, really fucking hurting her feelings. Why can Luke out squat us, Alex? It's yeah. Luke, Luke, Luke's peak squat was like insane. Yeah. Like it was, you know, Luke is very strong and that's like all, that's all he tried to do for like 10 years was just get strong on legs. Cause like that was his body part. So yeah, I don't know. I've never, I've never touched Luke on anything. He's on like a hundred makes test and like, still goes heavier than I ever did. Like, you know, like it just doesn't make any sense, man. But yeah, it's whatever Luke, like you come step into my world, bro. We fucking have a hug each other real hard. Why can't you breathe? I, um, Luke, let's, let's, I don't know. I don't know what I could beat you at. It's fine. Whatever. Fuck it. Um, I think at a time when I wasn't, I think, uh, 2022, when I wasn't so injury prone, I think I could have almost went toe to toe with Luke. Now TRT Luke peak leg strength. Chris still cannot surpass peak Luke leg strength, unfortunately. Um, but I think I would have been, I wouldn't have been close. It's fine. Maybe I could beat him in like a pressing pattern or something. I don't fucking know. Um, so thanks for that, Luke. That was the first question we got today and he just decided to unload the clip. What is your favorite body part to train Alex? Uh, I'm going to sound like such a bro, but I love training chest usually. Yeah. Um, chest and legs. I love legs because of like the deering and the after, like the, I guess I love the feeling of chest training. I don't actually like get crazy excited. Like after my pressing is done, um, like legs, like I love, I don't know. There's just, it's like that day that you just like got a man up and go do it. And there's no other day like that. Yeah. Hmm. Um, there was a time when all I cared about was training legs. Cause my namesake used to be CP legs. And I still love training legs. It's just not the same. Now. I feel like once you have the injury profile that I do, um, it allows you to realize your level of mortality as a man. Uh, that never leaves you. So I've been kind of limping through some leg days recently after both my SI joints blew out earlier this year. Um, I would say, I mean, back training, duh. Uh, and then chest training as well. Cause again, I just love like having a full fledged chest or back pump is the greatest feeling on this planet. Yeah. Yeah. Um, yeah. Pump wise, there's nothing better than a shoulder pump, like a shoulder arm pump. Yeah. Those are fun days. I love it all other than like calves, but yeah, I'd never train calves. I grew up fat. I got given one gift and it was those. Yeah. I got on train calves so much that I forget to program. Same, same. I have to make a note to do that. People's programs. Cause I've just never had to in my entire life. Yeah. And like, to me, calf training, it's like, to me, honestly, you either got them or you don't. That's just kind of the reality of it. Unfortunately, I only, I will, I almost only program it in people's plans that have dorsiflexion issues. And I put it as their first movement to try to help open up like their whole ankle. Okay. Okay. That's really it though. Yeah. Yeah. I'd rather you train abs than calves. 100%. What is the most delusional thing a bodybuilder has ever said to you? Um, that is one guy sign up where he was, he was wanting to sign up. He never did, but he said, uh, Zach, a picture of Samson and said, this is kind of my goal physique. Uh, for sure. That was, yeah, I was just like, Hey, Hey man, let's, uh, let's move this one along. So you're telling me there, there wasn't a probable chance of that happening. Yeah. No way. Um, I did, I did have an, I'll say this is I don't like to speak negative on clients. Like this dude wasn't my ex-girlfriend's DM. So fuck them. Um, and he still probably owes me money. Um, but he sent me a side by side of him and Chris Bumstead and was like, it was like telling me how people, tell him that they look similar. And I was just like, in no way, shape or form. Is this, can you send me a, can you send me a picture of who this is? Cause I just, I need to see, see the level of delusion. Um, I'm trying to think what I've had. Oh, I had, I had a guy. It wasn't said directly to me, but it was said to someone to go tell me about it, which I think just further kind of exacerbates the level of delusion, um, that they were going to go do whatever show I was going to do next and beat me. Um, and at the time it was a national show and this person, their best placing was fifth in a novice class. And I had won three overalls at that point. So I'd say that one's pretty far up there. You know who it is. Um, um, um, that was silly. That was a silly one. I'm trying to think what else. Hmm. Hmm. Cause it like, it's almost hard to gauge what I deem delusional because the longer that we're in this profession, the more desensitized you get to some like really outlandish concepts and ideas that get thrown to you. You know what I mean? Yeah. Like it's all kind of like, it's hard for define like standouts at this point, I think. But the more I have like conversations with like Alex about it, the more we realized I could write an entire coffee table book about some of the interactions we've had. Um, well, I guess I had one recently or not that long ago where this guy had reached out to me to, to like compete or we wanted to compete. And he was like, well, like I work out with my buddies and like pose with them. So I'd say I probably know probably more than most of the people you work with. And I was like, no, my people are pretty fucking awesome. So I'll, I'll defend them on that one. Yeah. Did that. Yeah. That's, uh, that's that you're like, it's, it's like real subtle delusion. That should have said, um, but people were like, Oh, I don't need help with my training. I got it. No. Yeah, dude. Yeah. Like, like dead serious side by side, him and Chris Bumstead. It looks like, like people have been telling me I look like him. People tell me I look like Keon. I was just, I had no idea what to say. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but, but yeah, like some people, people who, that's a huge thing on delusion is like, it's just simply, uh, I'm good on my training. I know what I'm doing. Um, that's, that's very common. Mm. Yeah. I had, Ooh, this was a good one. I've told this story in bits and pieces before. Shit. Five, six years ago, this guy signed up with me and we did a call. I started talking. He starts asking me questions about PDs, but in like the connotation or like vernacular of like experience, not curiosity. You know what I mean? Like, it'd be like if, if one of your buddies at jujitsu, ask you questions about jujitsu, like the vernacular is specific versus if I ask you, I don't know the language. Right. And I was like, are you on gear? And he's like, duh. I was like, well, I'm asking you. Cause he was on like two and a half grams of gear. And he was 170 pounds and chubby. And he was like, Hey, I don't want you to touch my training. I know what I'm doing. It was three sets of 10 on everything. That's beautiful. Right there in the sweet spot. I was like, that's for more. Cannot ask for more. So he didn't make it. He didn't, he didn't last long to say the least. I think it's those people. I would consider that the delusion when I'm all for people coming to us and having an idea of what they feel works currently. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I'd be like, Hey, I like whether it's high volume training, low volume training, whatever it may be. That's no problem with that. But when it's met with so much confidence and unwillingness to, to see our, from our perspective, what we think would work better, where someone, or someone's like, Hey, I'm that's too much volume for me. I'm like, okay, send me a training clip. And if you train with perfect execution and maximal intensity, it might be too much volume for you. And then they send it and it's poorly executed. And it's RPE three. Yeah. Yeah. And, and that's where like, you know, because we, we come back with the same respect. Like I was on the call with a new client yesterday and I was like, Hey, look, like, I understand like you've been training for 20 years. Like, like I'm not here to tell you what you're doing is right or wrong. Like I'm here to like help make you better. And so like, if you tell me you like certain styles, like I'm not going to come out and just like make you do everything totally opposite. Like, even if I agree with totally opposite, I'm going to try to like meet in the middle somewhere. Cause like, you know, but, but yeah, and that's usually a big issue is like when we, we work with athletes or athletes are inquiring, it's like, they're so dead set on what they want to do. We're like, we're not like, we're usually pretty open, you know? Yeah. There, there's a lot of styles that I think work, but ultimately why, why are you hiring me? Like if it's, if there's not a willingness to open mindedness, right? To the same point, I'm not going to flip your life upside down and do one 80 on your training style, but we might negotiate on certain things, right? Like, let's try this. Let's do this instead. You know, I just got a guy earlier this week or this past week who came to me and he, he's very analytical. He's very like data oriented, which is great. And he was doing like an upper, lower PPL type split. And it was like very, very low volume. And I came in and like wrote up everything. We talked on the phone and I was like, do you have, cause a lot of times, and this isn't to like, I don't want to, I'm going to generalize and it's not my intention, but just with the current scape of the guys and they're like late teens, early twenties who are science-based, they tend to be very like die hard on the Hill that they want to stand on, which isn't necessarily like, I respect that, but it's not always applicable. But I kind of like adjusted his volume and frequency. And he was like, no, I'm fine with that. I want to get better. And what I'm doing only got me this far. And I was like, thank you. Cause all we have to do is try it. And if it doesn't work, then we fix it, but we can't know until we try. Yeah. Yeah. And those are times where it's like, I'll circle back and like, thank the athlete and like, Hey, thank you for being coachable. Thank you for trusting me with this. Like, we're going to try it, you know, obviously if it doesn't work, we'll go back to what you like doing, but you know, like just the fact that they're open to it is huge. Yeah. That's what we need. It's just, again, I'm doing everything in good faith, but we're taking a theory and putting into practice. And that does take time, right? Like I had one of my guys who's in prep now, Ethan, he started with me last year and he had some questions up front. He's like, Hey, I feel like there's some like redundancy within your plan. Da, da, da, da. And so I broke it down. I was like, let's just try it out and see what happens. And he put on, he's a natural athlete. He put on like 12 pounds in four months and stayed roughly the same body fat. And I was like, so redundancy didn't hurt you. Yeah. Right. So you think it helps. That's what we're ultimately here for. What is one hill you're always going to die on in bodybuilding and, or coaching? Oh, there's so much. Yeah. I'm highly opinionated. I'll try to think of lately. I'm pretty, I'm pretty willing to die on the hill that like females need to train heavy and like compound it. So I'm pretty. Yeah. Pretty die hard on that. It's yeah. I don't think I would never not do that. Peptides. I get, I get, I get pretty die hard on like the Ipamoralins and Samoralins and Tessamoralin with all the growth hormone producing ones or the, I don't even want to say growth hormone producing because it's like a quarter of what it actually does, but I'm pretty, I tell people I would rather, I think I literally told this to my other day. I said, I'd rather you take nothing than take that. Like just being honest. Now I may have clients listening who have used it, or maybe they're using it because their doctor gave it to them and they have a full like subscription. And so it's like, we're not going to let it go to waste, but like, I'm always going to die on the hill that like growth hormone, actual growth hormone is better than any of those peptides. Yep. Yep. I had a conversation with an athlete not that long ago, but I've had a couple of conversations. I had one about IGF LR3 and then one about HGH frag. And in both cases, I was like just doing the basic cost analysis doesn't make sense, right? Like one IGF one LR3 it's where we're knocking on the door that we're hoping opens. And in both cases, or we take growth hormone, like in the case of HGH frag, we take growth hormone and we kick the door down. We actually give what we are looking for the demand for it. And we're not just getting the one benefit that frag holds versus the other substrates within that. But then looking at it from a financial perspective, I'm like, you can get growth hormone, even if it's generic way cheaper than what, how much HGH frag you'd have to take, or the same with IGF one LR3. And I think we're kind of falling into this space. Like peptides are interesting. They're very fascinating. There are still side effects. I think that's what people are forgetting. Like there's still, there's still negatives that can come with it. And so I don't love how that's being pushed. But the Hills that I would die on, I do agree. I think women should train heavy. I think that lower rep ranges are needed as well. Just in general, I think as a populace, we are forgetting how resilient the human body is. And fatigue is kind of bullshit. Most of the time, especially if you're like in your early twenties, your body's very resilient. It can survive and withstand a lot. And the whole purpose of strength and hypertrophy is adaptation. So you have to present hard shit to adapt to. Most people don't train hard enough to actually only need one set per exercise. I would say a fair majority of people don't. And you need more protein than what you probably think you do. I'm willing to die on the hill that competing naturally is like worse for you than competing enhanced. Especially as a woman. Yes. Absolutely. Yeah. I will agree to that. Because within that, I think that's where people fail to realize just because you compete enhanced or in an untested federation does not mean that you have to take a slew of drugs. But in 99.9% of cases, if you are a woman and you compete on HRT protocols, you will gain, you'll have a much more successful prep. You'll have a better look on stage. You will also feel better relative. And then you also will not have to fight tooth and nail for potentially years to regain your menstrual cycle. Okay. Do you need to eat every two hours? Every two? No. Ideally, the most I would want to go by without having food or electrolytes or aminos or something is like four hours. I think any more than four. It's not like boosting your metabolism or whatever. It's like it's keeping your body in a fed state where it's like has sufficient nutrients to keep you in an anabolic state of repairing and growing tissue. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I, the way that I explain it is think that you have like an IV drip bag going into your arm and eating a meal helps fill up a little bit more of that bag. So there's always the drip of amino acids and carbohydrates and glucose coming in because it, you know, depending on like with protein synthesis and whatnot, like you don't just eat a meal and it just runs right through you and you get all you need for men. An hour later, it's gone. Like there's still black, there's hang time, but we need to make sure the hang time is always being fed on a cyclical cycle, right? Or a cyclical level. So it's always being fed back in. The other thing that I will say too, I think four hours is very fair. If it happens one time, you're okay. Like just don't, it doesn't need to happen all of the time. Like if you're now in all cases, everything can be prepared ahead for in this day and age, there's food readily available everywhere. There are resources to find the correct food sourcing. That's why you also hire coaches like us who will communicate with you in the moment to help you pivot. But if you go four hours one time without food, it's not like you're just going to like atrophy and just fall apart. Yeah. Yeah. I used to, especially like traveling and stuff, like I used to just not eat. Like I would just like go long periods time without eating. But now I notice like, even if it's like, let's say it's just like the, the uncle Ben's ready rice or something like that with like some pre-cooked chicken or whatever I can find, like a protein shake. Like finding things that like where I'm still eating, I feel better and I'm still able to like train and perform the next day or that night or whatever the case may be. But yeah, I think the biggest thing is like, like you said, don't freak out. If you don't get it, if you, you know, quote, miss that window, don't try to make up for it. Like you just eat your normal meal, maybe a little extra if you want. But yeah, I think that every three to four hours you should be eating something. And you'll notice like when you're efficient at eating over time, your body, like that's when the quote, you get angry, you get a headache, you get sleepy. Like your body's like telling you like, Hey, I need something. Yeah. Yeah. Again, it's, there's a reason you should be like, go to a gas station and get a core power rice crispy treat. Like, okay, if you're, unless you're in prep, if you're in prep, it's not how it's going to work, but it's, it's very feasible in this day and age to find a solution to the problem. And everything can be prepared ahead for it. But every two hours, the other thing too, is there are some people who can tolerate eating every two hours. I think Austin Colvin is a prime example as that dude's stomach and gut health is picture perfect. And he has a limitless capacity. I think he could eat every hour if he wanted to. Um, whereas someone like me, I need like every three hours. My digestion does not work in a means where I can just like pound food every two hours and not feel like death. Hey, that's my fault. I just sent Megan Fox's new post into the group chat. Do you need to shock the muscle, Alex? Um, real quick on Colvin's stomach, he can handle so much. It's, it's, it's inspirational. Yeah. It's annoying, uh, actually. Cause like, I'll be with him and he tries to like feed me. He's like, come on, bro. Come on. And I'm like, dude, I don't just wake up with a vacuum like you do, buddy. This is a lot going on here. Um, but I did, I've, so I figured out the secret there. So like, you know, he likes to fuck off and like go eat off plan or whatever. Well, I finally like pointed out to him and say, Hey man, your last, like, like your meal five and meal six are both a thousand calories each. So like you may go and eat off plan, but you're not overeating the 2000 calories of your normal food. And once I painted that like picture for him, he was like, Oh, I was like, yeah. So now like, that's how he's 270 now. Cause like, I'm, I'm feeding him like a tank. So cool. Dude, I just, I've, every time I've been around him, it'll be like 500 grams of rice, 10 ounces of meat. And then an hour later he's having canes. And then an hour later, it's another 10 ounces of meat, 500 grams of rice. And I'm just like, you know, I'm digesting the meal from three and a half hours ago. Yeah. And he's like, you don't want cheesecake. Yes, bro. It's incredible. So one day I'll catch up. Maybe. Um, do you need to shock the muscle? No, you don't. Yeah. Like, so I think that's the thing with people, I guess I, I used to think that way, like, you know, 15 years ago, it was like, Oh God, do something different, but like new load, like new volume, you know, whatever the case may be, whether it's like you're going heavier, you're doing more reps, uh, you're taking the intensity up higher, you're having more control. That is quote shocking the muscle. Cause your muscles having to adapt to that change of that stimulus. So it's not like we got to go do the workout backwards or we got to like superset everything this week to confuse it. You just need to like actually progressive overload in some form or fashion. Um, so technically yes, but how people would see that. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because when we hear about shocking the muscle, it's always doing new workouts, new exercises, whatever it may be. And that's creating what's called novel stimulus. So think about it. Like you go, if you're in a snowy part of this world and you go and shovel snow and you one, you are immediately out of breath. You're immediately winded, your heart rates through the roof. And then the next day your back is sore in a way that it's never been sore before. It's because you're doing something completely new. It's novel with that. Because you create a new level of soreness. Soreness is not a reflection of hypertrophy just because you got super sore. Now I will say there is a level of gratification that comes when you're sore shit the next day. And sometimes even now, if I'm not sore the next day, I get really annoyed with myself, but soreness does not reflect hypertrophy. When we look at growing muscle and we look at these movement patterns, we have to present the same movement patterns to our body over and over and over because the first like four to 10 weeks, depending on the movement is spent neurologically at adapting to the movement, meaning your body is getting better at moving, right? So you're going to get very, very strong, very quick. That's why when you start doing a movement, your logbook goes up very quickly the first like two or three months that you're doing it. And then you start hitting that stall point, right? Just because you hit the stall point is actually when you need to keep doing the movement and learning how to find progression within it, whether it's five pounds, it's another rep, it's better execution, whatever it may be, because now we're really in the thick of it when it comes to growing. It's only when you run the logbook till the end and there's a lot of strategies that you can do within periodization to play with that. But when you start presenting like aches and pains and whatnots and little injuries and stuff, that's when you actually pull it out and find something else to put in its place. So no, you don't want to shock the muscle in the context of just doing new shit all the time. You're going to grow better if you do the same shit for periods of time versus just like throwing stuff around. Anyways. Yeah. And a lot of times, like when you're doing movement patterns, like, like if you, like, let's say me and Chris, like we break down your squat mechanics and you're just now Smith squatting properly. Well, there's also like a time period where you have to relearn that movement pattern and you can't get as strong as you can while you're learning. So it's like you got the training wheels on for six to eight weeks and okay, now you've learned how to move. Now you have to get strong. So another six to eight weeks, and then you have to be sure you know how to move correctly while you're at peak strength. And that time as well. So like you're looking at 20, 24 weeks of like one movement. Yeah. And the adaptation along the way and like relearning the movement with heavier loads. Like that's why powerlifting is impressive in a lot of ways because like they've learned how to move with maximum load and they didn't probably start there. So the same with bodybuilding is like don't look at it as like, oh, gosh, I got to get this two plate squat or this four plate squat. It's got to be like, okay, how can you move like as you progress up and get stronger while hitting depth and all that? Like there's a lot that goes into it other than just, oh, I've been doing Smith machine for 12 weeks. Like there's a lot more to it. Yeah. Yeah. It's a strength skill, right? Like the movement is the skill. Strength in itself is actually a skill being able to maximally strain through a period of time and then to master those. Like, and then to one, find that like that aha moment. And then it always be there because we know there's going to be sessions where you let it rip and we lose a little bit of the skill aspect, but strength is there. And vice versa, right? There's this ebb and flow. And that's why we program the ways that we do and why we monitor these things. Because there are certain athletes where I'll tell them for periods of time, like, hey, I want you to overreach. I want you to, you know, they'll send me their footage and I'll say, hey, add a 25 next week and just go for it and see what happens. Or there are other athletes where I have to scale back for periods of time and we can just work on just, just execution. Because there's always going to be this ebb and flow that comes with it. But you, you have, you want to stay there for as long as you possibly can. And ideally, and what makes this so exciting for me, and it should for you guys, is that's also why we program a variety of exercises throughout your plan. So you're always learning new things. There's always room for improvement. It's tangible. You can feel it. And you can also see how it translates into your physique. The larger the repertoire is of mastery, the more jacked you're going to be. Yeah. That's why a lot of times, like when I'm asked for training footage, I'll do like kind of one workout at a time, like one body part of the time. Like I'll focus on legs for a little bit, focus on shoulders. Not because I, like, I don't have to fix it all. Like I probably do have to fix it all. But I need, like, if I'm going to focus in on like the, you know, athletic side or the, like actual, like mechanic side of things on one training day, I don't need it like throughout the whole week because they're, they're going to get bored. I need to, I need to let them fly on some other stuff while I fix their squat. Okay. Now I fix their squat. All right. Let's go look at their lateral raise. Let's look at their single arm pull downs and let's fix that. But like now legs can kind of run free for a little bit. That that's why I do it that way. So like, you're not just like going in the gym and you think you're like training with the principal watching you. Like that's, that's the worst feel. Absolutely. Absolutely. And that's where, that's when it's no longer fun. And that's still what matters to me. But first and foremost, right. So like there's still a degree of variance that I deem acceptable when it comes to like the grade score that I give for execution. Like I'm fine with a B plus if efforts a plus all day long, like, yes, do we want both of them to match? Absolutely. But the second you get someone who starts falling into a place of performance anxiety in the gym, it's fuck all at that point. If you were a Pokemon, which one would you be? Yeah. Well, I know, I know which one I'm thinking about. I was a big fan of Blastoise for sure. Oh yeah. Yeah. I'm going. I'm going. I'm going Snorlax for sure. Snorlax. Absolutely. I kind of like Machoke too. He looks pretty cool. Yeah. It's a badass. That's funny. I never got, I, I never understood Pokemon. Like I collected cards as a kid just because everybody did it. And I watched some of the cartoons. Like I never like fully deep dove into it. Like playing the game. Yeah. I never played the card game. I played Yu-Gi-Oh. I collected Pokemon cards. Um, I do have, I do have a Game Boy and I do play it pretty often. I have Pokemon Emerald. Um, so you'll probably see me at shows with that because I'm not the dummy with the laptop. Oh. Just putting in data. No, dude, I'm in the corner vaping, hitting, playing my fucking Game Boy. Um, true or false. Creatine is the only supplement that deserves its hype. The only supplement? No. But it is one that really does deserve its hype. It does. It is the most clinically researched and backed supplement in the industry. Do I think it's the only one that deserves its hype? Absolutely not. I think, I think health supplements, some of them deserve far more hype than they receive. Um, yeah. Cause like, if I'm being frank, dude, it's kind of like, take health supplements and steroids. Like those are the, those are like the two that matter. Or everything else. It's like, yeah, it's, so a lot of it's gimmicky, right? Yeah. I think, I think natokines, natokines, however you want to say it, is, I think that's one that's like groundbreaking lately. Um, I wish a lot more people took it. Um, what about sports performance? Like, I think, um, I guess this might be on a hill that I would die on, but, um, um, Oh, what's it called? What's the protein powder? Um, casein protein powder. Yeah. Can get fucked. Um, the, the worst. And look, don't, please don't quote me on this. Sorry, John, if this is wrong. From my understanding, the, I think it was like the amino acid profile of it or the leucine content amount of casein was like, it wasn't enough to like keep you anabolic. It was just more so keeping you anti-catabolic. I guess my understanding from when I used to look into it. Um, but the digestibility of it is shit. Um, there's no need to have like a eight to 12 hour breakdown of protein because like, that's what like protein does. Like we have this, our bodies have this amino acid pool that it already can pull from. Um, and I've never been, I've never known anyone back. Oh my gosh. I just can't wait to drink my casein protein shake. And it's like concrete. Yeah, dude. Um, it only, the only purpose it serves is it's good for baking, for cooking. That's it. That's literally it. It just makes any protein recipe, not gritty and gross, but to the point in everything that we're doing, when it comes to nutrition, there is not anything we're really putting in to intentionally slow your digestion down. That is not ever the goal in my opinion, right? Like if anything, we're trying to make it expedited in all cases, because the longer that casein protein sits in your tummy while you're asleep, the longer it ferments. The longer it ferments means the more farts that you produce. And that's not necessary. We don't need that, right? Like we're just intention. You're paying money for GI distress. Yeah. I also think HMB is very overrated these days. I did. I fell into that camp many years, 10 years ago when I managed to GNC. I was. MuscleTech's clear muscle. Yes. Yeah. Yes. It was this $100 bottle, more than fucking gear. And all it is is an amino acid. Yep. I never paid full price for it. Um, I definitely took it home a lot. Uh, what was the other one? There was another, like, oh, I can't even think of the brand that it was, but it was this weird, like, peptide. It was supposed to be, like, a peptide-esque. Oh, Jesus. What was it? It was a black and red brand. Nutrex? No, I don't think it was Nutrex. It was, I want to say it was a Canadian brand, but it was at GNC. I can see where it was in the store. All Max. I, yes. I think they had some, like, it was supposed to be, like, a colostrum-esque thing. Um. It was probably either All Max or, uh, uh, Mutant. Yeah, I don't know if it was, I don't know if we had Mutant at my store. Um, but it was the same thing. It was, like, just a glorified protein powder with, like, it was just amino spiked, but it was, like, 75 bucks. And I was, like, that's going to get me huge. Yeah, yeah. That was back when Optimum Nutrition had the, uh, Hydro, the HydroAid. Mm-hmm. Yeah, yeah. Oh, what was, oh, what was the brand? Oh, fuck. It was, um, everything was, like, time capsule delayed. It was the pills that had all the little colored. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um, I bought into that pretty heavy for a minute, too. So, here's what we're going to do next episode. We're going to, we're going to create a supplement stack from pre-2020. Unlimited budget. So, yeah, yeah, we're, and then let's see what we can come up with. Dude, it's going to be so good. I'm just going to, I'm going to put on my little, little GNC polo. I'm just going to act like I'm there to sell. Um, it's going to be great. What, um, ooh, this is the last one. True or false? Most people don't need deloads. They need discipline. True. True. True. A million times true. Yeah. Um, yeah, it's very rare, like, well, so, like, what we, like, what we do, right, when people are in their push phases, like, we're usually taking volume up, like, across the board. And then when they're not in their push phases, we're bringing volume down to, like, a maintenance level. So, like, you know, we, your coach should be doing that, too, um, to where you don't really need to deload. Like, obviously, if you're, like, cruise control gear, but, like, full set on your training, you're, you're probably going to hit a wall and, like, yeah, maybe you need a deload. But my whole thing on deloads is I personally think that, like, life comes at you and you just take it anyway. Like, like, that, your, your deloads are life. Whether it's you have to take an extra rest day, um, you get sick, you have a little, you know, ping in your elbow or in your pec, or, you know, it's just a long day at work and you just couldn't go heavy that day or you just felt tired or, like, like, there's little ways to go about it. But it's also why I'm not a huge fan of, like, the whoop strap. Like, if you, if you wake up and your, your recovery's at, like, 44, you're going to immediately have a bad day, poor training session. Like, like, you're, you're not, you're going to feel like you're just, like, you're starting from behind. But if you never looked at that number, you might have felt great. So, like, who am I to say, hey, you know, I know you're feeling good today, but it's, sorry, it's our deload week. Like, like, it's not, I'm not doing that to somebody. Yeah, it's, yeah, dude, the aura rings and the whoop straps and all that, one, drive me insane because if it's your normal, it's your normal, right? And you can't, I think once you put a metric to it, you start, it becomes this game of, like, like, it's like a placebo, right? With deloading, there are, there's only one case that I can think of off the top of my head right now. It's one of my athletes, Raquel. She is a lunatic in the gym and she trains flawlessly to the point where it almost aggravates me that I can't find anything to fix within her training. And she traveled to go see one of her best friends. She asked me ahead of time, like, hey, what do you want me to do about training? I was like, just go let loose. Like, go ball out for like three days with your friend. And they trained like, again, lunatics. And she came back, her weight, she's in a cut right now. Her weight went up. She's like, hey, dude, I feel like beat to shit. And I was like, I can confirm you're in fact beat to shit. We like pulled back activity slightly. I was like, if by the end of early next week, weight is still holding, biofeedback markers haven't improved, like you're not hungry and everything else, we'll probably pull back training some at that point. Because she's like one person I know 40 fat can actually train at a capacity where we can accumulate to that degree. And she's also not on anything, right? So she's like not in a place where she has necessarily the best recovery capabilities compared to her work ethic and execution. But for most people, it's like, I say like, take it by feel. Like during my prep, I talked about it. Like that was the one prep I didn't care about fatigue. I just would take an extra nap if I needed it and would sometimes take a session where I might pull out some intensifiers and just lighten the weight a little bit and do more like focus more on like time under tension and then restart the next day like it was the next day. And I grew up throughout the show. I think that's why our warmup like sets are so important because I do like you start like dumbbell bench, like you start with the 40s. You kind of know if it's going to be a good day or not. Yep. Maybe you're iffy. Okay, let's try the 70s. Then you'll really know like, hey, all right. Yeah. Like, and like, that's where I listen to my body. I hope my athletes listen to their body and you make the call right there. Like, hey, yeah, man, this is not feeling right. I'm going to pull back a little bit. I'm not going to go for any PRs. Maybe just push the reps up some. Maybe not even do the movement at all. Maybe just like go do something else. I've had that happen before. Um, so, you know, but, but yeah, that's where being in tune with your own self, you can use your quote deloads as you personally need them. And what I'll do that. And I've had just, I'm sure you have too. There's some sessions you just walk out. He's like, no, not today. And then, and that's okay. And you just forget about it. You come back the next day and like, it never happened. Um, like that is totally, totally normal. Um, I find a lot of clients are asking me, Hey, you know, like, can I take an extra rest day? I'm still sore. Like, yeah, absolutely. Like, please. It's okay. You know, like the, the split is a recommendation. Like the rep ranges are recommendations. They're not like, don't die on that hill. Yeah. Yeah. I would rather, especially in an offseason, I'd rather you have less sessions per week that are more productive than the other way around. You're going to gain more from that anyways. Um, another example is dude, it was like last week I was getting ready for my top set. I got stopped by this guy who wants like, wants to hire me. And he talked to me for like 40 minutes. So I just didn't get to do my top sex. I was like, I'm going to tear my pack. If I tried to, I'm cold at this point. So I just moved on with my session at that point, it was like kind of fuck all. And I was just trying to get a pump and just get in and get out. But it served itself in the purpose of like, I didn't get hurt. I still got some work done. If anything, because I just gotten sick, it's probably what I should have been doing in the first place. You just kind of, you just roll with the punches and you just try to make the next day better. Oh, that's huge. I think that's everything. Alex is that. Yeah, dude. Oh, man. I was quick. She wasn't going to say. We've got the 14th. So this will be coming out on the 10th. So four days from then, we are holding a seminar in Hermitage, Tennessee at Ironhouse Strength and Conditioning. It's going to be us and a few of the other J3 coaches. We're going to be doing upper body training specific to both and all male and female divisions. So it's going to be applicable to everybody. We all need lats. We all need delts. Doesn't matter what division you're doing. And then we're going to break off into an open gym. You can train whatever you want with whoever you want. Everybody's welcome. You do not have to be a J3U athlete. If you guys want more information on that, please reach out to myself or Alex directly on Instagram. And we will be happy to guide you as to where to get a day pass and whatnot. If you look up Ironhouse Strength and Conditioning on Google, it'll pull up. If you guys are listening on Spotify, you can please follow us. Leave a five-star review. We would greatly appreciate it. If you're listening on Lucas's channel, you can like, comment, share, and subscribe. Hit the notification bell. We would also appreciate that. And until next time, thank you for listening to J3U After Hours.