 naringin, rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez rendez performing execution. Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard and to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. So, Luke, training, back to the topic. Man, I could, I think I could write a PhD dissertation on this for the body building community, but it's the, the complexity is honestly in the post program implementation. I think that's kind of some of what we're going to get into today is like the initial program design pieces for the large majority of individuals in the bodybuilding sphere doesn't veer too, too far away from like a lot of your basic setups, but man, how that is executed is so different than the rest of the process. Like we look at bodybuilding, there's like your nutrition portion of the process, your PD portion of the process, your training portion of the process. And then there's like the recovery kind of lifestyle one that I would throw in there as well as a fourth category. And like training is the one that has like the furthest divide from like how something on paper can be executed in real life. And man, it can make such a big difference. Yeah. It's when you're just giving out and that's how it used to be with coaching, right? Like give out your, your PDF document, your Excel sheet and you've, you've made it perfect and you're so excited. And then how you have that in your mind to be executed and you finally get to with someone in training, you're like, Oh, well, this is not the idea of it at all. So it is, is now like a, almost a coaching standard, which is cool. That video review for your training should happen. No, don't get me wrong. If you're getting coached and that's not happening, well, maybe your coach isn't quite there yet. But, or maybe you, he already knows you train awesome. That's probably it. But anyway, it's, it's, yeah, one of those things where need to align and make sure like the, the training in the gym matches the intention of what was put on paper. And why, why has this even happened? Why have we gotten to a spot where it's gotten so complicated with training? And I know some people are upset with it, like in the science communities kind of been thrown under the bus and lit on fire around this. And there's a revolt around science-based lifting. We talked about this in the podcast with Steve Hall as well too, but in social media kind of spurs this on as well. So with content, right? It's always, there has to be a constant new idea or you just feel like you're repeating the same things over and over. Do you think there's a way to go about content if someone's out there that is like in the education space that it does need to get, keep getting reinvented? Or is there a way to just be okay with continuing, say the basic things? I think it's okay with like, uh, being, being able to say the basic things. I think where you could potentially make your like bang for buck is like pointing out the flaws of like maybe old thought processes we've had with training in the past, um, of like what things actually accomplish. And then the secondary one is like using case studies to showcase how universal statements aren't always the truth, right? Like I, we were in Nashville for the J3 coaching a week this past week and the exposure range of the, an athlete that I trained with while I was there of like the amount of tissue they carry alongside like their functional capacity. Like if you combine those two, eliminate so many patterns that you would typically write for this person in like overhead exposure planes. And so like that program design looks a little different, but it's not overly fancy. It's just spending more time in planes that are a little bit more out in front rather than it is like you're spending a more of your volume set within exposure range that are out in front than in the overhead. And you could do content that would be kind of centered around that. So to me, that's where like the value lies is like helping people problem solve. I think the skill of problem solving with training is the best skill to have because then no one you put in front of you, you can't figure out. And it's not so much that the tools change. It's just like how the application of that tool is used with that person. And that's part of the problem, like with continued complexity in a program, it becomes harder to assess, uh, when things are going wrong to get down to your basic, like troubleshooting and making a decision because there's so many variables that are now implemented or changing at the same time that makes it really hard to make the call. Right. And what, what I would say, like at least around the content piece and, uh, I mean, I forget the, he's a content creator himself. I forget his name. How Dan is Dan something. Sorry, Dan something. Uh, he, he was speaking that, you know, people have complimented him on how well he can articulate certain topics. And what he found is like in your individual niche that someone's going to have maybe, you know, four to five very, or even less like unique takes on certain topics. And those topics could even be basic and things that continue to have problems or mistakes with. And the reason he's gotten to a point, he said, where he could articulate them so well is because he just keeps having to repeat them because people continue to make these same mistakes. So remember like, you're always going to be a new audience coming to your page or forgetting things that you said, but you will also continue to get better at saving that same message. Just like in, in J3U, like we're, we always refine our, our peaking language that we use. Like our, our peaks are relatively simple, linear loading without doing like using diuretics much of the time and, uh, without removing water. And this is something that we do teach on. And so we've said these messages so often it becomes really easy to articulate those things. So anyway, um, yeah, complexity. I know we, we can want to go down the path because it makes you feel advanced when you're teaching it. Right? Like, and that's why I feel like, uh, like damage, we should be the experts and stuff. And we're saying like very basic things, but it's, it is the, the truth of what matters for the result. And we shouldn't bake in complexity if it's not improving the outcome. And I see that so much that things are making more complex because you think it should give you a better outcome and it doesn't. Um, I think moving from, from that part and this, that is the old age thing of time of like, if something's not working, make it more complex rather than like go back and maybe fix the basics. But the other thing that comes about is like, where do also complex thoughts come from is the scientific literature and misapplying science. And I think what we see is a lot of the people that are attacking the science-based lifters, I would say these are more of the pseudo science based lifters or, you know, the, the biomechanic, uh, over analysts that are like critiquing these gigantic bodybuilders and gigantic bodybuilders are pissed and everyone's like strapped with different apparatuses, locking down stability and bands attached to everywhere. So, uh, the, that is not science. It is, uh, someone's like theory on, uh, extrapolating, make biomechanics extremely complicated around training. So, uh, I think they're misapplied sciences, but then these same individuals are reading studies, right? PubMed stuff and, uh, just taking away the conclusions and applying it to the entire program. Like we saw LinkedIn partials was huge, right? Everyone was all of a sudden doing like parcel, you know, parcels in the LinkedIn range and finding ways to like change resistance profiles to only be in the LinkedIn range. And it's like, it shouldn't go to that extreme either. And also remember where the study's coming from and how does that actually apply to your goal and within your context. But so that's, I think where the, some of the complexity has come from that we like complex stuff. Uh, but what actually matters and that's the other we should hit on today. Yeah, I think, I think really like the, the peak, the key things that I would be looking at would be, and I try to simplify this down as like, there's, there's a few kind of big pieces that I would say, like you have to tick all these boxes, but there's probably three main ones that I look for. Um, your ability to consistently execute over time. And I think that kind of goes in the bucket of effort is how I kind of apply it because effort can be like proximity to failure is kind of how we typically talk about it. But I, I also kind of classified as like, and John, you can comment on this. Like there's a lot of effort that goes into making something repeatable. Like the amount of time and thought you spend on making sure that setups are done consistently, extremely well, week to week, that the reps that we had on week one look exactly like week eight look, you know, very similar. There's a lot of effort that goes into that. And I think those two go hand in hand in my opinion. And then you kind of follow that up with like, are we progressing over the, the mesocycle from like a performance perspective? But like, to me, like effort is, is twofold. It's also, it's like, where are we ability to take to set? And do we put the time into being able to consistently set things up really well? Cause like, I mean, I've seen this, like you teach someone how to Smith machine squat is like the greatest example of this. Like you teach someone Smith machine squat, they get it well for like three, maybe four weeks. And then they creep back into old habits. And by week seven, it looks nothing like the week one Smith machine squat. And it's just like a little bit of focus on taking the time to set it up well would go a long ways in making sure that the effort that you're applying to the sets you're doing, you actually get the outcomes you want. And this happens across so many pieces, like chest pressing. It happens all the time in like rowing. It happens all the time. And just like, I kind of combine those two because man, like your attention to detail of the process is a portion of the effort applied to, to that, to those sessions and those sets in my opinion. The, the mirroring of execution and effort is quite this pendulum swing for many people. Yeah. I think this is where it creates a lot of the divide. Yeah. Yeah. It's a slippery slope when you bring up execution because of things you had, you had just said, right? Of this, the setup of like, is your bench in the Smith machine the same or is it one half, you know, one millimeter slightly off? And yeah, you know, all this where it could get very nuanced and you want a degree of repeatability, right? But I think early, earlier on those slight variances, like you could argue like, Hey, if I did a fly one week of a slight, you know, higher incline versus the last week. And then that changed again, if you just trained hard and were on them on the tissue, you're probably covered. What I would say is that as you get more advanced, that nuance should build in and execution would probably need to tighten. Or especially if you're running into, you know, dysfunction in areas where you're not connecting with, with muscles or actually running into injuries where it's could be problem with how you are executing the pattern. And that might just be, you have the wrong exercise. That's what we have on our list here is that you also need the right exercise that fits the body and the goal. The goal is to course build muscle, but also the goal is to be able to be repeatable and sustainable. So I think we have our list here, but like our execution can kind of fit into a few different ones of these as well too, right? Like volume only matters if the executions matched into the stimulus as well too, right? So that's repeatable. But I think, yeah, those, those are some tied in concepts of execution and effort. So it can be repeatable, but you know, with, with effort, that's one that's going to take, I think people who we, we, we also bring up Steve again, we, we challenge him with that too, right? If you had like the perfect form or someone that guy, you just train really, really hard, who would go with the farthest? And if injuries, a catastrophic injury didn't stop someone like training really, really hard gets people really, really far. So that needs to be a place. And we know like closer proximity to failure is going to be a very big ticket to drive a lot of growth in place, but absolutely to Luke's point, learning the skillset of training and being able to execute at a high level is going to take you even farther when you can marry those things together. Earlier on though, if you can't execute a lift, well, like you're in that squat, like Luke saying, and you're flailing all over the place, you're like, keep, keep failing at it, like get to something stable, train in that, like do your whatever hack squat. And then, you know, every rotate in that squat to learn it, or have that be some like pre-work that you do. So you're still getting some good high pressure work, or it could start with your squat, learn it, keep far from failure, learn the skill, and then hit some hard sets of hack squat, right? Like that's a way to do it too. But again, most of the audience tuning in, like y'all can usually probably train hard and execute well. It's probably more of the fine tuning of just, you know, the movements never fit right. And you jump to something else and you get a little stronger than that same problem happens. You get a niggle somewhere and you're like, man, I gotta go to the leg press. And this is, this is the actually the red flag for you. If you're listening, that's you jumping around is that likely you're just not executing the squat, how you need to be worth right setup and cueing. So, um, but maybe like before we get to, uh, nuanced around that is also if you're training hard, right, you have good exercises picked for your physique is that, uh, the progressive overload piece in logbooking. It's so important. And it's funny because you get some athletes who make it pretty far without it, right? They just progressive overload off of instinct, right? They don't realize they're doing it, but they just kind of do it over time. Um, because they've, they've mastered the effort piece. And so the effort kind of naturally drives them into progressive overload. Um, and so I still think having awareness of like your progressive overload will help you smooth in the, the, the progress curve of like not running into these places where you're just like constantly spinning your wheels because it'll really tell you how well you are actually writing your program design in order to see that trend over time work up. Now it's not a strength-based program. And I think that's where it's like, I really hesitate saying this sometimes because they take it, people take it and this audience will sometimes take it and then move it into like an application of training that someone in our industry has popularized it because it works for that individual. It like becomes the program design that people are religious about. And it's like, I, I get it, but at the same time, hypertrophy is not something that optimizes for progressive overload. It optimizes for stimulus and you should see overload as a result. That's such an important distinction. Yeah, it's a convoluted one, right? I get there's, it's an easier message, like get stupid strong in your lifts and you will be big like that in train, train really hard and make it happen. Right. That's an easy message to understand. And if you do those things, likely you will go there. Right. It's very like to say like, Hey, the guy, you go squat 600 pounds and bench press 400. Like you're likely going to be a big guy. Um, and you're doing that for reps in the hypertrophy rep range, right? For, for a few sets. Um, but it can also lead you down the wrong path of poorly executing lifts and getting beat up, getting injured and having setbacks, uh, and then easily turning your training program into when strength's not going up, dropping back on volume. And then all of a sudden you have a strength training work plan, not hypertrophy plan. So, uh, yeah, the, the training should organically drive up your numbers the next session because you are adding tissue on and you are probably getting a little bit of neuromuscular adaptations. And so the, the log book is more of your diary, your documentation of training and over time you should see it move up. So document what you did. I still take note of what I did. So damn, I can remember the damn thing. These are two lifters that like at some point you won't remember your numbers when it gets like micro loaded up to where you need to progress. Um, but yeah, I think for the intuitive lifter, like you mentioned, if you train hard, it kind of covers it well. I think when you get, get more advanced, it, it can be harder to make sure you are doing that and, uh, your training program is working otherwise. But that's how I more look, look at it now is that it ensures that my training program is set up to provide good stimulus and that I can recover from that stimulus. Cause if we know those numbers aren't moving up, like if today I went and I did, um, my prime press, my favorite one. And I, you know, added 10 pounds on and match the reps. So I'm like, okay, I noted, noted that down. And then next session I could do something similar or just match it. And then the next session again, after eight weeks, I should be able to look up and see this trend of it moving up along the way and look at my videos and say, okay, cool. I wasn't just moving faster and grinding harder in reps. And that in turn should lead to more stage growth. And that's kind of how I, how I go about, uh, going about progressive overload piece. But don't, don't get me wrong here. Like I train stupid hard and I, I, I fight to keep that training hard and numbers will move up. So there don't, I don't want anyone to get that skewed either. It's not a, not a way to, to cop out of like getting stupid strong because we will, it's just a framing of mind of what the number progression should be around into assess your program. But yeah. Uh, yeah. Around that too, you know, that, uh, I, I touched briefly on lowering volume to make sure you're keeping up your shrinkings, but, uh, what actually matters, it is volume. And there's, that's another one. I think people are, are shifting away from what the literature has brought up around, you know, volume being this driver of hypertrophy and that like, no, no, like you can just do low volume. And I don't think that's accurate either just to say low or high. We've, we've spoken on this multiple times, right? Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J three team to answer any questions you have and live Q and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I think it's, I think it's kind of, I, I love to talk about this in terms of a spectrum. Like if you think of a spectrum of, we can talk about this in my lectures, I've talked about like spectrum of movement, a spectrum of like volume is like a dosing range, right? If you present client A and client B with a problem that needs a medication from a doctor, that dosing range can be arranged that solves that problem at different dosing for each individual. And so we just need to match that dosing according to that individual's capacity to train, which is going to get into point one and point two of effort and their ability to progress that stimulus over time. And then the volume is dosed based on their skill sets in those as, which is why I was like high volume, low volume, medium volume, anywhere in that spectrum is going to make you progress, but you do need to test the limits to find where like things start to go south so that you can bring it back into what your optimal ranges in my opinion. Yeah, no, no, very much so. And then I think the last point of thing that I do think matters as well is still training within like a, a full active range with a, with a decent profile to a lifts. So I don't say like the perfect profile, because that gets down a rabbit hole as well for everyone trying to optimize for peak tension at long muscle links. And then also pink tension in the shorter muscle links with the right drop off or if the muscle's weak in that, weaker in that range. And so it doesn't need to be that complex, but I, overall training muscle through its full active range that you have control of is I think a big key in creating hypertrophy. And, uh, common mistakes, Luke, what do we see? What happens? What are the issues to avoid? Too many exercises. This is one I, I will die on a hill. I will die on a hill for this. I, I struggle with this so much with athletes, like, like newer athletes coming in. I've put some YouTube videos about this and got some interesting comments, but like, I think if you simplified, like driving mechanical tension through similar actions, like this movement does this action for the pack, we don't need three variants of that same action of the pack. Like we don't need three flat exposure plane patterns in order to achieve the same goal. Like we do this constantly with a bunch of different patterns. Like we should have a program design that trains the full active range of muscle. With the exercise selection we choose and then just pull the volume up with those exercise selections we choose. And so like a lot of like what I'm putting on YouTube right now is like trying to help people simplify this is like, we have gone down this path of like four and five presses and like in a single session and just like so many movements, it leads to junk volume in my opinion, because think about this, like, and John, like we're, we're the kings of like, our bodies are going to break if we don't prep ourselves for the movement we're about to do. So like you end up doing like warm ups for movement one, and then warm ups for movement two, and then a feeler for movement three, right? And by the time you get to movement four, movement five, like you're already starting to accumulate and take away from your ability to drive the steaming you're trying to drive. And so like, I think the too many exercises, junk volume start to go hand in hand. Like obviously junk volume is a longer conversation, but man, like I think we can really simplify program design on paper. Yeah. And that's a big time efficient component too, especially if you're getting into the higher volume territory. I remember a long time ago, I watched, uh, Flex Lewis, one of his training videos on YouTube and, uh, he was training and he was like, he did like whatever his third set was. He's like, let's do it. Let's do a fourth one. And like, how do you know to do this last one? He's like, uh, just, I don't feel like fully fatigued out in the muscle. I still feel like fresh. I feel like I've just got a pump in it. And I know this is all very like feely type of verbiage, but essentially, yeah, like for sometimes I hit a set or two, I feel like I'm not even exhausted. Yeah. Like in the muscle, I still have more I can do and go. Uh, there's not like a bunch of distortion or happening there in a drop off in my performance yet either. So that's when I've even challenged myself of like, used to be, you just do two sets because there was research that came out showing, you know, with every subsequent set, there's some amount of drop off to the degree of stimulus you get. And by that fourth set, there's like really not a lot more that happens. Right. So everyone takes that still and says like two sets. So, you know, that's like the ideal range. But then we have these volume studies that have come out after the fact. Right. And really being key is like, hey, your total volume. And it goes beyond just what these individual markers were looking at. And he's like long, these acute studies a long time ago. So anyway, like just get your total volume in the session is kind of key. And so if you do that with an exercise that covers that range for the muscle, it's completely sufficient. So I've done the same thing with back is what I got to is like, I've done two sets of a back exercise. I'm like, man, I, I could do another one. And I feel fresh to do it. Like, um, why go do some other lift that's going to be doing something very similar. Now I'm going to say something about this too, is that, you know, there's been critiques around people that are doing similar patterns that are kind of could be considered repetitive. And that can be okay too. It's, if that's an enjoyability piece to your training, and if for you, you like to do two sets of whatever, say a lap pull down variation, your other one, it looks kind of similar, but maybe it is different. You're still getting the volume on the muscle that you need. Um, maybe you feel fresher doing it that way. And that's okay. I think there's, I've seen people that just tear people guys apart for like, they're repeating their exercises and making them look like they're, they're stupid for doing so. And it's, it's not the case at all. It, you don't understand the person's goal, their training preferences, why they might've switched that other movement for the day. Maybe they just want to try the damn lift out as simple as that. They're at a new gym. Like, Hey, I got this piece. I'm, I want to jump over there and try it. Like that's okay. Um, remember what actually matters and what Luke and I talked about training effort, getting your volume in progression, your lifts being relatively repeatable, right? It's okay to have some variation. Um, anyway. Yeah. Too many exercises. Yes. For time efficiency. And if you're trying to be like really honing in on that, yeah, cover the full range of the muscle, just do a few more sets there. And that would, that would cover it. Um, and speaking on a few more sets, I think the, the junk volume piece can easily add in to be another common mistake too, because what we just said, volume is a driver of hypertrophy. Okay. So let's do more and more and more. Yeah. I bet I fall, I fall on this too, too quickly making volume adjustments. That's a, in the same, same breath of an issue. Yeah. And you would kind of almost start to pivot into like part three here, but, um, like the, the junk volume piece is like, you need time to see the adaptations occur and then how quick someone like approaches the need for a deload to kind of have a really good understanding of what that volume set is doing for that individual. Um, like there's obviously like, especially if you're coaching yourself or you have a good relationship with your coach and ability to kind of auto regulate as you introduce sessions and get into like the sessions. Right. But it's just like, man, if you don't take the time to kind of gauge a response and an adaptation to this and like the ability to progress over time with this, like you're just going to be kind of throwing stuff at the wall and hope that it hits. Right. And then it kind of pretty, I think that psychology precedes the next one of like changing movements too often. Like they kind of go hand in hand psychologically of needing some type of change pretty frequently. Yeah. I know this goes back to this, the science community of like, where we've seen where evidence lies, right? Like it's something around 10 to 20 sets per week is what we've seen for some volume recommendations. And you just have to keep in mind that these are based on studies where sometimes they're not training close to failure at all. Sometimes they are. And then with different variances on, uh, exercise, uh, lift or advancement, right? So I think I would get eaten alive doing some of that, that many sets for like quads. And so I think don't, don't chase the high volume quickly, uh, start within a reasonable range. Look at your current program of what you're doing and recovering from. And if your lifts are moving up and you're ready for another next session and you can do that for like six to eight weeks, then maybe that's a good time to like test the waters of bed and make an adjustment and then hold that again. And just making like the jump too soon, it'll quickly accumulate over a few weeks and bite you in the ass. And I do the same thing to myself with like, I like for chest, right? Like, okay, I'm going to pull back on these areas and really drive volume up on chest. And then what happens is I beat myself up and it happens quicker than I thought it would. And then I looked at my leg growth, right? I only do six sets of quads a week and my legs, like my quads, man, they've like improved my quad sweeps better. Like they look fuller. Like I've only did six sets, but I'm smashing chests and I'll beat up. It's like, gosh, I just keep, keep the volume, hold it. And don't change it. If the lifts are moving, you're sustaining your training after eight weeks, then, then, then do it. Don't do it on week two or week three. So with, uh, so with that, I mean, some other mistakes that we mentioned earlier too, is like the pseudo scientist biomechanic expert, um, branded by Instagram is chasing perfect biomechanics, right? Like it's, it's getting like, way too complicated. Like it, you should be able to have control of the active muscle and make sure that is the one that is working. If that's doing the job, then I don't need to change someone's biomechanics around. So, uh, to get overly complicated, I've had some guy like on a lap pull down one time. He's like, you know, if you change your torso five degrees, you'd get more lat involvement. I was like five degrees. Like, well, how do you know that? How do you know that? Um, uh, I would be curious how this person is measuring this based off an Instagram video, but, or a YouTube video, depending on where he made this comment. But yeah, it's just like, come on, dude. Like we've got some basic tenants of what a lat can do as we accomplish these tenants. Like we're getting tissue involvement, right? Um, it can be as much as someone who like loves biomechanics and like tailoring this environment to a person. My whole goal with it, I think this is the differential. My whole goal with it is to give someone the tools to turn their brain off. Like, let me put you in a position where I'm like, look, dude, there's nothing that can go wrong here. Just do it. Like that is the whole goal of like your understanding of biomechanics is to give someone the ability to set something up and then just be an athlete. And like, I think if we used it in that way, we'd probably avoid a lot of that. Yeah. It's, it's so you can understand how someone moves when you're looking at them and be able to put them in a position where they can move more ideal for what your training goal is. And that's as simple as it needs to be. I wish more people could speak on biomechanics in a term where people could actually have takeaways from it versus trying to use every bit of a advanced anatomy and physiology and complicated patterns speaking. Like in the trap, you know, transverse plane, you know, and using all the attachment pieces for like their trochanter. And, you know, it's like, guys, you're, you're trying to throw terms out to sound smart. And yes, like that's a higher level of speaking for sure. If you're teaching at a university, but you're trying to help people with, with, with training and the simpler you can make something, it's going to give you a better takeaway for them. But I think the last one we can speak on just like, I think excessive prep work before training is a, is a sexy thing to do for many people. A lot of people want to know like how you, how you prep for your session. And I think they want to know like, what is your prep work protocol? Just like there's all kinds of protocols that pop up and there's many people that can just, you know, be surprised, walk into the gym and just start training because their first exercise warmup is plenty of prep work to just start working. For other people, those things get built and complexity builds in. And in my opinion, like as you need it based on around what, what you're doing for your training. I don't think everyone needs the same prep work protocol or some at all in that, that instance. Yeah. It's like trying to be a sniper with it. Like there's some session, like, and this is the hard part is like selling people. I'm like, you know, maybe this session needs it because we have a massive movement deficiency here, but we don't really need prep work in some of these other sessions. Like it's a hard like conversation to get fully across, but you want to do the least amount to make you the most prepared. And that's how we should always approach it. Yeah. If you're, I guess a takeaway here, if you're going into your first exercise today and it doesn't feel buttery smooth and you have a long time it takes for a connect and maybe you're only connecting by your second lift, maybe something, either your first exercise needs to change or maybe there is some type of, you know, pre work you need to do before that exercise. Yeah. I think with, but with bodybuilding, the problem with it is that we are relying so much on the sagittal plane, which I know that was a, I did it myself. I said, I said a word, uh, the forward to backwards movement, right? Like we bench press, we squat, um, we do nothing laterally. And so if you get a little bit outside of those ranges, once you get pretty strong, or maybe you even had problems from who knows an injury as a kid or a sport you played or just chronic exposure of how you're living throughout the day. And those little deviations under this very strict, always sagittal back and forth plane could lead to the injury or compensations that you don't notice just yet until they expose themselves as that, you know, catastrophic thing, hopefully not. So there can make a lot of sense to make sure your bodybuilding programs complete by having movements that still challenge you in that side to side or like kind of rotational plane that we don't really do. And that's where it can make sense where we have some exercise in there uh, beforehand, or just as your hypertrophy work. And an example here of this is like a, um, like a contralateral, like rear foot elevated split squat, like holding the dumbbell hand in the opposite hand of the one that leg that's working. It creates some rotational and some lateral challenge to make use to have to stabilize the hip, which we don't really do a lot of. Um, that's a pretty simple one that I know if you're like anyone in the PT world or, um, working with athletes, you're like, that's not very challenging at all. Sure. They're thinking of like some type of like landmine, single arm, like rotational press or, um, but, uh, that very well could be like prep work that I know, guys that have been broken and continuing to break because they haven't done these things for so long. And so it can make sense. It's just don't jump on of like having to do a 30 minutes of prep work when you don't need to, and you can just go train. So 100%. What, um, so what else would you like to hit before we wrap it up? Anything? I don't want to hit anything else. Wrap it up then. Yeah. I think the, you know, the, the, the best investment you can make right now is in a new program or new wearable. It's just run what you have hard, consistently track your log, book. If you know, something is creating a problem in your system and you have to lock down all your variables. And then, so you're able to better assess your program and then master those basics. And then you'll understand what to change when you are running into issues. Complexity doesn't mean advancement. That is something that needs to be earned over time as you do get more advanced. So don't be led astray by the sexiness of complexity. Just keep it, keep it basic and master those things. And we will talk to you next time. Thank you.