 The J3 university podcast. quote unquote is a bad check-in. But if you're a coach, now you enter the realm of highly possible, you're gonna get this check-in where you're reading, you're like, I didn't even know this was possible to happen. And you're gonna have to address it. So Luke and I are gonna go through, what do you do when the check-in goes off the rails? How do you ring the client back in? How do you manage the situation? And then get them back to a place of productivity. Yeah, I think there's a bunch of different ways this can happen. And I don't think this is, I don't think this is just the late check-in. And I think that's kind of the clarity that needs to be kind of prefaced with is there's so much that could go into this off check-in that could drive issues with the process that you need to address. And sometimes, and we'll talk about this, John, you know this, you have to read between the lines. People who are not the most forthcoming, you have to read between the lines and then poke and prod with questions. Any of my clients watching this know that I've responded to them with emails, like prodding questions to like get more out of them before if they aren't typically the most communicative. But sometimes it's in between the lines. Sometimes it's understanding the context of the phase that they're in, whether that be the phase of life or the phase like of what could potentially go wrong, whether it's an off-season or a contest prep or anything along those lines. So there's a lot of context clues. And I think of it this way because as coaches, we can be very X and O and try to be as objective as possible. But there does have to be some sort of emotive perspective or emotional adept perspective to be able to start to read people in this scenario. Yeah. Yeah. And that ability is something that you're going to have to probably gain over time. And it's really, I feel like in these situations is where the coach leadership role really shines because giving someone a nutrition plan or a trening plan, that is the X's and O's. But true coaching is where you connect on that emotional level and trying to build that person up as an athlete, as just an overall humaninto that better version of themselves. And so that's where you really need when someone is starting to go astray, take the leadership role and bring them back into where they need to be and meet them in that place. And I think within a lot of this, the coaching realm, especially coming from bodybuilding or even the athletic background, maybe even from the 90s, early 2000s era of athlete coach, it's a really just push them hard and get your crap together, suck it up, let's go. And if that's your only tool and lever to pull, you're going to fall short in a lot of areas. And by no means am I trying to be like, we all need to be a little softer, but everyone's going to respond differently to how you're going to be addressing their situation and then bringing them back in. So I just spoke with a newer client that I was onboarding and he had that same approach from his last coach of like, he had fallen short in a prep and had that strong arm of like, hey man, get it together. Like, what are you doing? And it kind of sent him back backwards and not what he needed to hear in that moment. He needed more of like, let's focus on the positive and push this forward. And that would have been like the opposite like of what he needed, you know, to just keep him moving a needle. But anyway, you know, with the check-in that can come in, like it's a variety of things that we could see, which it might just be the scale weight jumped up, you know, four or five pounds. And there's check-ins where nothing's mentioned and you're left just looking at it like, why is their body weight scaling up? Right. And you're just like, I don't know. Like what would happen? That's when Luke mentions like, there's the 21 questions going off of, okay, why did this day, this went up and like, did some extra food go in? You're trying to balance the conversation of not just saying, are you cheating on your diet? You know, then, you know, sleep is just tanked for some reason. We see the log of like four hours of sleep. And then we have the check-in that comes in at like 3 a.m. or the opposite. It comes in at like midnight that day. This work life happens and you read through someone's like whole life story of what was going on for the day. And then there's digestive issues that could be occurring or even issues around PDs that weren't a problem. Like I've heard all types of stories around gear usage. Like I had to, I ran out of this. I had to go bum some other compound and now I did an injection and now I have this like soreness and redness and they send you a picture of it. Like infected. It's just a list of like what this bad check-in could be and you're always trying to troubleshoot. So I think the thing is like, you know, what typically leads to this? And I'll throw this back to you, Luke. Like in all this and maybe earlier on your coaching or, hey, even from other coaching process that you've seen, are there early signs to this or ways to set up the coaching process that could, to at least limit some of this from happening? Yeah. So there's definitely early signs. I think some of the earlier signs that you'll start to see would be one, data not adding up. Like that's an obvious one. I think that's a pretty quick one to pick up on. The non-quicker ones are the trailing off of the tracking. So you'll notice like one or two things start to not get tracked or you'll notice that the description of their week gets a little bit shorter. If, for those of you familiar with my check-in process, I have a couple boxes at the bottom where it goes into like, what did you do well this week? What did you not do well? And then a description of the week. And you'll see like kind of the first couple months, people will fill out the first, all three boxes and then the next month, they'll only fill out two. And then the next box, the next month, they only fill out one. So you see this like trail off of like how disciplined they are with the check-in process. And I think a lot of what this comes down to in order to keep yourself ahead of the curve is finding out how a client communicates. Because there's multiple different ways that people communicate. And you can see this with kind of typically the first month or two of check-ins. Sometimes they just don't give you enough and they consistently don't give you enough through written. And that's okay because I have some people who send voice notes. I have some people who send loons. I have some people who just do the written. And so I've found that kind of finding that is thEQuickest way to get ahead of the curve because life's going to happen. And that's the thing is you're going to be in a contest prep that you have to push someone hard. They're going to be, have curveballs sent to them and their life perspective. And if you set them up for success with the system, that makes it easiest for them to communicate. It makes it much easier to do your job. Do you think within like offseason or even a contest prep situation that there's a form of coaching maybe with the timeline that could lead someone, an easier setup to someone like go off the rails like that? Like I'm thinking maybe too aggressive of a prep timeline or maybe, maybe just the front end work wasn't there in the initial QA to pick up on things of like this person's not ready for this phase. Yeah, I think on the onboarding process, there's a lot of details that have to be covered because frustration will be one that drives this lack of communication. Like if you're not extremely detailed in the onboarding process and your plans don't address everything that they're looking to get addressed, that'll be a really quick one. I've seen a lot of people come into our coaching business after just a few months of working with someone else that's literally just that situation there. I think expectation management would be more so the thing around the timeline because it's hard to explain to people the expectations of phases that they've never executed at a certain level. So like if they haven't executed at the level that you execute at, but that's what it's going to take for them to get them to the next level. It is going to be super challenging for them to change all of their life variables in order to get to that. And so if we do that from the forefront of expectation of like, hey, this is the groundwork or the barriers in which we operate in. And in order to achieve your goal, we have to operate within these barriers, whether it's IMap this out for 24 weeks for a prep timeline because I want to see this rate of loss so that you're ready at this point so I can do some peak testing and then lead you into the peak or whether it's like body composition management in the offseason and the same flow of thought that you do for a rate of gain. If they don't have those expectations set from the forefront, that's just going to lead to more frustration both directions and you're going to have to keep having that, well, what are you doing conversation? And then they're going to feel like you didn't lay out those expectations on the forefront. Yeah, I could see that suddenly expectation is clear. I think with some people, they've already created their own expectations and what they want out of the coaching process. I've had, and you know, in this modern day of coaching, it seems like it's very, you know, athlete focused as it should be and athlete driven with the process, right? Like now we like coaching is like we have a lot of tools to be able to coach people in different ways. So, hey, I want coach, I want this more flexible macro plan or same with like trening plans. I don't want, I want to be able to log in an app or not in an app, right? Or whatever it may be. And you end up trying to accommodate this person, but it shifts them back into this, the patterns they're used to that they keep failing at. And so I think there's a balance of strike here and you're in like initially assessing someone to make sure that you don't let them go back into a pattern that they're just comfortable with. That sets them up for failure and where it's going to prevent you from coaching them as you need. And just an example of this is like I've had some people that have been tracking macros and are pretty proficient at it, but it falls apart in contest prep because they also don't know how to like maintain just a reasonable structure in the offseason and need all these like different fun and crazy foods present. And so like allowing them to keep doing that, they never gain the skills of being able to just stay adherent within a, you know, a little bit more rigid of a structure to where they're not set up right. So I think part of like the initial with a client and assessing them is making sure that, you know, the flexibility is there, but it's also going to be setting that up for their goal that they have laid out in the future as well. Yeah, I think to kind of push this conversation a bit further forward, I think you can go a long ways with how you react to this check-in. And this is something that, pat myself on the back here for a bit. I have worked extremely hard at doing this well and I feel like this is a part of my coaching that I really kind of lean on a lot is the ability to be able to communicate someone with where they're at because the way that you talk sets the tone for the conversation. Okay, and this is where for those of you that are the coaches here or if you're the client looking for what are kind of traits or aspects of a coach that are pretty good, the way that you approach this and understanding that they need to know you care about them being the best version of themselves is massive. And understanding that you can't change things that have already happened in the past is another thing that's massive in this conversation. And so the way that you kind of come in here with curiosity and understanding validating that this is an open place to be able to talk and then moving someone into ownership of the actions by saying these are the things that we can do to prevent this from happening in the future. So giving them a vision of progress is an unbelievable way to not only manage it in the situation when something goes wrong but also try to build them up to be more successful in the next time that a challenge presents itself. And usually this is in the confines of a contest prep is where you see it the most often like someone falls off plan or binges or whatever it might be or something keeps them from executing at some level. But there's times in the offseason this happens too and the way that you approach that conversation is so huge because like guards and walls can go up so quick if you're not careful. And then you close off the conversation the next time it's going to happen, right? So I think with that and I see it in different types of athletes already the response is different. Like I have some really high executors that just nail it every single week. Like they live the life, right? And so for them like when something does go off the rails by the time they already check in they've already beat themselves up so bad and they know what it looks like to fix it. And a lot of times I think with the high executor it's something that was out of their control but to them that's the failure and I think letting them know that the success is when we're all going to face adversity that's how you deal with it. Like you make the best of that day and you don't let it just keep spiraling, right? And so for that individual like you don't need to be the aggressive one that pushes them like hey man you need to get it together. It's like they know that and they've already punished themselves enough so there's that client but then there's the client too that is going to be emotionally beat down and in a really depressed place that might need to be like brought up out of a hole like there's people that can spiral down like a degree of depression like do you want to beat that person down? but there very is like the real whimsical person that just needs to be drawn back in. That's the person that's probably never really checked in on point to begin with and that might always need like come on man let's you know put it together and you that's the I think the one that you need to set even harsher expectations with of like to coach you and align with your goals you need to do x y and z if you're not doing x y and z there's only so many of these check-ins that we can do until I'm not able to coach you towards that goal and so I think it's letting them realize that you're not just going to be the accountability buddy every week if you're not able to coach them they're not that coachable they're not ready for this level so there's there's a spectrum there so I think to to work within and that language that you're using with all those different types of clients is going to vary you know I think if you're just don't know where to start with the client and you see some strenge check-in come to you is throw it back to the client first so you can gain understanding of where they are at so if something doesn't add up to you send send a voice message back to them like hey this seemed out of character or out of place in your check-in when normally I haven't seen it like could you explain that a bit further for me you know what felt different this week or why did this happen and tell them like send me a voice memo if you don't mind if it's something that off I don't want it written because it can be so misconstrued I've even had check-ins come in that was typed in the way I read it was just interpreted wrong by me and maybe they even mistyped something and so you jump to assumptions so you have to remove yourself emotionally a bit and don't put on just these you know negative assumptions onto your client give them the chance to like rectify and speak and once you hear that back it might get you gain a little bit more perspective of where they're at then you can give the the appropriate response to meet that client and move them in the direction that they need to thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason upgrade your coaching game with J3 University our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience we are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University let's get back to today's podcast yeah and I think that that initial like giving them the open forum to be able to do this is huge there's and there's multiple different ways to do it depending on how you communicate as an individual like I'm very verbal a lot of my clients know like I'll be like I'll just call them or like get on a zoom call like hey I'm sitting at my desk for the nexT3 hours hop on the zoom call when you can or something along these lines because it's just something that I feel like we verbally need to hash out or you can send that voice note but when you do kind of get that feedback back a lot of it's reframing expectations because we have to get to a place where we're back to the objective problem solving and so identify what they did that they could have controlled identify the things that they couldn't control so they understand the difference between the two and how we are able to use our actions to affect the things that we can control and then let the things that we can't fall off of our back and this is how we start to kind of learn to teach someone we start to guide people and teach someone to be able to go through this identification process so that we can get them back to problem solving because most of the time or a lot of the time when this happens people are in a overwhelming anxiety ridden panic state of some sort whether it's they're anxious about the fact that they made a mistake or they're anxious about the fact the environment has changed and it could lead them to making a mistake and thEQuicker we can get them to learn how to identify the controllables control those controllables and get them back into problem solving mode the better they're going to be able to manage it on them on their own without you having to be there and I think that kind of brings us to that like problem solving skill set of how do we go about problem solving because that's kind of the whole point of guiding a check-in back for someone yeah and that you know you have the emotional aspect that you kind of already went through but then it is getting back to the nuts and bolts of what your program actually looks like so you know what's what was the problem what's the root issue that's your what you're really trying to get down to it's okay you went off plan why did that happen well I didn't have something prepared why wasn't it prepared well my schedule changed does your schedule normally change yes it does we should have a backup in place just in case let's always have this whey protein and rice cakes or granola bar or nuts on hand in case you are out on the go and you don't have your prepped meal with you so there we go you identify the problem the root issue and then have you know a way to address this and like through that it's like that's the decision process that you should take with with all these issues and some things are going to be uncontrollables and it might be an environmental change that's going to be sustained for a bit of time so what's the problem oh man my my I had a a family member pass away and I have to go sort whatever their living situation or deal with this right how what was the time period here like is that going to detract so much from this physique goal that they're headed to that we should just move them out of that phase at all together because that phase might be a contest prep where it's extremely demanding physically and mentally and they're not just going to be have the physical time to be allocate there or the mental capacity to allocate there let's move them to a phase where they can be successful still nail the variables that we set and deal with whatever that life situation might be and so I've had to shift people out of phase we're like hey man I'm not going to be able to nail my meals like this is like such a life encompassing thing that I have to deal with it's like okay well let's shift and we're going to go to maintenance we're going to tren three days a week or something like that and just see what they are capable to do now this is kind of the extreme that we're getting to right of like we're just trying to make do here but it can go the point is is that it can go from that to as simple as like hey just have like a pre-made meal with you so you know through all this it's looking through all the variables that we have tracked that's why you know Luke and myself we have more meticulous data tracking that we do with our athletes so it's easier to pick up on what's the weak link in the chain be able to ask the client about that and see what intervention that we can put in place a lot of these pretty wild check-ins that happen to a lot of times it's like okay this happened let's nail the plan this week we're not going to change anything we can see what happens with your physique where it moves and then reassess next week that's a lot of those check-ins that I get across the desk or like I can't change the plan if you're not able to execute that plan and I've already made all the changes to give someone all the ability to do it and they're still not doing it and that happens over I usually go abouT3 weeks of working that out and if they're still like I've done everything I can and they're still not you know able to adhere to it they're not at a point of their life for coaching I'm not doing anything I'm not I'm not doing my job I'm doing too much is what I'm doing I'm I'm fighting for their goals more than they are that's when it's time for them to like set coaching aside and then revisit it when they are in a better position to execute yeah it's it's a tough place to be in when you want it that bad for someone it can really eat you up emotionally I think the earlier on you definitely get a look probably a little too emotionally involved in your clients goals and it's hard not to be for like how much you care about coaching in general and how much time you put into someone for them to just drop the ball it's it's tough because you know it feels like you just got let down and you're gonna have to swallow that because that is what's coaching is gonna be so I think there's a you need to have a bit of just safeguarding not letting yourself get too emotionally involved and that's a tough one and I you know like coaching friends is a tough one too because eventually the coaching boundaries and friendship boundaries get a little blurred and it lets things slip or if you know coaching doesn't go the way that they wanted expectations weren't met or vice versa like man it could it's ended friendships right so that's a that's a tough one to manage so you know as in the coaching aspect clear expectations and making sure those are listed out and you always uphold some of that to where as you do become more friendly we still hey we still have to uphold this because that's what's going to make us achieve our goals to the best of our ability anyway yeah there's um there's one other thing that I kind of want to touch on with the fail check-in because communication can be a big aspect of this I think there's a few ways you can avoid this on a phase dependent note so people know this I've spoken about this pretty publicly everybody that works with me when they start a contest prep they immediately move to twice a week check-ins and it's not that it's necessarily needed in the first part of prep right like it's pretty just kind of you're you're taking smooth progressions right but the desire for keeping communication stable on a contest prep is extremely high for me because it's where people get a bit more emotional the deeper into contest prep that you go the more I don't want to say reactive because not everybody's reactive in nature but the more driven off emotion someone can be with the amount of effort that they're putting in and keeping that line of communication very clear is extremely important and a great way to do that is to increase the touch points with someone the more frequent touch points can allow you to pick up on things a little bit quicker and I think this is one strategy in regards to kind of staying ahead of it that is massive so because some people will understand who've been through prepping with me before like in a contest prep it goes from like the once a week check-ins in the offseason to twice a week and then the twice a week kind of goes to three times a week or every other day towards the back end and then obviously like when the peaking process starts it's daily but it's so huge like it can it can make or break preps in my opinion because you catch things so much faster and you're able to be a better resource for them because you're keeping that line of communication clear yeah I do that post show to like the the check-in frequency still happens because man post show you know one day off plan to two days to three days and then you check in a lot can happen in three days so keep keep it pretty frequent and it I you know I even as a personal note like on the athletic athlete side of execution like I've been in preps where man you're checking in meal by meal with your coach and felt so connected with the coach and then all of a sudden the next week your shows over you're like back to work and then you just have your coach like for one check-in and it is it feels a bit empty and uh it kind of has like this post show blue feeling to it like I almost need a weaning off of this uh attentive coaching process in a sense not you know I can execute but in a way for someone if they were to really struggle with that it can really kind of let the air out of your sails uh coming from all this attention to like kind of having that drop off but anyway post show I think that's another one to keep the check-in frequency there and then once you see someone mentally is in a good spot for sure physically they're starting to like you know get more stable then we kind of can move offseasons back to less frequent but uh even then I I'm okay with keeping someone on a twice a week check-in on offseason uh some some people they they like that and I've asked people like hey you're in a stable position like I'm going to move you to once a week check-ins unless there's some reason you'd you want to just check in twice a week um and I've had some people that want to and that's okay like a lot of ones just a touch point and then we have like our main check-in day that we do yeah I have some off-season clients to do the same I think it's uh it's important and this is understanding your client part I I chuckled at the uh post show comment because you've seen the people who post show they like they're checking in let's say it's Friday and then Friday night they go out to eat and they blow it up and they know they have all week to try to make it up and get back get back down to the weight they're supposed to be trening at um it's like you're trying to avoid that because that's like post show disaster right there but yeah it's it's so huge it's I've done this on closer clients to just you gotta have my own own fun sometimes if like they check in and they're like yeah going out to uh whatever have my off-plan meal tonight I'm like okay cool if you don't mind check in tomorrow morning too and like they're like wait what like oh yeah you better reel that meal back in I was like okay this is usually the clients are like bump up pretty hard after after an off-plan meal but yeah um yeah yeah anyway uh also the which I can I don't like to see too is the one that yeah I went out and had my off-plan meal like last night that's like what we're gonna be so inaccurate today like like what yeah I know I know and anyway um reeling this back in I think you know in all these moments it's there we're being like can really separate you from just being a a good coach an average coach to one that's really leading the way and building up your clients because in those moments where your clients are failing and uh just falling from the from your process and falling from their goals if you're able to take them and bring them back and then push them forward and make that a development point a learning point they'll remember that forever I think it just goes even more I know maybe someone's listening like these guys they're just talking about you know building some muscle here and having people keep building making the gains but but really like I think the coaching process is so much more than that and it really is a self-development process of of how learninGHow to overcome challenges and even though that's within like this bodybuilding space I think it trenslates to all other areas because how many times are you set up to failure in life and what do you do who do you reach out to like someone that beats you down more someone that builds you up like it can have a lot of different outcomes and if you keep having these stumbles and failures and keep getting beat down you don't really progress and see a lot of self-development so to have that coach that mentor that can take you and show you how to take this what looked like a negative thing that happened and bring it into something positive is a huge leadership moment I think it's a coaching development moment and an athlete development moment so our goal here in J3U is just to elevate the standard of coaching and that all starts with like how we treat people how we coach people and moving that forward so I think this is is a great one to listen to I hope everyone had a lot of takeaways next week we're diving into why your coaching system breaks when you're trying to scale up so know a little bit more of a coaching focus for those that you know are just in that 10 to 15 client range and shed some right on light on like what happens when you get to 20 to 25 clients and the the things that you were had issues with at a smaller scale it only will become worse and so we'll give you some insights on how to set this up to be really effective as you grow larger in your coaching business but thank you all for tuning in and we'll talk to you next week geez