 previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously previously not rolled dice and the kind of luxury is getting ready ahead. But the thing on this episode we want to cover is what you should actually be doing when you are at that point. And I think there's a big psychological piece to this as well that a lot of athletes struggle with that we want to touch on and then get into some of the nuts and bolts of what are the first actions that we take to kind of begin the peak week actually before you even hit peak week. So Luke, how's it going, my man? Yeah, man. It's the season of peaking right now. So it's just like rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat, rinse and repeat. I'm on like week six or week five in a row of shows this weekend. So it's a great thing to think about here because I think your emotional statement is where I think starting off the conversation is huge because it sets the stage for the problem that we're trying to solve. And if the athlete is fully bought in from the beginning of prep, it makes it much easier to understand why the rate of loss might be a little bit faster at the beginning, why it seems like you're ahead relative to different preps you've done in the past, especially if it's their first prep with you. And the problems that you're going to solve by doing this that we're going to dive into today's episode is going to allow you to not only be in shape on time, but eventually present the best physique on stage. Because in my opinion, the first time that you reach true stage conditioning during a dieting process is not the best that visual can be. I do think that it takes some time there to remove kind of the fatigue stringy look that pulls off, which is, you know, a little bit more of an anecdotal take on that. But we have to remember that coaching is an art of both data and PubMed and things that we're taking actions from on that front and also looking at what we're coaching right in front of us and being able to make anecdotal decisions based on that. So this is something I'm pretty passionate about is running peaks like this because it just makes peaking easy. It makes it really hard to miss. And in my opinion, it puts the best version of the athlete that you're trying to prep on stage. I thought you said you brought up PubMed. That's funny. And it made me think of like, yeah, I'm doing a PubMed prep. Science-based. It's like, okay, you probably won't be ready if that's all you're doing. PubMed prep. But yeah, I think with earlier on, depending on, you know, different situations and your coach that you do have in place, a lot of people run into that. Like your first few props, just like mine, feels like the gas pedal had to be pushed down all the way into that kind of Monday of a Saturday show. And so that's what's kind of normalized of feeling like it's always this grind, grind, and grind. And finally, you're like, oh, seven days out. We can finally take the breather. So if that's not happening and it's earlier on outside of that seven days, psychologically, it makes you feel like if you're not workinGHarder all the way up, that you're not bringing something better. And I think for especially like the type A individuals that they're all about pushinGHarder and it's really hard to get that person to pull back. That is a huge barrier to realize that your prep should start feeling easier as you kind of like lead in to peak week. And there should be a tapering of the kind of the grind feel into this relaxed, empowered state. And I think that's another big piece of once someone finally lets go of the reins and trust that process to happen, that you do empower yourself with confidence and reduce a lot of the stress. Starting to see the physique trensform. And you said the anecdotal aspect of it. It takes quite a few days to bring someone out of fatigue. And absolutely true for a lot of people grinding down and sometimes seven days isn't enough and you do need more time. But when you give that person more time, they drop off that fatigue. They start feeling really good. And the physique really does fill out and you start getting the even harder look because now the muscles pushing against the skin. But man, the boost of confidence you can get from that going into peak week, when you start to see the same visuals every day of like, wow, I could, I could walk on stage like this. This is the best that I've ever looked versus, you know, the norm of what we've seen of you're not really seeing that to maybe like a couple of days before the show because beginning of peak week is just all that fatigue drop or a lot of people not seeing it to their second show. And I think that's even more common. Their second show is their best because they finally got to rest over their post-show period bit, get back home. They had some food. And then finally that next week, they're like, wow, wow. Now I'm really starting to look on the money. And that can come down to like, oh, you needed more time dieting or you did, you needed more of the rest time and eating than what you had allocated for that, that first show. So a lot of this can be a huge empowerment to the athlete. Also to the coach as well, especially if you're a neuro coach and have that opportunity to do so of being able to start testing the look earlier on versus kind of see it to your pants. I hope I see the look come about and we drop off enough fatigue early. Right. What other psychological aspects do you see around this, Luke, that I kind of wasn't touching on, but was that it? I think there's a psychological component on the athlete side to understand that you kind of see the stage visual a few times before you're on stage too. Um, it's, it's pretty cool to see, like kind of seeing someone like really you've seen it before. Like you've, you've been there, you get to full contest shape. You're starting to pull back. You're doing some food testing with some loading. You just get that one shot in the gym. That's like the right lighting. And it's like, you're full enough to kind of see that condition signed through. And it's extremely motivating. And almost like, not only do they start to feel better because you're pulling back on the variables, but it's almost like a re-motivation type of a deal. And I think from like, uh, managing an athlete perspective, it's like, I have one prep in particular right now that I can think of is this guy's first prep prepping with me. And he has been amazing. He's just executed everything so well, but he's a coach himself, right? So he wants to learn through the process. He asks great questions. And one of the things he keeps bringing up is he feels like he's ahead of schedule, right? And I'm like, yeah, you are ahead of schedule. I'm like, but that's purposeful. Like you're going to get ready. You're going to be ready way ahead of time. And then I'm going to be able to lay off the gas and you're going to be way fresher. You're going to be, have a much better visual than if I tried to land this like, you know, five days out. Right. And so the emotional aspect of that on the backend is like, he's going to start seeing those visuals, what they're going to look like on stage when he gets three ish, four weeks out. And it's going to be a re-motivation factor for him those last few weeks to get through it. Yeah, no, that's, that's a, that's a good point. And I think there's another psychological case here where you have the one that wants to push hard all the way, but also the one that is not quite ready and might want to pull back early. And I think there's a point to assess and say like, are you stage lean or not? And you do have to be able to accurately assess that. Um, and, uh, have been watching yourself close enough leading up to, you know, that two week out mark to start really being able to make the call and looking at someone in their fast and state post-workout, maybe at another time of day. And then what I like to do is, is, is assessed for biofeedback as well. And then look at systemic condition and localized areas. And so what IMean by that is if there don't look extremely crisp in all areas, are they highly fatigued? And so you have someone like they do feel pretty run down, like, Hey, how do your quads feel heavy? Do they feel hard to contract? And maybe we see like, see some females too, like just their quads are blurry, but then they turn around, like they have glute lines and like, that's all on par, but we have a localized aspect. That's not quite conditioned. Then if you have the biofeedback of that, you know, they are feelinGHeavy on prep and legs are hard to contract that likely that's a fatigue thing when they are conditioned. And so I think you start assessing that piece to make sure, you know, like you do push someone far enough and don't pull back the reins too early on someone. I think a lot of people are like, well, I need to be ready early. So I'm just going to pull back. It's like, it's still like the better case to get more body fat off the last week versus like pull back and drop off fatigue. Um, because we, we still have strategies and we talked about this on previous podcasts of how you can really hit someone hard with fatigue drop in seven days. You just have to do it, do it in the right way. Um, you know, and so we're talking about a better case situation here of you already early and able to start, you know, tapering back. But that's what I would start, start looking at the assessment piece of, you know, is there more fat to lose or is this just water masking fat loss that's been present? Um, and then we have to bring up like the PD aspect because that can blur some things too. And why we teach this is trying to let thaT4 to five week out mark start being able to tweak around with your PDs and test some different things like using, uh, AIs to, you know, drop estrogen acutely or even, you know, shifting growth hormone hormone hormone hormone down and back up to see if those things do change the look and bring more condition from just a water drop perspective. And then if that is the case, then we write out that stack design into this kind of two week period. So we've already removed one variable of water that we won't have to sort later on. Then, then come to find out that, oh damn, that was, that wasn't water. That was body fat to still lose. So that's in like thaT3 to five week out period. We want to make sure we have that like very, very well sorted. Ideally, you're already running like a PD prep stack that would already align with what you want to be able to have for assessing accurate visuals. But, um, I think that's, that's the other piece I need to bring up as the person that still needs to keep pushing, um, and to not be too, you know, reserved in, in doing so. But I don't know if you have something else to add, but I was going to jump to, we can, uh, like once you are there, what do you do? The nuts and bolts of it. I was going to pivot it. I was going to tee it up like a T ball and let you take it off. But we'll do that now. Um, I, one of the biggest things, like let's assume you run the ideal prep, right? And you're there, um, you're kind of at that point where you need to start tinkering with some of the variables. Um, I always go towards and tell me if you think differently, activity reduction to gauge how much that improves the visuals first before I then go into testing food and or PDs typically. So at that point, I'm just trying to gauge like, what is the fatigue depth that I'm paying off like straight out of the gate? And then getting that gauge of like, how far does that weight tend to shift is, is always kind of my first go, which is typically done via the output days and a couple other things from like a trening, pulling some volume and some reps and reserve. But that's always typically my first move. Um, and then one other thing that I like, and I'm gonna let you kind of dive into this is testing the loading strategy. So we talk about this pretty in depth in level one. Um, we talk about like in the trening side, like how to do the more aggressive fatigue drop versus the less aggressive versions, um, for the preps that are running a little bit closer, but there are different loading styles that could help with different looks. So you have some people who are going to frontload and need to wash it off. You have some people where backload works. You're going to have some people where linear loading works. Um, and by being ready early, I think you get some really, really good data. on how these visuals look. And I actually, I've actually done this recently. The peak week sheet we use, I've started using further out so that I could start to mark down like differences in loading metrics, depending on kind of how I see someone's visual shift. I want to pull something out of what you said, just to give clarity people, because I just mentioned like adjusting PD is like three to five weeks out. Yeah. You said like you drop output before like PD adjustments. So yeah. I know we're talking about slightly different things there, but do you want to give some clarity to people that were listening to the difference in what we're bringing about there? Yeah. So more so like with the PD changes, I'm like modulating stack design in order to kind of see like how much fluid retention is affecting the actual visual portion. But I'm also trying to delineate how much of that is fatigue as well. So a lot of times, like I'm doing that D output before I even start like the full testing process. And then as soon as that's done, which is two days, three days, maybe that's when I'll usually do PDs kind of out of the gate, which is going to be removal of GH or titration down in GH or testing some AIs or things along those lines that John had mentioned. But I'm basically just trying to different, be a little bit more differential on what's driving the change in the visuals by doing one before I did the other and not doing them both at the same time. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results along with our comprehensive physique curriculum. You'll also get access to our four rooms with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Okay, I guess we differ then in that approach because I'll mess with the PED stuff pretty earlier on to then once I do get to peak week, there's or the two week out mark, right? I can then like do the D output piece and I have enough time to, because some of that stuff, it's hard to adjust last minute, right? Like if you have an AI put in and you see it drop, like you can't really just stack design in 10 days to see testosterone play out. growth hormone hormone hormone for months different though. But I think whatever your approach you do are implementing one variable at a time. So if you want to check PDs, yeah, do that early in one phase. And then if it's like D outputting arrest days, then you're doing that in another. And I think you, along prep, you'll, and getting to back to your question, Luke, around like the refeed strategy is that you'll start picking up on all these things on which variable is impactful. And so you'll have like the individual that you're seeing after say a string of three trening days, their weights up after legs, and then two days later they drop. And maybe that's after a rest day. Or maybe you've implemented some D output days along the way of like, Hey, let's do two rest days back to back. Then that on third day, they check in and they wake up looking really hard and I dropped weight. So you're like, that should like start sending, you know, a light bulb to go off that. All right, that's, this is someone that, you know, trening and out and output really drives a lot of fatigue. And the D output is the big variable to play here. Or we see the individual where they, I've seen different strategies here. Like where I have guys doing infrequent like injections and the day after they're shot, they're like weights up and they look more watery. And it's like, ah, like this is a testosterone piece that should be adjusted. And that's when it already happens earlier on. Um, or the other situation refeeding. We'll, you know, of course, towards the end of prep, like bring in more refeeds, start slowing down the deficit and you could have some refeed data now present too. So if you have someone that refeeds, maybe the day after they don't look their best, but then two days after they look really good. You're like, Oh, okay. Like this is someone that, you know, could maybe work well with the back load of just doing a Thursday load Friday kind of, you know, just maintenance and then show day they land their best look. Um, or, or we have other situations with, with a few people where, man, you feed them and it's like nothing sticks and you feed them more the next day and nothing sticks. And you're like, wow, like this is someone that's going to take a long time to load. And you might need to hit that person with the frontload. So like six, seven days out, load them really hard to catch them up a bit, drop off a tee, and then it's more coasting the rest of the week. So with all, all this of like, what do you do once someone's already ahead, you should have been like picking up these pieces of like, what's, what is the more impactful variable for them to implement, to drop off a tee? That, that is the kind of goal here. But I would say we default towards output first as that's usually the one that is, we really see makes the biggest difference. And also it's, I think it's less variable withholding nutrition more steady during that time. And you're not seeing like fluctuations as much with carbohydrate and water swings. And I would bring up, it's the last thinGHere. I'll throw it back to you, Luke, is that that is even more so the default for the weight class athlete that is above weight. Uh, because if you start, well, I need a drop off fatigue, I'm going to bring food in. Well, that's going to increase glycogen, increase weight. And what is going to be more impactful is dropping down output and holding food low. And that way you'll actually see body weight start dropping typically doing that process. So making it easier for this individual to, to make weight versus feed them more and keeping output high. Man, weight class athletes are special ones, like ones that are real close to the weight cap. Like they're, they're special ones to prep and peak. Um, just for some clarity to about kind of what I was saying earlier, like I still do that PD drop, like five ish weeks out, like the testing for it. I'm just like going into that. I want to see like what change is the actual PD drop going to create. So I'm trying to have a clen slate heading into that drop. But man, I really think like when you start to kind of look at mapping all of this out, it's, it, it really becomes simpler when you have someone ready before, because what you start to learn as a coach is that the extremes of loading in most cases don't exist as long as you have control over the other metrics. I do think there are people who need frontloads and days of being pretty aggressive, um, to kind of like settle them down, like, especially on the faster metabolic side. But man, when you do it far enough out, it allows you to just really coast. And I think that's the piece people miss, right? Is because like, sure, it may take a day or two days, maybe even three of you being pretty aggressive or progressively aggressive to kind of stabilize them. But then once you do that, you're not continuing that all the way into the show, right? It's like you stabilize them, you get them up and you can hold them pretty easily and coast them. And that's kind of like the classic frontload that you'll see is sometimes needed to stabilize someone out. But that's where I think people miss it. It's like, it's like you don't need as much as you think you need once you get someone stable. Oh man. Why rewind that and hit it play again on it? Because that's, it's so true. So the majority of people that I peak that are ready, like fatigues dropped, we are coasting on the same diet nearly all a peak week into the show with just some shifts. And that's plenty full for most people and doing like, I'm on 300 carbs. Now I need 1200 grams of carbs to load. That's such a rare case to ever see that. And usually that is rolling a dice and you're having to clen someone up on the, on right after they do that load and it makes it really messy. So, you know, I just had, you know, Sean Howley, he did, uh, you know, his show and we're, we're rolling into masters and he's been ready for a few weeks now, just his baseline diet. And he is the guy in 1200 grams of carbs, but that's his baseline diet. We were literally got up and had his normal, like two meals and just went on stage because we just knew what that looked like. And the fatigue was already low. Um, other, other situation like Colton, our coach, uh, he was cruising on a little over 400 grams of carbs throughout his peak week, but he actually started like really relaxing towards the end of the week. And then, uh, I had, had some like metabolic speed up going on. So it turned into looking like a backload, but his visuals were already good. It's more of like just keeping up with maintenance for him. So you could say like, Oh, well you backloaded him. Well, not, not really. It was more just like keeping up with the visuals that were already looking really good after a few meals. So, you know, even in those cases, that's really what that, what that kind of ends up looking like. But the, the big loads, cause we get that question a lot. Like when do I start my load? It's like, I think that you're starting with the wrong question. If you're, if you're asking that and these should be giving you better like clarity before you even get into peak week in this approach that we're doing with assessing and starting the D output. But look, let's, let's talk about this here. Cause let's give someone an example. You have your athlete there on whatever macros you want to say, uh, doing 15,000 steps a day. They're doing 45 minutes of cardio. They're ready. What, what's your, what's your first approach here with this person? And let's make sure we have like 80 micrograms of clenbuterol in there. There's fat burners. Um, so, so where do you start? What's the D output look like? Yeah. So I get pretty aggressive here. I just want to see like, if I shift them off on base diet, are they going to move in? Which direction are they going to move? And that's going to be like step reduction. So 15,000, I'm going to be pulling back to 10 or 11. I'm going to be full removal of cardio for two to three days. I'm going to keep them on their baseline diet and I'm just going to let them rock and see what happens. So baseline, this is still like, if they have a trening day diet, they do the tren day. If they have their non-trened day diet, they do their non-trened day. Yeah. And what you actually see happen here is that this happens pretty much every time is you no longer need the rest days. Like you just kick them up to the trening days and hold them there pretty easily. Like, so if you have a split diet, like you can just kick them up to the trening day after that first initial, because it's closer to their maintenance. And then you can start to like, kind of really get dialed in on what their maintenance is and then slowly take it up. And it's actually, it's funny you say this. Um, I've actually had less preps this year where I've done two meal plans because of this. Um, just for the accuracy of what is the actual deficit? What is the actual maintenance? What is the actual surplus that pulls someone up? It makes building the matrix for peaking so much easier. And the decision-makinGHappens much quicker because you're very clear on what, um, not only what's going in, but you're not like playing this averages game, right? Like you're, you're playing one meal plan all the time and modifying off of that. Not saying trening day and rest day diet doesn't work. It absolutely does. I'm just saying I found myself shifting into more single day plans recently because of that accuracy in this portion of the process of being able to move someone up to maintenance or even higher if I need to pull them back up. Yeah. I have that with a lot of athletes as well, or the discrepancy is just not that vast anyway. Okay. And even then, when you think about our, how we program trening is like volume comes down quite a bit. So trening is not that high of expenditure anyway. Yeah. Um, and then keep in mind everyone that, you know, your rest day is still a recovery day. So a lot of people trening at night, like that bleeds into your next day. So having a more even diet split absolutely works and can make the assessment process a little, little clener. I think the thinGHere is like, if you have that real extreme approach of like really high trening days into very low off days is where you probably wouldn't be going just straight to your trening day diet. Yeah. That's more of a case of like, if you're running, uh, kind of a milder caloric rotation here. Um, so that, that would be the case. And, um, also where even as I get into peak week, start having guys almost, almost tren every day, uh, just shorter sessions. And then it just makes everything a bit more standardized with output and input. So, so you implement this the firsT3 days, cardio is off steps, drop down to like 10,000. They're on this base diet. Uh, from there, I guess you're assessing like, what was the response that they dropped? Did they hold? And from there is that when you start bringing up food, when steps have gone down to a maintenance and do we call maintenance, Hey, less than 10,000 is pretty doable. Yeah. Yeah. Or, uh, you know, do you, do you have people that you do need to shift back up? I do have people I need to shift back up. Um, sometimes it's really like once I pull that assessment, I kind of see they're not like, I'm thinking there's more fatigue than there actually is. They rinse it off. They might drop a pound or two, but there's still more body fat to come off. That's the person I kick back up back to the deficit and like, let them keep running. Um, but really what I'm trying to do in the first load is spill them. Um, so like if I know someone is ready, I need to know where they spill and where the visuals start to go negative from a fullness perspective. So I switched to daily check-ins at this point, not for the rest of the prep necessarily, but it like this like testing phase. Cause I'm basically giving them to diet every day until I see them spill. And then once they spill, I can pull them back on that deficit plan, rip it back down and then just kind of find my maintenance baseline there. And so basically I'm just trying to create my matrix of what is the top end of where these visuals start to really start to go down right now, because what it does is as you go with the last few weeks, it just kind of notches down, right? Like you get a little leaner, that weight drop cap notches down, that notches down. So you kind of start to get a very good accuracy of like how quick someone can spill on you. Um, it also, what it does is by doing it that way, I've dropped the fatigue. If I plug in food and someone speeds up, I know that that's going to be the issue. I'm going to have to chase someone. Um, it's more, so I'm more doing it from the fact that if I have to chase someone, I need to know early rather than I'm, I'm not worried about at all. Rinsing some fluid off someone if they're already ready. I gotcha. So you have three days outputs pulled out during the base diet, food will start incrementally increasing the day by day. You're watching to the fasted look might start getting a little softer. Yeah. I'm sure you're watching them a little bit during the day too for that because usually if they're midday, spill-ish and like, well, they could go on stage a little bit before that and look good, then you probably don't need to take them all the way up, right? Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Okay. So I'm getting different time points, different days usually. Sure. And then, then you can then pull back the diet, you have your maintenance and now we kind of cruise into peak week on that. So I think that, that is the peak before peak week kind of simple nuts and bolts of it. Yeah. Somebody will ask like, do you move carbs? Do you move fats? And I would say typically I always shift up towards carbohydrate versus that's what is going to be impacting visuals and trening and recovery the most. So that is the initial shift always. In your rare cases, like we have someone that needs a ton of food, fats might start moving up. That's when I find the carbohydrate volume is starting to become too large that you're having bloating, not, not bloating from like GI issues, but more so just, there's a lot of food volume present. Um, I think the last piece that I would bring in here is that another piece to consider output wise is going to be posing and posing would probably this week had been at its all time high. This could be three sessions a day of doing four rounds of posing. And you should have by this point, uh, you're posing well figured out. If not, IMean, it's not the time to like change the game here. You're going to drive up a lot more fatigue because posing is very taxing. And we had a recent paper that looked at this too, that, uh, card cardio, IMean, posing was classified as vigorous intensity cardio with about a hundred calorie burn per 15 minutes. So if you're doing three sessions a day, that's easily 300 calories for some individuals. So anyway, during this phase is when I would start tapering down posing as well to just doing one session and leading into your peak week, I I'm just pulling this back down to only posing during check-ins because you're going to have multiple check-ins and that alone is going to be enough posing because I don't want guys getting fatigued, just like flexing their legs and stuff the whole time. So as you start moving into this, like posing should be beginning pulled down as well, not tapered back up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 100%. I think it's like the mad dash to figure out the posing is like my pet peeve. And like we started, you know, working with Cody and havinGHim doing a lot of the posing for the guys. And I think it's something that can make a peak messy because then you have someone like doing the, doing the call with their posing coach and then posing for you and then posing for you again. And then if you're not even thinking about it, they end up like, if you're not aware of this, right, they end up posing for you four or five times and then they pose with their posing coach. It's like, they're wrecked. I start asking for like bare minimum poses and check-ins like give mEQuarters. Then I'll be like, give me a front double side chest and rear double seven poses. I want nothing more. I don't want selfies. I don't want bullshit. Just give me seven poses. That's all I want. I know I've confused some, some athletes in the past. Cause I'll be like, I'll message them. I'll be like, I've got my poses that are their telltales. Right. Yeah. I'll be like, just send me a side chest and front double. And they'll be like, you just want those two? I'm like, yeah, just send them because that's all I need to see to know where you're at. It's like, like whatever those two poses or three poses are. Right. And it's more from my perspective, trying to keep them from posing themselves to death. And like, by the time I've gotten to this point in peak week, I know you so well, I could probably peak you falling asleep, but I've got your weight metrics matrix. I know what your weight's at. I want to confirm that with the visuals to make sure this matrix is correct. I know which poses are going to stand out the most, either fullness or flatness. And I'm just going to ask for those. Like, it's just, you get to a point during peak week where just like chasing this posing thing just becomes a little bit pointless. It's funny you say that. Cause I was thinking about what poses I look at for myself. And if I have a most muscular and a rear double, that's all I need to be able to tell like fullness from the front. That's the tall tail sign condition from the back. It's all I need there. That gives me everything I need if I'm ready or not. So, uh, yeah, it can get pretty, pretty simple. You're not like doing a bad job as coach looking at every single pose because the posing should already be done. Yeah. At this point, it's just making sure you have the right visuals to assess fullness versus condition. So 100% well, yeah, that's it. Is that everything today? Yeah. Yeah. That, that is your peaking before peak week. And hopefully that helps everyone lead into their shows in a much better position and remove a lot of the peaking variables and bring those to a maintenance level to makes it really simple once you do get in a peak week. And I think that will remove a lot of the mysticism around pulling all the variable levers that make a really complicated peak and make you miss the mark. You're like, wow, peak week is really tough. It's like, it's because you're trying to move all the variables at one time. But if you spread out the peaking timeline and shift one at a time, you understand what each one does. And it makes it a lot more understandable for you than to arrive at the look that you want to put on stage. So, so use these strategies. If you need to learn more, we have all about this in J3 level one. And then for next week, which I know the previous week we mentioned, we're going to talk about what happens after your show. Well, we didn't do that because we needed to hit this one first, but for next week, we will talk about what to do after your show, that first seven day period afterwards. So tune in next week. Thank you for listening and we'll see you then.