 Welcome, what do you do the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewel. I'm your host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, John Jewel. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. What happens after stage? You nailed the look. Now what? Is it an explosion of food and up 20 pounds? Or are you staying dialed in? So Luke and I want to cover today. What do you do the first seven days after the show? What do you do the first seven days after the show? I really see this as a make or a make or a make or a make or a make or a make or a make or break week for your offseason and even your next contest prep and stage league. It goes that far. And so we'll dive in today. What should be, for one, well, why is that the case? And you can let me know down below if you're watching on YouTube if you believe me or not or disagree. And then also just break down kind of the nuts and bolts and the psychology as well for leading athletes from post-show or post-stage into this like little post-show window of the first week. Luke, how's it going, man? Lots of post-show happening, right? It's about to say it's post-show week every week right now. It is one show after the next. And I think it's, what's cool is when you have the competitors that have done this once or twice with you already. And they kind of start to understand the value in this first week post-show. A lot of people like when they ask, you know, what did you do in the offseason that made someone change? Like how much they progressed, you know, this, this or this past year versus years past. And a lot of times it's just the fact that I had control from the end of prep to the, to the end of all season, because what really allows me to do our job and what allows me to do my job throughout the entirety of the offseason phase is how much control we get straight out of the gate from the post-show, building some buy-in with the client before we get to stage about what the expectations are the first week post-show, really kind of setting some expectations and standards and being able to exit execute on them so that it's business as usual the first week and not a free for all because man, it's so easy to ruin an offseason in three to five days post-show. And I don't say that lightly because I have seen people do it. Yeah. I've heard people say like, just have a meal. Like what's one meal is not going to kill you. And yeah, potentially one meal absolutely should have it be in place. But we see a varied response across different clients of that 1000 calorie meal. It does stick to them and they might be up a few pounds and that's going to stay. And that very well can be just fine. And we want some fat gain to happen post-show. The thing is, is when that keeps trailing on and for the very sensitive athlete that is not very metabolically adaptive, it just comes on quickly. Then that next day, if they still have some celebration eating, they very well could be up 5% body weight within just a few days. And to put this in context, like for every one pound gained in this phase, you easily could be taking away two weeks of offseason time. That could be productive growth hormone hormone hormone. Because think about this. If you were say a male gaining one pound of body weight per week, let's say 50% of that is fat, like a half pound of fat. That one pound of fat gain is two weeks worth of offseason time. So if you've accumulated 10 pounds of fat gain, that could could have been 20 weeks of offseason time of slowly adding tissue and fat gain. Now, again, these are just a theoretical mathematical aspect. You're like, well, John, 20 weeks, that's like my whole offseason push phase. Again, some fat gain is going to happen. So we're seeing someone that if they were in true contest lean shape, sure, like they could be up 10 pounds if you're a male from 200 to 210, 215 pounds. And that could be a very reasonable start to your offseason phase. That's acceptable level of fat gain for sure. But when it becomes like now you're pushing beyond that baseline of what a good offseason start point is for body fat. And what is that is usually I tell people it's the leanest you can maintain while removing all the negative aspects around prep. So you're able to not be food focused anymore. Psychologically, you don't have any of those issues driving you. You have great energy throughout the day. You're like libido's back. You want to chase your wife around still. You have good trening performance. Your sleep is regulated. You can sleep for most people throughout the night. Some people are going to wake up at least once. You should have back to like offseason regular life aspects. And so the leanest you're able to stay and do that. And that's going to be that's the kicker is the leanest that you can stay because it's going to vary a lot from for one. How how lean did you have to get how far away from that is like from your set point. And then also just how you're able to manage your lifestyle stress allosteric load around that because as you get better in bodybuilding and executing you're actually going to be able to have a more sustainable lower body fat level that you can start that offseason from. So just wanted to give some context around what that looks like on the front end of when you have that much fat, how that kind of maps out and then you easily could see like, all right, I'm now up 25 pounds start of offseason. I can't put on as much now because then I'm going to have to pay it back in prep. And so now I have to allocate still a 20 week prep to drop off this this body fat. And we find a lot of individuals end up still with the same rate of fat gain in the offseason. And as quickly you're in a maintenance spot in offseason to where you're just kind of maintain body weight or you have like a free meal on the weekends, then the rest of your week is at a deficit to make up for it. And you just kind of really don't make a lot of progress offseason wise. And there you are, wind yourself right back up into a contest prep that has to be really drawn out again and because you put on too much body fat. So the first days are essential. And Luke, you know, with that being said, I think a lot of this probably starts with setting up the athlete with the tools to have the set expectations and also the psychological piece to this to be able to execute it. Yeah, I think that's where potentially some of the conversation can happen pre-peak week. I think there's some conversations to be had like, hey, what's next? No matter the outcome, it's like we need to know that we've still got bodybuilding to pursue, right? Like win or loss, pro card or no pro card, whatever the next step is going to require us to be a better versianavarselves to either compete in the pro ranks or to actually win the pro card the next time we step on a pro qualifier stage. And for people who have gone through this before, it's a little bit of an easier conversation, but I'll actually map this out on a timeline of like what a rate of gain should look like so they can have set expectations and see it. Because it's sometimes it just doesn't click until they actually see numbers on the paper and how quickly it can start to dwindle that all season phase. And when you ask like, where did the drastic changes come from? It's like it really comes from these people who just treat post-show phase like an extension of prep. And I do want to have some clarity around what John said is like the leanest you can be with prep adaptation starting to subside. It doesn't mean that after one to two weeks, you're going to see those prep adaptations start to subside. If anything, the hunger signaling in the post-show phase is the highest and the hardest to manage. And it is the worst time of the year in regards to how you feel subjectively. However, your pumps are going to improve. Your gym performance is going to improve. You're going to start to have more energy, but you're going to have that really, really high hunger signaling. And you're not going to see it start to really fully subside until you get to the end of that post-show phase and kind of move into that offseason. So it is something that's a process and requires patience and understand you're going to have to sit with that. Because I think that's the big expectation that people miss is like, oh, when I finish my prep, I'm going to be, I'm going to have the relief of being done. I'm not going to have to deal with any of these. Right. And it's like, no, it's probably going to suck worse than the prep, honestly. Yeah. With a lot of this, if you're not experienced in dieting, that first hit of hyper-palatable food, wherever you go out, cheesecake factory or something, right? And it is just a dopamine, such a strong response that you just want to keep going for a lot of people. If you don't have that psychological control. So, you know, if you know that's you, it might be time to be a little strategic with pre-peak week. Hey, we're going to go out with family friends. We're going to go here and I'm just going to have a reasonable meal that I don't feel like crap. And honestly, that's where a lot of this has evolved, even for myself, is like, I don't want to feel terrible the next day. Because I've done the big eats where that night you can't even sleep because your heart's pounding from, like, the huge sodium and fluid retention that's occurring. And you wake up just feelinGHorrendous. And a lot of times post-show now, I go have, like, some type of protein I really like, a steak or salmon and then, like, veggies. And then what that does is because if you've done a peak week well, usually a lot of people are eating a lot of food into the show. And you can keep that going, which makes managing the post-show hunger really easy. What really stops it quickly is having that meal post-show that is, like, tremendous, right, to where you're eating until you're going to pop. The next day, that phase is kind of gone where you had that sweet spot where you're eating a ton of food leading into that show. People that are successful, if you can have just a reasonable meal that night, you can go back immediately now to your peak week plan with higher food and execute that the rest of the week. Now you'll start seeing body weight will start trening even back down. And you start bringing in the flexibility there. So immediately post-show, you need to have an idea of what your restrent level is and probably do some pre-planning on what might be reasonable for that meal. And when you go have that meal, don't take crap back to your hotel room with you. Don't pack a bunch of food with you either and have, like, every new flavor of Oreo stashed in your hotel room. Just don't have it around you. Then I like to also, just for the next day, already have my meals pre-planned out, right? So there's already food available. It's not like, well, you know, I won't be on prep anymore. I'll just have whatever is available. And, you know, sometimes that might be I'll go out for breakfast, but the next day is going to be structured. Now, Luke, I know we've done a lot of things with protein and veggies for some individuals. Maybe you want to touch on that piece. Yeah. So, IMean, it just depends on how bad the hunger signaling is. I've had a couple people where kind of the plan post show brings up some of the satiety metrics, like as far as like the food that provides satiety. And so it's pretty easy to pull protein up. We have some pretty clear evidence that we can pull it up fairly high without it being detrimental to fat gain or body composition, I should say. Same with vegetable intake. We can bring that up to help manage the hunger. Even like for the people that want that quality time with family, like having protein, veggie meals between the meals that you have that second day. So like if you have a breakfast and then kind of some protein, veggies and then a dinner with family. Like I had, which congratulations to Alex. Alex, after competing this weekend, got engaged. So it's like one of those things. It's like once in a lifetime moments. And so that was kind of like, you know, some of the conversation around it is like, hey, we got to get better. So that the card is ours next time. But, you know, we need to be able to enjoy engagement and things along those lines. So there's multiple different ways to manage it. But I think when we look at like the options for protein, veggies, we have a pretty good opportunity to manage hunger by just being able to pull that up within the meals that we have to kind of help with the hunger management piece of it. Yeah. Yeah. And on the protein, veggie topic, like if you did have someone that went out that had a pretty large meal. Yeah. And a lot of people the next day, they're good. They hop on the scale. Like weight didn't even go up, coach. Like I'm such a metabolic badass. It's like, yeah, give it, give it one day, buddy. It's like you just ate like 2,000 calories six hours ago. So like the sodium and water retention swing, like that's coming. It just hasn't hit you up. Then it's like two days later, like weights up, ankles are swollen. And then those effects keep coming. So for the person that had the really large meal, a lot of times the next day you might have pretty low hunger and to get fluid balance back on track pretty quickly. And I kind of really do like to get someone back to their pre-peak week weight that wasn't depleted. So this is someone that, you know, was eating at a maintenance level. I will bring them to just have, hey, the next day I want you just to do protein and veggies for four meals. And I give them some amounts, I hate 200 grams of whatever meat you choose, 200 grams of whatever vegetable you choose. And I just had one gentleman, I gave him like, you know, a fruit option of choice. So pick like 100 grams of one fruit that you'd like. Do that for two days. And the ideal thinGHere is get back to your normal water intake and sodium intake. Because a lot of people have asked like, how do I get this water off mEQuickly? It's like, it's time. It's still going to be there, but the best thing you can do is get back to being consistent with fluid and electrolyte balance. That means not adding in more sodium-laden foods and keeping your water intake regulated. Your kidneys will adapt and you'll regulate and fluid balance will be struck within a few days. Usually if I have people on protein and veggies for like two, usually two days, three days sometimes, I'll see that weight shift back down and then we can start bringing back in their start of what that post-show diet would be. For those that didn't have that happen, we're much quicker to be able to jump back into just their regular post-show diet of implementation, of what that might start as. But yeah, that, and I do tread lightly in that area because some people, that eating could be the binge restricting. And I don't want to put that out there that that is what I'm doing for those individuals of like, oh man, they ate terrible. I need to now restrict them. And you better go do cardio and it's a punishment. And if that has the psychology of someone, that's their history, there's just a different approach that's taken with that individual because that's happened. And I've seen people have eating disorders kick back up in this phase, especially body imagEQuickly getting distorted from their prep. And it's now a shift just to look at more sanity cueing and not focusing on like a success fail, whether they're eating what's measured out on their plate. It's more just eating based off of hand portions and looking, making sure they're trying to self-regulate now and not worrying about body image, more so looking at the subjective things we want for post-show around, hey, my energy improved today or my sleep's now improved. My trening's really good. Like these are the success things that we're looking for and taking away from the body image, the scale for those type of individuals. It could be a whole other podcast. It gets a little bit beyond the scope even of what some of us that are just doing the nutrition side should be working with. But so protein, veggies, pull water off, get back to baseline. For the client that is not in that scenario is a strategy that we can utilize. Thanks, everyone, for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day? Feeling lost in the off-season? Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from off-season to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3U University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah, I really like to try to get to the non-depleted pre-peak week weight. I think that's just such a nice goal to have for people because it also kind of sets that rate of gain chart at the point that you know they're not depleted. They're in a pretty good spot for those people that have been able to do the maintenance into the show. I will say the preps that are heavy weight cuts into a weight class or really brutal fat loss to the last-minute preps. I do kind of leave that wiggle room a little bit higher just because there is a debt to pay on the back end and I want to be able to pay it back so the performance starts moving. But it's still not very large. It's still a very small percentage of body weight that I'm allowing to kind of jump on because I'm still trying to swing them into an off-season that manages body composition better so that we don't have this prep again. It's like you don't want to swing them into high body fat where now the prep's a miracle prep all over again. A lot of times it's just preps that you pick up like you pick them up at the beginning of the prep or kind of mid-prep and you're just trying to get the job done and you're trying to teach them kind of what post-show should look like. It's a little bit tougher to manage, but I think it's a big thing in regards to creating better expectations that lead someone to a better outcome. And it's pretty easy to create buy-in. I don't know if you do this, John, but for the people who really struggle to get in shape, it's like this sucked. Prep's going to suck, but we can make it not suck this bad. Can you please just do this so that we don't have to do this again? And it kind of clicks. It's like, oh, yeah, okay. If I'm going to do this again, I don't want it to be the 50-pound prep. It's just like it's so brutal. Oh, you know, it's so true. The guys you see that are always coming in that's a little bit out of shape are usually the ones that just don't have any tools left to play on the back end of prep, right? Like food's already low, cardio's high, all the fat burners are in. It's like, man, what else can I do to get leaner? It's like have a successful post-show period and then you're able to get food up while staying lean and then you're going to have a much more successful next prep. That's not to say there's going to be miracle changes to your prep. Like likely for that individual that's genetically just always going to have a harder time getting down, it still will be, but it absolutely can improve and we've seen it improve for individuals. But it comes down to putting in the legwork earlier on and you cannot expect to continue to do the same post-show and off-season execution at this far down amateur level with pro-level outcomes. It has to be pro-level execution the whole way through before you're a pro. That's the kicker there. Like some of these pros get away with a lot. Assume that you can't and execute like a professional. That will fast-track you to be at that professional level, whatever that is looks like for you. But look at the guys that are even on the circuit now, like the genetic anomalies. They stay in great shape year-round. They are living out bodybuilding every single day year-round, the majority of them. And so as a less genetically blessed amateur, you're not going to be able to get away with more than these individuals if that is your goal. Because that's when people lay out like, hey, I want to go as far as I can in this. Well, here's what that looks like. And it means that that choice every day, that goal comes first, not the emotional driver of what's going to make me feel good. And that's where you have to really have that understanding. But yeah, to that point, Luke, you also brought up something around the weight cut athletes. And so someone might ask, what's a reasonable weight increase one week after the show? What are you kind of looking at here? And so I would say towards the top ring, you might have a 5% weight increase. And then it's going to trinkle down from there as you get towards someone that did not need to cut weight, that had to be extremely lean. Then even a smaller range from there is going to be the athletes that do not need to get stage, like peeled out stage lean. Talking about like bikini, something like this, fit model. Like you don't need to have a 5% weight increase when you didn't have to get that far below your set point. And so that might be far less from there. And then from there, we really slow it down. And have just a weight gain that maybe is 1% to 2% gain after that first week. Then from there, it slows down even more. And if I see you guys are doing well, at some point, four weeks post-show, we just kind of maintain that into the off-season push phase. And so if I can hold them there and keep them lean, I will. Such a good point. Like people expect every single week to be pushing weight up. It's like there's a point in that post-show phase where you're like, all right, we're good. Let's just keep it here. And like, let's just maybe slowly titrate cardio back a little bit more if we haven't gotten it all out yet. Like we're not fully at steps only or whatever. And let's get you to the off-season phase because that's where we're going to make the most progress, right? We're going to get into super physiological compound exposure. We're going to get into food starting to escalate up. And it's something that I've even, as long as health metrics look like they're in a good spot, like IMaybe plan to post-show phase a bit longer than I've actually needed knowing that, you know, they're kind of ready to go. I think something too, and I don't want to shift gears too much, but I think on the PED side of the equation, there is one or two things you can do to kind of help with this as far as like not getting too much fluid retention back and kind of plugging in how you go about plugging GH back in and kind of what PED strategy looks like. Do you want to touch on kind of some of that before we? Yeah, I know we've just been hitting some of the food pieces and everyone, there's a lot more to expand on even within nutrition on how to manage hunger within just this post-show, this initial week, right? And really those should be your first tools that you utilize. I realize like everyone's probably has on their mind in this current era, all the GLP-1, GIP, you know, and newer analogs like retotruotide and these are tools that can be utilized, that are being utilized. This is not the podcast for us to dive into those, but you need to build in the basics and knowing the skills of how to regulate this and not just mask it with more and more drugs. So, yeah, we have some other tools that are out there pharmacological-wise, but you need to be able to utilize the big tools and actually be a coach or be an athlete and execute the hard stuff. But anyway, with that being said, on the PED side, so what comes back in depends on what went out and why it went out. So, the assessment always takes place, which we have the individual that needs testosterone completely removed and needs growth hormone hormone hormone hormone completely removed because they're likely someone that was retaining a lot of water from it. So, bring that back in post-show can add a lot of fluid retention back in quickly as well. Now, the other individual might be that really grainy, hard guy that keeps tests and GHN the whole time and that might be someone you just continue into the post-show phase because nothing really needs to change. So, what comes back in and goes out should be assessed first. And so, for that individual that is more responsive, usually testosterone, I start up with like a TRT dose and leverage if they need something greater than that for post-show, usually, usually I have a lot of guys that are at least at the 300 milligram mark as a baseline, then the rest is made up with some other non-aromatizing anabolic. Then growth hormone hormone hormone hormone will start tapering back up from a hormone replacement level of like 2, 3 IU, something like that. For other minerals, I leverage it a lot. I use a lot of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone and we go right out the gates with it, but it's just very person-dependent with oral steroids gone if they've been utilized. There's just no role for them in the post-show phase. A lot of times of the post-show phase is trying to set up for your off-season head. If we continue to accrue total stress load and organ systems that we're already trying to pay back debt for, eight weeks later when we're post-show, are you thinking you're going to be ready to push up more gear? No. So those need to come out now. Let's let food and already waking that's occurring drive trening performance up. It's going to. trening's going to skyrocket. So this should be the lowest gear use in my opinion and with the exception that I do can get away with a lot of growth hormone hormone hormone from during this phase to help with mitigating some of the fat accrual. Yep. On the same piece around fat gain are the fat loss drugs that have been utilized with, you know, your main one usually Climbuterol. Yep. Depending on where you were at and if that had come out yet on peak week or not, I start tapering that down a little bit to not have such a big drop in output so I can keep food a little higher to manage the hunger side of the equation. With thyroid, usually T4 is left in until you're in a position where you're in a better spot to actually restorecomplete thyroid function, which you need body fat on you basically. But T3 is out because T3 is very suppressive to that thyroid axis. So, that is usually the strategy I utilize. For some guys, T4 is going to stay in year round anyway at this point. But those would be some major ones that would be changed back to TRT with some anabolic alongside, growth hormone hormone hormone hormones tapering back up, fat loss agents are tapering down, oral steroids are out, and that then sets like, kind of set up for our post-show phase. Yeah, and I would kind of concur with all of that. The only thing is with the fluid retentive individual is being a bit patient with growth hormone hormone hormone hormones sometimes. Like, especially if they're pretty fluid retentive, like, IMight not even plug it in the first week back, like, let them hit a reset point and then slowly taper it back in, like, start around two IUs and then move them back up as I can to their, but then you have people like Alex this past weekend had eight IUs going into the whole peak week. It's like, it's like he's so lean and dry, it's like I needed it to help him stay full. So, it's so individual dependent and not to pivot too hard, but I don't want to go too long. I think the most valuable thing you can restore is your day-to-day routine. I don't want to spend too long on this, but like the basics, it's like so simple. A night routine, a morning routine, consistent wake times, consistent sleep times. Like, if you did your prep appropriately, you have these structures already in place, know what they are, and your sleep quality should start to improve over time across the post-show phase. We need to leverage this and not just let the fact that we finished contest prep, let those go out the window because people get the freedom of being out of prep, and then they start to let those just drop. And I think with nutrition adherence, you can pair the sleep routine and scheduling right alongside it into how important it is to make this phase be successful. Yeah, absolutely. Once meals start shifting around, trening shifting around, that's when meals gets missed, and oh, well, let me put in something big at the end of the day, then that kind of rolls in the next day, and you might not have the same type of drive to eat or exaggerated drive to eat. the routine piece is huge. On that note as well is the cardio output side. And for a lot of people, those routines help as well. Like, hey, I get up every day and I put in 3,000 steps right off the get, or maybe you get up for the day and you do your cardio, and that's something that kind of sets your pace to already feel like a successful day. keep those things in. For the immediate post show, almost always the day after the show, I say take a full rest day. It's okay, buddy. A lot of people are fired up to go tren, they go tren legs, it's been a week. When you've been on stage posing, and if you had any fluid manipulation done, you're in a pretty high risk state for injury, or had lots of guys I've seen get rhabdo, myolysis, from just putting out way too much effort and breaking down a ton of tissue. The best time to tren legs is not the day after your show, typically. Tell people, hey, get your steps in, get outside, do something you enjoy, don't tren, don't worry about cardio, let's pick it up the day after that. So, Saturday show, Sunday rest day, Monday, let's get back to it. And that's when, depending on who it is, if I've had guys where cardio has already been pulled out, I won't start with cardio the first week, I will taper it back in over those weeks to then when we're in the offseason, it's like their baseline. For people that have had it throughout, that's something that I'll probably already keep in at a baseline, and then steps will typically be moderate, but have already come down a little bit from their pre-prep. If I have someone less than 12,000 steps a day, to me, that's very livable. So, that might serve as a baseline for a bit, and it allows you to eat a little bit more food during this time if you are struggling. The issue is when people just now, cardio is done, I can sit around all day, but I'm going to be eating more, and output drops, input largely increases, and you're going to be in a very bad position quickly. So, stay active, that's part of the routine piece of what Luke brought up, and it's going to allow you to have a very good high energy flux, and have an intake that supports trening, that's going to help you aid with hunger more, than having that low energy flux of sitting around and having to eat less food, but likely you're just eating more food anyway. So, so, keep the movement going. Anything you want to touch on around trening coming back in, Luke? Yeah, I'm, I approach this a bit different for different people. I like people to have fun the first week. IMean, they've been, people, most people love trening, like that's why they do bodybuilding in the first place, right? Especially my little group of people, like they're just freaking trening nerds. So, like, I'll let them follow, like, their plan they had beforehand with flexibility. I'll be like, use your volume landmarks from each session for kind of the trening leading into peak week. Try some new movements, let me know what you like, how you feel, those kinds of things, have some fun. Don't tren to failure the first two to three sessions, and then we'll kind of get into the new programming after that. And that's usually because, like, I have a debrief with them after the show. Like, most people I work with, I'll do a debrief on, like, what we did well, what we didn't do well, where are we at relative to class standards for the level you'recompeting at and what needs to happen across this all season, and then present the new program design with them as we kind of go across that. So, I really just want them to have fun again. Like, just restoring that fun in the process of trening is huge. And I think it's one of the things that if we can restore that fun, then it's pretty important. Now, I do have some people that are very type A, and they're like, progress starts today and they haven't even finished show day. And it's like, okay, maybe that person, I have their program to them like immediately post-show, but like, before the debrief, right? But it's kind of person-dependent, but I really, my preference is to get people to have fun again with trening. Yeah, and even the type A person, right? Like, that, that they're already getting back to fun by seeing the trening laid out. Yeah. And so, yeah, for those people, I feel like I need to protect a little bit, and I do try to plan out like, okay, this is the program that would improve you, but just add in one extra rest day. Yeah. And just to spread out their volume a bit, and then once for post-show, I can pull that rest day, and that's kind of what I would actually be running. Yeah. Some people are really hard to do that with, as they want to tren like every day, and they're that excited for it. I think that's really when you need to weigh out is this what you want or what you need? Because I've trened six days a week, and I love to tren, but that's not the best for me. This past prep, I stopped trening legs twice a week, and I've been a lot better for it. And so you do have to start weighing those things out. In prep, you're kind of driven and blinders on and wanting to do a lot of things that might not be the best for you, even though it seems like workinGHarder is getting more results. So for some individuals, yeah, I plan out trening with just that in mind to try to just have some saving graces in their form without them even knowing it, because I know they'll benefit from more rest than just trening more any time, because they're going to tren hard enough. Yeah, 100%. 100%. I think that's... But anyway, I think that covers a lot of the nuts and bolts and the psychology around this immediate post-show phase. Again, it's such an important part, the immediate right after what you do. and why I've seen so many athletes being able to make traumatic progress. When this is done right and they execute it like a prep, and it's almost like, hey, in eight weeks post-show, you have another show to do. Like, you're doing the Olympia. You're like, all right, well, how would you treat your post-show phase if that was the case? And then eight weeks later, when you're walking onto your Olympia stage, it's the start of your off-season and you're going to be super productive now. So, you know, always have your big picture goal in mind and map out your timelines, which is what we love to do. Because when I do this, like, immediately post-show for athletes, and we'll look, all right, what are we looking at? Let's do the same show next year. We map out eight weeks post-show, they need another, whatever, 16-week prep, eight weeks before that for a pre-prep phase, and then you're left with only 16 weeks of off-season. You're like, oh, there is no time to waste. Yeah, so look at your timelines, because you'll quickly realize weeks are not that long, and they quickly add up to months, and all of a sudden, you're back into your contest prep. So make the most of your first seven days post-show. Thank you all for tuning in, and we'll talk to you next time. See you next