 Welcome to the J3 University podcast. I'm your host, John Jewett. I'm your host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, John Jewett. And I'm your co-host, Luke Miller. Our mission is to elevate the physique coaching standard. And to bring the highest level of competitor to the stage. Let's jump into today's episode. Let's jump into today's episode. Changing your split is stopping your progress. And I know you're going to take a step back and say, what do you mean, John? Like changing my split is how to make progress. But that's not always the case as there are issues a lot of times with full on, program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle of program hopping. The cycle I could talk for hours about this, and I think it comes from a place of knowing that the long-term development of the athlete a lot of times comes from small detail work. Like I think that you see this kind of become a topic of discussion post-show with a lot of people where they do well, but maybe they don't win the pro card or maybe they don't win the Olympia qualification. And so they come off like expecting this massive plan overhaul that's going to be the secret to them winning the pro card or the Olympia qualification, right? And in reality, if you look at the progress between the last time they competed in this show, there was a ton of progress made. It just might be a situation where more time is needed. So I love this conversation because getting really good at the skill of trening, and that's how I prefer to talk about it is the skill of trening because it is something that you develop over time, is really the key to any program design. And then the small refinements and tweaks are kind of what puts you over the edge as far as reaching your true potential. Have you yourself ever done like a big program hop? Like in the past, do you remember like any specific like XYZ program you hopped around between? I'm about to show my age here, but which I'm 30, so I guess I'm not that old. You're not old. I've been doing the bodybuilding thing for too long. I remember when I bought the Ben Pakulski like black and green binder, what was it called? Like max hypertrophy or something. And it was like all the discs. And it was this like massive high volume like trening split. And I had been trening more like progressive overload, like effort, like lower volume. And this was before we were working together. And I was like so enamored by this. And it went from like, you know, your typical, you know, 10 to 12 sets of let's say quads per week. Like you were doing like 22. And it was like massive, like five, six sets on hacks and stuff. And I just remember the excitement around that. But I also remember the lack of progress that happened as a result of absolutely burying myself to no utter end. And I think that like massive pivot in program design is kind of where I started to fall in love with the nuance of driving trening because I saw that the massive shift didn't work. So it's actually why it comes to mind first because it's where I fell in love with like the ins and outs of program design. Yeah, my first like biGHop was I was doing powerlifting, like Westside barbell style conjugate method. I was like, I'm going to bodybuild. And this is when I was in my bachelor's program. And so I wanted to be more sciencey, right? So I'm like, okay, what is some type of evidence base? Like I want to do the right optimal thing. And I came across Brian Haycock's HST trening, hypertrophy specific trening, which was actually pretty solid. It was more like full body trening. I think there was a four day split that I ended up settling on, but nearly it was like full body every day coming from powerlifting, coming from being able to like take sets to the end. I buried myself. It was brutal. And also just wasn't really as enjoyable with my psychology of how I like to tren. And then from there, I kind of like had to regroup and fell into DC trening and bought like Justin Harris's. He had him and Steve Kuklo had the project super heavyweight. It was like a DVD, right? DVDs. What is that? And I got that and I fell into like the dog crap, intense muscle forum. And finally, there was like a culture of people that were just bought in to that piece. So kind of creating that belonging was a huge part of it, but also like it was a just tried and proven method. So stuck with that for a long time and it fit really well with my psychology and a lot of like great framework there for what drove progress forward. So that was kind of the early initiatives there. And honestly, if you look back, like I think across trening, like the core system of DC from what I do now, some things haven't really changed that much. Like those core pillars were still there. What makes like a good program. But anyway, it was always looking like what's the next thing that's optimal, I think is what we always want. And I think we get our feedback from our show. So we're very like focused on right in front of our nose. Like the judge said, you need to bring up your chest. You're like, man, all right, well, what's my new chest trening split that I need? And it's like, well, wait a second. What have you been doing? And has your chest actually been improving? It just still needs more time of doing the same thing versus let me now tren chesT3 days a week and I'm going to tear a pec off. It's like, no, no, don't do the complete overhaul just yet. So I think this comes back to now where we have the audit, right, of what do we look at to actually take away from how do we assess our current plan and move forward from there? Yeah, the audit's huge. It's funny, like you guys will see me post comparisons side by side sometimes where it's like where an athlete started with me to kind of where they're at now or some change of time. A lot of times that's from the audit. That's from me reevaluating like how has the trening progressed this physique and has it moved it in the direction of winning more often or more likely to win in the class they're trying to compete in. And that audit I think can be multivariable. I do like a couple different comparisons. So I've always loved the comparison of the highest level that you're at versus you. So that would be like the most recent national winner versus your physique if you're an amateur or the most recent Olympia winner to you if you're a pro. And then on top of that would be the change of the period of time the program design was ran. So like the starting visuals versus the back end visuals. And I think it's a really good way to get the subjective metrics from like a visual perspective because that's what's actually judged on stage. And I do this fairly often like often relative to how often you change program designs. So I'd probably say like at least once every four to six months I'm doing this with my athletes usually at the ends of their phases depending on how long someone's offseason phase lasts. But man it's so important because when you compare the initial physique with the initial program design to the now physique with the now program design. It makes it very clear and objective of what levers and toggles you pulled and how that resulted. And then it tells you what levers and toggles to pull in the next program. It's pretty simple. You know in looking over the audit because you know we have people that in the J3 forum they'll post their full the new split I'm going to be doing and all the exercises and all the sets that they're doing. And what we don't see is like what were you doing before? And I think this is also when you might have more of an overhaul that takes place because even with new clients that we have come in they'll send us our trening. And when we see more of the kind of the full if we want to call it a program hop is when their past program wasn't really meeting those tenants of hypertrophy very well. And you know where we have like high quality sets that are executed at that high effort level with accuracy. And that might be instead looking at lots of sets at lower effort levels. I think of the female side bikini side of doing lots of like band type of pump work to where we're not getting a lot of quality work in. Now some of those splits very well might already cater to body parts but some of them times we do see it still like I have guys coming with a generalized bodybuilding split trying to bring up body parts that aren't coming up. And that's when we might need some shift into specialization that does take place which is more of a trening just trensition over like a huge hop in design. But I think that hop might happen when yeah you're seeing more of those like things that are just the basics of what good hypertrophy should look like not happening. Which a lot of the programs I don't I see it have some existence of that. But things that have like a lot of set extenders are very short rest times lots of the type of pump work like those are things that could add a bit more excess fatigue in versus the stimulus that they provide. Those are some of the trensitions to make around that. But for from the most part it's always looking back at what they were doing and how does that align with thesEQuality tenants of hypertrophy then shift them to that. Then we might need some time to like reassess where to go from there. Yeah and I think that like coming back to the audit and the assessment piece like I think it's something that you do like a visual comparison. But I love a trening comparison like a trening video comparison like how did the execution hold up across the trening block because that's a large part of how much you get out of a program design. And I find that this works really well with the people that are I would say maybe newer to being pretty detail oriented with their trening because they can see how the emotional like which I love the passion. Like I love coaching passionate athletes but the passion can derail you from focusing on what's actually going to drive you forward. And I think that's an audit that has to happen as well. You pivot phases like whether it's like all season into a trensition phase you're pulling volume down and you're reevaluatinGHow that program did or it's post show or whatever it might be like man there's such a such value in a trening video audit as well. Yeah just to give some like action takeaway items for people listening like how you could do this is that those I would say do it over all relatively all body parts but mainly your compound movements that require a lot more skill acquisition is you know week two potentially because week one still kind of figuring out maybe week two of your block like film those lifts save them in a dry folder week two. And then at the end of this block which usually I have a good timeline for blocks is kind of eight week segments have those lifts that same lifts that go back into that folder to where you can compare them over time and see how much they trensition on a week to week basis like you might if you have a good eye you might be able to catch things. What you're probably catching is like that exercise didn't quite feel the same this time which you can always go back to your week two where you had like a really good execution to review. But over time if across this block you're seeing that one really shift that's something to reign back in especially for the body parts that you want to be improving on. So just just save these things put them in something that you can actually track with. I also kind of look at like lift progression if I have a lift that's like just scaling out out the wazoo right you're like man am I actually putting on all this chest tissue right now. And then it's like oh no I'm just like shifting my form for the worse the better to lift more weight but for the worse for actually stimulus because once you've gone past the novelty of a new exercise and those your like neuromuscular changes that you get the actual like moving load from tissue increases is pretty it's pretty slow. So for for once you're in that intermediate stage especially to advanced to where you're not taking like big 10 pound jumps on like you're pressing every single week or gaining reps one two reps every single week like that's not really the reality of what you're probably seeing. And if you are that's when I start to question like maybe we should do a form revaluation. Yeah it's pretty big. I think one of the things to kind of understand too is that there's there's multiple ways to kind of progress within blocks. I think that's pretty important and why the audit holds so much value because I've had some people that run movements for multiple blocks in a row like three four or five blocks in a row. But when we go in these like little trensition periods where we do the audits some of this like ways to progress forward is by raising your glass ceiling and correcting some of the things that you started to let slip because like there's some patterns and I know you've done this like you got this favorite machine and you're starting to max it out. And you're like oh no where do I go from here if it doesn't like take a gym pin and then you watch like the first week you did it to like the last week you did it and you're like that's not even the same movement pattern. And you're so excited because when you reset it you've like ticked off a couple notches where you have more room on the machine. It's like there's so much value in that across the board like you can build so much progression without injuries and I think that's a big piece of this where it's like one way to build more progression in the blocks is to have that accuracy and trening open up the ability to have more load to progress up. And it's also going to build more progression because it's going to keep you off the injury injury reserve list which is a huge detriment to consistently stringing blocks together for maximal progress in my opinion. Yeah that's that's a good point on your end of block evaluation is those ones that have shifted form of like the next block instead of an exercise swap out right it's just shifting back to the old form which in turn is like reopening you know raising the ceiling again for what you can do stimulus wise. To that same point I know a lot of people ask like hey this one lift is progressing really slow like is it time to swap it out or is it just par for the course and I'm just adapting slow and I should just ride this out. How do you usually go about tackling that type of issue. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day feeling lost in the offseason. Upgrade your coaching game with J3 University. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum you'll also get access to our forums with our J3U team to answer any questions you have and livEQ&A sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J3 University. Let's get back to today's podcast. Yeah I don't I always tell people like slow progressions are necessarily not a bad thing like it's still providing a hypertrophy stimulus like I look at it more on a session basis like if we have three sets and usually it's the top set that gets a little tough to to progress like the top set will stall but then the two back offs like if there's three sets will progress and that's kind of usually where you see it. A lot of times I see that issue is there's a deload that's needing to come up so there's like some neural recovery fatigue that needs to happen or there's a form issue that's the the only reason they got to that top set load is because they've leveraged themselves into that position. So I I tend to find more often that rather than a movement swap needing to happen it's one of those two in those situations where I'm able to open the door to more progress by resetting the lift or doing the deload that is clearly coming up. Now there are cases where this might lead to movement swap but man I need to see it stagnate for a pretty pretty decent period of time. Like I'm talking like two three weeks probably three four weeks of minimal progressions. Do you think there's any grounds for like a more advanced guy is I know like hey if a movement's progressing and for an advanced guy it's probably all kind of slow across the board relatively where every block there should be some rotation. If you're not within that block having enough variation anyway more as a preemptive measure to prevent like just reap repetitive movement injuries from occurring or just you know beating up the same like lines of connective tissue. I could see it like more so from an injury profile perspective than I would argue it from a progression perspective probably. And one in the same almost right because yeah injured you're not progressing. So I guess maybe that pretends on the history of the individual right if they have like a reoccurring problem. Exactly. Because like I'll fall into patterns myself where I'm like all right the squat's working for now. So like I just keep doing it doing it doing it then I rotate another one then keep doing that one and then I kind of keep occurring into the same kind of issue. But first maybe you have a deep set root cause that you should be addressing there. But you know otherwise potentially there there's some grounds for like rotating some lifts. And if you're not having a set like like we have some guys that rotate like a A B type of rotation. And yeah maybe that's enough to do it alone. Or if you're running just an A rotation maybe the next segment you have like your B rotation that you move to from there. I think for potentially isolation exercises IMean for one how many variations of a leg extension can you do? It's just a leg extension. But for like some compound work there could be some potential around there. Yeah you see it a lot more in like the squatting and then occasionally in pressing depending on the person and the injury profile. You see it a little bit less in like pulling and stuff like the need to switch based off injury profiles. But I think that kind of covers the aspects that would hold you in a program design. I think there's a pretty big conversation to be had about when is change needed. Right. We've touched on it some. What are the biggest red flags that you see in regards to like change being needed to be had? Yeah. For one I think just getting overly aggressive off what you want to do in your initial blocks. And I've been there with them thinking like we talked about this on Think of previous podcasts. Like in prep I could tren six days a week with like low volume and short sessions. And I'm not near I wasn't like peak strength. Right. So you move in the offseason food goes up gear goes up. I'm thinking like yeah six trening sessions a week. That was fine. But then like strength rapidly progresses and like on a per set basis is just a large slam of the hammer down with fatigue as well. And so it quickly like backfired. So it's like well okay you're running a six day per week session with how this is all spread out. That's almost a click rearrangement of that split design into five days. Not really. It's hard to say that's a program hop because we're not like at this stage we're not really following like a program. Right. I'm not moving from like the John Meadows program to like the whatever X Y Z program. But it's more of like that's more of a massive shift in a program rearrangement that would take place. So if you're running to where hey in you can't string together six to eight weeks of trening before needing a deload or you're running into like numerous connective tissue problems. Like it probably is you're trening beyond your recovery capacity and need to make a larger adjustment than just switching out a couple exercises or adding a set or removing a set here or there. Yeah I think the other place that you'll see it too is there are times where posts show that I think there is a revamp that's needed. A lot of times it's with your I think there's two sections of client that this happens. It's like the person who's almost across the line for the pro card and there's like one body part that really is just like keeping them from getting it. Or on the same level like the pro trying to make it to the Olympia like they've they've got some seconds and thirds and it's just like one body part that's keeping them from getting there. And this is where it's time to push the needle on that specialization of like OK this something's got to change here. Something's got to give and we've got to sacrifice progress in one area to really make this something that's competitive. And that's where the other big program hop red flag for me is is like when you're that close for that long there sometimes has to be shift to make it get across the line. And to give an example of that too like I'm working with Carlos Thomas Jr. On his programming which if you look at his quads they're ridiculous. Most of his body parts are ridiculous. And initially post show like coming from prep we were keeping food pretty low just to keep body fat low. Not a lot of recovery resource there to create like a specialized trening split. I wasn't ready to pull like his his strong body part volume like way back down to a maintenance level but also drive up the week with the week body parts with a high amount of volume either. So we are running like a push pull legs off push pull trening legs once a week into having back hit twice a week which if you know Carlos like we really want to focus on back. So now foods up gears up we're pushing a growth hormone phase but Carlos doesn't need more legs like they're enormous. Carlos also doesn't need more chest definitely doesn't need more arms his arms are crazy. So it's like delts and back that's our focus. But what is Carlos not done before and that's what I was looking at. He hasn't run like a very high volume frequency dedicated back split. So this is when the revamp happened like moving into this growth hormone phase now trening back every three days. At at which pretty much adds a whole nother session in for the week of what we were doing. Legs is now trened like once every 10 days with very low volume. So it's very just maintenance. And then we still have like delt frequency across all those sessions some delt work put into pull sessions as well. And then actual like chest arm work is far less. It's like it's like twice spread across 10 days now. So de volumization of legs and arms chest and upping delts and back. And that is like a pretty big revamp. But when you need to be like with a pro someone with that much tissue completely allocating it differently. I did the same thing with Sam Pierce. He's like 300 plus pounds in the offseason ride. He's a massive guy and a very strong guy. So again he needs to bring up like legs and back. I can't do that all in one segment. So now that that looks like an eight week block where we dedicate to legs. Then what you can do to save some of the connective tissue stuff and for being just a strong dude is switch to an eight week block of back. And we can rotate between these blocks specialization cycles. And that's kind of an advanced way of programming where you are having more of a massive shift of like the program hop. And I tell you what it's like it's being a strong dude is one of the hardest things to manage. Like you talk about coaching Sam like someone one massive like that right. Like from just a total body weight perspective but just the per set stimulus that they can provide is so high. It's like your volume shifts are so small like the ranges you can shift volume because like each set addition is just so much stimulus. It's like you're almost getting to the point where yeah you obviously need to be strong to provide a lot of stimulus to progress in bodybuilding. But there is a point where strength can be a detriment in my opinion. I'd rather be a weak bodybuilder. 100%. Like I know the goal right of like well you need to be doing more load reps over time. But I almost want to be doing the least amount of load rep progressions needed to keep growing as fast as possible. So it's like that's kind of bodybuilding in turn like yes eventually if you're big you will be doing more load reps. But the goal is not more load reps in a way. Maybe that's convoluted but I think people understand the idea. Because prepping someone that's strong when you can do like a 700 pound back squat for reps. Imagine how one set feels like. Like it's like you could bury you. Like you're still the same human nervous system wise. So versus that same person only need to do a 400 pound squat for the same level of stimulus. It's like it's much more to manage. Like the needle moves faster for fatigue and for having to like pull someone back. It's just much more dynamic. And the energy output too right is much greater too. So just a small little tangent on managing strong people. That's my fat. Is there anything else you would see like you would want to highlight within the change aspect of this podcast? Well I would say to those listening about these advanced guys doing this. Don't think that the advanced thing is the thing that advances you. Because that's you know an aspect of like you're wanting for guys that need a lot of tissue. Because I see guys that like you do have a weak body part. And you're I would want to very hesitant on moving to a very specialized split. Because you might be leaving a lot of progress on the table for these major body parts. That are going to progress you a lot faster on stage. So if you need like 20 pounds of stage weight. No you shouldn't be running like a chest trening every three days. And only trening legs once a week. Like you're not going to gain that amount of tissue onto your chest. You could probably easily just make some slight volume shifts to accomplish that job. Especially someone earlier on. There's probably a lot of execution improvements you can still be making. So you know bring in the advanced aspects and specialization. Once you're there don't start with that. Because again that's not the way to advancEQuickly. Yeah it's people want it because they want to be the advanced guy. But it's like you really don't. Because you don't realize how hard it is to progress at that point. And I tell people all the time like silhouettes win a lot of shows. Because like God silhouettes win a lot of shows. Especially at the amateur level where they're judging quick. And you get pulled to the center quicker. And you get it's just be a massive dude on stage. And or girl. Yeah it's like build out that X-frame. And speaking of program hopping. Maybe the people should hop to the X-frame program. That we sell on G3U. For the limited time off. No I'm just kidding guys. It is a good program. It is a good program. Oh goodness. Anything else? I think my biggest thing is. And boring is winning. Like it is such a hard thing to sell. But man does it produce some really good freaking athletes. Yeah winning's not boring. Winning's not boring. Making progress isn't boring. But the day-to-day tasks to win can be boring. It is. It's like well doing these same exercises that I always do. But I think the fun part of that is still like within that exercise. Trying to create the improvement. Because every time I'm in a movement. It doesn't matter what it is. I'm still like thinking about how I can improve the execution in it. And manage my session overall. So there's still like. And just the enjoyment. Like I. You should just enjoy the tren. Like keep your perspective if you're feeling bored in your session. That you're able right now to walk in the gym. On your own two feet. And tren. And have a good time. Get stronger. Get a pump. Like that is a great day. There's a. I think Renee. Bless her heart. She dropped a 45 pound plate on her toe. Doing the. A belt squat. And just fell from like three feet high. And fractured her whole toe. Right. So she's on crutches. You can barely walk on it. She can't tren right now at the moment. We're going to get her there though. Doing some isolation stuff. But. But think about it. Like what if you had a broken toe right now. You'd be. You'd be so upset. Renee wishes she could go do. The boring movements she did. Over and over and over again. So keep your perspective if you're feeling bored. In your program. Because. Bodybuilding. Greatness. Comes from a lot of just consistent monotony. Of doing the right things. And. Keep your program. Consistent. And progressive. And that's the main thing that you're looking for. And you're doing bodybuilding right. So. I think we can. Wrap it up there Luke. Next week everyone. We're going to talk about. The mistakes. Of refeeding. On a hard prep. And when you. Should probably be doing something. Else instead of refeeding. That's your teaser. That we'll cover next time. So anyway. Thank you everyone for tuning in. And we will see you next week.