 The abordings, on that assessment that took place. This is course with the goal of improving from your first show and not focusing on the wrong things and bringing in a similar or even a worse look. Luke, how are you doing today? Pretty good, man. Peak show season. Doing this a lot with people doing a few shows kind of back to back. So the peak refinement process is an interesting one because the visuals get a little bit fluid. They do like to kind of move kind of show to show. And so it's pretty important what you do immediately post show to kind of make sure that you're landing that peak for the next one in a pretty good spot. So I'm excited to dive into this one. Yeah, I think our first step here in this process, and if you're coming off stage yourself, is to be able to, of course, look back at your past peak week data and what you were able to bring to stage. And you can, of course, do this yourself looking at your stage picks or even comparatively, like I like to look at kind of the last final check-in photos before going to stage and how that trenslated to stage. And then also even the same check-in time, like for instance, if I was going on stage around 2 p.m. and I had a check-in at 12 the day before when I was practicing that peak around 12, like did I actually get pretty close to look I was aiming for or not? And retrospectively, when you look back, you might see like, oh, you know what? I was a little bit flat here or I should have been, I was a little too full. But I think the main thinGHere is that you are able to look objectively at stage picks and judging feedback can be a great tool. And I think we have some great judges in our midst right now that can give you good feedback on where they saw the errors, whereas they're the ones that are looking straight on at you in real time in 3D, not based on 2D images or even photos that might distort what I was actually seeing in person. I see that a lot too. Like you get your stage photos back. You're like, gosh, did I really, really look like that? And maybe you were more nailed than what you thought you were. Yeah. I think, I think really the biggest thing too, is like making sure when you're trying to look at stage photos that you look at high resolution ones, I hate the cell phone pictures. Like I get it. Like when you're at the show and you just want somEQuick photos, like just to post up or whatever, like thEQuick cell phone photos are fine. But like for an actual assessment, it's not what we're going to need in order to be able to create kind of a comparison chart of what actually needs to improve. And because it's like one of the biggest things like, like someone that needs to get a little bit sharper between shows using cell phone pictures, thinking that they don't, it's because like that cell phone picturEQuality makes you look a little bit sharper. Right. So, um, there's, there's some, some big details in regards to making sure that you get as high quality photos as you can, but man, nothing beats being in person. Um, and I really think it's, it's important to make sure that portion of the assessment process is handled well. To, to your point on that, like I've had people post up there or send me even their like cell phone pic photos in on as an individual and you're like, all right, well, how'd you look on the same playing field of photos amongst everyone else? So we go to like the NPC news website, look at the comparisons and find the guy that was like really, really in shape under that same crappy lighting or photos that maybe took place and be like, Oh, see, they were a lot more in shape. And that's on that even playing field of photography and lighting, you look soft in that lineup. And so maybe, maybe that's something to go about. If you don't have like awesome photos, at least compare amongst your lineup to see if condition was something that you were getting docked for. Then of course, from the muscularity side, you can compare amongst your class too. And that's something that could be a little easier to see, but I think just don't look at yourself as an individual because you could look very, very good. But when you start getting exposed and what it matters is how you fare amongst people that you stand next to. I think it also is important if you are getting judges feedback to be able to discern what sometimes that terminology might be because sometimes you might hear a lot of times you need to be fuller or you need to be drier. And I think these are two that arEQuite easily misinterpreted. And you know, they're thrown out from a judge as they don't know what your check-in photos were like leading up to the show and what your level of muscularity was or level of body fat. They easily could be using those terms when that's not the thing to necessarily address root cause. So a lot of times you might hear you need to be drier being that assuming like, oh, I should cut more water. I was holding water when almost nine times out of 10, I would say, if you hear the dryer, just assume you need to get leaner because almost everyone I see on stage, it's usually a body fat issue. So if you, that can make things very, very clear for you, I think. Um, also if someone says, Hey, you need more fullness and X body part. That usually just means you need to add more muscle on. It's not that you need to carb up more strategically or you underdid the carbs. Usually it's add more muscle. Now that's not always the case. Um, again, that's where you start have to like look at photos and look to see if you were lighter on stage and not as conditioned as your check-in photos. And potentially that was mean you were a little flat and could be fuller. Uh, but that condition had to be there beforehand when you were in, see it not trenslated to stage. Uh, same thing goes with the, the dryer piece. So if you were conditioned before going on stage, looked hard and then you were heavier and softer on stage, likely you got a little too full. And in turn were a little spilled and potentially that looked like you were holding water. So I think that gives you at least some idea framework of visuals you should be looking at. And based on that is where we should start saying what needs to happen next. 100%. We made some, like we made some great kind of step-by-steps on like the specifics of how every single potential process could look like between shows, like in the coursework. But, um, one of the big ones that I see is like stringing along shows for a national qualifier, let's say, and you're showing up to your regional, maybe not a hundred percent, knowing that you're showing up 90, 95% just to kind of get your qualification and move on. One of the biggest things if fat needs to come off from like that show is making sure one, that you have enough time on the timeline to finish the dieting process, which is where we're going to be looking at the rate of loss you ran into the original show. And then the amount of time that you have left between that show and the next show. And then secondarily, um, making sure that you get back to like homeostasis as quick as possible. Um, one of the worst things you could do when you have more fat to come off is to go celebrate. In my opinion, um, I understand like the desire to like have food off plan or celebrate with friends and family. And, and I get that, but when we have a job to finish, like we really need to finish the job because like one night of eating could set you back a week and a half pretty easily. Um, and it's, it's one of the hardest things to keep control with an athlete. Who's not like fully clicked on most of the fully clicked on athletes. It's, it's not a problem. They know what the role of the first show is for the second show. Right. But, um, it's, it's kind of the two biggest things in regards to checking your rate of loss into the first show, matching that to how much time you have between the second, the first and the second show. And then also making sure you get back to homeostasis so you can get back to doing your job. And those are two, I almost feel like I need to reiterate those points because they're, they are that important and people don't get that timeline. Um, and I, to, to the celebration meal, I, IMean, just between myself and likely for you, Luke, I feel like if I was out of shape on stage, there's nothing to be celebrated. Exactly. I, I'm, I'm going to have lettuce for my celebration for my punishment meal. No, just kidding. But anyway, Luke has excellent points here. Like you need to get directly on a plan. If you have more fat to, to, to allow us to happen. And this is even more so to a point, if you don't have a lot of weeks between your show, because, uh, um, a meal out, I've seen meals out where people, it takes them a week to get back to their baseline. That's one week lost that you could be pulling off more body fat. And then to Luke's point as well, what do you, you know, looking back at what was the rate of fat loss that you could achieve with the deficit that you had available to you? If you're able to drop off one pound per week, this comes down to math, right? If it looks like you're on stage and you have four more pounds to pull off to actually be stage lean, you need four weeks of active dieting time from that baseline weight you went into peak week from that's not counting. If you went out and had food off plan as well, cause that just adds additional weeks. So now you have four weeks of fat loss on top of a peak week. So that might look like five weeks. So we basically need to re-engineer the timeline and reverse engineer it, work backwards and make sure that you can pull down in time. The, the thing that some might look at is like, if I have, well, I need four weeks of diet time. I have seven weeks between the show. How should I handle that? And I would be more apt that if I was not in shape for the first show that I rather get there sooner and be able to feed up into the next show as that's just a better position than feeding when you're not in shape yet. And then maybe potentially still running out of time if you weren't able to manage your timeline in the first place. So if you're in that situation, keep dieting first, then you'll have the luxury of coasting in with low fatigue and more food into that next show. Yeah. Just get it done. Like just get it done. Get it over with. Like one of my pet peas is like the fear of like losing tissue, being ready early. It's like, how are you going to lose tissue if you're pulling back cardiovascular activity, giving yourself more food and helping support trening performance, leading into like you're literally doing everything to drive tissue retention at that point. So just get it over with, like get the fat loss done and then coast and get some peak data. Yeah. Yeah. Losing tissues, running out of time and having to race it off at the end. So that, that is the worst case there. Then there is, you know, what you need to do post show, uh, should be reflected in your PD changes. Like, so if you need more fat loss to happen and have continuing diet time with lower recovery capacity, what you change PD wise is going to reflect that. So you're going to have to have still in anabolics at a dosage level that allows you to maintain that tissue. Uh, likely you're still going to have in fat loss agents that support that deficit that you needed, but that would flip then if that is not the goal anymore. Post, post show, uh, same goes for, I don't think we need to dive into the nuts and bolts of it, but the nutrition side, the cardio side, like all those is going to be going towards what is the next goal you need to achieve for this show. If fat loss is what needs to happen around that. 100%. Um, I think that covers more fat loss between shows though. I think, no, I think it does. I think our next thing that would come up, it'd be, what if you nailed the look at your show? What do you do then celebration meal all out? Preferably not. Um, again, it, some of it's going to depend like how much time you have between shows like, um, like I'll give an example, Alex Kaylee did Toronto and then his next show wasn't until Vancouver and he nailed it for Toronto. And we had like, I think it was seven weeks or eight weeks between Toronto and Vancouver, something like that. So it was like, yeah, like go have a meal. Like we'll get back to dieting, get it back down. And then we'll be able to kind of start letting off the gas quite a bit. We had already let off the gas quite a bit leading into Toronto. Um, but it's, it's largely kind of contextual to that. I would say sub, sub two weeks. I'm, I'm really not wanting that to happen. Like if it's a two week time period, like we need to get back to diet plan, kind of wash off anything that may have happened from the loading, hit the reset button and then get back to it. And more than likely your base plan is going to be higher food, lower cardio. And like, that's just kind of your celebration. My opinion. I think if you are, thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results, along with our comprehensive physique curriculum. You'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Newer with an athlete as a coach or newer as an athlete to the process. And you don't know what to expect or haven't seen your response to certain foods. That would definitely be the safe bet to go with like, yeah, for my, like for myself, when you go for myself, don't do what I do. I have, I have one week between Tampa and Texas. Right. So I was in shape after the show. I went ahead, sushi, like two rolls, no sauce of fish, rice. That's it. Um, and then I had like some, I think it was a quarter cup of ice cream. Like I could, I could fit this little Ben and Jerry's thing, like in, in like the palm of my hand. So that was it. The next day I, I, in two days following, I'm already at baseline. Like there was no impact because that day of the show, I only ate two meals. So there's context there that I was, you know, you know, didn't consume nearly the calories that I normally would for the day and had a very small meal relative to what I normally consume. And I know my response. That's the thing. That's the kicker. I know my response. So safe thing, do what Luke said. If you just don't have a lot of time between your show, just go back to your base plan. Um, and then you can post show when it's truly post show time, have your meal, you can see your response and then you can kind of learn as you go from there. Yeah. Um, but, uh, the thinGHere is, you know, two is with, if you have nailed the look, um, you essentially could be coasting into that next show. Uh, and, but I would say like, are there areas where you still can be improvement in refining your peaking process? That's when you also be refining your posing that could be on stage. Like where, where shots, are you able to improve? Um, this might be a situation where you are going to be able to come in fuller because you're not coming off that completely dieted down state. So you might be able to push that fullness variable a little harder, potentially. Um, a lot of people, we kind of aim to be conservative on the first show. And then if able, able to push that up and some people keep pulling down and getting even a little leaner into the next show with more food. If you're in a leaner state, you will have more ability to have a greater weight range to where you can stay conditioned and get fuller. So you very well can improve in that variable too. Um, as far as adding muscle on, don't let that, uh, take you to do things that you shouldn't do in your programming because your ability to add tissue on, even if you had eight weeks between a show is so, so limited. Um, IMean, if, if you even added a pound of muscle on like, wow, you're, you're amazing. Uh, but likely it's going to be a change of like glycogen and water fullness that's coming about if there is a significant change in some stage weight. So with that being said, this is still not the time to like rework your trening split up. A judge gave you feedback that you need to bring up some body part, still save that for the offseason. Um, because that's just not the time and you don't have the ability to really drive that type of change to occur. So don't let that misguide you into digging yourself into a hole, trying to bring up certain body parts. Um, that's, that's, I would be a big thing to add on to the, the trening piece. Yeah. And I think it's like, I think more what you're looking for with those longer time durations between shows is potentially some sort of recomp of some sort where you kind of have that more flexibility on the peaking. Um, sometimes that comes with like, you know, it's, it's happened like the accidental lows where you're just like kind of coasting on your plan and you just kind of wake up one day, like two and a half pounds lighter. And it's like, oh, okay, like we can handle more food and plug that in. And then you kind of bring them back up and it looks even better than what they did when they were there before the new low. Right. So, um, it's an interesting dynamic to manage. I think really the biggest thing is maintaining recovery capacity, not trying to push volume on the trening side, especially like one of the worst things you could do would be to try to step on the gas, trying to recomp and like get more trening volume in and make your peaking process tougher. Like that's where I could see you making some pretty big mistakes. The other thing that I would be testing too, if you had this scenario was like higher growth hormone hormone hormone, um, tend to find that like with the peaking process, you can tolerate it a bit more. Um, once you're already there and you're kind of spending time there. So like, and I'll just use Alex as an example. I think we had, we had four IUs going into Toronto, but we had eight in for Vancouver. It's like just so much more fullness could be maintained. And as a result, like the loading process for Vancouver was a lot less food, um, because he has to make weight. So we like, we kind of like hold off a bit during the week until he makes weight. And then we kind of just kind of go into the show. Um, and so those are like the small variables that I'm looking at on those long breaks. If you didn't nail it with the first one is like titrating up and down some of those small things to make peaking as easy as possible. Yeah. Even on the gear side, like if you were using agents better for muscle retention, like running some tren balloon into your first show, which is great to retain tissue and you're, you got lean and now you can have more food in place post-show. You don't need to die anymore. Well, you don't really need, need have the role for trim balloon anymore. Like pull that out less cumulative organ stress could likely improve sleep potentially. And that's just going to lead to a better fresher physique as well. Uh, same thing goes with oral steroids, especially long-term. Oh yeah. So a lot, a lot of those are used just acutely in the last stages of prep to retain tissue and trening performance. Food is going to be your biggest driver of trening performance. So if that's up and you've been in shape, you can really go ahead and pull those out. So a lot of times you might see someone just on a test base and some type of one other anabolic agent and some growth hormone hormone hormone leading into their next show, which sets them up for a great post-show period because they haven't had to run the gauntlet for another eight weeks into their, their next show. So again, what you need for stage dictates what you have to do PD wise. So I think a lot of people have like, well, what I ran into the first show to give me that look is what I have to keep doing. And that's just looking at it the wrong way is that this should still keep evolving because this next phase is still going to be a different environment and different needs than this last phase. So you should adjust those things accordingly. Same thing goes with use of a fat loss agent, for instance, like clingbuterol. So if you don't need to create more deficit, you don't probably need clingbuterol anymore. And there is a balance to strike there, of course, with like how much cardio to how much food, how much fat loss agent trying to create that sweet spot ratio to where cardio is not that fatiguing. You have enough food for fuel trening, but also you're not using so much fat burner that's impacting, uh, sleep. Right. So, and you know, Luke said something that might've thrown some people for a loop that he was able to use less food in peak week. And I think a lot of people always think more food is better for, for dieting to shows or for even loading, especially. And I'll tell you right now, like less food is better for a lot of reasons. Uh, for one, you need to be able to control your waste on stage. Uh, more food creates more variability as well. So if you, you know, you can peak on less food, I would, I would take that over needing to load even more food and having someone get away from you. Uh, in that sense. Yeah. I look at it as like the low food peak is the stable peak. Like I've gotten them to a place that's a lot of stability. So it's like, it's easy to get them in that range and hold them there. And that's like, so ideal. It's like, let's show runs on time besides the pros where they'll like stop the show and put them on stage. Right. But like, yeah, it's just, it makes it so easy to manage. And you know, I feel like that is the, the main thing of going to your next show, but I think there's a thing to learn too, from that first peak is time management within just show day itself. And you'll quickly learn doing this, that it's so variable with show times and even how long you might be out there and trying to take that look that you found and land that in the moment. And the more variability you're peaking strategy is what IMean by that. If you're using diuretics and cutting water and you've found just this cusp riding the line of the look that could fall off at any moment, you're more likely to fall off when you have a timeline that could get stretched. I see this, especially for pro shows, right? Like for Tampa, there's like 21 competitors, right? We all get like a one minute posing time for an individual. That's 21 minutes just for that part of the show. That doesn't count like your comparisons that come first, then your call outs, then confirmation of some call outs easily, easily. That's an hour. Can you hold that for an hour? If you have some peak that created just you're on the line of tipping at any moment, most guys will fade out and you see that happen. So it's a better peaking process that you'll learn this, that you can find a greater stability in your look with less variable manipulation. And it may be that line that you found of like, you know, the more variable peak does create a better look, but it's for like a 1% gain that could fall off to a 20% loss at any moment. And that's not worth it. So to, to further the point here, it's like coming from like the Tampa show, I kind of realized that not that I do vast variability changes, but that it's better to go in a little fuller, like for myself and be able to sustain that. Yeah. Cause once I get flat, it's my look fades. So a long posing time is going to be more impactful. Now that, that is that the pro level. So when you're at the amateur level, uh, you're going to have shorter stage time for sure, but you're going to have much more variability when you go on stage because they just kind of push amateurs around as you need to for the timeline. Um, for, for pros, it's like, we'll start here. However, it might go for a long time. So I think those are things that you should be picking up on is, uh, is, is the acute timeline of the show and realizing that you're trying to get someone to a look that you can hold them pretty consistently without having to do a lot. And that's a part of the big goal that we, Luke and I try to find is this, this kind of body weight range where someone can look really good. What's the top end and the bottom end of that. And so it would be a safer to say, to go put them into the show at the top end. And then as they go through the rounds or if the show goes long, if they even trensition to the bottom end of this weight range, where they still look really solid, they're still good on stage. Yeah. And so that's, uh, that, that is our, our peak week and what we're trying to find. So a second peak just furthers, allows you to refine that process. Um, and I think a lot of that process has to, and Luke and I will go on and on to about being relatively meticulous with your data collection. So you can actually look back at this stuff and you have the pictures that match with the meals and how much fluid you had with those meals. So you can actually compare things. And, uh, you know, I always tell people, I just collect as much data as you need to be able to do your job. Uh, nothing in excess. So, but there, there is going to be more than what's probably needed. That's been done in the past from, from old ways of coaching. Um, because I, I've left shows with like, we, we got to look on stage, but we don't really know how we got there. We have nothing to really look back on to make decisions off of. So that's why I like Luke and I, we have our peak week trackers. It's something we give out to you in J three level one. So you have those available. You'll learn how to use them as well to where you can look back in your peaks and be able to make some decisions and keep actually improving. 100%. I, I, I think when we think about this, like if in doubt, like always default to the data, like, and I don't want to bring up a point that he just brought up again, it's just like, it's so objective and it's so reliable. Like it's, it, it always tells you the truth. And like, I, I even for like Emily King, like she's on her fourth show in a row. And it's like, I keep going back to data from Austin, which was like four weeks ago. And like comparing that to now, because I'm getting weights that look better now than they did then. And it's like, am I blind or am I, what am I seeing? Right. And so, man, it's so important to keep track of that stuff because you can just do so many comparisons and confirm or deny what you're seeing actually in front of you. Yeah. And a lot of this you'll, you'll find too, that to really improve your process, you just need consistent photos and you'll, I'll have a video coming out on my YouTube on, on the Tampa weekend of how to do this. So I show exactly what my setup is for taking photos and being consistent with those photos. These aren't my Instagram photos that are going to like, wow, these are going to look so cool. These are ones that I can have consistent lighting on and good assessment off of. So being able to do that when you set up your hotel and taking things with you, like whatever lights you need or tripod and, uh, you know, good quality camera, like all those things are important. Like I gave up on using the cell phone, uh, like on show show weeks and for show days and stuff. Cause it's just, the iPhones are a mess for distortion. Yeah. So I just, I bring my actual, like I have a Canon R seven or R eight that I use. Um, and I'll, I'll take with that quickly drop wifi to my phone and can look at picks. It's not a big deal. Um, a little bit of cost investment, but for how much I put into bodybuilding, it's worth it. Get yourself a good camera. You don't need a, you don't need anything even fancy, just something beyond what the iPhone can do and not auto correct your, uh, your photos and leave you look at weird highlighted Shane or something. So I think that wraps it up for today. What we got next week. Yeah. Next week. Uh, well, since we've, we've been nailing these peak weeks and post and post show initial phases will be, uh, the art of the rebound. So we're going to extend beyond we're doing multiple shows and talk about how do you build after the show, harness that anabolic rebound and go from there. Love it. Thank you everyone for tuning in and we will talk to you next week.