 geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez geez bread and butter of what we really shine for in J3U of creating a methodical approach that takes back control of your peak week and stops rolling the dice or the diazide or whatever you want to gamble with and gives you a structured framework to create decisions that lead you to on show day being able to execute a plan and not just hoping to wake up looking reasonable for stage. So Luke and I are going to kind of walk through a few of these things that really stand out mistakes made and how to rectify those mistakes. So let's jump in Luke. How are you doing? A lot of peak week happening for you too. I know this won't come out for a while but we're already four pro cards deep this year with the team so that's a nice feeling. It's a nice feeling. I think one of the biggest things that's underlooked when you look at how we manage these variables is how come the coach can stay knowing what's going to happen. The way that you manage yourself and react to things and provide feedback to the client can largely affect their stress input or their stress output as well. And when you have it set up like we do and you fully know you can move the physique whatever direction you want based on the decisions you make, it makes life so much less stressful and calm and you don't like affect the client negatively. And I think that's an overlooked aspect of this. It's not even on our sheet for today but like before you dive into the nuts and bolts of how to run a peak week, it's like man, it's so important to just execute as a coach and not affect the client negatively. And by doing it this way, you can do that. No, that's very true. Like when I was first competing and getting exposed to peak week by other coaches, you know, you get to this point where you're like, all right, you look like you're ready. And then it's like, all right, peak week starts here. And I was so excited for peak week because for one, it was kind of mystified in that something amazing was going to be happening. Um, I, yet to have things go like terribly wrong for me. Uh, that was later to come to where there was a point then too, where you're like, man, all right, how do I figure out this peak week? Once mistakes had been made, I'd seen those to where peak week was no longer kind of an excitement thing. It was like, how do you not mess it up these, these last few days. And that created a lot of stress around me trying to assess and figure it out. And what should I do? What should I, I not do? And now like, you know, fast forward with, with our clients, it's almost kind of lackluster when you get to your peak week, because it's like, all right, you're looking ready. We're, we're starting to reverse the process and there's not going to be this big radical change that most of us are, are making it all. And I think that can open the eyes of a lot of clients. Cause I get a lot of clients that they want the radical thing, right. I'm like, here we go. Like, this is when I'm going to like really mutate and it's, it's not there, but I've said so many people when you're kind of leading into this peak week and we're looking at the various looks and you're like, you could walk on stage just like this. And they're like, yeah, that would be awesome. And then we see that every single day to where by the time we do it up on, on show day, it's a very controlled thing. And they're confident in what they're bringing. They've already seen like glimpses of that. And so I think it does remove a lot of the stress and also just the planning piece for them. Cause I know it shows there's a lot kind of going maybe in depth of what we might be discussinGHere, but there's a lot of outside variables that could change, right? Like scheduling. And when you have a, a program protocol, that's already moving parts on top of a moving schedule, it just feels like there's a loss of control on the client side. So if we have like a plan that's already been pretty figured out when the environment starts changing or things shift around, it's not as dynamically alarming for the client either, but yeah, anyway, not you're, you'recompletely right. I think that's a great framework of the improving the psychological stress reduction that can take place. But, you know, I think this gets into the real role, right? Peak week is refining and not getting to a fixing point of view, which sometimes it happens. But I think if you want to kind of lead us away, Luke on, you know, what is our overarching framework goal of what we're looking to peak week when we have getting that client skinned out, they're lean, they're ready. What should that look like from there? Yeah. So for me, it's, it's a matrix system, right? It's like, how can I keep these variables as consistent as possible to produce a change in the physique that I want to see to move it towards the target look? Um, and a lot of times that matrix is like X amount of food, X amount of fluid will hold weight, X amount of food, X amount of fluid will jump weight, X amount of fluid, X amount of food will pull weight down. Um, and you do this kind of based off like how things go throughout the peak week and you kind of understand where that's at. And we have some, some fun stuff coming out for y'all soon, kind of centered around this. But a lot of times it's, you don't, you want to avoid some of the classical errors of like panic button changes. So panic button changes are going to be like massive refeeds or trying to plug in a ton of food last minute or overcutting water. Cause you're worried about someone being a little bit full or spilled over, um, these last minute changes type of things. And if you have this matrix that I build for every client going into a peak week, what ends up happening is you can assess where the client's at. You can know when they have to go on stage and you know where you need them to be the night before bed. And this comes from weight tracking through the week. Um, if any of you guys have seen my chart, I have a chart that does like a fasted, a post-workout slash time around stage weight, and then a pre-bed weight. And I track that all week. I know where they need to go to bed. I know where they need to wake up. And I know based on where they wake up, what food amount is going to jump them or hold them based on where they wake. So even if they wake up a bit fuller, a pound heavier, no panic. I just go to the lower side of the matrix. Right. And, and building this matrix, I think is the big thing. And I think if we can start to build the matrix, then you just have so much control. Absolutely. Because hopefully they don't figure out they could take the red or blue pill and escape the matrix back into past. Sorry. I just had to plug that, um, or take both pills. Um, anyway, no, you're right. Like I do, I do the same thing, obviously doing the same thing. Uh, but we, we give you all this in the J three level one, we have our peak week lectures and we, we give you a lot of these tools that we're talking about, but around that time, seven, 10 days out, I shoot this over to my clients that lay out. It's, you know, like a sheet document day by day. It'll have different body weights that I want tracked. And with those body weights, I'm getting their visuals too. So I'm, I usually want to fasted like a post-workout a lot of times. I'll do like a pre last meal and then a last meal, uh, the pre bed as a start point. So I can see some various looks throughout the day. And then I'll also have like their diet in there. I'll lay out the trening. So they're going to know ahead. Cause a lot of people bring up, what should I tren on this day? Or I'm traveling on this day. So like that's already mapped out fluids are in sodium are documented on this. So every day I can see like what's being done, their steps as well. And then we have another document too, that once we get even closer to the show, we'll break this out meal by meal. So we'll have, I'll have a chart by weights by meal pre 30 minutes before every meal. I'll have their fluids laid out. Like Luke's talking about, like we want this all to be consistent on the same page here. So if you're doing six and a half liters per day, I have in this document, like before meal one, 500 mils with meal one X amount between each meal, this amount. So we know exactly the consistency that needs to happen to be able to be repeatable day to day and assess these visuals. And that starts the framework to be able to then have the data to make these decisions and without makinGHasty decisions. And I think that's where we would get into these classic errors is where they come from is not having this matrix present to where you don't have a clear of us understanding of why a change happened. And then you're reactive to that change potentially for the wrong way. Example of this, the, the panic refeed, you have a client, they wake up two days out. Let's say they have a two and a half pound weight drop. Oh no. Like they're, they're getting like, and maybe even their way for that day is not coming up as high. Like they're starting to like speed up. I need to put more food in. And that's when you have like, well, what would I be doing for the refeeds? Well, I'll do, I'll repeat that. Then one day out, they wake up even, even spilled. You're like, Oh no, I shouldn't have done that refeed. That was way too much. Now you're clening them up on one day out. And if you had this matrix and you can look back on how their weight was changing throughout the day, three days out, then also looking back over their diet of what maybe you changed, you could have a clear picture to assess and create a proper protocol. I have people that drop like this, you know, over overnight. And a lot of times it's cause we like made a fiber adjustment. Um, and you know, that's documented. And then we have about BMs happen or whatever it may be to where I can clearly say, here's where that weight drop came from. And this is the decision. Sometimes that might be more food. Other times it's do nothing. And we just had a, that weight range we work in for what we want for the look, just adjust down now. And we have a new fasting starting point. So that's like part of where we see some reactivity of like increasing more food. Uh, same thing goes the opposite of the spectrum, right? Look like we have someone wake up heavier and they look softer. And a lot of times like, Oh man, okay, well we need to start maybe one day out. We should probably pull water or it might prompt the diuretic use. Yeah. It's like, well, if you can't say like, why, why did their weight jump? And that root issue should be the one that you're addressing over symptom chasing. And that's what we don't want to be doing on peak week. We always want root cause and address that versus just the side effects. Because if you're addressing side effects, that root cause could very well still be working the background and you could be compounding the problem. So the matrix begins the matrix, all of this process. I think there's a component of this and I see these mistakes made kind of throughout the last portion of the peak is like the assessment piece is not done very well because they don't understand that the matrix that they may have built is not truly religious to those body weights. Like you got to take into account like the fatigue drop and the fiber drop and knowing that we're going to drop some GI weight. And the worst one is when you go get the tan. And we all know this, like you take the natty photos when you're like pale and you got the sunlight coming in and you look shredded and it's just like, you can see everything. And then you go get your coats of tan on and you're in some crappy hotel lighting and it's dark outside. So you're like doing the hallway lighting or, um, you know, even your ring light that you have isn't quite bright enough for the consistent setup for check-in photos that you typically do. And coaches then react to that because of the layers of tan that are on there and makes you look dull. It looks dull. Right. And so this is another thing that it's like sticking to your guns. Like when you do this and you build out this matrix, instead of being reactive, like you can know, okay, this weight is ideal. It's exactly where he was yesterday. And I know that if I just keep down this path, he's going to go to bed at this way and he's going to wake up here and I'm going to have a physique on stage. It's perfect. And I need to not react to the fact that somebody got one, two, three layers of tan on and just doesn't have enough lighting to show it. And I can't tell you how many times, like you get excited for clients and you want to post like, you know, three hours out, two hours out photos because you're like excited and you want to put it on your story or whatever. But then you just, you get them and you don't put them up because you know, like they look a hundred times better than these check-in photos and you just want to wait for them to get on stage. It's like, this is part of that assessment piece is like having that matrix allows you to stick to the fact that even just like changes in environment, like getting check-in photos when you go to your tan, like you're going to be taking it in different lighting. And that's a part of the assessment piece that I think is huge in the process that that matrix can really support. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. We have a cool visual in our level one lectures where I show you like, these are some of my photos, different tan versus no tan versus different lighting as I'm kind of moving around the hotel and into the venue. And, uh, it's all relatively around the same body weight, but, but visually it looks very different. And you're like, this one looked like, man, you look six weeks out to this, this one looking like you're, you're shredded out of your mind. And so you need to understand that. And that's a trened eye thing. And that's why we give you some of these tools in J three, you to help you get a step up on trening the eye, but yeah, it's recalibrating your peak week goggles. So it's like, okay, this is the new set point of how a tan looks on this client. And that's what I compare off to relatively to knowing at this body weight, that's when they still look their best. Yeah. I've this last show, a show with a client I had, I know he always looks just really washed out flat. And, uh, even with the tan the whole time I'm watching, like, man, the whole time we don't look ready, but I've seen him in good light with how it should be on stage. So I know that's there at that body weight. And the whole time I'm just like, yes, all these pics look pretty bad, but I'm going off the weight now. Yeah. And it goes on stage, get back the photos. I'm like, yes, like right on. It was, it was nailed because of this. And so I didn't let, you know, that just the visuals getting skewed by poor lighting and tan on to change what I was going to be doing. I think that's a, that's a huge one. And, uh, that, that we've all had to come to realize with just experience, um, and not letting that throw you for a loop is a, is a huge one. Um, regarding, uh, trening cardio. Yeah. So, you know, this is a piece a lot of people ask about in Luke did a great job in our, our, our new, our peak week courses and trening modules of laying out, you know, where a client's coming from and the degree of how much you need to pull back within your trening versus not. So we have some different client situations where you have the guy that's, or girl that's been just dug, dug down where you maybe didn't have the timeline you wanted. And so they're coming into peak week, pretty fatigued. So you need to take a pretty big drop off the front end to get them to a low fatigue spot. So that might mean a larger reduction trening volume. If you've been doing three sets, we're moving down to one set and then the RIR could be pretty high. And then that same goes for the cardio piece might need some rest days in there with just only steps where we have another situation. The other extreme, you got someone ready ahead. You've been able to literally increase food and reduce cardio or steps to where the, now they're in this, they're just like really comfortable maintenance place and trening is extremely manageable. They recover great. Their lifts are progressing again now. So do I need to deload if someone's in that position? Like, no, we just continued nearly the same trening plan all the way into the show. It would just, of course, some slight reductions as we get close to the, uh, you know, a few days out, but that's like kind of our two extremes. So what is the peak week trening protocol? It's like, well, it's a spectrum depending on where the client's coming from. And if y'all are seeing the tren here, it's all about the assessment of the client and then making decisions based around that. And so with the idea of that on the output side, getting them to a low fatigue state, that's kind of really what we're centered around for the trening piece on, on peak week. And then as far as the muscle retention side, it's like, you know, it doesn't take much to retain tissue. That's not really the idea. Um, some people bring up and maybe we'll throw this one to you, Luke around some mistakes that are made around trening, which maybe we talk about, you know, depletion workouts, um, or pump up workouts or, um, maybe other things that you see that maybe not have a place. Yeah, I think, um, I think really the big one is like the depletion sessions to me just don't make sense. Like, especially if you've been trening a certain way, like not only the entirety of all season, but the entirety of contest prep, like there's things we can do from a reps and reserve and a total stimulus perspective to lower it and actually produce a better physique. And you're just emptying the bucket to fill it back up. Like it's not going to present a better look unless you're like having to push someone to the very end, which is like that one end of the spectrum where you're like pushing someone until the Monday of peak week, and then just deloading them the last few days into the show. But that's kind of like the extreme side, right? And I think that's kind of where we need to understand that we build the timelines and why we preach the timelines is so that the peak week is the easiest thing to manage. And because when you have someone who's ahead and is ready ahead and is coming back up, like Emily King's a great example of this. Like she had a low body weight of like 61 kilos. John, you've seen her photos, right? Like 63 kilos is like a little too sharp for wellness. Like I'm going to put her on stage a bit up, up from that. But it's like I've brought her back up with food being pretty high. Like she hasn't had below 300 grams of carbs in like a week and a half. And so she's just pretty much trening normal as she kind of heads into the show. I gave her one to two reps in reserve with removal of a leg press like four days out. And she'll do like a modification, a modified version of her session on Thursday before the Saturday show. And then she'll walk on stage and it's just the same trening split and pretty much nothing that would be too different. And this is really where I think we don't have to make it special. Like it's just, you don't have to tren full bore, just taper in the RIR throughout the week. And if you do it on the front end by preparing the, the, the prep well, that's where you really kind of set yourself up for trening on peak week to be super simple. Um, it's just, it's so overcomplicated and it's just, you just get it on the front end. Yeah. Yeah. I get, IMean, our idea here, right. Is like front end of peak week, you deplete down glycogen. So in turn, when you, you could super compensate glycogen and that's a great idea. A lot of that comes from like the endurance world where the visuals don't have any application, it's pure function. So you absolutely could load a ton of glycogen, a muscle doing it that way. Um, if you looked at some of the more late, later research around that, that they're saying like depletion workouts don't even really need to happen. Um, and again, in a bodybuilder, you're already in a relatively depleted state. So you don't really need to deplete farther and dig a hole just to fill the hole back in. But here's the kicker is that in these endurance super compensation studies, they're not looking at visuals, like what actually looks good on stage. So anytime that I've seen someone like truly like super compensate glycogen, which you're really looking at someone that went into that post-show kind of phase, it is not something you could put on stage. Um, more typical is someone that's at a maintenance calorie level and maybe is one or two meals in with some carbs and fluid. And that's about as full as you could put someone on stage before you start taking detriments to the look of condition. So when I see these protocols where it's deplete, load hard, there's usually having to be a follow back with a further, like a refinement day, dry out day, or it's taken so far that you have to use a diuretic to pull the water off from the super compensation and glycogen with the idea of like, oh man, we're going to fill out the dry out. Then we're going to be fuller, but it'll have all that inside the muscle and no water outside the muscle. And guys, it doesn't work like that. Like your, your glycogen water reservoir is not devoid from all the other fluid compartments. So if you dehydrate, you're still reducing water within that glycogen storage component. So you can't just fill the muscle and then dehydrate it, only lose water outside the muscle. It does, it does not work like that. That's one of the biggest mistakes and misunderstandings around physiology that I see made. But a lot of it starts when we're talking about here with this trening piece of needing to deplete. So you don't need to deplete for the aesthetic point of getting someone full enough to go on stage. It's simply getting them to maintenance and seeinGHow much food in do they really need and fluid to then walk on stage. And we see this so much with our, with our peaks and watching these weight trens of why we do it throughout the day is to find how full can we get someone before we lose some lines. Colton, our J3U coach, like I've been watchinGHim and he's come down to a low of like 188 and he can go to bed at 194, six pounds up. I haven't even sent you these look to see yet. And there's like minimal loss of anything condition wise, a little bit in the front of thEQuads. I wouldn't put them on stage with that 194, but man, his back looks like I just pumped it full. Like it's, it's like, it looks like he had a whole offseason between these photos. Um, and, and that's just following a maintenance diet of what I've been doing with them. 500 grams of carbs has been maintaininGHis body weight. So now I know how much I can bring them up before I start losing anything. And so do I need all of a sudden to put in 2000 grams of carbs to load them? Like, no, why would I do that? I already know off this same maintenance diet that he gets plenty full to go on stage. So it's just a furthering the point here that, you know, a lot of these protocols of deplete, low, dry, you can do them, but there's a lot of moving parts and it takes away a lot of days that you could have on peak week to keep assessing the look because depletion days, it's going to be hard to assess, right? You're gonna have someone look really, really flat throughout the day. You're not going to see their best look. Then you're going to load them and maybe you catch a good visual and wait around that loading period, but then you're going to keep going back to a Friday or one day out where who knows where they're going to land. Um, it kind of brings some variability there. And then you're hoping to get them back on show day to that look you maybe found while you're loading them. And so it's just a lot of moving parts and unnecessary of loading to find that look where we could easily do it with just a simplified approach. So I feel like I'm tangenting back on the, uh, a little bit on the nutrition side of it, but it all ties in with, with this trening piece. And other thing, Luke, around this too, is the, you know, diet, digestion point. Yeah. That would be a big impact too on peak week. And we know a lot of people struggle having bowel movements leading into shows and, uh, with bringing in large amounts of carbohydrate or, or even shifts in the type of foods that you're using. So we see some pretty random foods come into peak week. And I've, I've had people that come to me like upset because they had some food go in and we're really bloated on stage. I spoke to a, uh, a female at the gym that she's like, Hey, I saw your post. And that's exactly what happened to me. She's like, I had a burger. Like we cut water. She's like, it sat so heavy. I could not control my waist on stage. Um, I just didn't know why this was happening. And I was like, yeah, you know, this is it. Like bring in a random food, don't have water that you need for all the digestive processes to work and your food will just sit there. So, you know, part of this is keeping consistency so you can keep improving digestion. If that's an area that you need to improve on and what we can, can watch for when we have a more standardized meal plan that we're working through. Yeah. And it, it just keeps it so consistent. It's funny. Like with Emily coming from Australia, we've switched to foods that are, we had a couple of foods that she was using in the, cause she's a more macro based client that you couldn't probably get here in the States. Right. And so we simplified it over into foods from a sodium perspective that probably aren't going to change too much flying from Australia to the States. It's like strictly based off the digestion piece. Like I don't need my total sodium for the day fluctuating. I don't need digestion changing. Like I need the foods that are in to be the foods that are in. And so we started talking about this like last week, like, Hey, like let's make sure all the foods that we have in play are just the ones that we can get pretty identical here in States. And let's not do anything other than that. You know, people do bring up like, what are things that I should be cutting out in peak week? Like, should I cut out my whey protein? Should I cut out artificial sweeteners, chewing gum, like whatever it may be. And some stuff does has no impact on, on individuals. Um, others maybe got brought into prep from just a point of trying to ease the nutrition burden of being in a low calorie state. Right. Um, in a, you know, a general guidance here is that, Hey, if you have less variables there, it's going to be easier to troubleshoot. So, you know, seven, 10 days out, if you're have something that's in your plan, that's not contributing to fueling performance recovery or essential, you might consider removing it. Um, especially if you're earlier on and trying to learn this process as more of just a safeguard to not having a variable that just throws you off. So this might be like, I'm having a pack of chewing gum a day with a bunch of xylitol in it and get bloated. Or I had a past client that it wasn't an issue actually till show day, still using like Mio and water. And then they were running into like acid reflux. It's like, so I'm like, you know, going through thEQuestions here. It's like, Oh yeah, I still had this Mio, which citric acid in it, which, you know, put, put enough in, it can cause problems, um, on top of now more food coming in. So, so, you know, those things that, you know, if it's not like your Mio isn't essential to improving your physique, then it might be things that are just best to remove, um, before you get into peak week. And the same thing you brought up here, like standardization of condiments. That's a huge one that I see a lot of variability in, um, it, with, with the means of what you're trying to do in peak week, I would say that goes in your mouth, you should probably be measuring it. So whether that be your, whatever your mustard or whatever. So you actually have a grasp on sodium and not letting that sodium fluctuate. Um, and that might bring you to really simplify your condiments. If you're having to measure all these different ones out, um, and, uh, might even consider that, Hey, I just want to go with just salt and, and simplify it even more, but just, just some things to consider, um, things that might send off some, some light bulbs for individuals, or if you're coaching out there, you're not considering these things, um, might give some insight of why you might be seeing things happen on peak week that you didn't account for. Because if you didn't bring up someone's whatever their mustard intake and ketchup or something, and you give them now double the size of meal that they were at dieting and they double their condiment usage because they want the same, you know, moistness to their meal, uh, that can cause some problems with fluctuations in sodium. So things to think about, yeah, it's a digestion and keeping fluid status regulated, uh, could be around that. And that, that all will help you give clear look at your visual assessment and making those calls. Um, I know we're getting close to our time here, but I want to do, do you touch a little bit on show day as, uh, this one is where a lot of mistakes still can get made because I know we talk about keeping water up pretty high and Luke and I, we do have a, our own individual course pretty much coming out with around peak weekend water, just cause it's, it is the largest mistake, um, made. But what we do is like for most time, water is about the same, right? But when you do finally find this look of what you like, so you have so many meals that go into a client, so much fluid and say person comes up from 200 to 202 pounds, that 202 pounds is what you want to put on stage. You can put in the same amount of food and fluid on show day to get them there, but then you need to hold them there. And that's when we make the fluid adjustment because you don't need to keep putting in that same amount of fluid and carbohydrate to move their body weight up. So this is when we make that adjustment to reducing it. And then is when, how we toggle carbs and water on, on show day, putting in more pulling it back down. So we keep them within that body rate range. Maybe it's 202 to 203 or something where we know they look at their best. So do we cut water? Uh, we just modify water needs based on trying to hold that visual and that's how we go about it. Use the matrix. Use the matrix. What do we got? Yeah. Next week. Well, we talked about peak week. So what comes after peak week is post show. So we're talking about, you nailed the stage. Look, hopefully since you listened to this podcast and now what do you do? And so we're going to cover, what do we do the first seven days after peak week for immediately after the show to all those days of these are the essential days that are going to set you up for already your next contest prep. So we'll dive in next week. Thank you all for tuning in and we'll see you then.