 Welcome to the J3, why your coaching system breaks when you start scaling. So in this episode, Luca want to talk about our experiences and give some insights when you're in your earlier coaching days and you're trying to make this work, you're trying to scale up. And a lot of the mistakes that you're trying to scale up. And a lot of the mistakes that you're trying to make this work, you're trying to scale up. The document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document document takeaways that you can apply in your own business and scale as a coach and even help guide your choices as an athlete for coaches you could be selecting? Yeah, I think it's an interesting dynamic because the ebbs and flows of coaching are something that are real, especially when we talk about client loads and the way you communicate with people and how much communication someone needs during different points of the season. And so where I think a lot of people fall short is matching the needs of the client to the way they run the process. And this is kind of where I think systems start to kind of break down because it's not that you're putting more effort into one client or another because you think one's more important than another. It's that the amount of effort that goes into someone's process as you're figuring them out might differ than someone who you've coached for a long bit of time or might differ between like the level of detail that has to go into all season versus contest prep. And that doesn't mean that we're not assessing all of the variables. It's just the rate of change is a lot different in these different time periods. And I think this is like one of the biggest steps that I see because as coaches, a lot of us start this out of a passion, right? We want to give back, right? Like we want to give back to people. We want to help people. We want to be able to give them the feeling of winning on stage or bringing their best physique or being in the best shape of their life. And so because of that, we build coaching systems that provide a ton of value, or we strive to build coaching systems that provide a ton of value, which should always be the case in the forefront of your mind. But we also need to learn how to communicate it to the client that it elevates their expectations on how they execute. Because I think one of the biggest bottlenecks is mismanage expectations from a coach to client perspective, and then clients not executing at the level that allows the coach to do their job. And we've talked about this before, right? Like the checking comes in, you send clarification questions back, and then they send it back. And then it's still not quite fully what you were expecting. And so you got to chase them down again for a follow-up voice note. And it's like that checking came in maybe like seven, 8 a.m., but you're not getting these responses until late that night or a day later. And so it kind of just makes this system really slow. And I like to start there when it comes to systems is like expectations and communication, because man, that's where it fails for most people. I think earlier on, the system didn't exist, right? If you rewind back to when you had that kind of like 10 to 15 client load, IMean, even thinking back for myself, like there wasn't, what was the system? The system was just trying to scramble to get anyone to coach. And I think you're looking more so at your system of just like the product you're delivering to your client. What is the Excel spreadsheet look like? How's that layout? And you haven't really thought about much of anything else because a lot of us get this for the passion of nutrition and trening and being on stage. So we don't know the business aspect of marketability and branding and business efficiency and scaling. A lot of us don't come from that background. We came from other areas. Like for me, I was an exercise science major, then a dietitian, and you don't get a lot of the business side of it, especially in an online coaching environment, at least for me. So when I was working as a clinical dietitian doing my 40 hours a week, nine to five, I was trying to scale my coaching business. And I had that 10 to 15 clients and, and thEQuestions that would come up of like, well, how do I get more clients? And part of the, I think the selling point of being earlier on is not seeing yourself as the expert that these people are coming to for help, but having to just over deliver your service and undervalue yourself. And I've found myself doing that a lot, setting it up, which kind of establishes a lot of the expectations earlier on for the client. So I've been in positions where earlier on, um, I'll be like, Hey, I'm available anytime, right? Like here's my phone number, uh, text me anytime you need me, or you take, Hey coach, could you, could you jump on the phone? You go, Oh yeah, sure. You know, what do you need? And then it's that client now, like, Oh, well now I could call John when I need to, or ask him questions or text him in the evening. And I'm going to get a response. And so you sell your coaching based on pay my availability, which a lot of times, a lot of that is just not needed. It's there's a, when you set the expectation for the client earlier on, which is what I should have done of here's my workinGHours. So in my email responses back, I changed it eventually to where I had my business hours of here's when I'm in office. And I would also have my responses times there as well. So yeah, check-in comes or do at 12 PM. You'll get a response by X time. Right. Uh, and then so that you would know, like it will, I didn't, I didn't meet that. So I'm not going to get a response till X time later on. And so I think earlier on making sure you don't bottleneck your time constrents because 10 clients is okay. But what do you do if they have a hundred clients trying to call you on a day? Like, or, Hey coach, can we have a quick chat? You know, a quick chat means a 20 minute call when you have a hundred clients. What's that? 2000 minutes of your day. It's unmanageable. Right. So that, I think that was my, my first off mistake is, is just undervaluing what I was doing and trying to over deliver a value in a way that wasn't productive for coach or athlete. Like, Luke, did you find yourself doing something similar earlier on? And then what kind of evolved for you? Yeah, it was, it was a similar thing. Like reach out whenever you need me or, you know, shoot me a message. Here's my phone number, you know, that kind of a thing. Um, or even the worst is like the early days of billing, like chasing people for billing. Like remember the old Venmo PayPal days of like, just trying to get people to pay, um, and things along those lines. And so I think people, when they hear that boundaries are a part of coaching, they take it as a negative connotation, but I think we need to understand that, um, it's actually a positive. And the way that I would promote this as a positive for the athlete is that when you are getting your check-in done, you are getting their undivided soul attention on your process and the details of your process. And they're looking at your check-in with a fresh mind. Um, and when they were looking at your check-in with a fresh mind, because these boundaries have been set in place, better decision-making is always going to happen. Um, and they're going to be able to refine your process at a higher, higher level because if they're not looking at it with a fresh mind and they're getting pulled in five, six different directions, they have 20 people texting on, they're trying to manage all these calls. Um, it pulls away from their ability to deliver on word check-in. And so, um, I see these boundaries as a big, big positive because what it does is it creates, like we talked about better expectations, both directions, but I think you get a better version of the coach in the long run. Yeah, no, definitely. I think setting the expectation is, is huge along those lines. Uh, I think you brought up a good point around, uh, payment systems being, being efficient. Uh, because for one, I, I had clients in all different types of payment scales, uh, that you would discount further for people just to make sure you could work with them. Right. And I think like, you know, upholding those is important in a mistake that I had made was trying to do different payments for prep versus offseason. And I, you know, you kind of mirror what you've been shown. Right. So I had a past coaching experience that was like that. Uh, the issue with that is that, well, how, when do you delineate prep from offseason? Or what if someone signs up for, Hey coach, I'm doing a 16 week prep and they get close to the show and you're like, you know what? I really think we need to push this timeline back. Like, well, Hey, like I was paying for a 16 week prep. Now I'm having to pay this extra prep break. Um, and then, then you're already setting the expectation up of, of that. So what I've actually moved to, and what I recommend is doing a block payments of X and out for one, start with the year and then go back to like a six month. Um, I was always doing monthly, which kept a lot to keep up of, but also if you're earlier on, you might not get as quick of commitments from people. So that was, that was a big piece of like trying to make sure you're not dropping off in that reoccurring revenue. So you would be surprised because I always thought, Hey, a monthly payment that might be more digestible for people in a very well could, but I think some people are, or could be swayed by the, maybe the discount of the larger time frame. And so that's how I would have, would have done differently in the past. And it just kept a lot to keep up with that way and having the separate prep versus offseason, because then you have to make sure people like would switch over. So it was just a flat, flat fee. And in offseason, what I found is, is like the, you'd worry about, well, I'm not going to do as much for this person. And that's, that's not true. A lot of that is, still they're paying for your knowledge to guide them. And a lot of times that might be delivered as, Hey, this is a great week. Keep executing those variables. The, the education and time it took you to learn, to be able to say that to that client, that's the value that they're paying for. So don't think just because you're not doing something or changing a plan, but you're not delivering that value, but, but to, to not get too far here in the office, you're going to find out, I do more trening review. Now that is what was happening the last time because of just failure in technology. And that's where, when I started coaching, we, the technology was kind of a limitation around that. So you're, you're always delivering value in some way. Uh, but I would say like having an even payment system set up would be, would be huge. And Luke going with one payment method. Oh gosh. I had people through Stripe, through PayPal, through Venmo. I had people, I was, you know, I'm earlier in coaching. I would meet people up for cash because cash is king at the time, right? You don't, uh, not, not to IRS. Don't come for me. You know, all was claimed. Was it okay. It was, but, uh, yeah, just, uh, yeah, trying, trying to be like more efficient with the income side of things would have helped, uh, Luke, anything around that piece to add, man. It's so easy to automate billing now, especially like with all the opportunities that you have from a program perspective of like being able to sign up for billing systems and automate your systems and, and just track it all. Like, I think the, the technology shift from when we were starting of like billing systems that were available versus now, like it makes it so much easier to, to just put people on this billing system, recurringly build them and be able to kind of move forward. And I think, uh, something that earlier on that you, you also need to make sure is a part of your system and structure. And it's, it takes just a little time to do just like to cover yourself. Um, from a scaling perspective is covering your liability. So this would be like business license, liability insurance, and then contracts and making sure that all of these are things that you kind of institute with everybody in the same onboarding process so that you're covering yourself as a coach on the liability side of the perspective as well, because it allows you some freedom of operation and not stressing when you're trying to. And I know it sounds odd to like, do such large tasks when you're earlier on, but it just creates a standard that's upheld for everyone. Um, and opens you up to do your job a bit better. Thanks everyone for tuning in to today's podcast. Are you struggling to hit your peak on show day, feeling lost in the offseason, upgrade your coaching game with J three university. Our program covers everything from offseason to contest prep to peak week, all based from real client results. Along with our comprehensive physique curriculum, you'll also get access to our four rooms with our J three team to answer any questions you have and livEQ and a sessions to further your coaching athlete experience. We are the source of education for top IFBB pros and coaches. Join us to elevate the coaching standard at J three university. Let's get back to today's podcast. Absolutely. I didn't have contracts and then it is so, and it's with technology now, like, gosh, you could go to chat GPT and lay out something, but you know, for something, making sure you had some legal counsel to overview something would be ideal. But with all the coaching resource available and business mentors available, that would be huge to be able to align with someone. I think that's where a lot of efficiency can be leveraged now with technology. And like we, we've used kahunas, the coaching app is like an all in one, you know, efficiency tool where you could put in your coaching contracts. So when someone, when someone signs up, like that system's already in place of how they're going to, be first shown all the, uh, the assessment forms, given their contracts, uh, communicated all within the, within an app with, with a messenger housed within it. So it's already an efficiency system that's already made because back when I started, uh, you were just, you're trying to build, you know, replicate what you were shown through a previous coach or keep creating your own system. Well, now we have just like these great coaching tech, you know, apps that are available to help already do that for us. So that's already like some big boxes checked off. So to put a little extra time into like creating the contracts, uh, on the forefront would be, would be huge. And then, you know, like what to do when, and it makes you think about it as well. Like when that person is a month in to coaching and they're like one out, they could just easily like send it, uh, a PayPal, you know, just dispute and get their money back for coaching. And you had nothing that you could show and prove that services were provided. And so that money's lost. And we know it's a pretty tough battle on that side to actually fight the disputes, but nonetheless, you still have this stuff in place and that would help protect, especially earlier on when money could, could be, you know, on a little bit on the tighter side. But I think that the system would be huge utilizing your coaching app. And I know you probably see the dollar signs of a coaching app, which are super affordable, uh, that it's going to take a piece out. But man, to, to leverage your time is going to go find that is the biggest issue when you eventually scale up a coaching is that just simply, you can only coach so many people because you yourself are available for X amount of time to the day that actually work. So if you're able to get more efficient in tasks that are not that meaningful, you know, uh, then especially administration side. Yeah. Oh man. That just opens you up to be able to make more about coaching people. Yeah. And look, I, I want to, I want to, this is a bit of a pivot in the conversation, but I want to lean on on producing results because at the end of the day, like you're paid to produce a result, right? And one of the best ways to scale your coaching produce results, right? What do systems do? They do really well under pressure because they remove emotion and they remove, uh, changes in environment. They allow for you to operate in a, I don't want to say a vacuum, but they allow you to operate in a objective, logical environment that allows you to make clear decisions. And when you create a, whatever your system is, whether it's kahunas or spreadsheets or whatever, it doesn't overly matter, but you stick to it. You expect the client to stick to it and then you stick to it yourself. Um, it makes decision-makings in times of higher pressure. So traveling to shows or peak weeks or whatever it might be, um, a much easier process to handle or manage. And, um, I know this is something that for me has been massive, um, because like I travel a fair bit for shows. Not only that I get pulled into other peaks with the coaches that we have at do three coaching, like for a second opinion or a second eye, and we have everything tracked like in the coaching system. Like I'm able to just pull up the client, look at everything the coach has done. Look at all the visuals from the previous days. They can walk me through some of the things they're seeing and I can help them with decision making when they want to pull me in. And it's like, now I'm doing this for, because of like the team that we have, what over 600 clients. Now it's like those systems uphold for over 600 clients and able to pull in objective decision-making because of that, because that system upholds your ability to make clear objective decisions. And man, like thEQuickest way to be a better coach is to produce winning results. And I just think that's so important. Yeah. And, and on that same stren of topic, I think one area that comes to mind that I struggle with was a willingness to take on anyone because you know, you, you want, you want to grow your brand. You want to make money. And, uh, how do you get from 10 to 20 clients? Well, you take on clients, right? So, uh, but what Luke brought up, it's essential that your reputation is, is everything like right now to go off on a, like a separate tangent analogy, but I I'm looking into someone to like modify my vehicle, right? My car. And I look at these different performance shops. And so now I'm, I'm, I'm contacting people that I've worked on from these shops and that have also left that shop and gone to another one. And I look at, Hey, what was your experience going through it? Like, why did you leave? What were the issues? Or you'll find people that just are so brand loyal and have stuck with these shops, uh, because their user experience was, was great. And the same thing with your coaching, you know, having, you know, be able to get deliver on those experiences, but also a lot of that comes down to, and talking with people about these cars, right? Is you'll find this, the car owner was, was the issue. And it's someone that's just a fly by night makes rash decisions. That's just overly emotional or was just impossible to please. And we have that in coaching too. So you're going to find like the people you want to bring into your brand, you want them to be able to give me good representations that align with your basic core values, because that same person's also going to be a promotion for you. So if you're aligning your someone like birds of a feather flock together type of thing, if you're aligning your yourself, these individuals that aren't great representations of what you want to see in your brand, it's going to reflect poorly on you. And then also when they leave you, they're likely going to be the ones to bad mouth you because you were the problem. Even though very likely this was just going to be a problem client for anyone that they came across. So earlier on, I would have just guarded my personal brand so strongly and made sure that the clients that came in had a good screening process and make sure that they aligned with me on a personal level and protected that reputation very strongly. And, and overall, we've done a good job with it. Like when you come and you see J3U, like you, you know, we're people that are going to do right by you and we're going to be there for you the entire process that we're going to deliver what we say we deliver. And those are like core values that I've always done and other coaches or say other car performance shops, right? They might not be doing that. And that's why they lose. They have poor client retention, they have poor client experiences and results. So it's so important earlier on that don't just take thEQuick client because it's another person on your roster. Protect that because the good client in the short run might not scale you up as fast, but in the long run will absolutely scale you up fast. Yeah. And I think it's, I think it's just such a, it's such a way to create momentum when you birds flock with a feather type of video. Like when you start to build that community, because it can be something that is important to people that come in is like, what is the community like as a part of being a part of your coaching business? So, um, it's, it's, it's really killer. I think a lot of the mistakes kind of earlier on or not being objective about what is it that actually pushes you forward and then starting to learn more a little bit about those things that we're sharing now. And man, it's just, it's so much, it becomes so much more fun when you know that the work that you're putting in are on people that are just as invested as you are. Like that makes coaching. Like I, I, I feel like I work some days, but in regards to coaching, like it never really feels like work anymore because the people we have are just like so much fun to work with. So it's, it makes it so, so much of a blessing, but is there anything else you would kind of pull out from like those earlier processes scaling into the bigger ones, like to kind of try to tighten that ship a little bit? Uh, yeah, I think earlier on to my own mistake, I am, uh, you know, very much like an introvert, right? So, and I like to do things myself and not lean to other people. And so earlier on it was, it was self-limiting, but with social media now there, it's a lot, it's a different space than it was when I was starting. But anyway, uh, to scale, maybe you only have a thousand followers on Instagram. We're like, man, I just have these a thousand people to work within and like, you have a thousand people that follow you. That's a lot of people to work within. So, uh, to scale and thinking on this people are going to buy the person first. So sharing yourself trensparently, honestly, and helping people connect with the journey. So you don't need to be a social media expert and have a videography team, just be real and be honest and people will connect with that. So I think something that you're putting out into the world, whether this is in social media, which if you're online coaching, you're going to have to kind of be a part of this, but being able to share that part of you, that personal journey side. Then on the, on the other aspect, you have these people that are following you or people that are just out there on social media that could be potential clients. And why would they want to follow you? And it's harder to follow someone just off of posting up a client. It's like, yeah, maybe they had a good trensformation, but a lot of times the people that are going to gain those followers are usually ones that are warfing like pros. They'll be like, oh, I want a pro physique. Who, who's doing that? And it's, um, might not be at the level of client that you do have. So your, your thing of what you're trying to put out is solve someone's problem. So if you don't have a lot of clients and I do have a lot of clients, but I was sharing things that I knew about and thinking about what is someone having a problem with, like in other people that maybe you follow, like, what are people asking in the comments about something that they posted? Like maybe it's an exercise and they're like, why are they doing the exercise like this? You could make a content piece about that and, and share it. And then if you have people that are commenting, um, people that are new followers, you connect with those people right away. And again, if you're earlier on coaching, you're trying to make it happen. This is like where you could do it initially is start conversations, those people, and that's not selling them right away. It's like trying to make friends and connection with these people right away. Hey, thanks for following me. Like, why, why are you following me along? Like, oh, I saw this exercise and it was helpful. Oh, cool. Here's something else tonight. And, and, and, you know, have shared about this exercise and this is what I do. And through that, through those conversations and providing people value, and that's how you can start scaling up your business and, and connecting with. And earlier on, I started an email list and I think email lists are huge. Like our, our J3U one has grown massive, but you want to, I would start moving those people that you make those connections with into your newsletter because email is not going away anytime soon. You know, if your Instagram disappeared tomorrow, what would you do? Your thousand people went away. You would have an email list of people that wanted more from you. So then you can still connect and drive up that business. So, uh, that way you have something where you can keep nurturing those people and giving them value. So an easy, easy thing earlier on is start an email list and start driving people from your connections. You're making on, on social media, uh, into that list. And then my last point, I'll throw it back to you, Luke is, uh, you, you need to get, get in front of like where you want your, your clients from. Right. So you need to go to shows, um, and be a presence. And if you have athletes there, you need it, you need to show up and that can be huge. Just, just make connections and network, meet other people. And then, Hey, you follow them. They follow you, whatever you just keep growing and networking that way. So I think that was something that limited me earlier on. Luke Gromenon Yeah. And just like for people that are like, uh, John gave a lot of great examples, but like, where do I start with the problem solving content? Like if you've got 15 people, you've got 15 people who have problems that you've been solving for the last two, three, four or five, six months, start there. Talk about those problems that you've solved and how you've solved them. Right. Like that's a great source of being able to produce content is like, talk about problems that you've solved because you've solved them and you're an expert or you've been through that process of solving it. Right. So, um, I think it's another place that you can potentially pull ideas from as far as like being able to talk about that. Yeah. Don't because how long is it going to take you to make a trensformation? It's like, well, I have 10 clients in six months, so maybe I'll be able to have six posts. Like, it's like, no, no, no. Like every week you're coaching someone and you're answering somEQuestion they had or making some change to their program. That's something to talk about and, and share that. And if your page, when you go to it, you see clients, you've seen what's happening and you're following this journey along, people are going to realize that and connect with it and want to be part of that as well. So, so anyway, I, you know, we'll, we'll wrap this up there. I think that was like a lot on the scaling piece and there's so much more to go into as well. But earlier on, those were some big bottlenecks that we ran to. I'm sure if you're in that position coaching or maybe you have that a hundred clients now, and you're thinking back laughing because at the things that you did, but anyway, I hope you gain value from the podcast and next week we'll be covering still not growing. Your problem is likely not volume. We'll talk to you next week. Bye, everybody.