What's up, guys? Ron Harris here, and uh I am one week away from the biggest surgery of my life. Uh, I thought my quadricep reattachment surgery that I got in early September 2023 would be the biggest surgery, but one week from today, I'll be getting a whole new shoulder joint. I'm pretty excited. A little nervous to to be honest, of course. Uh, but at the same time, very very excited. Um, I've been in pain in that shoulder for probably close to 15 years. I've been in need of a shoulder replacement for at least 10 years and I put it off. I put it off. I put it off. Um kept getting cortisone injections which mass the pain allowed me to keep training chest and shoulders. Um do daily things without a lot of pain and the pain would eventually start I'm sorry the the the pain relief from the cortisone shots would eventually start wearing out and then I would get another one. But eventually uh this February, late February, I got a cortisone shot. It had zero effect. Didn't help at all. So that's when I knew the time the time was here to get it done. So I put up a little graphic uh this video video I found on YouTube that's got an animation an animation of a full shoulder placement while we're talking because it is a pretty cool cool thing. It's amazing what science, you know, medicine can do these days. It really is. I'm pretty amazed. So, I'll just leave that running the whole time. So, luckily for me, uh I have a younger brother, Steve, who had his shoulder replaced just two months ago. Believe it was seven or eight weeks ago, uh this week. So, I'm I'm able to talk to him on a nearly daily basis, see how his recovery is going, see how the pain is and things like that. And um you know he's he lives by himself. He has nobody to help him. He's got a lot rougher than me. I have my wife. I have my son here. So you know if I need to be driven somewhere because you can't drive for a couple weeks at least two weeks I think it's they say two to four weeks worth of sling on your arm. Obviously if your arm's in a sling you're in one arm. You can't be driving. But I went through that with my quad tear back in 2023. I couldn't drive for at least three months. It was about three months I couldn't drive after that surgery because it was my right leg. My right leg. Yeah. Look at that disgusting shoulder. That's that's how mine looks. It's it's worn away. So, um, you know, I had I'd relied on my my wife and my son to drive me around, drive me to the gym. I was training a lot of upper body. You know, I didn't do legs at all for a good four months before I started doing was it four months? Four months in, I started doing very very light leg training for the the leg that had been the quadricep had been torn and reattached. I do expect to get back to training for my shoulder quicker than that. Look at that. So, that's a nice new shiny metal joint. Goes into a uh plastic socket there. Look at that. It's going to be beautiful. Can't wait. Can't wait. Then you're in a sling. Thanks, Kelly. Speed recovery. Yeah, thank you. I mean, it's still a week away from the surgery. Thank you, Michael. Yeah, I'm I'm fortunate that um I am seeing a very very good doctor, good surgeon, a very well-known, accomplished surgeon. He's done something like 4,000 5,000 of these shoulder replacement procedures. I've spoken uh at length to two guys I know, bodybuilders, who have had their shoulder replaced by the same surgeon. They're very happy. Uh one of them, he's really he's had 20 or 30 surgeries alltogether. So, he's really not a good example. The other guy, Ken, Ken Johnson, he's been back to doing barbell bench presses, shoulder presses, chin-ups. None of those have I've been able to do for years now. I've been unable to do dumbbells at all for chest or shoulders. Shoulders, it's been a long time. It's been at least five or six years, maybe. Maybe longer since I could do any kind of an overhead press with dumbbells. Probably closer to 10 years, honestly. uh chest up until a few months ago, I was still able to do moderate weight, nothing nothing crazy like incline dumbbells, I could go up to like 70 75. After that, that the pain was too bad. And that was even with the pain relief of the cortisone shot. But uh once that's once that wore off, uh I was I'm I've been unable to use dumbbells. And lately, honestly, the pain has been getting worse and worse, which leads me to believe uh that I was masking a lot of the pain for so long. I had no idea what was going on until until that pain relief was completely gone. And then, you know, now I'm seeing exactly how bad the pain truly is because the joints been gone. I had a lot of well-meaning people trying to tell me or just recommend things like, you know, try some BPC-157. Uh, you know, those healing peptides, they're not going to bring back a joint that's been obliterated. It was bone on bone 15 years ago. In 2011, which was 14 years ago, I had uh an arthoscopic surgery called a decompression where he just went in there and scraped out some more room for the for the the humorous and the socket to move around in. So, it wasn't it wasn't grinding so much bone on bone. And that did allow me to go on a couple more years. I competed I was able to train really well for another couple years. Competed in my final two shows, summer 2013. Big thick chest, big round delts. Um, and as as time went on after that, I'd say 2015 to 2017, it got worse and worse to the point where I wasn't able to train like that anymore. And, you know, I could never compete with compete again without really big shoulders. And I, you know, I I don't know if I'll ever get my shoulders back to what they were, but if I could get them halfway back to what they were, I'd be very, very happy. You know what? Honestly, forget about the muscle muscular development of the shoulder. If I could regain range of motion and be painf free, that would be astonishing. I would feel so so grateful because I want to show you the range of motion difference in the arms. Here's my right my right arm. I could put that all the way overhead. I can even go in back of my head a little bit. There is some arthritis in that shoulder. The the doctor doctor let me know. Um this one, this is that's it. That's as far as it goes. That's as high as it can possibly go. So this one it's a huge huge difference in the range of motion there. I think you can see. So very very excited to get this done. Mr. Hen Henri Henry how to prevent injuries in the shoulders. So this wasn't an injury. Um arthritis isn't an injury. An injury is something that can be repaired. Arthritis is uh when the when the joints the ends of the joints become degraded. They you wear out the cartilage, which is the cushion between the joints. And when that's completely worn out, you have bone grinding on bone, and over time it grinds away. And I've lost it looked on the X-ray to me like about a half an inch of of the top of my humorous, the the the ball, the top of the the the the bone. You know what it looks like? It's it's like a big knob, and it's worn. Mine is ground down about two inch. Not two inches, about a half an inch. So, it's there's a significant portion of it gone. I'll actually I'll talk about how to prevent injuries in in a minute, but I'll I'll show you one more thing. Now, this is a lot of tech talk and I'm I don't pretend to understand everything that was uh in this report, but let's see. So, let me show this. How do I show this? I guess I'll just do this. Okay. All right. So, I'm going to show you the CAT scan results, CT scan results that I got. Uh, I got him back. I had this done. Uh, a week ago, I went in to have my my preop appointment and I saw I had a CT scan. I had an EKG for my heart. I had to do blood work. I had to meet with uh a pharmacist, a pharmacologist, a pharmacist to go over my medications that I'm on to make sure I I stop taking whatever I need to stop taking. I met with a registered nurse, not a registered nurse, a nurse practitioner, which is almost a doctor, very close to being a doctor. And I had to meet with a cardiologist. He had to sign off on my heart because I do have some myopathy, but let me show you what the uh the reports of the CT scan. Now, this is a lot of tech talk, not tech, but tech talk. So, if you read that left shoulder, left shoulder CT scan without contrast. So techniques I'm just going to skip down to the findings. No fracture or oius lesion is identified. Mild degenerative changes of the intact acromyoclavvicular joint with dorsal capsular hypertrophy and small subcm dorsal mineralized bodies present. I have a lot of bone spurs. I know I have a big bone spur. Mild lateral downs sloping of a type two acromion with minimally irregular under surface. There is marked gleenoumeral osteoarthritis with severe joint space narrowing eber ebernation or whatever that means and marginal osteophittes I think those are bone bone spurs wal calcification classification A2 posterior downs sloping of the glenoid moderate joint eusion no mineralized loose bodies are detected rotator cuff muscle bulk is preserved so that's good so my rotator is okay that's good to know uh because I've had rotator cuff injuries those are very painful how to prevent injuries. That's a very good question, uh, Mr. Enrich. So, I don't think I could have prevented this from happening. This was just years of wear and tear where the joint was degraded over time. But preventing shoulder injuries, here's what I would recommend. Warm up a lot. Don't ever just jump into heavy pressing, heavy bench press, heavy overhead press, anything with a pressing movement, especially with free weights. Take your time. Don't get it. Don't be in a rush to get to the heavy weights. So, let's just say your work sets of a bench press are 225 * 12, 245. So, let's just say you're starting with 225 is your first work set. I would literally start with the bar, 45 lb bar. Do 20 slow controlled reps. I would put a 25 on 95 pounds. Again, I would do 15 to 20 very slow controlled reps. I would do uh I would put a 45 on to make it 135. keep going. I I would do like four or five warm-up sets before I got especially if it's your first pressing movement of the day of that workout. If it's second or third pressing movement, you don't need to warm up as much because everything's warmed up. I'd also do things like I can't even do it with both arms. Arm circles, uh, arm in and out. Just a lot of warming up. Get a lot of blood into that area. And again, do not jump into heavy weights. And don't make huge jumps in weight. Don't go from 135 on the bench to 225. You got to have you have to have gradual gradual increases because a lot of times your form is going to suffer if it's if it's too much weight. Your body's going to find a way to get that weight up somehow some way. Whether it means cheating or getting off center, things like that. There's a lot of ways that your body will compensate for a lack of actual muscle strength just to to get that weight. And these are not safe things for you to do. Uh what else would I do in shoulders? Yeah. Um, I would stay away from behind neck pressing. I think everyone that that's a cliche, but it's true. Your arms arms aren't meant to press behind the head, behind the neck at that angle behind. You can press to the front. What I like about dumbbells, and I always I did do behind neck dumbbell presses when I was younger. I would go up to 315, believe it or not. That's probably part of the reason I'm in this I'm in this situation right now. But I found dumbbells dumbbells were better for me. I I got a better feel in the shoulders. I was very strong which motivated me to keep going heavier on dumbbells. I was very good. I got to 120s were a very very normal weight for me to press overhead for for 12 reps. 130s if I was feeling really really strong that day I could get for like six to eight. I think I tried 140s and it was just too much one time. Um but those have you pressing right next to your head. So there's no external rotation, which is when your when your when your arm is rotated backwards in back of you. So it's in back of your head like a behind neck press on a on a barbell or a Smith machine. Um, I wouldn't do them. I would do dumbbell presses. I would do barbell presses to the front. Machine presses are fine, but I would not do I would not do a heavy behind neck barbell press ever again. If I could go back, that's one thing I would have changed. um bench press in general, the barbell bench press, uh a lot of a lot of people who have far more knowledge about physiology and and um you know, arthritis and things like that, they would say stay away from the flat barbell bench press. It's it's a really good movement for size and strength, but it's too risky. The riskreward ratio leans too heavily toward the risk side of that equation. Yeah. Makes you realize how crazy left behind that press. Yeah, I think I have an actual I have a video of him doing because I'm I'm supposed to be I'm gonna be interviewing him soon. I don't want to promote it yet because we I don't know when we're gonna actually get them get Well, now I know I can't use that because it's got the volume on. I got to do those over again. I have to do both of those get both of those done because they have uh volume and I can't have music copyrighted music on there. But yeah, Kevin used to do on the Smith machine 405 all the time. I'm pretty sure he's able to do with a barbell. I've seen I've seen Branch and Ronnie do 315 behind the neck in their videos many many times. Um it you know it's I understand why people do it. It's more of a pure shoulder movement and you can't lean back and when you lean back you're going to make it a lot more front delt and and upper chest. So when I did a lot of my heavy heavy presses to the front with a barbell, I was always arching my back and leaning back. So it was I was it was more like a very steep incline press if I'm being truthful, if I'm being honest with myself than it was a pure overhead press because my torso wasn't upright. My back wasn't flat up against the seat back at all. It was it was always pushed away a little bit. Um, which, you know, I'm lucky I didn't suffer more lower back injuries because when your back is arched in that way and you have, you know, two, 300 lbs or more pushing down on you from overhead, it's a recipe for disaster. But yeah, I I'm very lucky that uh I escaped unscathed from that. It's the most pain you ever experience, both an injury and a workout. A workout pain is fleeting, so I wouldn't really count that. I mean that's I used to go obviously it would be a leg workout uh some of my leg workouts that the pain I used to try to do whatever I could to induce as much pain as I could because I had it in my head no pain no gain and the more pain I could endure or withstand in a workout good pain muscular pain things like that I'm not talking about injury type of pain obviously you don't want that's a bad kind of pain not a good productive type of pain uh I would say like leg presses is where I would do, you know, 50, 100 reps. I would do drop sets. I did centuries, if you know what those are. It's one plate for 10, two plates for 20, three for 30, four for 40, five for 50. You're supposed to have very minimal rest in between these sets, by the way. Good God. Six for 60, seven for 70. And I think that's the most I ever got was seven plates for 70 reps. And uh, you know, my lungs felt like they were going to burst. Uh, felt nauseated, laded. Uh, my legs were on fire. I used to do a lot of drop sets, a lot of forced reps, things like that that could really get a lot of lactic muscle burning. Um, you know, squats. I would do lower rep sets of squats that, you know, that's that's fleeting pain because that's those sets don't take long. It's the 20 rep squats. You know, I used to do 315 for 20. That was a very regular thing. It's nothing super impressive, I know, but it's a lot because by 10 reps is easy. you're like, "Okay, I could I could have gone heavier on this." By the time you get to 15, you're like, "Oh, boy. This is rough." And then it's it's like one rep at a time after that. Your lungs just feel like they're going to burst out of your chest. Uh most pain I've ever experienced from an injury, man. I've had some horrible lower back injuries, some horrible shoulder injuries. I've torn rotator cuff. My quad tear was uh very, very painful. I tore my tricep. That wasn't as painful as the quad, but I've had a lot of lower back injuries over the years, a lot. And those are bad. If any of you guys have hurt your lower back, you know it sucks because you can't even get out of bed without pain. You're finding you're trying to you're trying to get out of bed like a mannequin without bending anything in your body. You know, swing one leg over and sort of heave yourself over. You know, you need help putting your shoes your socks and shoes on because you can't literally can't bend over. You can't reach your feet. Uh I it's it's injuries and pain just too numerous to count. I wish I could pinpoint one specific. Uh, I mean, when I was 12, I had secondderee burns on my leg. I was I was lighting a worm on fire and it and I got what I deserved. I got the instant karma. My pants caught on fire, my shoe caught on fire, and by the time I was able to wrigle my pants off, uh, everything from my on my right leg, from the the top of my foot to the to the bottom of my kneecap was scorched. I ended up losing all that skin. Uh, you know, was oozing and pussing and eventually that skin all fell away and got nice new pink skin. That was pretty bad. Burns are very painful obviously. Uh, do I think hottie will be able to travel Olympia? RG that's a good question and I don't know. I mean, any day now, President Trump could declare war on Iran. And if we're at war with any country, I can't see someone from that country being allowed to travel into the USA. You know, I I understand it's got nothing to do with him. Sports should have nothing to do with politics, but unfortunately, you know, travel travel and politics are sort of intertwined. Um, so if if that's the case, if we end up being at war with Iran, uh, I don't see I don't see Hottie getting in here. Otherwise, he does have great connections. Hadti Hani Rambod, his coach, prior coach, maybe still his coach, secretly. I don't know. I I suspect he might secretly be his coach. um he has a whole network of people there that have been able to go through the proper channels and the US embassy and they know everything needs to be done and they've got him here successfully four times now I believe he's he's made it to the US four times four different years so unless we're at war I don't foresee a problem Tobani who is the favorite to win this Dubai pro coming up on Sunday that's another story uh there's a lot of rumors and he's never come out and confirmed it as far as I know that he did serve in Iran's military in their army or whatever armed force. Um, and as a soldier of a a country that the US I don't know if we consider him an enemy country or what the deal is, but we're not we're not on good terms with Iran. So, uh, if that's the case, if he was in the military, I don't see him ever getting in here, unfortunately. Uh, I never read that, but this is not a rotator cuff problem. I I keep having people thinking it's a rotator cuff or something like that or a labyrinum tear. It's not. So, this is osteoarthritis. This is the joint was completely worn away. The bone on bone for many, many years. The joint is a big chunk of the top of my joint there is gone. It's literally been ground away. So, in a case like that, there's nothing you can do. There's literally nothing you can do. I'll put that animation up again. It was pretty good animation. I like animations. Share screen. Of course, I have to say that out loud. Okay. And go. Yeah. So, it's not an injury that I have. Um, it's a case of severe arthritis where the joint has been completely just degraded and destroyed. They're going to show a an an illustration here of what that looks like in a moment. And you can see that's a healthy joint right there. It's all round and shiny and fresh looking, you know, looks like a perfect little half half dome pretty much. And it fits right into it's a ball. It's a nice perfect ball. Fits right into that socket like it's designed to. And this is an arthritic joint. Uh that one looks like it's I don't know what the hell happened to that one. So the arthritic joint has to be replaced by an artificial joint that is going to be nice and round and shiny and smooth. It's going to be a ball with a stem. That stem is going to go down into my armbone, the humorris. Uh my brother said, because my brother had this done, very minimal pain, nowhere near as much pain as he thought it was going to be after the surgery. And you know, I I'm in so much pain even right now as we speak. I I can't wait to have this done because whatever pain I have to go through with the surgery and the rehab and recovery, it can't be anything like what I've been dealing with for a long time in this shoulder. I am seriously seriously. Yeah, Zionic. Exactly. I mean, I can't imagine going on. Look at that. Nice. Goes right. I can't imagine going going through life in this kind of pain. I'm sure a lot of people do if they don't have insurance or they just never get the surgery. They just live live with that pain forever for, you know, 20, 30, 40, 50 years, however long it is they live. I'm not going to do that. I tried, you know, I I put it off for a very long time. At least I met with this surgeon, this very surgeon, at least 10 years ago. It might have been 12 years ago. I'm trying to remember, but it's very hard to remember how long. And he approved me. We did X-rays and all that. And he approved me for the surgery at that time. So, I'm like 10 years late getting this done. 10 years overdue. That's how much I procrastinated. Uh, and because I only procrastinated because I didn't have to face the pain. because I was going and getting cortisone injections in there to mask the pain and that allowed me to keep going and basically keep ignoring it and putting it off. What work do I do? That's a good question, Rick. Uh, so I do this. I do the YouTube channel. I'm an online coach. You can reach me at Ron Harris Muscle for coaching. I do contest prep offseason bodybuilding lifestyle for regular people that just want to look better, feel better, or if they just want to put on some muscle, lose fat. work with all types. Uh, so that's what I do. Online coach and content creator for YouTube if I had to had to give it a job description. That's funny because people ask me, "What do you do?" And, you know, before I could just say, "Well, I'm the uh senior editor for senior senior editor, senior writer and online editor for muscular development." That's what I did from 2017 until the company went out of business 2023. Prior to that, for many, many years, I was a magazine writer, a freelance writer for various bodybuilding magazines. And uh it was a great great gig. I don't know anything about the sugar diet craze. Is that eating no sugar? Eating a lot of sugar? What's the sugar diet, RG? Help help the brother out. I have no idea. All the best. Thank you guys. Yeah. Yeah. It's I I'm fortunate. I have a lot of people rooting for me, but this is a it's a fairly uh I wouldn't say it's a simple procedure, but you're you are allowed to go home that day. Very few people have to be held in the hospital. Only if there's some sort of complications, which I don't anticipate. Uh Steve, would I go back and change? Yeah, I mean, none of us can go back in time, Steve. Obviously, what would I do differently? I'd say I probably wouldn't have done as much as many low rep sets because I was so strong on shoulders. Uh I would push myself and challenge myself with weights that I could only do for three or four reps. I would also use weights that were so heavy I couldn't even do them on my own. I needed a spotter. So anytime you have that much weight that you really can't control it, you're going to be wobbly. you're going to be putting a lot of stress on the tendons, ligaments, things like that, the joints in general. So, I probably would have gone a little bit lighter, not a lot lighter, because, you know, I love training heavy. It was fun. Uh, it was satisfying to to to see those numbers go up over time and be, you know, the one thing I was really strong at was shoulder pressing. I was never a great bench presser. I was a decent squatter. I was never the strongest squatter in the gym. I was never like doing six, seven plates for reps. like some guys do. But shoulder pressing, there were very few people that could press as much as me. Uh, and it was very rare that I found someone unless they were like 350 or something, a monster of a human being, that could press more overhead than me. I was I was very good at that one thing. So, I really I took a took a a massive liking to shoulder pressing, dumbbells and barbell and machines. You know, I remember trying I did 405 on the Smith machine to the front many times with a spotter doing how much I don't know. But yeah, I would have I would have done I would have gone a little bit lighter. I would have warmed up a lot more. I didn't warm up much back in those days. I had this this idea and I've seen this echoed. I've seen people say this too, but now I realize how silly it is that they didn't want to waste a lot of time and energy warming up because they felt that would take away from their work sets. But you're better off going a little bit lighter on your work sets and being far more warmed up in in the long run. That's a much safer way to train than to just do a very very minimal warm-up peruncter warm-up of a a couple quick sets and then jump right into your heaviest weight. That's another thing. I didn't pyramid up for many years, especially in my 20s. I used to warm up and then start with my heaviest set. Uh, I think I got that from Lee Labrada, which he wrote about that in like the late 80s, mid late 80s. I I read something. And again, it was because I thought I'm going to use all my energy and strength on this heavy heavy weight. So instead of doing like one 135, 185, 225, I would start out with, you know, 350. I would warm up with like 135 for a couple sets. I think maybe I would do 185, but I would only do like three or four reps because I didn't want to waste any energy. Then I would load up three plates, get a spotter, put my belt on real tight, and boom. I wouldn't do that ever. I wouldn't do it that way if I do. Sugar diet is for sheeple. Okay. Well, that's a sheep person. I don't want to be one of those. Someone's on is not good way to induce diabetes. So, it sounds like it's a lot of upgrades. Well, luckily, uh I do have some arthritis in this, but it's it's very minimal. I think it would take another it would take probably like 20 30 years for this shoulder to be in that type of pain. and and degraded the joint degraded to the degree that this one is. I don't I really don't have any pain in my right shoulder. It's there is some arthritis, but it doesn't I don't feel it. And my function is pretty well. I have really good range of motion in this. It's not perfect. I still can't like scratch my back or anything, but compared to this shoulder, it's phenomenal. Cheer you up. Quinton is doing Kill Bill. Kill Bill. The final Kill Bill. Wow. He said he was only going to do 10 movies and I think he's already he's done nine. What's the recovery time? Um I, you know, like I said, I'm using my brother, my younger brother had his shoulder replaced seven or eight weeks ago. Uh he is back to work. He's back to driving. Uh as far as lifting, it's going to be a it's going to be a slow road coming back. I know that. But I'm looking forward to it because I have been unable to do a lot of things for years and years. and I'm going to be able to do dumbbell presses, barbell presses if I want to. I'm going to be able to do all that stuff again. It's going to take a long time to get strong on them. But it's either that a long time getting to that or never being able to do that. And if I didn't have this, if I don't have this done, I'd never be able to do those exercises again. I'd never get the range of motion back. I'd never be out of this pain. So, I'm really really excited. Very, very, very excited to get this done. Thank you, man. Appreciate that. Yeah. Kill Bill. Well, there's a lot of good movies. I, you know, I'm I'm a movie buff and I I love I saw like the trailer for the new Superman that looks awesome. Um, there's a Final Conjuring movie coming out later this year. Uh, man, there's a lot of good stuff coming out. I love movies. 10 movies. Oh, well, that's right. He did say volume one and volume two, so you could say that's one movie. Repair some damage cartilage. Well, my cartilage isn't damaged. It's gone. There is no cartilage. I wore my cartilage out well over a decade ago. There's been nothing in there. Nothing. Apparently, it helped prolong the life of your joints worth. Yeah. I mean, like I said, that's the only This shoulder feels good. It feels good. I could I like I said, I can't press with dumbbells with two arms, but if I was AI don't want to be unsymmetrical, but I could still be doing one one arm dumbbell presses with this arm, no problem. I could, you know, I used to do standing one arm dumbbell presses. I would put the non- workinging arm, I would put it on the top of like a a bench, uh, you know, like a seated bench, and I would press with the other arm. And I used to do 7075 was a good working weight. I think I did 80s, but it was sloppy and I only got a few reps. But I could do like 70 75 standing one-armed dumbbell press. Two arms is too hard because there's nothing to balance. I'd fall over my ass. Not long ago, Quinton scrapped the movie basic she Yeah. Uma. Uma has to be She's older than me. I'm going to be 56 in September, I believe. I think Uma is older than me. Mission Impossible, three hours later. Yikes. Yeah, some of these movies are so damn long. I mean, I I'd have to go to the bathroom. There's no I can't go three hours without peeing. There's no way. I don't have my my bladder wouldn't stand for it. Training for 33 years now. 33 years. Better do 10 15 reps getting old. Yeah, I'm I've been training for 40. So, I started training. I I say my official starting date of training was Christmas Day 1982 because I had asked for a weight set and I a weight bench and weights and I got it for my 13th birthday. Well, it was 13 sorry 13th Christmas. I was 13 on that Christmas in 1982. I just turned 13 in September. So anyway, that's we're in 20 25 now. So it'll be 43 years on Christmas day of this year that I've been training. But yeah, uh I I wouldn't go lower than I I rarely go lower than 10 reps on anything ever. Ever. Ever. Not worth it. Not worth it. It's It's all riskreward, you know? Like when I train legs now, I know I could go heavier sometimes, but I could feel I I could feel like maybe I'm going to tear something. There's a risk. Even if it's only like a 2% risk of tearing a quad or a ham or a calf, I don't want to take that chance. For what? I'd rather get slightly less results. slightly uh with far less risk than maybe a little bit better results and a lot more risk. It's just you have to weigh those out. You have to, you know, you have to really think about injur once you've been injured, you have a whole different perspective. Once you've missed training for a very long time for a certain area, like if you can't if you if you hurt your legs or your back or something, if you couldn't train legs for months and months or you couldn't train upper body for months and months, you know, from that point on, you're going to be a lot more cautious. You're going to be warming up more. You're not going to be taking chances with weights you're not even sure you can really handle. 1 hour 90 minutes. Oh, I mean, if I'm drinking a lot of water, I I I go even when I'm It's embarrassing, but I get up at night probably five times. I know that sounds doesn't sound awful. You know, I'm sure my prostate gland is a little bit enlarged, as most guys my age, it's going to be. and that pushes up against the bladder and gives you that sensation of having to pee. And also, I eat all the way up until I go to bed pretty much. My last meal is like at 9:30 and I'm in bed at like 10:30. So, I'm still drinking liquids up and almost up all the time until I go to bed. Downbounds 400 days. Wow. Time 10%. Great job, Zionic. I mean, it's the first time you're seeing yourself lean. It's amazing. Like my son, he competed last month in his first two bodybuilding shows and he had never been that lean before in his life. He's never been overweight. But until you see yourself really really lean, like I don't know, he his abs were real deep. He had veins on his abs and chest and all that stuff, whatever his body, it was lower body fat than he'd ever been before. And it's exciting to see your physique, what it really looks like with all the fat taken away or, you know, as much fat as you can possibly get off. Uh, you doing some low IUGH for recovery surgery? I can't afford it right now. It's embarrassing. But no, I don't have the money to spend on growth hormone. I don't I'm paying all my bills, you know, like everyone else. I got a mortgage. I have uh property taxes, a lease payment on my car, car insurance, uh 401k, things like that. I mean, I have bills and I'm getting them. I make enough to get to to pay all my bills and food. It's very, you know, I'm covering all my expenses and, you know, my wife works, my son works. We're all in this together, but I don't have extra money right now to be spending on growth hormone. Three times a night, 42 years old, it's not too bad. I mean, if if you're alone, you know, if you don't have a wife or girlfriend sleeping next to you, you could get away with getting one of those jugs like they use for invalids. You can pee in that. I wouldn't, you know, I wouldn't recommend it if you have a wife or girlfriend. They probably wouldn't be down for that. highest time for me to resume training. I'm not even sure. I'm not worried about because I don't want to obsess on, oh no, I'm gonna miss this much time from the gym. Whatever amount of time I'm gonna miss, it's going to be one of those things where you got to take two steps forward to take one step two steps back to take one step forward. So, if I have to lose some time and I'm going to lose strength, I'm going to lose I know, you know, this this shoulder, this arm, this whole side of my body, I'm going to lose a good amount of size and strength. I'm well aware and I'm, you know, I'm not looking forward to that, but it's part of the process. It has to happen if I'm going to move forward and have a healthy, you know, it's going to be a fake joint. So, I say healthy, it's not healthy. It's going to be a fake joint. It's not even real. But I'll be back to I'll be back to doing things in the gym I've been able to do for many years. And I'll be able to train the way I want to train. And I bet I'll be able to put a good amount more size. I've lost a lot of size on my chest and shoulders. I have like loose skin on the edge of my chest. It's not fat. It's because my chest was bigger before. My chest used to be out to here. And you know, I don't expect to be that big again because I was juiced up pretty well. I was on a gram to two grams of steroids a week for a long time. I would take little cruises, but I would do AI would do a gram to two grams probably like half the year. For years and years, I did that. And then just little cruise doses in between. Um, so I'm not going to be blasting gear again, gear cycles again, but I still think being able to train the way that I should be able to train uh with no obstructions, no no limitations. Uh, I should be able to do that. Like even squats, I have to do a safety bar squat because I can't get this arm in back of me to hold a squat bar. I got to hold it one arm. Anyway, the rock as she gets up at night six pe twice. No BPC TB tweaks. I'm not going to use that. Again, I can't afford it. Some troll will say Ron's poor. I'm not poor. I just don't have extra money. I'm paying all my bills, but I don't have extra money to be buying peptides and things. Luckily, I am on I'm a sponsored athlete with Frontline Alternative. They cover my TRT. So, testosterone, cypate, and nandrolone, dickanoate, uh, that's all covered. So, I'm not worried about my my hormones. They're going to be optimized, but you know, I'm not going to be uh buying extra GH and peptides and all that stuff comes back after time. Well, yeah, like I said, my legs, you know, when I was able to train my right leg again, finally, when I was able to take the brace off completely, um, you know, walk without without any kind of a brace or support on it, that leg was half the size of my left leg, the the the leg that was uninjured. And I measured them a few days ago and they're both the previously injured leg is maybe a quarter inch smaller, not even than the other leg. So they're both they're both like almost 26 in. Um whereas I didn't I didn't measure it, but I think it was down to like 20 21 inches or something. 22 at the most my my right leg when I because I hadn't been able to train it. I tore it at the end of August 2023 and I didn't get back to even light training for it until September, October, November, December. I'd say mid January, mid January of 2024 is when I was able to start training again. Yeah, everything's fine now. Talk about being honest about gear usage. I mean, why lie? I mean, I'm It's two g. I used There were many cycles I went up to two grams, especially when it was pre-contest or I was prepping for a show, I should say. You know, it wasn't five or six. It wasn'T4 or five, six gram, but it wasn't just a couple hundred milligrams of anything either. It was it was like 750 test, 600 EQ, uh, Primobolin, Masteron, things like that. I mean, it it all added up to about two grams. Between 1500 and two grams was a very very typical cycle for me back in those days. Special diet plans? No, I'm just going to keep eating clean. Uh, I'm going to try to do lots of cardio. I mean, it's just going to be my arm in a sling. So, I I'll be able to do plenty of cardio. I'll be doing legs probably every other day. I'll be doing a lot of leg training. Mike has no problem. I find it really unbelievable. I think Mike is natural. Mike always looks the same. Yeah, Mike is not a normal human being. He's not a normal human being. He's older than me by a few months. He's already 56. He's still as strong as ever. I've never seen him injured all these years. I've never seen him go up or down in in weight or body composition much. I don't know if he's natural or not. I have no idea. Uh but no, I I I don't think anybody should compare themselves to Michael Hearn. Not a real human being. Boston boring. I mean, compared to what? Where are you supposed to live? Somewhere like Las Vegas. Everywhere is boring if you just, you know, work and work out. Infinitturn quads illustrate two months. It's gonna be a lot of leg training because I mean when my when my legs when I couldn't train my legs for a good four months, five months, something like that, I was doing push day, pull day, day off, push day, pull day, day off, over and over and over again. So, I was training the crap out of my upper body. Probably over My wife said I was overtraining. And you know what? She's rarely wrong. She was probably right. But for my own mental health, I had to keep going to the gym even though I couldn't train legs. So, I did more for upper body and it worked out pretty well. Um, I didn't lose anything in my upper body at all. So, and now I got my legs back. So, now I will be losing some size and strength in my upper body and that's okay. It's all good. Anyway, guys, it's that time. I'm going to go walk my dog Branch, my pit lab mix. He's a beautiful boy. Do I have a picture of him for you guys? I bet I do. Let's see. Show you branch because I posted a good picture of him up the other day. There he is. A look at this beautiful boy. Look at this beautiful dog. I'll show you Branch. He's so cute. Look at that. Branch the Bubbas. Pitbull half. The DNA tests had all kinds of breeds in there, but he's mostly pitbull and Labrador Retriever. Mostly. Yeah, he's a good boy. Big Paul Barnett just had bicep reattached. Was in sling for a few weeks also. Yeah, good dude. Paul, I like Paul. I like him a lot. Wish the best shoulder patient use stem cells. No, again, stem cells are like five grand a treatment. You have to have a lot of money to get stem cell treatments. It's $5,000 and you need to get it done every couple every few months. So, it's it's gonna it's going to cost you about 20 grand 20 to 40 grand a year. And we can't even get them done the US. You got to go to like Chile or Mexico or Argentina, places like that. Crazy cheat day. Still train. I'm not craving anything. If I want a piece of pizza or ice cream or something, I have it. I don't I I eat clean most of the time, but if I want something, if if I'm there, like I was at a Father's Day barbecue Sunday. There was some desserts. I had a piece of cheesecake. I had a piece of my wife's fla. What the hell? Who cares? You only live once. I'm not dieting. I'm not prepping for a show or anything. It's all good. Anyway, that's that's branch. That's why I got to go walk. So, anyway, guys, thank you all for joining me. Appreciate it very much. And uh yeah, one week from now, I'll be getting my new shoulder. I am psyched. And I'll talk to you guys later. He suck.