Hey, what's up guys? Ron Harris here and want to take you down memory lane 29 years ago to the 8th annual Arnold Classic in 1996. Great show. I'm going to summarize it for you. I was there. I was actually part of the ESPN production crew. We were filming it for a one-hour special and that's where I want to begin was an opening skit and I always butt hurt because the year before 95 and this year 96 my boss the executive producer of the company American Sports Network LS Wick he uh took the job of doing these skits with Arnold Schwarzenegger and uh how it would open the show and I always wanted to go along but I wasn't invited. So this particular year it was Arnold with four of the previous winners. Remember there'd only been eight seven Arnold Classic shows at this point, but all these guys here you see Kevin Leone, Flex Wheeler, Vince Taylor, and Shawn Ray were all previous winners of the Arnold Classic. And here he's telling them all they were the best winner of the show. They were his favorite. Uh and he told them why this or that attribute that they had. And at the very end, you'll see Kevin Levrone confronts Arnold, says, "Hey, Arnold, you just you told us all we're the best. We can't all be the best." I think I think Lou wrote the script for this. And Lou said Arnold said, "Uh, you know what? You're right. I can't play the audio. I'll get a copyright strike. You're right. Uh, we're going to find out who's the best on stage at the Arnold Classic." And they all agreed to that. But I thought it was really cool the way they did these skits. Uh, and like I said, my boss Lou did those by himself. I was usually sent off to do backstage interviews, go around the expo and shoot B-roll, which is fine. I was getting paid and I was getting paid to be at the Arnold Classic and be backstage and knew all these guys and got to see them up close and personal and talk to them and everything. So, no, no complaints. But here here we see Kevin confronting Arnold. I just thought it was a nice touch that Lou added to these with the opening skits. The year before in a previous video I had, it was Arnold and Franco in a limousine on the way to the venue looking at the program and talking about how great each of the guys were and then uh Franco saying he could beat all these guys and Arnold uh saying no, these guys are better than I ever was. So, it was really cool. All right, so we're going to go through the top five top five placings of this. Starting with Shawn Ray. Sean had actually won this show twice. Uh, and he only did it three times. Now, the first time he won it in 1990, there was a drug test and he and several other athletes were disqualified. So, he had to give back. Uh, actually, I don't think they paid him the check yet, so he didn't have to give it back, but he had to give the trophy back and he didn't get the money. Mike Ashley, who was the runner up, who passed the drug test, was declared the winner that year. But Shawn came back the next year, the very next year, 1991 when there was no drug testing and won the show decisively again. That would be the only other time he won it. Uh he only did this show one more time and it this was it 1996 where he got fifth place. Surprising that a guy who was so well accomplished and had been had been runner up at the Olympia and would be runner up again was only fifth place here. But uh no complaints about the judging. It was a tough tough top five. As you'll see, this was almost the who's who of the great 1990s bodybuilders. One thing you will notice about Shawn and most of the other guys, everyone except Dlette, was that the posing routines. There's Mike Francois, who won the show the year before on his birthday right there in Columbus, Ohio. The posing routines of these guys. And there's uh the late Gregory Hines, the actor, was right behind him. Gregory Hines was a huge bodybuilding fan. went to a lot of the pro shows in the 80s and the 90s. Uh Sean put a lot of effort and time into being a great poser, very graceful, still powerful. Uh he was one of my idols as far as posing. I used to study his routines and dream of the day I could do routines like that. And you guys probably know Terrence Ruffen at this show in Prague Czech Republic recently. He emulated or replicated one of Shawn's routines pose for pose. I think he even used the same music. That's how much respect that Rough and Ruff Diesel had and it was an homage to Shawn Ray who was definitely one of the best posers we ever saw in the sport. Fourth place went to Vince Taylor. So Vince did the show several times. He uh had won I'm sorry 1991 was the first year he did it. Took third place there. He came back 1992 and won. Came back in 1993 the year Flex Wheeler won in smashing form. Took third place. Uh 1994 Arnold Classic, he was run up to Kevin Leone. He got fourth here. 1997 he came back and got fifth. 1998 he was third place in the Arnold. In 1999 would be the last year he competed in the Arnold Classic. Uh that was seven seven appearances at the Arnold. He took sixth place there. Uh he was 39 years old here, 5'8, 230 lbs. I guess I should let you guys know that Shawn Ray was 5'7, 28, and 30 years old. So Vince Taylor here, he went on to win, I believe it was five Masters Olympia titles. Masters Olympia didn't exist yet. I'm sorry. I know it did. It had just been created. But Vince was still competing and doing very well in the open. He would hang on in the open shows for a couple more years until he moved over to the Masters and was very very dominant. Vince uh was also another very accomplished poser. He was the the first one that ever did that Terminator robot routine which I had to cut off here because my clips are limited to two minutes. Uh but he was the one who innovated that whole Terminator robot style of posing. I believe he made that debut of it at the 1991 Olympia in Orlando where Lee Haney got his eighth and final Olympia and Dorian Yates was runner up. Vince was third that year. There he is beginning the Terminator routine as you can see. So I do have the first part of it there and nobody did it quite like Vince King Kamali did a really good version of it as well. Many other bodybuilders. I've even seen guys at the local and regional level with varying degrees of success trying to do that Terminator routine. But Vince Taylor definitely one of the stars of the 90s, someone who doesn't get enough credit and recognition in the modern era. A lot of the young guys, they probably never even heard of Vince Taylor. Another fun fact about Vince, uh he's down in Penroke Pines, Florida. He's 67 years old. He looks fantastic. He still looks like he could get up on that stage, and I'm sure he could. Now, third place, we go to Jurassic Paul. Yes, the nickname I gave him. Paul Dlette, 6 foot one, 285 pounds, 29 years old. His first Arnold Classic had been in his rookie season. 1993, took fourth place at the same show that Flex Wheeler won. 1994, he came back looking amazing, but froze up completely. Had a full body cramp on stage. Had to be carried off stiff as a board like a mannequin by I think it was two or three different guys. three or four guys might have had to carry his big ass off. Uh that was from diuretic diuretic overdose or miscalculation. His entire body locked up. So he missed out on that entire show. He was withdrew due to injury is what it would say on the score sheets. Took fourth, sorry, third place here this year. He would only do the Arnold Classic one more time in 1997 and play six. But I want you to note the size of Paul because I know a lot of you guys think uh they didn't have big guys like like we do now back then. I mean guys like Nick Walker and Samson. We didn't have big massive freaks back. Of course we did. Paul Dlette was enormous in terms of height and width. Uh I'd put him up there with anybody. He was so wide across the shoulders. when you stood next to that guy, it was it was crazy how big and thick and wide he was. Um, never really reached his full potential. I don't think I I think posing could have always been a lot better. His back could have been better in the back shots. His massive shoulders sort of overpowered the back, but man, he was still a stalard. He was somebody who did very, very well in the 1990s. Won a few big shows. uh won the night of champions, won a lot of Grand Prix shows, never got to the never got an Olympia win, but he was top five on many occasions there, Paul. Definitely uh definitely somebody who was a legend in that decade. So, now we move to second place, Flex Wheeler. So, we know Flex had made his uh his Arnold Classic debut in 1993, which some people still believe. I actually made a video about it last year. Was the greatest bodybuilding physique ever seen on the stage. He won that. That was in 1993. 1994, he broke his neck and missed the whole season. 1995, the year before this, he came back, made his comeback, and had to take second place behind Mike Francois. Here, he was second place again. So, two years in a row. 1997 he would come back and win it a second time. 98 he would win it a third time. 2000 he would get his fourth win. I'm sorry. Yeah. Fourth win at the Arnold. The record was only broken uh about six or eight years ago when Dexter Jackson got five. Uh so the alltime record for Arnold Classic wins is five held by Dexter Jackson. But until then for a long time it was Flex Wheeler with four Arnold Classic wins. And you could see why he was called the Sultan of symmetry. Just spectacular shape, muscle fullness, round muscles, small joints. Clavicle width was not spectacular, just like it wasn't with Phil Heath. But he put so much muscle on top of that. Here he was 5'9, only 230 lbs. He was listed 30 years old. He would eventually be competing 250 or a little bit over. But when he won this for the first time with the look that many people think was his best ever, he was only 216 pounds. So Flex had many, many different looks over the years. And they were all fantastic in their own way. Whether you like this more streamlined, smaller version of Flex with ultra grainy conditioning or the bigger, fuller, thicker look that he would have toward the end of his career as an open bodybuilder. He did come back many years later uh and tried classic at the Olympia on a special invite. didn't go too well, but it was still good to see him up there one last time. So, Flex Wheeler, fantastic physique, one of the greatest of all time. Some people believe, and you know what, it's it's a matter of opinion. Some people do feel this was the greatest physique of all time in bodybuilding, just in terms of overall overall attributes, size, structure, shape, condition, all those things. Condition, I'd say he was only in awesome condition a few times in his whole career. Many of his wins were made at about 90% condition, which was good enough because he had so much else going on. All right, now we come to our winner, Kevin Leone. Kevin uh had made his debut here in 1992, his rookie season with a runner up to Vince Taylor. Uh let's see. No, I'm sorry. That was the Olympia. He actually made his debut here in 1994 with a win. 1995 he was runner up to Mike Francois. Is that right? Or was Flex runner up? Oh boy. So he won this again in 1996. This year he would never win it again, but he was a a four-time Mr. Olympia runner up. Kevin had such a such a hybrid physique. He had mass like a mass monster. Here he was 510, 255 pounds, and 32 years of age, very small, tight waist. Now, you can see we didn't have the camera quality back then. We didn't have 4K cameras, more like 1K, but you could still see the striations. His glutes were dug out. He was another guy, Kevin, who had many different looks over the years. when when he won the uh the night of champions in his rookie season, he was only about 225 pounds and he would compete as heavy as 255 260 later on in his career. Which version of Kevin do you like? I mean, they're all you could take your pick. They were all good in their own way, just like Flexhead. So many different looks that were all amazing in their own ways. One one note about uh Kevin is as as great as his routines look, they were always improv. They were always made up on the spot. He just never felt the need. He wanted to to be in the moment and to hit the poses as uh as they came to him, just totally on the spot, which is astonishing when you look at these routines because they look very well choreographed and rehearsed and they were not not at all, which the first time he told me that I was I was in shock. Kevin Levrone, it's your winner. But here, let's go to the awards. And we see that Vince Sailor has gotten fourth. Look at the size of Paul Dlet there on the right. Just massive. You can see he was a little taller than everybody else and just so much thicker. 285 pounds on stage. There he is getting his third place announcement. It's going to come down to Flex and Kevin for the for the win. But those arms, those arms on Paul, the shoulders, it was just, it was a sight to see, guys. You know, I It's crazy because you see him now. He's the president of his own federation, a physique competition federation called WBFF. And he hasn't trained in many years. He hasn't juiced and eaten like a bodybuilder in many years. And he is a very slender guy. It's crazy to see how small he actually is now when you when you used to see him or when you were accustomed to seeing him so huge for all those years. But uh you know he he went on went on to different things and he didn't look back and I don't think he's crying about not being 285 pounds ripped anymore. So Flex Wheeler second place. It was a close call. Look at the look at the triceps on Kevin there. some of the best triceps, shoulders, and chest of all time. Kevin Leone, as you can see that he was just so full and round, so massive. So, first place back there was $100,000. This coming March, the first prize is going to be $750,000. It was up from uh $500,000 this year. So, massive increases in how much money these guys are being paid. And it's about damn time. The first Arnold Classic was Rich Kaspari. I think he got 50,000 or $55,000 in 89 for winning that. So you can see the progression. They also used to get a Hummer, the car called the Hummer. There's the prize money right there. So for a long time, the winner would get the first place check. He would get a brand new Hummer. Value at the time in in those dollars was like around 60 or $70,000. And they used to get uh an Odmar's pet pette. I don't even know how you say it. A custom watch. I think it was like solid gold with diamond crusted. It was like a $30,000 watch. So that was the 1996 Arnold Classic, the 8th annual edition of it. Uh the next one is coming up next March. And again, the prize money is so much higher now. But I thought you'd like that little trip down memory lane to see how things were almost 30 years ago. The quality of the physiques. I do wish the footage the the cameras were a higher resolution like we have today so you could really appreciate how great these guys looked. But I think you got a good idea from watching that. So, thank you so much guys for watching. Appreciate it. I'll see you next time. Build like.