Hey guys, Ron Harris here and today I want to go over one of the most controversial Mr. Olympia contests in the 60-year history of that event. Talk about the two 2007 Mr. Olympia where Jay Cutler did win his second title in a row. But a lot of people thought runner-up Victor Martinez was the rightful winner. This was almost 20 years ago. People still talk about it to this day. So, let's take a look at some of the comparisons. Also want to look at some of the individuals of the top six guys. But let's start with comparisons. Here was your top four. And at this time, they did have a symmetry round still where it was just quarter turns and that was on the scorecard as one of the judge rounds. So, you have Jay Cutler, the reigning defending champion. Ronnie Coleman, who had lost his title the year before after winning eight years in a row. You also have Dexter Jackson, who had not won it yet, but would go on to win it the next year. He's there in the end. And of course, Victor Martinez. Victor was the Arnold Classic champ for that year. And uh this was probably his best year. I mean, every bodybuilder has a year where they were at their absolute best. Sometimes it's only one contest where they're at their best ever. For Victor, 2007 was his peak. It was that lightning in a bottle season where everything was just flowing. He had size, shape, symmetry, condition. You can see his confidence here. He was nailing it. The Dominican Dominator from New York City. Originally from Dominican Republic, of course, looked fantastic. And that was a symmetry round. So after that, we're going to go into top four first call out of what was called the muscularity round. They hit their poses. Now you can see Ronnie, this would be Ronnie's final Olympia. He was he was starting to fade here. Jay, a lot of people thought Jay was looking uh far from his best here. Flat on the flat side for such a big guy. Legs particularly were flat. You see it see it everywhere. The waistline was a little wider, a little thicker. Uh Ronnie was holding on here, although nerve damage was starting to take his toll. But again, Victor, Victor was just nailing it 100%. Looked awesome. Dexter in uh third place looked pretty damn great, too. Like I said, he would go on to win this title the next year. We'll talk about Dexter when we get to him in the top five. But man, what a great showing for Victor. But you know, Jay, this was an era where you had to knock out the champ. That's the way they used to put it. You couldn't just beat him by a little bit. You had to really blow him out of the water. And I don't know that Victor did enough to blow him out of the water. I don't know that Jay look bad enough to warrant giving it to him. Now in this day and age, you know, things have changed because now if Mr. Olympia is a little bit off, we see the title change hands constantly. We've had so many different Olympias in the past few years. 2017 Phil Heath 2018 Sean Rhoden 2019 Brandon Curry 2021 Big Ramy 2022 hottie Chupan 2023 Derek Lensford 2024 Samson Dada in the past we probably would have seen one of those guys hold on to the title for longer but here you still had to knock him out now Jay was off I'm I'm not even disputing that fact Victor did look fantastic and you guys you tell me in the comments Was it a robbery? Because a lot of people say it was a robbery and they've never even really looked at pictures or footage. They're just sort of paring or echoing what other people say about the show where they weren't they don't really have an opinion of their own. They're just sort of going along with the the flow there. So, I want you guys to tell me what you think based on what you're seeing here. So, this is the final the last couple poses here. Abent thigh is a critical shot. Victor was really round full popping and condition was there. So, I could definitely see making a solid argument for Victor being the winner here. That's a Mr. Olympia where Jay, you could see, yeah, I mean, he even Jay's confidence was a little bit off this year. You could see you could tell he knew he wasn't at his best. He's probably thinking, "Ah, Victor might have me here." Ronnie, man, God God bless Ronnie. And I hope he's I know he's starting to do better. I hope his recovery is going well from his blood infection, the sepsis. Um, man, but what a year this was. This was a fantastic top four. Even Ronnie, even though Ronnie was clearly nowhere near his best at this point, he still looked fantastic. Still a fan of Ronnie Coleman. But Victor Martinez, this is where they uh they moved him. They moved him next to uh Jay. Moved him next to Jay. And that was a that was a clear sign to anybody who knows how the judging works that this was your top two. H but then they moved him again. They kept moving things around. But they kept they kept Victor and Jay next to each other for a call out here for the comparison which in a lot of the in a lot of the people's minds meant that this was a battle between these two for the win. And it was Dexter. Dexter looked damn good. You see Dexter is kind of on the narrow side when you see him next to these other guys. Did not have very wide clavicles. Structurally he is very good but not the widest guy. He would improve. He would improve. This this actually wasn't his best showing. He looked better earlier in the year. And I actually have that footage because there is no footage of him that I could find on anywhere YouTube of his individual posing from that year. So that was the those were the comparisons. Now, I want to take a look at the individuals of the top six because everyone in the top six this year looked fantastic. We're going to start with one of the greatest posers of all time, marvelous Melvin Anthony. So, Melvin, man, Melvin wasn't just a great poser. He was a great bodybuilder. He won the 2004 United Champions, 2008 Atlantic City Pro, 2010 Phoenix Pro, his Olympia record. Uh 2001 he was 11th place. 2003 ninth place. 2005 seventh. he was fifth. Here in 2007 he was sixth. 2008 he would be eighth. In his final Mr. Olympia appearance in 2009 he would be 11th place. Melvin was not a huge guy. He had tremendous shape and aesthetics. In fact had classic existed back then he wouldn't have been able to make classic here at this weight. But I don't think he would have had to drop a whole lot of weight. I believe I'm just making an educated guess here. I think he would have had to drop maybe 10 to 15 pounds at most to make the weight that's currently for classic at his height. But he was just a fantastic poser. Not only with the uh the posing routine as we're seeing here, he did things that no one else was doing, but even in the mandatory poses, he just had such great command of the transitions, how to hit every pose and just lock it in and capture attention. I can't play the music because YouTube would would uh pull the video, but he was such a great choreographer. He made his own routines up. He was he learned from the great John Brown, Mr. Universe, who was also Vince Taylor's mentor and Shawn Ray's mentor. And you could see he didn't just do the dancing around like some guys. It would be dance moves, but then he would all always make sure he hit plenty of bodybuilding poses. So, it wasn't just someone who was a great bo poser and dancer that didn't have a great physique and didn't really display the physique. Melvin definitely did display the physique to the utmost as well as making everything entertaining for the fans at home because this was we called this the Matrix, how he would go down like in that scene, the bullet scene in the Matrix where uh he's dodging the bullets. He goes down backwards like that. I mean, not many people had done that. You see it done a lot more these days, but back then, nobody had done that before. He was an innovator. Definitely an innovator with the posing. Next up, Dennis Wolf. Dennis Wolf. This was his second season as a pro. His first season as a pro, 2006. He had won the Keystone Classic and he placed it highly in a couple shows over in Europe and made to the Olympia in 2006, but did not place, did not make the top 15. This would be very, very different. He moved all the way up to fifth place this year. Uh 2008, the year after this, he would come back and fail to place again. No, I'm sorry. 2008, I'm sorry, he took fourth. What am I saying? 2009, he wouldn't place. 2010, he would be fifth. 2011 he would be fifth again. 2012 sixth. 2013 was his highest Olympia placing ever. Third place. 2014 he won the Arnold Classic. Great great win. I was there to witness that and also was there in the Olympia 2014 to see him take fourth. 2015 he would take fourth again. His final contests would be in se 2018. Uh didn't do that well. He had 12th place at the Arnold and 11th 10th place at the Arnold Classic Australia. Overall, Dennis would have six pro wins. Uh grew up uh initially in Siberia and then as a young teen I believe his family moved to uh Germany, East Berlin I believe it was. It was East Germany anyway, the communist ruled side. And he was a fantastic guy. He had shape, symmetry, structure. He's one of those guys that just had a tremendous overall package. If you're a fan of size, you liked Wolf. If you were a fan of Shape and Symmetry, you were a fan of Wolf. It was just hard not to be a fan of this guy. And he's just the nicest guy if you ever meet him. These days, he's a very successful uh personal trainer out in Las Vegas with his own private gym with a lot of outdoor features to it. And he looks like an action star. Now, he's downsized, but he's definitely still carries good amount of muscle. Stays very, very lean. Really looks like someone you would expect to see in an action movie. So, props to Dennis Wolf. Uh, the big bad wolf. I got to know him pretty well in my years writing writing columns and articles about him for MD. And what a cool guy Dennis is. Now, we're going to move on to the final time Ronnie Coleman stood on a bodybuilding stage. This was his last contest. He had a pretty long career, 15 years. He turned pro at the end of 91. Did a bunch of shows in the 92 season, including the Olympia, where he did not place. pretty much placed dead last as he likes to point out at his first Mr. Olympia 198 1992 in Helsinki, Finland. But of course, eventually Ronnie would start winning and event he would have one of the longest running shared only by Lee Haney eight times as Mr. Olympia, eight consecutive Olympia wins. He would finally lose the title to Jay Cutler the year before this in 2006. And you can see his physique was starting to show a lot of signs of wear and tear, nerve damage, little atrophy in certain areas, but still overall, you know, the you see the midsection blown up, but overall it was still a very very impressive physique. Some people were thinking he got a gift in fourth place here. I don't think he did. I think he deserved fourth place. Had he been any higher than this, I would say that was a gift. But he still had great great mass, good shape. condition had been better, but it was still overall not bad condition. And uh you know, the guy's a living legend. He's always going to go down as one of the absolute best bodybuilders of all time. To a lot of people, he's considered the GOAT. They consider Ronnie the absolute best bodybuilder that's ever stepped on a bodybuilding stage. Certainly motivated millions and millions of people with his training tapes, DVDs, and still does. Has that catchphrase, "Yeah, buddy. lightweight that I bet every single one of you has said one or both of those phrase hundreds of times. If you're a true meatthead, you know, you know you have. Yeah, buddy. So Ronnie Coleman, this he made a very emotional retirement speech uh after the awards and uh I think every one of us in the auditorium that night had a had a tear in our eyes because you know to see a living legend just finally go out and give it his give it his all but then to to bow out gracefully and know that it was time to go. He wasn't going to keep hanging on and watch his placings go down fifth, seventh, 10th place. Ronnie wasn't going to go out like that and he went out as a true champion. Of course, you know, he ideally he would have gone out the way Lee Haney did with his eighth win at the very top of his game, but Ronnie is a a bodybuilder heart. He loved competing. He loved he loved the challenge. He loved the crowd. So, he kept on kept on doing it for a couple more years. Now, let's take a look. Uh, like I said, I could not find any footage of Dexter Jackson from this event, individual posing. So, what I'm going to show you here is from the Australian Grand Prix, but it's the same year, 2007. Dexter Jackson, the blade, never failed to display tremendous conditioning, was always sliced to the bone, shape, and symmetry. You see those round full muscle bellies. Not many guys had that. Phil Heath was another guy that shared that quality of the really round full muscle bellies. Flex Wheeler would be another one. You know, you put those together with very small joints as Dexter had because remember Dexter here he's about 200 uh I think later in his career he got heavier. Let's say he was probably about 220 here. He started competing in 1991 I believe it was or 92 as a banttom weight 142 pounds down in his down in his native Florida. So over his career he added almost 100 pounds of muscle because toward the end he was he was over 230 lbs. So damn near 100 pounds of muscle mass that this guy packed on a 5'6 frame. And again, Dexter was also known for his posing, not so much for having showy routines where he danced around, but just the grace, the beauty of the transitions. Um, you know, a lot of people a lot of people modeled themselves after Dexter Jackson and were tremendously inspired by Dexter Jackson because he had it all. He had size, shape, symmetry, conditioning. Mass-wise, yeah, he wasn't as big as some of the other guys, but because he had that round those round full muscle bellies that that that gave him the illusion of having more size and he's able to stand next to guys and beat much much bigger guys. The year after this, he beat he beat the reigning Olympia, Jay Cutler, and earned his own Mr. Olympia win. He would have five Arnold Classic wins over the course of his career. He won a record five Arnold Classic Championships. Uh in addition to the five that he won in the US, he won four others. He won the European Arnold Classic Europe twice, the Arnold South Africa and the Arnold Australia. So if you want to look at it that way, he really won nine Arnold Classics, five in the US and four outside the US. But overall, 29 pro wins. He was the winningest pro bodybuilder of all time. And I don't think we're going to see that record ever broken. Now, let's go to the Dominican dominator, Victor Martinez. Again, this was a breakout year for Victor. His greatest season ever, Arnold Classic champ, and what many felt should have been Mr. Olympia this year. The beauty of that physique, unparalleled, a classic classic shape. This is as good or better than any shape you're going to see on any classic physique champ, including Bumstead or any of these guys. But Victor carried far more muscle mass than a classic physique competitor. So let's see. Uh he won the 200 2003 night of champions. Here he would uh he would take second place. The year before at the Olympia he had been third place. So that was a great year for him too. But here he moved up to second. 2009 he would be sixth. 2010 eighth place. 2011 fourth place. 2013 11th. 2014 8th. 2015 9th. 2016th. 2017 would be his final Mr. Olympia appearance where he did not place and he would compete for one more season. He would come back in 2020 and did the Arnold Classic where he placed ninth and then Victor uh Victor knew that his physique was just not as good as it had been and he bowed out gracefully and said goodbye. But this this is one of the greatest physiques that ever stood on a Mr. Olympia stage. This was, you know, damn near perfect and he had a great time up there and you could see the performance of the routine. He knew he he he knew the either he was winning or he was damn close to winning. And I believe he I I've listened to interviews with him and he still he has uh still a little bit of bitterness about this show because if you look at the comparisons, he did beat Jay in several areas. Jay was not his best. Jay didn't Jay didn't have these lines, this flow, this symmetry. All Jay really had on him at this show was more muscle mass, more raw muscle mass. We'll look at Jay in a minute, but this was one of the greatest physiques ever to stand on the Olympic stage, the Arnold Classic stage, any stage really. Victor Martinez was one of the greats of his era and to this day still has millions of fans all around the world. Last guy we're going to look at now, Jay Cutler. So Jay was the defending champ. He had beat Ronnie Coleman the previous year to finally get his win. Uh so he was a Mr. Olympia four times. 2006 here in 2007 he would lose the title the next year to Dexter Jackson and to this day remains the only Mr. Olympia champion to lose the title and regain it. He got it back in 2009 working with Honey Ramad when he had the fauxhawk that famous quad stomp picture that we all know and love. That's from the 2009 Olympia. He would win it one more time in 2010 which was also a very controversial win because his protege Phil Heath looked phenomenal at that show. And I remember half the audience booing and getting up immediately and leaving the theater when he got announced as uh the winner in 2010 because about half the people in attendance thought it should have gone to Phil Heath. Uh 2011 he would come back again and place second to Phil his protege. He would take off a year and then one more time he came back 2013 with a huge bruise on his bicep. uh which he always said came from tearing it during a photo shoot for I think it was Muscle Tech a few days out from the show and took sixth place which some did feel was a gift. That was not his best appearance. This was not his best appearance but Jay did have a lot of appearances where he looked great including Arnold Classic where he won it three years in a row 2002, 2003 and four. He was a threetime consecutive Arnold Classic champion and he looked fantastic at every single one of those wins. He had been second place in 2001 to Ronnie Coleman after beating Ronnie in the judging. Ronnie was able to somehow get enough points at the finals to rally and beat him. But to this day, that remains another controversial Mr. Olympia. CJ was on the receiving end of the controversy or I should say the giving end of the controversy that time where a lot of the people in attendance 2001 thought he had Ronnie because Ronnie was not his best. That was the year that Ryan did the Arnold Classic and his body just was not responding to the prep when he tried to come back and get ready to defend his Olympia title. All right, let's look at the top six. And we see Dennis Wolf, Ronnie, Melvin. Yeah, you can see Melvin size-wise was not the same as the other guys. Didn't really compare, but great shape and structure and symmetry. Victor with that little variation. I always like that little tilt he did on the front double. Dennis Wolf, one of the widest shoulder spans of anybody I've ever seen. Super wide across the upper back and shoulders. You see, Ronnie was having uh issues holding his midsection in at this point. Things were getting tough for Ronnie. His body was just not cooperating anymore. I believe he had nerve damage. Um he would start having his surgeries right after this. I believe he had his first back surgery just a few weeks after this contest and he would go on to have like a dozen more back surgeries. and uh a lot of health problems. And today he really can't walk on his own for very long. He needs crutches or he goes around in a scooter, but legendary strength, legendary physique. There's never going to be another Ronnie Coleman in our lifetime. But this was uh this was a tremendous top six. And Victor Martinez for sure could have won this contest. Uh most people in attendance thought it was Victor's show. They thought he caught Jay slipping here, which I agree with. But again, this was an era where Mr. Olympia often held on to his title even if he was off his mark. We saw it with Ronnie. We saw it with Dorian before. And we even saw it with Lee Haney before that. Uh things are much much different now. If you don't think if you don't agree with the way shows are judged now, I I would just implore you to go back and look back at your history to see shows like this where someone could come in markedly better than the reigning champ, as Victor, I do believe, did here with Jay and still not get the nod from the judges. Today, if Mr. Olympia, the reigning Mr. Olympia, comes in a little bit off, he loses. And the best man on stage wins. It's not about politics or favoritism. We don't see that anymore, guys. We really don't. We see a lot more fair and impartial judging today. And I I applaud and commend the judges for that. All right. Last thing we're to look at here is the awards. So, they've already given out the awards for sixth, fifth, fourth, and third places. And now waiting for Bob Chick to make the final announcement. You can see Shawn Ray there at the podium with him. See Ben Weider who would pass away. This would be the last Olympia appearance for Ben Weider, the founder of the IFBB. he would pass away the following October in 2008. That's the man who made bodybuilding uh what it is today as far as a sport. Prior to that, it had been paired up with weightlifting contests and never even held on its own. You'd have to sit through weightlifting and powerlifting and then get to the bodybuilding at the very end of the night. Ben Weeder and his brother Joe were the ones that really made made our sport what it is today. We owe a huge debt to the the Weer brothers, but here we are. You could, you'll see the minute even though you can't hear it, you're going to see that minute where Victor was like waiting, waiting. He was hoping for his name to be announced in first, but Jay got it. Jay kept the title. And I really want to know in the comments, guys, be impartial. Looking at what you see here today, did Jay deserve it? Did Victor deserve it? Don't just go on what you've heard people say before. Uh whether you whether you agree with it or not. I I want you to make your own mind up and leave it in the comments, guys. Because bodybuilding is subjective. It's in the eye of the beholder. And you know, you can judge just as well as a judge can. If you've been around the sport long enough, if you've watched many, many contests, you know what you know what the judges are looking for. The best overall package of shape, structure, mass, conditioning, presentation, symmetry, balance. It's a lot. And on this day, you can either believe Jay Cutler deserved to be Mr. Olympia and keep his title as he did. I wonder what I wonder what Dexter was whispering to him right there like, "I got you next year." Which he did. Jay would uh Jay would lose the next year to Dexter and again he would get it back the following year, but that was it. So Jay Cutler was the 2007 Olympia champion. That would be uh his second of four titles. And I want to know again, leave me a comment, guys. Do you agree? Do you disagree? Did the right man win or not? You be the judge and let me know. Appreciate your comments. Appreciate you watching.