What's up everybody? Ron Harris here and the California Pro judging is over. I have not watched the footage yet. I've only seen some clips on Instagram. I'm going to go over it with you guys. First time I'm watching it along with probably some of you. So, I do believe there was a pay-per-view. However, uh, Integra Medica Medical, huge supplement company out of Brazil. They bought the rights to stream it for free on their YouTube channel, which is called Integral TV. They've got 1.32 million subscribers. So, I'm going to watch it with you guys right now. The first call out as it happened. This happened, it's probably about an hour and a half ago at this point. I know I'm a little late to the party. So, Rean Grimes, first person called. No surprise. No surprise. So, as you know, Rean got fourth place uh last weekend and he's looking for that Olympic qualification. Sassan Herat, he's got two runnerups. Detroit, he was runner up to Bonak, William Bonak. And in the feale show in Cologne, Germany, he was runner up to Andrew Jacked. First call out. Uh to his side, you can see Leandro Perez from Brazil. Uh I did my preview with Big Mike a couple days ago and we had him to next to him on the right is another Brazilian, Bruno Santos, looking very thick. Uh I'm wondering if that I'm not really sure who that is on the other side. Number 11. I think that might be Flor Floron Porson Porson from France who I believe has been a classic competitor as well. So obviously shape size Rean is Rean is just uh looking phenomenal. Tan is still not still not as dark as it needs to be. Something is up with that tan. Uh Sassan's tan and Leandro's stage color their tan much much better. All right, so let's look at the first pose. front double bicep and okay uh I think Leandro is right there in terms of every every facet size shape structure this is the first time I'm seeing this comparison but Leandra looks really really good to me sassan looking good again quads are nice and full separated's quads you can see in the middle between these two guys, Sassan and Leandro. You can see he does need more quads. His quads are not as big as they need to be. They're keeping Rean in the middle. They moving people around him. I'm surprised they moved Leandro all the way over there. I thought he was neck and neck. So now they're going to go into the second shot. Nope. Starting all over again. Frontal bicep. Yeah, I believe that's Florian Por Porson in the purple to the right of uh Rean on your screen. side chest. Great shot for Rean. Shows off his shape. It's a great shot for Sass, for Leandro. The back shots are where Rean typically dominates. Let's see if he does this time. Leandra looking good, too. Yeah, Rean probably has the best rear double there. I know it's kind of hard to tell. This condition doesn't look as tight to me as as Leandro's at all. Leandro looks to me to be in much better condition. Even Sasan, but I think a lot of that is the tan. And we thought he was going to have that tan fixed. We thought that was not going to be an issue anymore, that tan. It's looking like it's an issue. I thought I thought they were going to try the hairspray trick that was recommended to him. Side try. Great great shot for Rean. Man, I want to see Leandro next to him. Leandro is the guy that's really impressed me the most. Sassan looking phenomenal, though. Sassan definitely tightened up since last week at the New York Pro a little bit and he knew he needed to. He really wants Olympia qualification. He doesn't want to keep doing show after show. This is his fourth show of the season already and we're not even out of May yet. That's a great shot for Rean. of course shows off that shoulder width, that X- frame that he has. That was your first call out. Let's see what you guys have to say. What's up? Your mom's flip-flop. It's free. No, this is I mean, this is free. It's not live because I was uh I was out with my wife at the gym running errands. Otherwise, I would have had this up. It was live. It was live and it's still you can catch the finals on this uh without me yapping on Integral Integral Muscle channel on YouTube. They have rights to the stream. They bought it so you can watch it for free. Cali Pro show underway. Who's taking the crown? Ring Sar. Let's break down every pump and pose wrong. Thank you, man. Sus looks better than last show. Yeah, this is a second call out, guys. Who are all these guys? That's Patrick Moore on the left. That's Aaron [\h__\h] Uh, next to him, not sure who this is. Next to that, that's Christo Dominico. not familiar with all these guys. And if I don't know who they are, that doesn't necessarily mean they don't have a chance. Oh, Justin Mile. He's up there somewhere. Where is he? Is that uh where's that Justin the red second from the second from the right? I think so. So, he's this is the second call out, guys. We already have the top five pretty much established. So, his back's legs are super good, though. We've been having tan trouble for the last three years. Yeah. Why can he not fix that? I'm not saying it's it's an easy fix. I have no idea what he's up against. But why can't this guy come in with proper color? What is up with that? The like and sub. Thank you, man. Thank you. I'm doing well. Who's winning? Well, Goku based on that. And they're gonna come back. This is so they always do the first call out with like five or six guys. Second call out. There might even be a third call out after this for some guys that weren't even in this call out. And those are the guys that could probably be your bottom four or five. And then at the end, they'll probably do, it's already happened, but I haven't watched it. I'm watching this for the first time right here with you guys. So, they have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12. There are 13 men in the show. I think there's still a couple that haven't been called out. These are the second call out, guys. They'll do the third call out and then they're going to bring out probably I'm guessing it's going to be the top three. I bet it's going to be a call out with Sasson, Rean, and Leandro. Yappy makes it better. Malaw was first call. Oh, okay. My bad. On the right. So, that's the guy. I didn't know who it was. Sorry. My bad. Why you having trouble with the tan though? Uh, they spray him and the tan just doesn't stick or something. I don't know why. You'd think that's like the easiest thing in the world. I mean, the training, the diet, and all that, the cardio, and then to screw it up with just a bad tan, that's that's rough. Uh, if I'm right, Branch had some weird skin tantrums. Yeah. Yeah, you're right. Re uh Branch did have a lot of issues with his tan back in the day. He figured it out. Okay, so that was Are we bringing back the the top guys already? So, who is this? That's just That's Mile on the right. Uh, who's that in the middle? Is that Leandro? Number 10. Yeah. 10, 11, 12, 13. Oh, here we go. Nice and close. So, I'm not sure who who that is in the middle there. These guys all look great. And this is your third call out. Surprised they broke it down. So, uh, yeah, this guy's not in really good shape at all. So, I should probably write down I had the list and it didn't have the numbers on it, but let me try to correspond it and see if if this makes any sense. Yeah, number 10 would be Jonathan Padilla from Mexico. 11 12 13. Okay, so I think I got it. I think I've got the names and the numbers matched on my little sheet of paper next to me, my little cheat sheet. I know these aren't the top guys, but still I like to give everyone credit. These guys all worked really hard and they all look great. Gentleman on the right needs a little more back thickness. That is Well, I can't see the numbers. So, that's 10. So, three is Ryan Foster from USA on the left. Not really familiar with him at all. Uh, eight. Okay, so that's Justin Mal. I wonder why they had Justin. They said Justin was in the first call out. So, it's really odd that they would bring him out with this group because if he was in the first call out, you'd think he's in contention for top six at the worst. Yeah, you see the commentators on if if you speak Portuguese and you want to watch this later, Integral Integral TV, they bought the rights and they're doing commentating throughout the whole event in Portuguese or they did. They'll be back for the finals shortly. The finals are starting in like an hour. But the thing is, they're doing the NPC with this as well, the amateur show. So, I'm not sure if they're going to start with the pro show when they begin finals or they're going to go through the amateurs again. All right, so let's see who they bring out now. 13 11 is Yeah, that's Florine right there. So, we're looking at that. I can't see the numbers. Why' they put bring Rean out on this call out? All right, so it's Rean Sas. They're putting Regan in the middle. 11 is Florian there on the left, Leandro Perez to his right, and then Bruno Santos on the right. So, this is your top five right here. No doubt about that. The fact that they have Rean in the middle, that's usually a good indication that he is favored to win. He's hitting the vacuum there. I know the stream isn't that crystal clear. It's not like Gilko Productions. Uh, Reian's thighs separation not really impressing me a whole lot right here. I know when we see the high resolution images, everyone's going to look a lot better. The resolution on this is nowhere near as clear as what you're going to see when you see the images. But shape, Rean kills him on shape. I still think this this tan was a Why can't he fix the tan? He's got a great crew of people around him. He's got plenty of money. He can afford whatever needs to be done. You know, he's got the top top people in the world willing to help him. He's there in Vegas with people like Jay Cutler, Milos, all kinds of people. Yeah, the back shots. He's He's killing the back shots. Sassan looking really good, though. Now, if you're judging by the glutes, he is in the worst condition out of everybody from the back. Both Leandro and Sassan have a little more separation. Striations go on the glutes. I do like the hamstrings. The hamstring cords there you can see on Rean. Sas looking good in the rear shots, too. Leander was impressing the hell out of me today. Look at that tri. Look how thick he is. And he's hitting the shot well. He's sucking in the waist. He's twisting. I You know, I'm I' I might even be leaning I'd be leaning more toward one of those guys honestly for the win just for the fact that how can how can we have Rean win with this crappy color again? And I don't know if he's actually behind these two in condition or it's the crappy color, the lack of stage color that's making him look bad. It's making him look like he's not as lean as he should be. All right, so that's those guys. Was that the end? If that's the end, I'm going to back it up. Okay, so now we have Florine again, Leandro, and Bruno. So that tells me um it looks like Sassan and Regan are your top two. Those are your top two. So now they're trying to figure out third, fourth, fifth between these guys. So the last call out, I bet you is going to be Rean and Sass. Rean and Sass. Oh, I'm way behind. Rean having trouble makes better remember right branch had some weird yeah we did that one Patrick will always struggle bringing up his legs he was good when he was close to Phil Heath not sure what happened to him since 2020 I know he tore his Achilles tendon which is the thickest tendon in the human body he tore that so but when they reattach a tendon it shouldn't be an issue anymore it should be stronger or as strong I mean I had my quad I tore my quadricep tendon they put it back I'm I'm back to doing pretty much what I was doing on legs before uh a year and a half later. So, I'm good. Yeah, but Leandro So, it's it's clear they don't have Leandro in consideration for the win. It's between Sas and Rean based on this. This is trying to figure out third, fourth, fifth right here. Florian looks good. And I I apologize to Florian and all his fans because Big Mike Cox and I did a preview a couple days ago and I was the one who unintentionally it was a it was a a bad omission. I left Florian out. I just didn't write his name down. I didn't notice it. It was a huge mistake on my part. But I apologize. The guy looks really really good. Fantastic condition shape. Love those quads. The muscle separation. That's him on the left there. So, my bad for not having him in there in my preview. Rean's wife did his tan this time. Uh oh. Okay. Well, she's not she's no good either at uh Reian's wife is no good at applying tan either. That's unfortunately. All right. So, this was it. This was your top two. Let's see what the judges did. Could Sissan take out take out Rean? They both want their Olympic qualification. Shape. I'm giving the shape to Rean. Sassan has better quads, better color. The condition looks better to me. I'm really liking Sassan for the win. Honestly, I know I just pissed off Tenzillion Regan Grimes fans, the Grimy fans, Grimy Nation. But Sassan brought it, man. He tightened up a lot since last week. His glutes weren't in. His hams were a little blurry. His glutes were blurry last week in New York. That was just seven days ago. So Sassan, he turned it around. He peaked for this one. Great job, Sassan. Will he beat Regan? I don't know. I don't know. They could say, well, Rean had superior structure, shape, which he does. Uh, he beats him in the back shots. I'd have to really go slow and look pose for pose to see who beats who pose for pose. But it's not about who wins more poses. I know that's that's how a lot of people try to score these things. Yeah, Regan's got really great shape. Sas thicker chest though in that side. I know it's not a side chest, but you're looking at the chest, too. Abent thigh. I like Regan's abs. I don't like his thighs. I like Sassan's thighs much, much better. Nice crossions in them. Nice sweep. They're fuller. They're thicker. And the color is just fantastic, man. That was Is that the end? Was there more? Are they bringing the guys out? Are they bringing the the B the B guys out again? They bring like everybody out. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12. Is that everybody? Yeah, they're bringing everybody out. What are they doing here? What the heck? Yeah, Rio was in the middle. Ryan Foster. Yeah, I I finally matched up the names and the numbers. They brought everybody out to I don't know what the point is there. Hit one last shot, I guess. Yeah. Okay. So, that was a judging. Um I can go back and start to show you the individual presentations. Where was that? That was okay. So do that. So that was they had everyone come out initially in groups and then it's going to go to individual presentations. Everybody got 60 seconds, 13 guys. So I'll let that run while we go through your comments. Patrick Moore is in the first col. He's not large enough and he's not the best commission. Yeah, Patrick came on strong, man. Um he won their show a few years ago. He was top 10 in the Olympia. I think it's the only time he's been to the Olympia was 2019. He was 10th place. Great posing routine and we thought, you know, great future for this guy. Look at the potential. Um I remember at the 2017 USA, Derek Lynford won the light heavy and overall or was he the heavy? Was he the heavy? I can't even remember. But Derek won the overall. Patrick won the super heavies. All right. This is Nate Dandridge we're looking at from USA. legs are kind of weak. Nate kind of weak. Condition not that great either, so I'm guessing he's placing near the bottom, but you know what? He's a pro and I'm not. He did better than I ever did. Um, yeah, Patrick, I I my words to him and and I was with Shawn Ray. We both kind of gave him constructive criticism while we were interviewing him for MD and we said, you know, great arms, great shoulder width, great frame, got to bring up those legs guy. And they came up a little bit um a little bit, not a lot. He won won the CalP Pro. I don't know if he won anything else. Top 10 Olympia and then he had the injury and I don't know if he's unable to train them correctly, but they've never been the same. Ryan is from Oregon. Uh, next up is Chris de Dominico from USA. He was the 2017 overall NPC Nationals champion. And you know, back in the day, winning the Nationals, you were pretty much guaranteed to be a top pro right away. Guys like Kevin Levrone, Shawn Ray, Vince Taylor. When guys like that used to win the nationals, immediately they were winning pro shows like the next year they were top five in the Olympia. The first time they did the Olympia. It's not that way anymore. The Nationals aren't as high isn't as high a quality show as it was in years past. And I think that's just because it's been watered down with all these other proqualifiers that guys have to choose from. So they don't all do the nationals. Now they can do North American USA which they always could have done. Amateur Olympia Arnold amateur universe. Uh all the way on the right guy in the middle looks good. Looks like he used olive oil to tan up. Uh how much longer are these guys going to talk? Got to get you. I don't want to keep showing these guys for too long. I'm going to go right into the next guy. These are commentators from Inte Integ In Integra Medical, very big supplement company uh in Brazil and they they paid for the rights to stream this on their YouTube channel. So, let's go back. Okay, so who' we miss? We're already up to number four. Did I miss somebody? I think they skipped over a couple people. This is number four, Aaron Gowy. So, we missed Ryan. I think this is Aaron Gowley from Canada. Big, big dude. I want to say he's about 6'2, 270 or so, maybe maybe more on stage. Reminds me a little bit of Ian Valier because all the white people from Canada look alike. But n look at the try. Nice and rounded, full in that side chest. Let's see him hit that. Glutes are a little bit in. Not all the way in. Look, glutes and hams are blurry. Back is blurry. Needs a thicker back. I'm that guy that I I got to call it like I see it. Uh, so I can go back to the judging again, but right now we're looking at the individual presentations for each athlete. I don't know your mom's flip-flop. I don't think Rean has it in the bag. I could see Sassan taking this. Sassan Herati from the UK looks really, really good today. Better condition than Rean. Far better stage color. Almost everyone up there has way better color. Rean continues to struggle with his color trying to get it right. And I don't know what it's going to take. Like I said, he's got all the resources. He's got every expert in the world, uh, every guru in the world willing to help him. He's got plenty of money. Okay, here we go. Finally, the man, the the man of the hour, Rean Grimes. Let's take a look at his individual presentation. Like I said, fantastic shape structure on this guy. I'm really trying to gauge the condition. This looks a little better because they're zoomed in a little more. When it was pulled back, his his leg separation didn't look that good to me. Uh, let's see. When he hits that little blurry in that side leg compared to some of these guys and the arms continue to be an issue. Rean needs more arms. A little more chest, more arms, and more legs. Shoulders are phenomenal. Back is crazy good. Uh, hamstrings are looking really good. I'm very impressed with his hamstrings. I like all that separation. I love his back shots. Look at that. wide, thick, developed all the way from the traps down to the spinal erectors. He's killing those back shots, but he always does. Shows a one from the back. So, when they say shows a one from the back, what they mean by that is usually a lot of guys look great from the front, but when they turn around, not so much. That's an awesome shot for him. That's a great most muscular. Look at the traps. The delts are so round and full. Ab and thigh. Yeah. I mean, a little more thighs, a little more thigh sweep, fullness in the teardrop. I don't know if he's capable of building his legs up much because he's he's been at this a while. He's not a he's not an older guy. He's still only 31 years old, but he's been doing this for a while. All right, next up, this is a guy that might take it today. Sasan Herati from UK. Look at that tan is right on point. Crystal clear. Look at how deep and clear the separations are in those quads. Nice and full. You can see crossstriations in the quads when he's got them uh with the legs straight. He's not even fully locking out the knee. Side shots for for him. Great side chest. Nice full pecs. Little flare there at the end as he goes into his side try. Sassan, you could see the confidence in him today. He knows he could do it again. I mean, I would hate to see Sassan get second place again. That would be the third time in two months. Uh Detroit, he was second place to Bonak. Cologne, Germany at FIBO, he was second place. Andrew Jack, is he gonna end up second place again? Because there's no more point system, guys. Back in the back in the point system days, which was not that long ago, you got so many points for placing second, third, fourth, fifth. And if you racked up like three second places at a show, that was typically enough to give you enough points probably to be top three in the leading the leading leaderboard, the point system to get to the Olympia. But you need to win a show now. And I don't know. I don't know if he's got it. I I I would tend to give it to him today, honestly. This is sick call out. Rean is not gonna You mean win? Okay, here is Patrick Moore from USA. our 2017 NPC National Super Heavyweight Champion. He's won this fantastic arms on Patrick. Huge arms, great vtaper. He's got a very small waist. No bubble gut. No bubble gut bonanza at all. Great lat spread because he's got those wide wide clavicles. Shoulders and arms are showpiece muscles on Patrick. Chest is pretty good. Uh legs legs really need to come up. They just it's when you have such a a very a wide thick upper body like he does, you need you need the legs to match. This is actually better than I've seen him in a while. I know he competed last summer, I think over at uh at the Europa, maybe it was it was over in Europe. Europe, obviously. I think it was in Spain. He looked pretty good there. But, you know, he I I still I still want to see more from him. Great tricep. Great side try because look at that tiny waist. Really big full delts. Great triceps on Patrick. That's a good shot for him with more quads. Obviously, it would be an even better shot, but you know, Patrick doesn't look awful today. It's not like he came in fat or anything like that. It's just it's a tougher show. Forgot the dude's name. Supposed to be a Pittsburgh tours lat. That was Veto. Uh, can he make the Olympian time? I guess it depends on the severity of the injury, okay? How quickly it heals, how how quickly you can get back to training. Okay. This is Justin Muzal from Germany. He's done pretty well uh just over the past couple days, couple year days. Justin was eighth in Pittsburgh. He was fourth at the Fibo show. Leandro Perez, who we're going to be see Patrick was sixth in Detroit. No, that was Justin. Justin was sixth in Detroit. So, he's done. This is his fourth show. I think it's his rookie season. This young guy from Germany. He's 20 26 years old, 27. So he's got a fourth at the Fibo show, eighth in Pittsburgh, sixth in Detroit. He was in first call out here, right? So we're probably looking at we're looking at top five. He's he's had a really good rookie season so far. Maybe he's going to keep going. I don't know. Condition good, plenty of size, good stage color, a work in progress. He's a young guy. He's going to be getting better and better. I have no doubt in my mind. So, Justin, congrats on uh doing very well as a rookie. Not not not a lot of guys do. A lot of a lot of pros take at least a couple seasons to figure things out, figure out the peaking and get the confidence up there. Justin already has it. He's already mixing it up in the big bigger shows. I mean, he was up there. He was up there in Pittsburgh with Derek and Nick Walker and uh Martin Fitzwwater, you know, top top all top five all top four Olympia guy Olympians. Bonak, another top top Olympian. Okay, this is Felix Norman from USA. Not too familiar with Felix. Looks pretty good. Like those quads. I like those big meaty teardrops. Vasis mediialis. Good front lat. Uh you know, with a more narrow waist, it would be even more impressive. But structure is 100% genetic. Yeah, I like the fact that he's hitting he's hitting it with confidence up there, even though I'm sure he knows what the lineup today here, he's probably not getting it. Look at that glutes are in. I mean, he he brought it. So, some of these guys who are in the second or third call outs, you know, they don't have a chance of winning, obviously, but they're not afraid to get up there and and stand next to the best guys. They want to see how they compare and what they need to work on. I don't know anything at all about uh Felix, so I can't really comment much about him as a person, but he looks looks good. He brought the condition. Nice color. Usually I never mention color that much. What's up, Michael? How's Cali going? It's going. It's going. Rean all day. Rean looks better than sass. Rean winning for sure. Rean. Rean. No question. From behind. Oh yeah, from behind he wins. Rean talked about tanning on Jay's pock saying something about being allergic whether they use New York as part of well he's used something different today and he's still sweating like a horribly okay this is from Mexico Jonathan Padilla sick guy um I don't see as crystal clear no he's he's not really in good shape today little blurry didn't get lean enough you know we're nitpicky you have to be back could be a little thicker Upper back looks good. Midback needs to thicken up a little. Good calves. Yeah, we can't blame any woman regarding his tan. Final could turn around though. Maybe he'll switch up like Pittsburgh. What the f? I give it to Sassan. Yeah, I'm leaning towards Son. I I don't care about the past, whether he deserves it. I'm only talking about how they look today. And I was more impressed with Sassan. I'll I'll go to that last call out again soon. Yeah, someone else in the in the chat said that Regan's wife did his tan this time. So, you know, I would have thought that would have fixed it that they could have they could have gotten the good the good color finally, but no. Come on, guys. Show Ron some love. Push the like button. Thank you, Ricky. Wet back. Not wet back. Muscle machine really feel dude. Yeah. If if Cassan loses this and gets third place, second place again, runner up again. I'm going to be like, "Ah, poor poor so." Okay, that was uh Jonathan. This is Florian Porson from France. He's also Look at that beautiful shape. I guess he's Giles knows him better than I do. He's been around Europe, the European scene since he was a junior. Beautiful shape, structure. Could be a little wider in the clavicles, but that's again that's just structure. Um he's been both classic, a classic pro and an open pro a few times. I think he kind of flip-flops between. So he must be fairly close even here to the classic weight cutoff if he's able to do that. Look at the conditioning. Look at that. Glutes are really shredded. Clear separations in all the upper back muscle muscles. Muscles a little awkward with the posing which I'm surprised because most guys who come from classic I think he because he's he's sort of like almost like stuttering with the poses a little bit in some of them if that makes sense. gets into it, relaxes, gets back into it. Next up, last two guys are out of Brazil, one of the great greatest countries in the world for physique competitors the last few years. So, we're going to see Bruno Santos right now. Bruno, very thick guy. Very thick guy. How did he do? He's I don't think I wrote his placings down. He's done he's done pretty well, though. Bruno I know he's done well. I don't have his placing in front of me, but he's he's I've seen this guy placing very in the top five at a few bigger shows. Bruno, very thick guy. Nice conditioning. Brought his agame. Let's see the back. We always have to look at the back and the glutes to really assess condition because a lot of people they're nice and they're nice and shredded from the front, but when they turn around, not so much. Okay, Bruno's looking good. I can see the legs could be a little better from the back. He just needs more quad sweep, but the hams are nice and dug out. Big calves, Christmas tree there, lower back muscles. Spreads out the lats nice and wide. Looks a little bit lopsided like he's tilted down a little bit. It could be a shoulder thing. Yeah, he's getting the crowd hyped. Crowd loves this guy. And again, so this is uh the stream is free. It's on Integral TV, which is owned by Integra Medica Medical, huge, huge supplement company out of Brazil. And they are the sponsors of I just had it on my So, they sponsor Bruno, who we just saw. They also sponsor this guy, Leandro Perez. Uh, so he is my pick for third. If it's going to be Sassan or Regan for the win, which it's going to be, I got this guy a solid solid third. Everything everything massi mass is size, shape, structure, conditioning. Look at that hamstring drop. Really good. Really good. Yeah, this guy's a warrior. Uh I mean I I had him right there with Look at that. Those glutes are all dug out. Clear striations. Yeah, this guy's no joke. Leando Perez. We'll be hearing more and more from him. I'm glad he's doing shows outside of Brazil where fans around the world can get a really, really good look at him. So again, Leandro was second uh at the Arnold Classic South America to Good Veto earlier in the season. Uh he was sixth place in Pittsburgh. He just missed the top five. So you know how good that Pittsburgh lineup was. He was just barely outside top five. And you know, when I watched that uh the footage from the Arnold Classic Brazil or South America in Brazil, other than Good Veto, he was the only one who really impressed me. There was good competitors, don't get me wrong, but Leandro was the one I was I had my eye on. I'm like, "This guy's this guy's really, really good. Keep an eye on him." And I will. So, that was everybody. Now, they're going to bring out the judging. Uh look at the they're going to bring out the comparisons again. I already showed this, but what the heck? Milos is going to curse out Ron for picking a sass. Well, Rean is not coached by SAS by Milo. Rean is not coached by Milos anymore. Rean is with, you guessed it, boss of Outlaw, Stefan Keynel. But I know Milos is still a fan of his athletes. Even when they're no longer his athletes, he's still a big supporter of Samson, even though Samson uh is coached by his wife now. And there are many other examples. So, I don't think he holds it personally against any of the guys who leave him and go on to try out another coach. Who won against Tim Budan? Buddhism. Patrick Moore. It was close. 2019. Okay. So, Patrick beat him at the 2019 Cali Pro. This is your first call out. Feel like no one actually tan with show anymore. Just show up pale and get sprayed. No. Well, a lot of guys do just show up and get sprayed. I always think it's best to get a base tan because it actually tightens up the skin. I know it's not good for your skin, but it does tighten up your skin. Kind of like tanning leather. Um, you know, it's it's something all the old school bodybuilds used to do is get a really good base tan. Well, back in the old days, back in the really old days, like the Arnold days, they showed up with whatever tan that they could get from nature. They didn't have any tanning products. Tanning products didn't come around until, I'd say, early 80s. Dioderm was was like the first one. Then Protan came around not too long after that. Protan was like the big one that most people used for years. They still they still Jantana was another big name for like you know tanning products that you would paint on like a little with a little foam brush, little sponge kind of thing. Who's 300? Uh I don't know who's 300. Like Paul made a video having read it first s second. Everyone's making a video right now. Stop hating on Rean. Haha. Rean for the win. Well, I honestly like I don't I don't I'm not friends with Rean. I'm not friends with Sassan or Leandro. I'm just looking at physique's guys. I don't hate Rean. I think he's a cool guy. I've interviewed him a few times. Great personality. He's a family man, uh businessman. and he's doing very well, which you know that that's the dream is to do well both competitively and offstage with your sponsorships and your own businesses, you know, things like coaching, merchandise, whatever it is. And Rean is Rean is a success story. I like to see that. So, you can see in the first call and the call out there, he was in the middle the whole time. They really just moved people around him. But at the final call out, which we'll see later, he did. They did compare him just to Sassan, which when they do that, it it typically means the judges have them very very close. I mean, it's it's probably not, again, I don't know when we'll see the scores, but um just like we've been seeing at some recent shows, I doubt it's Well, actually, I think Nick Walker did have all first place votes for New York. Uh, but we know in in Pittsburgh it was very close. Uh, Nick beat Derek by one point in the judging in the day show and then Derek beat him by one point in the finals and then they did a an additional tiebreaker round and Dererick came out on top. But I bet you Sassan has some first place votes right now and I bet you Rean has some first place votes. He is at the show. Oh, Larry's there. Yeah, but I mean it's all a matter of opinion. You know, some I I guarantee you there are people that have sass on winning and there are people that have Rean winning. Yeah, Rean did. Uh, apparently Rean's allergic to something that they were using in the glaze, the tanning product back symmetry top bottom is off. Sweet loose should be the winner. Yeah, Marco. I mean, Rean needs better quads. They do not match his tremendous. He's got very wide shoulders, very big full round delts, great back, super wide, thick from top to bottom, side to side, and his quads really just don't match that. Antonio could have won the show. Yeah, Raymond, thank you. Tonio, I just had Tony on on as an interview subject here uh three days ago. He is doing the Legion Sports Net next week, which he has won before. Uh he's also won this show. He's also won New York Pro. He was second last year to good veto at the Arnold Classic South America. Uh he's been eighth place. He's only been in the Olympia once. He's uh I shouldn't say that. He was a 212 when he went to the Olympia, but as he also moved up to open and was eighth place at so far his only Mr. Olympia appearance, which was 2023. Last year, he probably would have done it, but he got in a motorcycle accident. Um I believe he was prepping for the Olympia when that happened. Don't understand why. Who was in the first call out? Oh, you talking about Justin? I don't know. Hey, Steuart, I can't believe there's still so the background, the flashy moving lights. Well, there, like I said, that it's it's a matter of choice. And, you know, I know Fouad went with the black backdrop and everyone thinks that that's how everyone should just fall in line and do that, but not all the promoters want to do that. I I I do think it makes the physique stand out more, obviously, against a plain black backdrop. This was second call out, guys. Jonathan has sick quads. Jonathan Padilla from Mexico. Uh, is he up there right now? I can't even see. I got to expand this. Uh, Jonathan is not up there right now. No, he must have been the next call out. His condition was a little off today. Rean maybe just you talking about Rean sweats too much in general. I don't know. I mean everybody's sweating up there. It's hot lights. They're working hard. So I don't know. I don't know why Regan's hand comes off. These deeper abdominal muscles. I don't know who you're talking about. When you keep talking about the same guys and it's you're you're like you're interrupted by like four other posts in between or 10 other. I mean I don't know who you're talking about. Where do I have Patrick placing? I don't know. probably a like seventh, eighth, ninth somewhere around there. Is it jaundice color? No, I don't think that's jaundice, which is an indication of liver disease. No smallest sweep in the lineup. Yeah, I I I Rean would do much better. He would be better off with more quad sweep and thicker quads in general. Woo fuks. Woo fuks. I think they will let Rean win. They're not going to let anybody win. That's I don't like that word. they're going to let or I don't like the word like someone is entitled because that's that makes it sounds like the there's politics involved and I don't think it matters anymore. You know, they're gonna say, "Well, they're going to let Regan win because they want him in the Olympia." Sure, they want Rean Olympia. But if if it's Sassan's show, if Sassan is who they see as a better overall package today, they have to do the right thing. They have to give it to Cissan. You can't you can't play favorites like that. It's not fair. Rean's vacuum looks weird. It was a chewing gum that made Nick lose. Nick claimed that that was not gum. He said he was not chewing gum. He was just moving his mouth around in a way that probably made it look like he was chewing gum, but he claims he was not because, you know, I posted uh I did an interview with Dorian and uh Dorian told him, "What's up with the gum chewing?" And he addressed Nick directly said, "Nick Walker, don't chew gum." And Nick messaged me uh shortly after that saying I wasn't chewing gum. Dorian had it wrong. See okay that's put John the Pitty in the middle right now. I like SAS for instance and you talk about being a person being better. So I just want to add that part. But yeah Larry has him winning has Rean winning but I bet there's people that are right there that have Sassan winning too. You can't go by just one guy. And I'm you know Larry's been around a very long time. He's he's like my age or older. So, he has a very good eye for physiques, too. But I might be there and I might say I have Sassan winning. I'm not there. Here at the contest competing the amateur pros look great. Stefan Artuni, appreciate you hopping on while you're competing again. Steon, the village in Ukraine where my maternal grandmother, my mother's mother, came from. Ukraine. Yeah. Marvin says, "Regan is allergic to almonds, which is a green in the oil. He's got a nut allergy, which is a real thing. Sauce beats trigger. That's just my opinion. I I I'm leaning heavily towards Sauce right now myself based on what I'm seeing on this. I'm hearing Rean looks better than Sasson today. Okay. Rean color is still too light. Pedro and Justin Mos look very good. And French guy is huge and shred but not as pretty. Pedro and Justin. I think you mean Leandro and Justin. We don't have a Pedro in the show today. I don't know who Pedro is, but thanks for that zigzag Rambo. Motorcycle so dangerous. Not sure why I f them. You going to take SP down or someone's going to p well you get in a really bad accident in a motorcycle like you get hit by a truck or something. You're dead. You know what do you you got your helmet protecting your your head but the rest of your body can be crushed like a like a grape. Sassan says zigzag. Oh cuz you we know who I know who you met. It's okay. There's a video with his wife. He didn't use the bronzer because he said he's allergic to it. Well, you don't need the bronzer. I mean that's just like a last minute thing. So this was another call out with Rean, Sassan, Florian, Leandro, and Bruno. Top five. Okay, so Justin is not in the top five. Hunter Labrada would have won this contest. I mean, there's a lot of guys you can see, but they're not here. Hunter's taking the year off, the season off to make improvements. Oh, your pick from Stippon. What' Stefon say? Oh, he didn't. Oh, we haven't heard it. Leandro looks good. I'm very impressed with Leandro today. Leandro looks amazing, but it's up to Rean and S seems like must be continued. Rean needs to pose more in the final days. I don't think that's water, guys. If it's just a little bit of fat, I don't think it's water. Bruno look great, too. Yeah, Bruno is there on your right. Shame. Al Patrick's neither big enough. Yeah, you know what it is? He's got such long limbs, Patrick. He's a taller guy, but structurally he has very long arms and long legs, and those are much harder to fill out. I always say you shouldn't be able to tell by looking at someone on stage by themsel whether they're 5'2 or 6'2. You shouldn't be able to tell. A perfect structure with everything in proportion, the bones, the shoulder, the waist, the length of the limbs. Um, you wouldn't know if this is a short guy or a tall guy. If they have very stubby arms and legs, short arms and legs, and a short torso, that's probably a short guy. And if they have very long torso, long arms and legs, you probably know this guy's tall. Those are not ideal structures. Zigzag. I know we said he had issues with the tan. Yeah, I'm Austrian, so English is not perfect. Well, it's better than my German, man. Better than my German. I was going to say Deutseland, but I don't know. That's Austria is a whole different country. It's where Arnold Schwarzenegger is from. It's where uh my buddy Leo Marhover classic pro who has the overcome podcast. He's Austrian called himself Austrian Powers. Kind of like Austin Powers. What else we got? So yeah, this is your top five. And they did do one final call out at the very end with just Rean and Sassur. I choose Leandro. I mean, yeah, Leander looks pretty freaking great. I wouldn't be upset at all if Leandro won. Honestly, I would not. What is he missing? What's he What does he not have that sauce and uh Rean don't? It's kind of Walmart welfare. Look what them doing in the tin professional. Walmart welfare. Staying there butt naked with a sock on your dick while a woman is underneath spraying your thighs. Yeah, it's good times, man. Right. I mean, I've only done that once. I've only been spray tanned in that situation once. The last show I did, and it was really I won't say awkward, but you know, when you're in a room with like 30 tents, there's 30 guys in there. uh being sprayed. It's mostly women doing the spraying. And yeah, your your penis and testicles are covered by a sock, so you're really not naked naked, but you know, you're pretty freaking close. So, this was the battle for second, third, and fourth. I'm sorry, third, fourth, and fifth right here. That's Florian, Leandro, and Bruno. Judges wanted to see these guys because they really need to figure out there's two there's two groups here. There's a first there's a battle for first and second between Rean and Sassan. And this is the battle right here for third, fourth, and fifth. Florian, Leandro, and Bruno. Sassan looks denser, more polished, but he has a small stocky frame. True. Probably. Yeah. Rean structurally has he's he's got wider much wider clavicles. He's got a much better X frame because of his structure. Sassan is is kind of narrow in the clavicles compared to him. Does not have the little tiny waist like he does. Rean wins both lats for his rear double. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You met Leander. I know who you met. Professional tanning. Haha. San Diego driving the finals. Yeah, that's about a two-hour drive because I lived in SoCal. I lived in San Gabriel Valley for almost 10 years. So, I have a rough idea. This is Anaheim. I actually compete. I wonder if it's the same place. I competed in Anaheim once, but the Orange County back in 2003. I'm sure you're all fascinated to hear that. The French guy in his deeper abs. That was him on the on the left there. That was Floren. French guy is nuts in person. Yeah, he's very very impressive. What's up, Ken? Thank you. Thank you for the uh Yeah, I just released my fourth ebook. The the link is in the description. It's called The Bodybuilders Born. Okay, so this was your last call out. This was trying to decide the winner. Color, legs, give those to Sassan. Condition, based on what I'm seeing here, I give condition to Sassan. Structure though, Rean has a better structure and shape. He's got wider cl he's got more of a Vtaper because he has wider clavicles and a much more narrow waist. Sassan does not have that crazy taper. the back shots. There's not many people right now that are beating Rean Grimes in a back pose. He's really good in these back shots. So, Son is squeezing it together when he should pull that out. He should open up the back like Rean's doing. You shouldn't have the shoulder blades pinched together because you lose width. Obviously, in the rear lat spread, you're going to separate them. You're going to move those shoulder blades as far apart as possible. Look how wide Regan is there. Yeah. I mean, it's it's close. I give some factors to Sasson and some factors to Rean, but what do you do for the win? I I have a feeling it's going to go to Rean. I do. And I don't think it's politics. I need to eat some white fish. Your skin isn't going to get any thinner. Maybe you'll get leaner, but if you have thick skin like some guys seem to like I think Samson's got thicker skin, Akim Williams, I don't know. You could eat all the freaking white fish in the world. I don't think it would matter. That was the end of judging. And they brought them out one last time. Professional tan wife. Yeah, Darren. But he did the professional tan um last weekend in New York. He used the spray tan people and it came out awful there because the product they were using was something he was allergic to. So they switched products and they had his wife do it because again it's it might be the same exact product that they're using for this competition for all the athletes. you know, they have complimentary tanning for the athletes. It's a sponsor usually. Um, and Rean decided not to go with that. So, yeah, it's crazy that we're talking so much about his tan, but his tan continues to be an issue. Mike the bikes, Bruno's structure isn't great, either too narrow. Yeah, I agree. Yeah, I've seen some shots of him where uh I was not impressed with the uh not impressed at all. We didn't see this. I didn't show this. This is just when they first brought the guys out for this was just groups that they brought everyone out to uh just to get the initial look from the judges. I'll just leave that for a minute. What up local my work pukish pukeish guys should be coming out any second there. I tried to queue it up, but it's hard to get exact. Where is Where are these guys? All right. Well, there was your first group. Yeah, that's your first group. Nate, Chris, Ryan. Oh, that's Ryan Foster in the middle. I didn't know who he looked like. That's what he looks like. Aron goaly from Canada and Regan on the right. This was not a call out. This is just the very beginning of judging when they brought the guys out for their first look from the judges. Is Big Mike commenting with you during the finals? I didn't ask him to. I don't even know when the finals are. I didn't even I I was late getting to this because I was out running errands and you know my wife's day off and she doesn't get many days off. So I was didn't want to miss that. We has imbalance in the quads. His quads need to be bigger. It's really not like a right one quad is bigger than the other. It's he needs both quads to be bigger. See his left one. Oh, okay. Well, take a look at him. I believe you. It's just both when I'm seeing how his legs need to grow overall need to be bigger. I wasn't worried about one being bigger than the other because they both need to be better. Dang, Ran looks good. Good morning, Ryan. Chef Aahu, that's that's Honolulu. Ricky T, what's up, man? Aahu Holu, that's a big island, I guess. Okay. Sorry, I'm new to really watching Bible. Still trying to figure out every dumb question. That's okay, Darren. There are no stupid questions. I don't know if that's true, but we like to say that. There are no stupid questions. Mr. Oquality, I don't think so. Who are we talking about there, Frank? Well, Farooq, I'm sorry. A Frank Farooq. Uh, you're saying somebody's not Mr. Quality, but I don't know who you mean. Still commenting. Maybe he's a little lazy. Imagine if he worked his ass off. I don't want to say he's lazy. I don't know what he does every day. I don't know what is I don't want to diminish his work ethic because I don't know a thing about it. Was this the final group? No, this was Sassan, Patrick, Justin Musol, and Felix Norman from USA. Oh, that is bright. I have to pull the shade down, guys. This is burning my freaking retina. I'm going put the window up, too. It's air in here. Some ventilation. All right, I'm back. I was only 3 feet away. And so it looks like they're coming back at uh 300 p.m. Pacific, which would be 6:00 p.m. my time, which is about an hour and 20 minutes away. Um, yeah. I mean, um, when I was doing the preview with Mike Cox the other day for this show, I pulled up a video from Mark's Max Muscle that he did a comparison of Rean from 2023 to 2025, broke it down pose by pose, side by side on the screen, and I didn't see I didn't see much improvement at all. The only thing I saw that was probably better was just muscle maturity, a little more detail, which I would hope another two years of training would have given to him, but I didn't see any any improvement in terms of size or the muscle groups that needed to be better like the quads. They might have even be been better two years ago. Uh, reames for top six Mr. Olympia. Is that realistic this year's Olympia? No. No. No. No. No. I'm going to say no. I mean, look what we got. We got got Samson, we got Hottie, we got Derek, Nick, Martin. That's five. I know I'm already I know I'm leaving some some guys out. That's five guys right there. I I think sixth place would be a stretch for Rean with the legs that he has. There's a lot of people that I think could beat him. I think he could probably be like 10th, ninth or 10th maybe. What's up, Ron? Another run. Ferdinand. I'm doing well. Thank you. Thanks for asking. Is Sergio joke being in this year? I don't know what he's do. He did say I'm sorry. So I had him on the for an interview about a month ago at this point I think it was. He did say he's coming back to do something later in the season closer to the Olympia to try to grab that Olympia qualification. He does plan to be in the Olympia this year. So I'm not sure what show that's going to be. Sassan has some issue with left bicep. Yeah, it looks to me like Sassan tore that bicep at some point. Yeah, you already said that. SW I would give the Sassin V vegan. I think that's a slip. He's actually Rean. Potential for at least First Call Olympia, but his time off is just a little Yeah, you know, I don't know how invested he is is in improving his physique. He's probably not willing to push push the boundaries with PEDs, and that's fine. That's his choice to to live a healthier life. He's got a wife. He's got a child. He's got great sponsors. He doesn't need to be winning shows to make money. He's making a great living with sponsors, with his uh YouTube channel, with a lot of other avenues. So, prize money not that critical, not that big a deal for Rean. More characters. Everyone has some imbalance. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Nobody's nobody's perfectly symmetrical left to right. Aie has a smaller quad. Samson's pretty symmetrical overall. Samson doesn't have anything better from one side to the other. But Mark's mass muscle recall doing strange. No, I'm showing the same footage over and over again. Ven Fuks, I'm just running the same stuff over and over while we're talking. It only went once. I'm just trying to fill space because we've been going for almost an hour. The actual judging was like 30 minutes altogether. None of these guys. I'm sure those have already qualified. Yeah, I mean this is not the highest caliber lineup now. Could this Reian beat a good Steve Klo Klo when he was on? Rean has better shape, but Klo had better quads, better arms, didn't have a better back. Bonak top six though. Enjoyed the podcast. Do you have Rean winning? I think I'm gonna I think it's going to go to Rean. Uh I I would probably lean towards Sass even though structurally he's not as good as Rean. The structure and shape Rean has all day over Sas on. Um, Sassan has better condition, better color, better quads. So, it's, you know, neither one of them is perfect. See about triple kept floating on say please this year. H, hello from Japan. Lee Carmichael Konichiwa Kichiwa. So many horses in the old breaking top 10 for anyone would be awesome. Oh, top 10 the Olympia. Make no mistake, Darren. If you can be in the Olympia as a pro, that's something most pros never get never achieve is to stand on the Olympia stage. When you know, if you look at the sheer amount of pros there are, there's a lot of pros. Most of them never get to Olympia. Of those that do, most of them never get in the top 10. They just they're those like third, fourth callout guys. Preser Leandro, I've compared with Rean Sass. He did get up there, but I I think he's a very solid third. They just didn't see him as a potential winner. It's very close right now in the judges minds between Sassan and Rean. Is aim competing? No. Uh, did Akim get his qualification this year? No. He still needs to see a Zakim I don't even want to look it up while we're talking, but I he still needs to get his qualification. He's not qualified for this year's Olympia. No. Kevin Hron, I think he has a show, but he'll have to do better. Play side. Oh, I mean, if he shows up at the Olympia with those legs there, he's not making top 10. I'm sorry. You got to You can't have major flaws. You can't have anything that's that glaring and be top 10 the Olympia. It's the toughest show in the world. Great fan, but I can't see him winning this. Kale Cru still active going as far as I know. Steve Ko, he got rid of that thing from morning plays high. Uh, Klo was in really great shape a few times. It's just he who's up against guys that were just better. Rean needs to sort his tan out though. I agree. Had some bad tans. It really wasn't huge. It was his close. Yeah, to that's I cannot I can't can't ignore his tan. It is really bad. It's it's just it's distracting how bad it is. Akim won last year. If you want to show after the Olympia, and I'm not sure of the timeline. If he did that, then he's already qualified for Olympia. Andrew Jack top three and oh okay maybe okay so he qualified so he won something post Olympia guys the best structure in bodybuilding never seemed to nail it the arms I see Arnold shows good for Arnold ever take the o history I I don't think he's ever going to take take away the prestige of the Olympia because that's that's the title everyone aspires to but we're still going to have all the top Olympia guys doing the Arnold now for the money it's 750k for next year's Arnold for first prize And I bet by you get to by the time we get to 2027, I bet both shows are going to be a million dollar first prize. Olympian and Arnold. What about Nick Walker? What about him? Daylight, they got to get a base 10. Yeah. All right, I'll just pull up Rean one more time and s one more time. What number was that? That's Patrick. That's number seven. Oh, so he was before that. one. All right, let's take one last look at Rean and Sass, then I'm gonna take off. Got to walk my dog. Yeah, Rean looks very good. I mean, I said Sassan's color and condition superior, but look how wide Regan is. Rean needs more upper chest. It's It's pretty flat. It's just a very pretty physique and it's he's got a good amount of size and he's probably got enough condition to take the show now. Especially especially if he comes back for finals, which is not that far away. It's a couple hours away at most. If he comes back darker, I guarantee you he wins. I guarantee you. And he's got a great team behind him. Matt the manager, his coach, boss of Outlaw. They're going to figure out something to put on him that's going to make him look darker for the finals. I have no doubt in my mind. So, I bet he shows up in a couple hours for finals. Darker condition can't change that much. You know, I don't think he's flat, so I don't think he need to fill out. Is it water? Does he need to drop water? Did they give him a diuretic? I don't know. But if he looks better at the finals, which I suspect could happen, very well could happen, it'll be a blowout. He'll win the He'll win the finals. He'll win points over Sassan and he'll get the show and I I think that's probably what we're going to see. So, he was number five. What number was Sassan? Oh, Sassan is right up next. Number six. Didn't have to do any jumping around on the video at all. So, here's Sassan. Look at that condition shows through. Probably because of the better color. Look at that. The abs are nice when he sits down on him and relaxed. Yeah, that one bicep I think is slightly torn. It's the the one on our right, which is his left bicep. Good shot. He's just not as wide in the clavicles. That's just a bone structure thing. But really give him credit for tightening up significantly since New York Pro last weekend. Not an easy task and he did it. Good job, Sass. Yeah, SAS is no joke. And I it's I I really feel for this guy if he ends up taking second place again here. That's three in a row. Well, I shouldn't say in a He didn't take uh Oh, wait. Yeah. Second place Pittsburgh, second place Fibo. Uh he was not second place last week in New York. Was he fifth? Fifth in New York. Love those quads. Look at the feather striations across the teardrop and the vasis lateralis on the outside. Beautiful detail in the quads. Really good shot there. Nice dense, thick, detailed old man muscle. Sass looks great. Good job, SAS. Uh, let's see. Gonna read through these. Uh, we sword is 10. Had some bad tens. Yeah, we uh best structure arms race. We did that. We did that. Awesome insights. Thanks for watching. Quick pump. My pain 2 TKO is obsolete. Probably Rean looks amazing. Perfect. No. Perfect tan. Veros Santos. What are you smoking, dude? No, his tan is awful. It's awful. Jesse Muzil is that mean he's the best guy? I don't know. My German is I don't speak any German. Side chest looks badass. I don't Things evolve show one time. Navis universe bring back. Bring him back. Always looks good. What's up, Edox? Thanks for sharing this watch along. Dorian gave feedback. Nickn has too much distance between legs and the back bicep. I I don't see it as a huge problem. I mean, if he he could bring close his legs together a little bit more in that shot. I don't know how much difference it would make. Yeah, Rean has the best backo. He does not have a great tan today. They love Regan, but Sass looks better. I agree, Mike. Tan condition definitely hasn't. Can't get enough body. Thank you again. You're welcome, Darren. seen a few of Stephan's athletes slightly fading. Any speculation to why? No idea. I don't want to guess. Mr. Ron, that's me. The only body journal on LC has been one of the best magazine writers. Well, yeah. I mean, there are no more. There's very few magazine writers left. We always got a base 10. Use two coats pro 10. Yeah, Mike. We were That's just the way we did it. Everyone else was doing it, so that's what we did. We got a base tan. I would always get a good really good base tan. Like under normal light, I'd be very dark. On stage, it wouldn't be good enough. I'd still have to put the fake tan on. Patrick, no. Patrick doesn't even look good alone. If you know what you're looking at, Heresy. Herzy8. Uh, he needs more size. He just looks lanky. He's got such long limbs and the condition is not great today. Loho, should Veto have done Pittsburgh before the injury? Yes, I agree. He should have. I said that on the on the podcast with Milos and Jiles. I think he should have done it. Thoughts on California? We're talking about California, swell guy. President Ronald Reagan. Yeah, it's Rean, not Reagan. Kriso would have won this. I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't know. Maybe. It's hard to say. Hard to say, Mike. Yeah. You know what? He was in better condition, but he he's done. He's done for the year. I believe he's wrapping it up. I think I'm gonna say goodbye, guys. I think I'm gonna say goodbye. It's time to say goodbye. Oh, more characters. What? More plates. more dates. Patrick's quads seem fuller. No, I I I don't see it. I don't see it. I have nothing against him. If his quads look better, I would say it. I have no beef with the guy. I don't have anything against him. When these guys make improvements or don't, I call them on it. And it doesn't have anything to do with how I feel about them personally or if I know them, if I'm their buddy or they hate me, it doesn't even matter. I just call it like I see it. Justin's upcoming talent. Obvious absolutely agree. Justin Moiselle Rean is going for top six Olympia. What do you think? I said no. I don't think so. Lo, I do not see him in the top six this year at all. There's I would make a a bet like a big money bet with you that he he's not going to be top six in this year's Mr. Olympia. He's not there yet. He needs bigger legs. Chest needs to be better, but his legs in particular. Thank you, Fu. Back to you for results. Yeah, I'll come back for finals, guys. But for right now, I'm going to say adios, amigos. Thank you so much for watching. Reno is next week. That's right. Who has the best shot at winning Mr. O25? Uh, I'd say hottie does, Samson does, and Derek does. Those three guys. And then Nick Walker. Top 10 at best for for Rean. Yeah, love the recap shows. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate. All right, guys. So, I'll be back in a couple hours with finals. And the show is free. The stream is free. I'm going to put it up here because I've been using their footage. I think it's only fair that I let you guys know. Integral. I'm not spelling it right. Let me make sure I got the channel right. I don't want to mess it up because you guys want If you want to watch it live, I'll I'll be watching it live, too. So, it's Integral TV. So, that's Integra Medical's YouTube channel. This is where I got Oh, whoops. I put it there in this chat when I meant to put in a banner. I'm putting it up so you can follow along with the I want to give them the credit because they bought the rights. These people paid to to stream the show. Integral TV. That's Integra Medica uh from Brazil. Big big supplement company. They bought the rights to stream this for free on their YouTube channel. That's the name of their YouTube channel. So, if you want to check them out, check them out. And uh Rean needs much bigger quads, Kalian. And I've said that several times already. That's what he needs. Bigger bigger quads, better arms, little more chest. And because top there's no way he's getting top five without those improvements. Absolutely no way. It's It's just too tough. All right, guys. That is all. I'll be back for the finals in a little while, in a couple hours. I'm not sure when it's going to happen, but put your notifications on and YouTube will tell you when I'm back. So, appreciate you guys hanging out, talking. See you later.