All right, guys. Quick commercial. Quick. What's up, guys? What's up? Thanks for coming back and joining us or welcome if it's the first time you joined us if you weren't here earlier for the judging of the Detroit Pro. I let Mike know we're going to start before the pros begin just so we have a little time to recap. Mike will be joining me in a minute here. But let me go to the Gilo Productions website to show you uh we'll do a little recap of what happened because their footage is they're doing the stream but of course the stuff they put on Instagram the resolution looks even better for some reason. So here is judging. This took place earlier today, obviously just a couple hours ago. Sorry. So, this is what it came down to. William and Sassan for the win, man. Uh, a lot of people have William winning. I uh almost an equal amount, maybe even greater amount, seem to have Sassan Herat winning. I don't think it's a blowout. I I fully expected William to dominate this show. He could very well go on to win, but I don't see him dominating. I I think Sassan is really pushing him. He's a very very tough competitor. He had been away from the game for a couple years. Came back last year in the summertime. Did that empro show in Spain that Bonak won. Second was Beerus Tobani. Third place was Michael Kzanic Creo and he was right there in fourth. But he's looking better here. I think that was sort of finding his way back and his mass wasn't all the way there. I hear some people saying that they thought his back was weak. I You call that a weak back? Back looks pretty darn good to me, man. So, William and William and Cassan definitely the the top two here. James looking good. James looking better. Fuller than he had back at the Arnold Classic four weeks ago. Um, boss of Outlaw, Stephan Keenel, his coach, made a post. Very pleased that they got his fullness back. Keenel, Boss of Outlaw is also William Bonak's coach. He's got a lot of lot of great He's Martin Fitzwwater's coach. Boss is doing great. He's Wesley Visser's coach who's probably gonna probably gonna take Classic today, it's looking like. We We'll look at him very very soon again. But yeah, that was those two. That was your top two in open. And now let's look at the classic because classic was also unexpected. Um I I fully thought Matt was going to walk away with this. He had been third place at the Arnold four weeks ago behind Mike Somerfeld and Logan Franklin and Wesley was behind him in fourth. But Matt is not quite as sharp. He's just off a little bit from where he was four weeks ago. While Wesley is both sharper and a little bit fuller. Uh quads from the front. Matt has a slight edge. Uh, obviously Wesley's lower body is not a strong point, but side shots, I don't see much difference. I don't see a huge difference in the side side leg, but upper body, I'm a big fan of Wesley's upper body. Very Arnold Schwarzeresque here. He's going to hit that rear lat spread or the rear double. They don't hit a rear lat spread in classic, so they don't get to do that. Yeah, Wesley's back. Nice and thick. little inserts a little bit lower than Matt's obviously the lower body. Matt Matt has them. Matt has them in the lower body. Let me just check to see if uh Mike's here yet in a second, but I just want to finish. So favorite this is no abdominal and thigh. We're playing a little playing around a little bit before they hit that pose clearly. Uh I don't know. I'd probably give that probably give that one to Matt. Matt's got superior quadriceps, but Wesley came in diced and Matt just a little bit off the condition he was in four weeks ago at the Arnold Classic in Ohio where Wesley is tighter. It's a great shot for Wesley. Matt's Matt's no slouch. He's right there with them, but and they're switching now. I I really think it's it's probably going to go Wesley's way today. Yeah. What do you guys got to say so far? Here we go. Yeah, it's not starting yet. I actually need to put that up on my I need to put the uh the Detroit stream up on my phone so I don't miss that. God forbid I missed that. I'd be kicking myself. But they were still on amateurs a second ago. Yeah, they're doing awards. So, I'll keep an eye on that. So, this is our recap for Your Mom's Flipflop over there in Deutseland. Wesley looks super good. way better than his last Olympia, especially Arnold. Yeah, I mean um boss about Stephan Kingsel. He is not infallible. No coach is perfect, but he seems to be very good at correcting mistakes very, very quickly with these guys. So, they don't look bad two shows in a row. Linda Murray, the great 10 times Miss Olympia. Uh she's the the great Miss Olympia legend, Linda Murray. I appreciate her being here and commenting. Thank you so much, Linda. Linda's uh defying father time in a major major way. So, we're live right now. Your mom's flip-flop. If only Bonnet could shrink the width of his midsection. That ain't happening. He'd be as good as he used to be, but I still have him winning. Yeah, he he could very well still win. I don't think it's a blowout or anything like that. Yeah, I don't I've we've seen guys when they have like gut distension. Like I remember Rolley Winkler a few years ago. He was getting a bubble gut and then he was able to correct it. But you know the wide thick the thicker midsection the hips. I don't know if there's anything you can really do about that. Just going to go back go back to uh peace out. That's what they said. Peace out. Go back to Bak. Let's look at Bonak while we're talking. Yeah, this is a Gilko footage. So, Bonak, yeah, I mean, he looks pretty damn great. He's he's an incredible competitor. There's no doubt. Big big fan. I've always liked Bonak's physique. Uh, start a minute. Here we go. Mike's ordering some food. So, hype, dude. Love these streams. Thank you. Appreciate you being here. Zionic, welcome back. Sassan, we'll look at Sassan in a minute. Yeah, Bonak looking very, very good. His legs look out of control. May have to switch my pick. They're close. I could see it going either way. William for the women. It's close. They're very close. And you know, I think that the tonight is half the score. So, yeah, it is judging in finals. So, if Sassan looks significantly better in a bit here and and Bonak hasn't improved or, you know, god forbid, fades a little bit, things could things could change, guys. We could see we could see Sas on pulling it off. Bonk in a close one over Sas. Bonak is so dense. He is, man. He's packed. He reminds me a lot of Kai Green as far as the muscle density and the thickness. They have a very similar similar structure as well. Joe 905 boss clean sweep with Bonak and Wesley. Yeah. Yeah. If he pulls off if he pulls off those guys both win, then Boss of Outlaw is going to have both both winners because there's only two divisions in this show. open bodybuilding classic at physique. Uh they're both the Netherlands. You're right. So that would be that would be a uh same coach in the same country. Imagine if that happens and it could very well happen. I think uh I don't know if they're both Amsterdam or one of them is Roderdam. I don't know. I don't know my Netherlands. I'm hoping to get out to Netherlands. If you see this, the uh we're being sponsored for a couple months here by Eurom Muscle Show that's happening as you can see on the bottom July 12th and 13th in Amsterdam. I'm hoping to get out there. I have never been to Amsterdam, never been to Netherlands. My daughter was out there for two weeks one time and four weeks another time because she used to date uh she had a boyfriend that was from Amsterdam years ago. Wesley man I post. Yeah, Wesley's amazing with social media. He really works the social media. Uh okay, so that's William. Let's take a look at SAS. This is the Gilo. This is from Gilko Productions. Man, they are amazing with the stuff they do. Okay, Sassan looking amazing. Those legs. I think Mike's with us. I heard the beep. Yeah, buddy. All right. Yes, sir. So, we're recapping. We're recapping, Mike. Perfect. So, did you put your you put your food order in? Yeah. Yeah. I thought whatever. What are you getting? I'm curious. Uh, probably either Publix or Outback. I said just get whatever and give me hamburger. Outback Steakhouse. A staple of eight time Mr. Olympia. Ronnie Coleman. Delicious. True. He ate the same place. So Sassan and uh Bonak, man. I was I was just saying how close I think it is right now. You know what? I looked at some pictures, Ron. They're they're actually they look a lot closer when you re look at it. Um it's not a cakewalk for Bonnik for no no reason. Like Sas looks really good. He's rock hard, full, good condition. It's It's a lot. If he if if he won, I wouldn't be upset. I wouldn't be upset either. And I want I' I'd love to know how close it is now. But as we know, it's half half the score still remains to be to be determined. So, even if even if William had straight ones, let's just say, uh, if Sassan gets straight ones at the finals and then they're in a tie or something. I mean, we've seen things go so many different ways at shows over the years. I'm going to go back to the uh I'm going to go back to the comparison part there. It's just it's so hard to predict like what the judges think because you don't like now it's like okay they it's I want to say it's fair. Before it's like well this is how it should go. This is how it probably will go. Now it's just whoever the the best person on that stage now is going to win. Period. Yeah. Yeah. Someone just put because I just I just pointed out uh the sponsor I have for a few weeks here is this Eurom muscle and they're that's a big expo happening and a pro show happening July in Amsterdam and they said if William wins and Wesley wins then we'll have two guys from Netherlands and two guys coached by boss of Outlaw Stefan Keinsel as a and it could very well happen could very well happen. lost a lot of clients too, man. And they and listen like they both look phenomenal, but it's Bonak what he's doing. He's just defying. He's doing what he's he's not quite where Dexter was, but he's doing what Dexter's doing, man. Like just they keep plugging away and looking phenomenal. Yeah. You I asked Giles, "How long do you think uh Bonak's going to keep going?" and he said, you know, as long as he's still able to win shows, uh, and he's still able to make top five at the Arnold and, you know, what was he? Seventh at the Olympia, eighth at the Olympia. I mean, if you're top 10 the Olympia and you're and you're top five at the Arnold still, why would you why would you retire? That's not a bad payday either. You know what I mean? Like that's you're still making money. Yeah, they people were comparing the lighting here to uh the Iron Man Pro from back in the day. That was that was special light though, bro. Like that. Remember when Jay did it? how crazy he looked under the Iron Man light and like Delint and those guys. It was it was insanity just it was just a perfect the perfect storm of physi. The difference between that lighting for pro Iron Man back then and what we're looking at here is Mike Nevie who was the co-owner of Iron Man magazine and you know they were the promoters of that show he lit it so the lights were actually coming from a couple different directions. So, just like when you saw his photography in Iron Man magazine, it's exactly the way he would light these guys on on stage and they would have like glittery backgrounds or some color swatches or something to make it interesting. It usually wasn't just plain black from what I recall. Maybe it was the photos were just it was magical, man. It looked that Iron Man gym and the the what we thought were the real weights at the time. Yeah. I like, you know, I've I've I was fortunate enough to do I think it was five photo shoots in all from 93 to 2003 or 94 was the first one I did with Neu. So there the weights were about one/ird. So a 45 pound plate was like 12 pounds. Oh, that's awesome. 100 pound dumb 33 pound. So it was enough to so there was still some resistance. They weren't like foam. They're I think they were made I want to say they were made out of wood now that I remember but painted to look like wheels the famous gold. And the reason they didn't he didn't use real weights is because he would have you hold a shot like you're holding a curl at the top for it could be like two minutes before he says okay because he would get it he would move around and get different angles and you can't move you know you're doing that with an actual heavy dumbbell boom your your arm's going to drop. That's nuts, dude. Yeah, the Heroins. Bonak is a tank looks good here. I like the black backdrop. Y James Smooth up. I got Sass. Let's take a look at some other guys while we're at it. I see they're doing board shorts over there. Yes, we are. Got my phone over there. Let's make sure. All right. So, let's look at uh James who's probably going to be third. So, I I agree. I saw a post of uh Boss of Outlaw who's his coach as well, and they filled him out quite a bit since the Arnold. I guess he was he came in a flatter version of himself. Yeah, he's very good. He's a solid dirt as far as I'm concerned. He's finding that fine balance of being not too full but not too flat with his body, right? Like he it's it's when he nails it, he looks very impressive, right? Um now, is it enough time to make any corrections for the night show? We don't know. You know what I mean? It's not it's not like a day. Would it matter? I don't there. Giles commented. Giles was not here, but he did comment on this and possibly the best package I've seen James bring. Full hard drive. So that's it. You know, James is doing what he all anybody can do is get better and better as time goes on. He's got a baby on the way. Congratulations. Gonna be a dad soon. So he's got a little extra motivation now. And he looked a lot more confident on stage, too. Arnold, he just didn't look like he had the confidence there. Yeah, he looked a lot more confident. Again, too, right, like you said, it's the st the the level of the stage. Arnold's it's a big it's Arnold Classic man you know what I mean so it's a lot of eyes all over the world watching you and not only that you had you know he knew he wasn't going to beat Samson he knew he wasn't going to beat Derek Munsford you know Curry's a stretch too and he didn't beat him there's a few guys there when you go into a show and you know there's a few guys you're not beating that the best you can possibly hope for is like maybe fifth place sixth place I don't know mentally that has to be tough whereas here yeah Bonak's tough Sauce is tough, but you know, I'm sure in James' head, he had a he believes he believes if he brought his best that he had a chance to win it. And that that's how you have to that's the mentality you have to have. And I don't know how hard it would be, man. Like to do a show knowing that you you're not you have a hard g have a hard time winning, right? Like when Ronnie was winning all those shows, it had to be hard just knowing that well [\h__\h] no matter how hard I train or hard I diet, Ronnie gonna win this show. Yeah. You know what I mean? So, it's a it's a different it's I'd be curious to know. I know they all they train to win, right? You always train to win, but I don't know how that how that would play on you, you know, when you're when you're killing yourself in the gym, knowing like, you know, that person that Ronnie's going to be there, you know? Yeah. I mean, that that's why as much as we all loved Ronnie and we love Dorian during his six years and Phil during his seven years, the way that we've had seven different Mr. Olympia champs in the last eight years. To me, it's it's a much more exciting time in the Olympia. That's someone pointed out that the late 70s, early 80s saw the same thing because Zayn was Olympia for three years. So, but 79 was Zayn, 80 was Arnold, 81 was Franco, 82 was Dickerson, 83 was Samir, and then 84 was Did I miss somebody? No, that's it. That's everybody. Haney's 84. Yeah. So, and then Haney 84. Obviously, that began began a dynasty, but we had uh we had who So, who else we want to look at? Uh we look at Bonak. I want to look at Carlos. I know he's not in the top top four or anything, but I just I want to I just want to get a good look at him by himself here. All the muscle in the world. Well, and it's true. The taper, man. The waist is small. The I just can't stop staring at those quads. Yeah, that's they're obscene. I mean, I'm trying to think of who has bigger quads than that right now. I don't know, man. I can't think of anybody. I mean, Rammy had quads like that, but I think he's all done. Yeah, he doesn't look much leaner to me than he did four weeks ago, unfortunately. It's just it's you said, you're learning on the pro stage, right? A lot of guys do a lot of amateur shows, a lot of, you know, usually it's local show, regional, juniors, national, but now these guys just jump from like, you know, local to national. And obviously Carlos is good enough to win, turn get a pro card, but you don't get that stage time. You're not getting like those those that stage time on stage practicing posing, learning your body. So you're learning going against the best in the world essentially. Yeah. I mean, this So the Arnold was only his sec this is only his third pro show. It's crazy. uh in the Arnold, you know, he didn't do that well, but that was, you know, we had three Mr. Olympia champions up there he had to deal with. Uh his first pro show, he lost to Andrew Jack and Hunter Labrada in Texas. I mean, it's almost like a foregone conclusion. If Andrew Jack goes to Texas, he wins. So, yeah, Carlos, I hope I hope he figures it out the condition because and gets a little more back. Let's, you know, I got to include that. It's it's not just a condition issue. He needs more needs more back thickness. A little more upper chest, too, if I'm going to be totally picky. But I think with those improvements, he's a future superstar. He's winning big big shows. Oh, for sure. It's just it's just the reps. Reps in the gym, dude. It's just repetition, repetition, nailing that back. Nailing that back. Learning your body, you know? It's just it it sucks because you know how good he's going to be, how good he can be, right? So, just hope don't get discouraged. Just stay focused because the the writing's on the wall for him, man. Like, the sky's is the limit. So, it's just it's just time. But we got to give these guys time and not be like, "Okay, you got to be good now." Like we did with Derek. You want them good right then and there, but they takes time to hit their strides. So Wesley, yeah, he he does look a lot better than he did four weeks ago. When you're that tall and he's 6'2 or 6'3, you cannot show up flat. It is disastrous. Me because you already got those long long limbs. Like when Andrew Jack is a good example, when he's flat, it's it's it's a death melt. It's evident when Andrew, it's very evident in his physique. Yeah, tell the shorter guys, like even Derek Lensford, a shorter guy, his legs had to be significantly down at the Olympia for us to be able to see that massive difference. Huge. You know, Wesley's legs to they don't look horrible from the front at all. They don't look great compared to the upper body, but it's the back. He needs to figure out how to thick make them look thicker from the back, especially because, you know, we want to see a sweep, but I I honestly in my heart of hearts believe quad sweep is like 95% genetic. Yeah, you can't do that, Ron. You can't, you know, I mean, unless you like jimmy him up, you know what I mean? You can't you can't just change that. Like, I'd have arms like Alba Beckles if I could, but it's just the shape is genetic. Um, he look, it's just everything's there. And again, it's I think it's close between between him and Matt, too, man. It's just when you go back and look at it again. Yeah. He don't He doesn't look that bad, right? He's And when you look at him next to each other, it's very close. Yeah. Well, I mean, Matt Matt needs need to tighten up. And I know it's only a matter of I I think there's going to be about three hours, four hours, but I've seen people do it. I've seen it done. It's possible. You want that magic. You know, there are I I I'm not going to speculate, but people use things like diuretics or whatever. If it's if it's a water issue, if it's just if it's body fat, there's nothing you can do. But yeah, if you got a little like a chunk chunk on you, it's it's a wrap. But these guys, they're so lean, right? It's just a matter. A lot of it is just water. It's just manipulating those carbs, water, salt, and find that right balance is the it's so much can go right or wrong these last 24 hours. It's crazy. Yeah. So, I'm thinking I'm thinking Matt's going to be a little tighter because Chris Aceto is a master. He knows what he's doing. I I can't see him not making some kind of improvement to Matt. That That's the crazy thing is people's bodies can change so so fast for the better or worse. Uh I've seen guys I've seen guys in their hotel room the night before looking dice and then the next day on stage like, "Oh my god, dude. What the h What happened to you?" It goes so fast, doesn't it? Yeah. And are you watching? Watch look at the look at the be the wellness girl right now. Okay, that's up on the Oh, hang on. Let me uh let me put that on screen. Why not? Jack, share this tab instead. Okay, you see it on Streamyard now? Yeah, I guess. Was she the only one? Yeah. Oh, boy. Yeah, I mean that's you know I I don't I don't get that. I mean I if if I'm anywhere near Detroit and I'm preparing for a show sometime around this time, wouldn't you want to do wide show? No, it's on it's on the internet and the publicity you get from the show is insane. You know, it's and the Giloko pictures everything's right there. You know what I mean? Like what what are you doing? And Detroit's a is a hub for bodybuilding. Like Detroit's there. Got Toledo is really close as well. Um, Liberman shows is coming up too. You can hop in both of them in area. You know what I mean? You know, most Olympia titles, Miz Olympia titles, Miz Olympia have come out of Detroit. Yeah. Ain't that crazy? Iris was from Michigan. Linda's from Michigan. Is Andrea Is Andrea Shaw Michigan or Illinois? Yeah, she's Michigan as well. Okay, so there you go. Got a lot Samir was there. Tom Plat was there for a while. You know what I mean? It's insane. Yeah. Let's go back to Instagram. Hey, we're not we're ready. The free show's over. Okay. Go back to Yeah, I think they're almost done with the with the amateur stuff. Yes, sir. So, who else? So, that was Matt and Greg. Couple other classic. He didn't have uh Giloko was loading footage, but I mean they don't have much time. Just want to look at Bonak one more time because someone says left lat isn't firing. So, I want to You can see in his back in his back double. It's flattish. Let's take a look because now I'm now they got me curious. Remind me too about the ball. Jack Eagle. I watched his video. It's insane what he did for the show. Jack Eagle. Yeah. What's that? What's the name? Jack. That's his real name, I think. Jack Eagle is a young kid from UK. Yeah, dude. He he dropped I think like he was over the weight over the weight limit. Yeah. So he had dropped like six he dropped like 16 pounds. I was watch his YouTube. It's insane. He was eating like 600k. He didn't eat until after the weighin. So that's why he was so like a little not 100%. But I didn't know he was that close. Oh, here you go. Yeah. Okay. So let's see the rear double. Uh I don't I think that's the light making you think that because it's darker on the left side of his lat. Let's see when he hits the lad spread. Left lat is not firing. I don't know. I do. You see it? I don't see it. No, I don't think as as wide you at the Arnold. It's really It was evident, too. Not as wide. It's a little bit It's just atrophy, man. Like these bone's been banging for decades. Yeah, that just happened. You know, 42. I mean, that's that's not old, but I mean, that's a if you've been training since you're a teenager, by the time you're 42, you got a lot of wear and tear on their connective tissues. It's just And you can't really take a break, right? You can't you can't take, you know, three months off, let his body heal, you know, they're just and they're pros, so pros are banging, banging, banging, man. Yeah. What's this? See view uh what's he also mentioned? He's going Olympia. I don't think even if he wins today, I don't think he would do the Olympia. If he's smart, and he is a smart guy, he's a very smart guy. Uh he needs to he needs to do something with those legs because he's not getting past Somerfeld and and Terrence, even Ur and uh I shouldn't say even third place. Ramandino. I mean, these guys are they're no joke. You gota Top of that class is pretty it's is pretty tight, you know. I mean, it's pretty it's pretty stacked up top, you know. I mean, with Bumpstead Gone, it's it's it's going to be very exciting, especially to leading up to that show, right? Because, you know, once you see Terrence, man, we don't know. Just looking at Terrence, he's looking really good right now. Really good. Jesus, he's leveled up. Yeah, for sure. So, someone just asked, Felix is asking, "What time is finals?" So, finals are actually happening right now. Uh, but we started while the amateurs are still going. Right now it looks like Bikini is up bikini awards. So as soon as that's done they'll do some kind of little intermission I'm sure a little break and then they're gonna go right to the pros bikini class is class Z probably Z. Oh man. So that was William. Yeah. He didn't have a ton of footage up but he had some of these classic guys. So the pictures are so good though. This is Jay Y from UK. It's like a young character, a young dude. Some they class these guys. This I think you know too, man. This is a good show for some of the younger class of guys because it's not super super deep and they get stage experience and they get a good look, right? You know what I mean? So, you're not you're not you know isn't here. You're not again you're not dealing with like you know Ramon or any of those top guys. So, it's it's actually it's a very good show for a lot of these younger classic guys, you know what I mean? Get their feet wet. Yeah. Like it's a smaller it's smaller lineup in terms of, you know, 13 guys is it's manageable. It's three call outs at most. Yo, Ron, when it's atrophied, no, Ron, it's actually like that. The lat will spread, but it won't contract. Yeah. Yeah, I mean we've we've seen so much lat atrophy in guys over the past few years. Ian Valier had that going on. Um Rammy had that on. What' you say? Rolled up. Yeah, that was that was a pretty bad bad example. That's crazy. I don't It could be I don't I don't know what a nerve issue in the back. Who knows? It's from Florian makes a good point here. She's talking about Bonex. Remember I said I think it was a shoulder issue because anyone out there who's had or has a serious shoulder issue like I have very very advanced ar severe osteoarthritis and I got a massive bone spur in there. You can't you can't hit certain shots anymore. Like Bonak still kind of it you you can see he's not hitting them 100%. It's not as bad as it could be but yeah it's it definitely affects your training. It affects your posing because you don't have the mobility. Your shoulder doesn't move the way the way you want it to. And it's just even like when you try to get your shoulders back for like a back double now. It's just like a that just stupid. It just doesn't feel the same. You know, it's hostile. Yeah. Brother, appreciate you come. Let's go. W some bonac bon. I was gonna ask how you post. How you should It's doing horribly. Your mom's flip-flop. It's It's hurting. It hurts even when I live stream when I podcast. So there you go. It's just it's just, you know, it's just that wear and tear, man. It's crazy how John Hansen, he's still going at it and he's squatting like with a bar. I mean, you'll see these occasional rarities, these exceptions of guys who are like in their 50s, sometimes 60s, and they can still Here's that Jack Eagles, the young guy again. Lot He lost a lot, man. It was insane. And he looked, you know, when when you look like you're just super done and fit mentally, you're just He looked in the video. He looked like he just couldn't do anymore, man. So, it's just you can't refill, you know, you can't like fill back up no matter what you do. See, that that's odd because he just competed last weekend. So, what the hell did he do between then and and whatever check-in and weigh-ins were that was you said he was 16 pounds over. He said he dropped 16 pounds like 16 pounds. See, then he did I don't know if he binged or what what he did because he was he made weight one week ago for a show in California. So, how that rebound made that diuretic rebound? It could have. So, that's just water. I mean, you can lose a lot of a lot of water weight, fluid weight pretty quickly. Yeah. Flew it and it was so I'm assum I'm assuming he stay he didn't fly back. He stayed in the states go back to UK. Yeah. Right. You know what I mean? Yeah. Who is the best bodybuilder? That's hard to say. Top two. Let's look at their footage. So their footage I think that's physiques though, man. You know I mean I just Yeah. I'm trying to think. I'm really having a hard time between Sassan and William here. I really am. It's funny when you watch it one time it it kind of may appear one way but you go back and look at it again you know it's a different altogether. Yeah. Is I mean, is your food here? I thought I No, man. So, what we're gonna have What? What' you get? You don't mind. What is it? I give him the back shot. Fried chicken. Oh, cool. I got fried chicken, bro. Okay. I'm be sick as [\h__\h] tonight. The diet is over. Done, son. Oh, man. So there's I think blast bikini hopefully award is done. Oh yeah. Yeah. I got the phone over there. You'll know when they go into another commercial that that they're done with the hostile commercial. They got a few sponsor. America Health is uh and that's out of UK. That's they're running a lot of ads. America Yeah. America is a huge sponsor for um they did the Olympia. Yeah. Here's the overall Yeah. So, yeah, they're doing overall for bikini right now. They actually had fit model in this, too. And did they? Yeah. First girl I saw. Yeah. I mean, I don't want to get started with fit model. It's just you some some very pretty faces and they're if you're starting divisions because other divisions went too far should never let those divisions get too far in the first place. Exact you can't you got to reel it back in. But you can't you can't put the toothpaste back in the tube. You can't you can't do it. It's too far gone. What are you What are you gonna say? How you going to tell them to come in? You can't go hey just the 30% rule again. Like that just doesn't work. See the the problem is though. So fit model they look like that now. They look very natural now. But you can you know they're going to like well let's give you just a little bit of an art a little bit of Clinton a little bit of this and that girl wins. And the other girls go oh I'm a little bit bigger a little bit harder. And that's how it always it just keeps going and going until they're bigger and bigger and harder and harder. And you know like women's physique started out with Dana Lin Bailey as the as the the role model the the she was the first Olympia champ. Yeah. She would not be in first or second call out now at the Olympian women. It is so far. It it like the thing is it kind of mirrors like figure is kind of blending into women's physique in some of the you know what I mean in some of the ways because just the muscularity is just but if the judge responsibility say you know what it's too much just you're not gonna place not gonna place higher period. Yeah. And then they'll learn you know they're gonna roll out male fit model at the end of this year. You know they Oh yeah. That's that's like J said that's just novice like men's physique. It's the exact same thing. Look novice. It's natural men's physique. that women women's fit model is basically natural bikini because bikini started out natural back in the old old days and then very quickly they started getting to the good old Andavar and the Clint and all that stuff and the prima bowling and they are you know the girls have twice the amount of muscle twice the amount of muscle definition that they did back in when Ashley was first winning 12 13 years ago they're rock hard yeah well I mean they're not as lean as some of the divisions but They were supposed to be soft and feminine and like a beach body, like a bikini body. That's the started. It went off the rails just like men's physique went off the rails. We're looking Oh, here it is. What's that? Wellness. No, the fit model. Fit model. Should I put it up? What the heck? Come on, bro. Really? Yeah. I think I'm gonna share it. I think I'm gonna share it. And I'm sharing it. Oh, she's done. I mean, she's Yeah. I mean, God bless her. She's a pretty girl and she clearly does some kind of training, but it's But, you know, like the prep coach is like, "Yeah, let's do it. Just do another show. Keep They're going to keep pushing to do more and more shows, more and more clients. Hey, get your friends. Oh, look. I won this trophy this weekend." Yeah. I mean, this girl's thinner. She looks like a natural bikini. I mean, just very little muscle mass, very little definition. Very pretty girl, very pretty woman. No doubt. No doubt. It's just what I'm curious because for me it was always are they compet are they competitive? Is just what's the motivation for this? So the you know I heard it presented as it's an entrylevel division for people that want to start competing but they're they don't have much experience training yet. They don't have years in the gym yet. But I mean, why do we obviously if you're a promoter or you're if you're somebody who's making money off these people, you're gonna love it, right? I get it. If you're if you're a prep coach now, you got all these other people you can prep. And look, you don't have to do much with somebody like that. What do you really have to do to prep them? You know, we wanted to be pro. We wanted to be on the Olympia stage that I mean every one of us deep whether or not we were going to do it or not the dream was to hear that theme song one day right so that that's kind of what the drive in our head was so so for them do they want to be you know fit model Olympia I mean what is what is the end goal yeah they are gonna they are going to have a a pro division they're gonna pro shows and every pro division has to be represented at the Olympia. The Olympia, unlike the Arnold, they don't have the luxury of saying, "No, we don't want to do that division. Nah, we're just going to do these divisions that we like the most and we think are going to make the most money." They have to have every division, everything. Dude, that's gonna they that's got to be a three that's going to turn into a three-day event. Like that's gonna be a North America three-day event. Yeah. I mean, it's already four days because of the amateur. No, I guess three days. Thursday, Friday, Saturday with the amateur Olympia. But yeah, I mean more and more divisions. There's I said I even the judges probably don't like it. Although they rotate judges, so they're they're not stuck there all day and night. But the audience remember the judges for like the the at the expo for the classic and the Mets physique is just in there's a thousand there's a hund I think there's like a hundred Mets physique shows this total. Yeah, I I actually did a whole I think I was on Was that Were you on that when we looked at all the shows per division? Yeah. Yeah, dude. Listen, there were a hundred like a hundred shows for for classic for bikini men's physique. Yeah. Tons and tons. That's why you end up getting 60 70 of them on stage at the Olympia. Yeah. But like I mean I get you you won a pro show. This chick's got like 75 trophies in it. But you you won a pro show. But um if you're in the like the seventh call out, is that needed? You know what I mean? Like you can't judge there. Yo, I mean a lot of guys I'm sure you and I wouldn't you wouldn't you just love to say I stood on the Olympia stage. I competed in the Olympia. True. That is true. I wouldn't say I wouldn't say if I qualified at some weak show, I wouldn't say forget it. I'm not going. I have no chance. Like [\h__\h] that. I'm going the Olympia. I'm going I'm back there pumping up, dude. Chilling. And the Olympia, they're paying for it anyway. They're going to pay. They're going to get my ticket, my hotel, all that good stuff. Yeah. Your mom's flip-flop. The plan for my shoulder is a full replacement, a new joint. No [\h__\h] Well, unfortunately, I got a cortisone shot, which they have helped for years and years, and this last one I got February 21st did nothing. There was zero relief. I said, "That's it. I'm done. This is it. I can't put it off anymore because now the pain is unbearable all the time. Yeah. So, I meet with the surgeon, but it's gonna have to be a you can't you have to wait three to six months after cortisone because Oh [\h__\h] Yeah. Because it suppresses your immune system and you have a much higher risk of sepsis infection in the in the implant. I had no idea. Yeah, me neither. Damn it. I wouldn't got that. Well, I didn't I thought the shot was going to help. I was just going to keep putting it off indefinitely. Yeah. Well, we're up. I think the pros are next. Yes, sir. Ah, but you see this, Mike? He's put toothpaste back in too many times. I guess you could probably do it with a syringe. Yeah, maybe if you have a syringe, but otherwise, good luck. Dude, those fit model girls right there. They did two classes. So, that's crossover. It's it's a bit it's it's a money maker, man. But I don't know. Yeah, this sport is just it was it's special because everybody can't do it. Everybody can't hit a baseball. I would love to, but I can't, right? I can lift weights to make my muscles grow. Yep. You know what I mean? So, it's just But I It's I don't want to offend anybody. You got to be careful what you say, but it's just it's not and this isn't for everybody. Like, the sport isn't for everyone. Well, I mean, can't pretend it is. Well, I mean that's that's how it used to be. It used to be something for obviously when it was just men's and women's bodybuilding. It took a certain amount of time at least a couple years at least to build enough muscle to stand on a stage as a bodybuilder. Uh and these other divisions, you know, like fit model. I mean, I don't want to say they don't look like they work out, but dude, my gym, almost every every woman between like 19 and 30 at my gym could could get up there and look better than a lot of the women I've seen so far in fit model. Your age, Ron, how dare you sleep in a chair for eight weeks? Well, I have an awesome chair because I had to sleep. I didn't have to, but I had my quad my quad was torn completely. End of August 23. I had surgery a few days later. Uh I was in a chair for a while because you know you you can't it's hard to get comfortable in bed. But I had one of those recliners and everything downstairs. I was okay. Shoulders. The shoulder. Was it right shoulder or left shoulder? It's my left. Thank god because I'm I'm right. Yeah. That's not too That's doable. Like step So JB, let me explain something. When it's bone on bone, stem cells ain't doing [\h__\h] Uh, I lost the cartilage 15 years ago. It's just been bone grinding on bone. I'm way past stem cells, PRP, peptides. There's nothing that can be done. The joint is just obliterated. Uh, I have X-rays that I put up on my Facebook to show, but I appreciate people suggesting things, but they don't understand. It's gone. It's just gone. Janice, but you you'll be better off getting it fixed anyway in the long run, dude. You know what I mean? Oh, I mean, just to be out of pain and, you know, people came on the thread that have had it done, including Palumbo posted on my Facebook. So, I appreciate that. He says, you know, you'll best thing you ever did. You'll wonder why did why didn't I have this done years ago and I was, you know, I'm a baby. I didn't want I know it's going to be a recovery. There's going to be pain and inconvenience like putting on clothes, taking showers, wiping your ass, just things like that that I didn't want to have to worry about. your shoes. Oh, yeah. Hey, thank you. There's another one. Well, I'll be wearing Crocs, I guess, for a while, right? They're arguing about Jay Cutler if he looks his age or if he looks like he's 30. Pro done started yet. No, Dragon Cous the pros should be starting very soon. They just finished up the amateurs. So, within like 10 at least within 10 minutes, they start this morning. They start pretty fast. Yeah. Which pro is the nicest feet? That's a good question. I don't know. I'd have to see the girls fit at all. More Miss McDonald. Well, I don't want to rip on these girls, you know. No. No. The guts to get up there. God bless them. But it's it's Listen, if you've never been on stage like that, have naked, especially the first time. It's a little nerve-wracking, right? It's a little I'm sure for women too, it's just a little a lot more, you know, more nerves, right? With us, it's like, oh, we're mezz. I mean just your first show you were probably I was I was like a deer in the headlights my first show I know I was I was I just turned 16 like a month before 16 okay I was 19 I shouldn't say that I was I I think I had this this fake this confidence that I really had no business having at that time I looked at some pictures I'm like what are you [\h__\h] doing that post for my mind I was like I thought I looked like Phil Hill posing Phil Hill see there's a Google him guys Phil Hill wasn't around long as a Uh, of the Africa Bonak, what do you think? Uh, I think it could very well could very well go that way. It wouldn't shock me if it did. Um, it would be it would make things a lot more interesting because you know you where he's what what do Pittsburgh and then got to maybe shut it down to some of the better European shows? Dubai maybe. Yeah, Dubai's 100 grand. Why not? There's a lot more money to be made now than there was even just a couple years ago. Peruse did very well for himself last year. Yeah. Well, he didn't do any big money shows, but he picked up a couple of them. How was the turkey last night? I have turkey every night. It's the same [\h__\h] I just had it again. Ground ground turkey and tortillas is one of my one of my daily meals. Go to Yeah. You know, I eat the same It's Groundhog Day for me. His face looks nothing like 40. They're talking about Cutler. Oh, I mean, man, he looks I mean, what is he supposed? He's 50 51 now, I think. 51. I'll be I'll be 52 in September. So, you were born in 72? No, 73. I think he was born in Was he born in 73 as well then? Maybe. Yeah, he's like I think his birthday is like a month a month ahead of mine in August. Yeah. So, Josh Josh is correct. I'm trying because Lee Priest Lee Priest is right around that same age too. Bone on bone. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Josh, when it's bone on bone and someone asked me on Facebook, is it bone on bone yet? And I said it was bone on bone by like 20 2010 2011. I'd say like 2011 because I I had my I did have a a a shoulder surgery in 2011, arthoscopic, where they he went in there and just made some more room. We scraped away some of the God. Surgery just sucks, man. Yeah. I mean, I wish I didn't I never wanted to have any surgeries. Appreciate it. Dragon Cous, which place said Justin Muso? We don't know. He hasn't there's no placings yet because they're still judging. They're they're going to do their routines. They're going to do a confirmation round. Uh so nobody's got any placing right now. Esparan New Jersey. Oh, there's more than that. Gaspari. Uh, who else came out of? I guess those are the top two. Johnack. I mean, these guys are better than he was. Guac. H Matlock. Is Bo didn't pass away, did he? No, he's still around. Okay, good. Good. I mean, sometimes Jason Arts. Yeah. So, I guess Walker and Gaspari be the two best. So, yeah, Gaspari was runner up at the Olympia three times. Uh he was the first Arnold Classic champion. Yeah. Nick Nick has been third place. That's the highest so far at the Olympia. He is a two-time New York Pro champ. He is an Arnold Classic champ. Uh so I would say right now Rich has done more than Nick, but Nick is still young in his career. Nick's still got a few more good years for sure to do better. just was he was so good so young and he just did he was just balls to the wall like nonstop train you know what I mean that hardcore high volume training man like that dude was just a machine yeah because people talk you know I don't want to go back to Sull was 20 he turned pro at 23 Gaspari was 21 and at 22 he was second to Al Beckals at the night of champions and I think he was second in his first Olympia. Third third 85 was second 85. Okay. So third in his first Olympia and then Yeah. years old, man. Can you imagine that? Yeah. Well, not really. Me either. Oh, I think they're doing Cutler's age. 51. He's born August 71. Oh, 71. No, had to be 72. I know Jay's Jay's not that old. 71 would make him 54 this year. He's not that uh Pittsburgh Pro. No, I'm I can see even if it's a free stream, the Pittsburgh Pro is the same day as my son's my son is competing at two shows six days apart. A sat a Sunday and then the that same Saturday, the same week. Oh, that's badass. It's like Grand Prix tour. Yeah. The first is an OCB. It's a natural organization. And then six days later, we have the NPC Natural Massachusetts. Very nice. Yeah. So, yeah. I That's so awesome, dude. How's How's the value going for him? Oh, he's Dude, he's down to 134 pounds. He's He's very He's not a mass monster. He's got a When he sucks his waist in and we measure around his belly button is 26 and a quarter inches. Get out. Relax. Fully relaxed, it's 29 and a half his waist. That's crazy. That's like a girl's waist. Exactly. I mean, he is he's a lighter guy, but good structure he needs to fill out. Uh, you know, I think that's cool, though, man. This is his first prep, his first diet. He's he's So, tomorrow will be five weeks out. He's leaning out. He's getting in good shape, you know. He's got a good time, huh, man? Got a great Yeah. Jarro Williams says, Gaspari placed as high as second. He was second three years in a row. Yeah. 86, 87, 88. Yep. And then 89 I dropped 89 started the start of decline. 89 was Reiny Italy. It was Haney still but was Labrada second that year. Labrada pushed him pretty good that year dude. Like if Lra Labrada could be a two-time Mr. Olympia if things were like co culture back then. Yeah. I mean he was ahead of Lee Haney at the judging in Chicago for 1990 the year they drug tested it. And then somehow he he lost the posing round to Lee Haney. Dude, come on. I think they realized they were like, "Oh [\h__\h] like we messed up this." They did. They did. Yeah. And I I I did a video about it and people were saying, you know, Labrada's back was was not a strong point and Lee Haney had a very good back. I agreed. There's no there's no argument for me there, but condition-wise, Lee was really off at that 90 Olympia. He was smaller. He was softer. And Labrada didn't look very different from how he normally looked. Ray and Mfado were great. They said heard I asked Sean Ray about Mike Mike Christian. He said like he p he didn't he achieved the test for that year. He looked exactly the same. Exactly the same at the Arnold and the Olympia. He looked he was rock hard. Didt totally the same dude. So what does that does that tell does that tell us he was always 100% natural or that the drugs did absolutely nothing for him or you know there was a the late Dan Duchain who was the first original steroid guru. That's what I was thinking. He was he was hired by a couple of those guys in 90 the year they drug test the only Olympia to help them pass the test and they were actually selling kits to like dilute your jewelry or something. It was called defend. Is that right? Yes, dude. Holy [\h__\h] I was thinking the same [\h__\h] Yes. Yeah. So, it was a product specifically marketed to help guys beat cheat and pass drug tests in drug tested shows. Yeah. You just take these I don't know what I don't I don't know what it was, but you took certain substances. I don't I have no idea what it was, but they would make your urine test clean or something. I don't know. That is hilarious, man. Like that's remember they had they used to sell gear out of the back of magazines back then like cash on delivery. How was able guys little term pro is HY the youngest Olympian? Uh I think Arnold is the youngest Mr. Olympia because he won his first Olympia at 23. Lee was 24 which is still that's still very very young. That's a child. Yeah. So I think Arnold is still the the youngest guy to win the Olympia. He was 23 when he won it for the first time. The oldest guy was Rhoden was 41 or 42 when he won his the Olympia I think. 42 Dickerson was 40 I think we won, right? Yeah. He he Chris Dickerson had been the oldest up until Shawn Rhoden and then rest in peace Sean was the young the youngest the oldest guy to win Olympia. Uh good question here and Night of Champions still is popular. So there is no night of champions. That show basically in 2005 uh Steve Weinberger took it over from Wayne Demilia who parted ways with the IFBB and uh Steve took it over and renamed it New York Pro. The first winner I was there was uh Darren Charles was the first winner. Yeah. And uh I'm not sure if it was that year or the next year that Branch did his made his pro debut there and he was like six or six and he was so so bummed. I remember seeing him in the lobby of the hotel and I like dude he was he was very young. I said your your time is going to come. Don't don't get down on yourself. And you know he ended up winning that and he ended up winning two Arnold Classics twice in a row. The second one six months after he tore his quad six months. Can you imagine like six months like training again after you tore your quad? I tore my quad and so I have AI was impressed before, but after I tore my quad, looking back, I'm thousand times more impressed that he was able to pull that off because I was only getting back to like light leg training like four months after the surgery. Very light training. He won the Arnold Classic six months almost to the day after he tore. And you know, you could see a slight difference if you look between his quads, but it wasn't it wasn't difference. No, for tearing your quadricep up to to you know what I mean? Like that's that was that's a miracle. I you know, I'm sure he was doing everything possible with all the peptides and GH still. He's a human being. He's not a robot. That's insane. Johnny Moran passed a year ago. True. True. Yeah. Johnny Mor do listen when I when I first moved here I worked at the Clearwater in Golden Clearwater was like right behind my apartment. Yeah. Johnny Morant would come in. Erica Kern trained there. Eddie Robinson it was in it was insane. Like Eddie Robinson was still huge as like he was just chubby chubby but to see Eddie Robinson, Johnny Morant come in there and Eric Kern was insane. It was nuts. Uh, so the finals, uh, the finals are we're they're on a break right now and they're going to come back with the pros because they already did the finals for amateurs. Uh, anything that makes me sound good, I like to read out loud. You become my favorite bodybuilding guy. Thank you. Thank you. Always down. I've been I've been doing this for a while. I've been doing this for a while. Always down for pressure coach. Thank you. Appreciate that. Yeah, I've been in part of the bodybuilding media since January of 1991 when I started working for the American Muscle on ESPN show. I didn't graduate high school yet. Started writing for the magazines one year later. Ron breakdown because he's more precision a chef so he's got a cheat meal. Yeah. I I kind of I kind of wish Giles was here. Like you and I have very good eyes. Of course. Giles Giles just he he I think both we all notice things that the other guy doesn't, right? So, you know, two heads are better than one and three heads better than two, but it's already getting late over there. Spar was overrated. Oh boy. He listen he at the for the for the time he was he he he had he was Haney's rival like that was that was his you know what I mean Haney it was Gpario first then Labrada then Ray you know what I mean like Lee Haney just he crushed a lot of dreams man like he just crushed a lot of dreams and you know what's funny I saw him guest yes pose six weeks before that Olympia at the Jantana right it was the most mind-boggling thing I was 16. It was the c that crucifix is still ingrained in my head. How big? It was They were so big. It looked like he like was Morgana. Remember the kissing band at Morgana? Yeah. Run on the baseball fields. He was so big and he literally talked I got my ass. I was fat as [\h__\h] I wanted to go just because of Ley. But he he talked me for like five minutes. Wow. It was it was I told him at the Olympia a couple years ago when we were there and and remember his daughter's grown now. Remember she was on he was holding her on stage and [\h__\h] It's just her name is her name is Olympia. Yeah. It's crazy that just even when remember when Lee held Hunter up at that one the pro show over in Europe we won. It's just crazy that now that their kids are like grown and adults and we're just [\h__\h] I mean, I was I've done some of these retro videos covering old shows and there was a there was one where Lee Lee Labrada was on stage and for a second they cut backstage to his wife Robin holding Hunter and Hunter's like a a a toddler like two years old, you know, now look now look at he's obviously grown since then, but uh again, still commercials up on the stream, guys. They're still doing uh still waiting. He was ahead. They're ready, folks. LeBron Lebron had way better shape and symmetry and flow than Gaspari, but Gaspari was a lot thicker and denser. He had that he was he had that grainy that old school. He was grainy at the time that we never saw rib glutes before, right? You know, and Rich had those ripped glutes, man. It was just insanity. Yeah. I remember I had pictures of Rich cut out and taped to my walls because I knew I was never going to be Lee Haney, but in my little heart of hearts, I thought maybe I can be Rich Gaspari. Maybe I could look just like that. It didn't. You and me both, bro. Didn't quite work out that way. But I think I looked closer to Rich's build just because I was shorter and a little thicker waist than I remember I did like for some reason at that time I did like his arm workout which was like 25 sets for biceps and triceps. I was like I couldn't move my arm the next day. It was just absolutely but nobody told us about that. It was just you saw they did and you you replicated. Yeah. I ate baby food because Gary Strider made baby food. So I did too. Yeah. Like I said people we didn't have internet obviously and there weren't I don't remember articles like listing guys full diets or anything like that. So contest prep was kind of a mystery to me back then. I I think back to some of the [\h__\h] that I was eating in so-called prep. I'm like, "No wonder I wasn't in shape." I My breakfast was 12 like six whole eggs, six egg whites, like a whole bag of that Uncle Ben's rice. Yeah. And then I would have like chicken and like baby food and like a oatmeal cookie the rest of the day. Yeah. I I I was eating I ate pizza the week before my the weekend before my first show. I didn't have any idea. Dumb ass. BMC is a legend, says Dan Dylan, the mayor of bodybuilding. Mayor is He's supposed to be coming to Tampa for the Tampa Pro. So hopefully we'll be some good pictures and good stories coming out. Is he living down there now? No, he I think he's gonna come on down. He said he might come on down. Yeah, it' be a good time. We So it'll be it'll be it'll be fun. We got the tickets are on sale, so we're gonna get that. Got a hotel, all that good stuff. No bodybuilding anymore at the Tampa Pro. That is really odd to me. That's Yeah. And I just saw Wings of Strength. They're cutting the women's prize money way back and they're giving it they're giving that money to the other divisions, the other women's divisions. They're like spreading it out. Everyone else gets paid more. So, not a great sign for women's bodybuilding. But it's I don't know, man. When you buy the ticket to the Olympia, you buy you buy it for everything, right? So, you don't if you don't like women's bodybuilding or bikini, you can always get up and walk around, right? But you know, but it's just nowadays the tickets are just a group thing. So it's not like we buy individual tickets anymore. So they're they're getting the money from regardless of the sales are are there, right? You know, but it's just it sucks for it's just it's a niche sport, man. It's just it's but the other divisions are getting to that thing, too. Three best ever, says Dan. This is his opinion. Arnold, Sergio Lee Haney. I would love to see Sergio Leva if he was competing now what he would look like. He would destroy everybody. He was so far ahead of everyone in terms of mass and that round muscle bellies and everything. I can only I can't even comprehend what he would look like on I'm sure he was barely on much gear. I I very much doubt he was on high doses of anything. I know he his diet was garbage. I know it was. and he worked he worked at a butcher shop at a butcher butcher place. He told me and I don't I don't know if it's necessarily like when he was dieting but he would come home and have like I guess they had frozen pizzas even back in those days. He would have a froz come home from work and eat a frozen pizza and drink a whole two liter bottle of Coca-Cola and go to bed. It was caffeine-free. I don't know. Iron Brothers. Thank you. Australia. Yeah, I was. So, I was in Australia in 2023 visiting my son Brisbane and I'm gonna finally get to go to Sydney next year because my daughter my daughter's 10y year wedding anniversary is next year. Can you believe my daughter is going to be married 10 years? Next year. It's nine years now. Uh July, they got married in July 2016. She's turning 31 in two weeks. In one week in a in April, April 7th, she'll be 31. Holy [\h__\h] So they're getting he's from Sydney. So his none of his family were here for the original wedding, right? So this is going to be a big bigger wedding. You know, we had the reception at my house in our backyard with a tent. Nothing overly fancy or or expensive. This is going to be their expensive wedding 10 years later. So I finally get to go Sydney. Very nice. So this guy says he started his sparring in 85 in Brussels. That's What country is that again? Where where's Vanam from? Belgium. Belgium. 85. He was only He would have only been like 22 years old. Yeah. Yeah. And you know those days winning the nationals or USA did not get you a pro card. There was there was no way. You had to go to the world amateurs in those early early days of the MPC. you had to go to the World Amateur Championships and win. Uh or else you But you know what? When But when you turn pro, you were damn good. You know what I mean? Hell yeah. I don't like those oil filled shoulders and arms, Mr. Bobac. It's Bonak. I don't think I don't see AI don't look at Bonak and think there's much of oil in there, personally. No. Do you think Listen, they you got to take [\h__\h] everywhere, man. Like it's it's not like you just take it in your hips, your glutes, you know what I It's not like back in the day. You have to do it everywhere. So, and and his aren't it's not like it's oily. It's not Nasser. Yeah. Uh I'm gonna I'm gonna actually leave you for a second, Mike, and leave you to answer a question while I'm doing it because I I don't want to have to see. So, I'm gonna go away. All right, I got it. All right, hold on, guys. I can't see very good. So, bear with me. So, if I'm looking like an old man, just don't make fun of me. If you could build the alter body, what are you calling shamas? Who's leg? Okay, leg. This is This dude is going to look really weird, but legs for me would be Tom Plattz. Chest Arnold back question back. I would say maybe Phil Heath back because of the detail. No offense to Ronnie and conditioning Hamdulla Akatulum. Look him up. He's this Indian dude. Um that was crazy shredded. He was at the 93 Olympia with uh Ferraro and Flavio. Crazy shredded. But like for me the best physique ever period was Flex Whether at the 90 in Arnold. I've never seen anything like that my entire life. I went to my grave saying the exact same thing to that. So, I can't change these questions because Ron's in charge of like the Oh, wait. I can see the chat. Hold on. Got this, bro. I think Bear with me, guys. Oh, [\h__\h] I [\h__\h] it up. Never mind. I'm not do it. Sorry, dudes. But anyway, so we're still wait final start at 7 PM as it says on the screen. And we're back. That was good, man. Man, I wasn't too bad. Yeah. I mean, yeah. Unfortunately, guys, as you get older, as a male, you can't hold your urine that long, bro. Man, I haven't full in ages. Prostate's probably three times the size it used to be. I know, man. What the [\h__\h] Probably. I don't want I don't even want to know. I don't think about it. I do. This is my doctor. The best time I went was a lady doctor and she's going to regular. She goes, "You want a prostate exam?" Like, no. Like, just you don't just spring that on somebody like just out of the blue. Yeah. I've Can you even legally do that a female doctor to AI don't know. Is that And that's No, you're not doing that. I'm sorry. No, I mean I know there's a lot of male gynecologists, so it's not, you know, they're not like I need to I gotta prepare for that mentally. Yeah. To just be to do that, dude. Uh, good night. your mom's flip-flop. I know it's in Europe. I think you're five or six hours ahead of where I am right now. So, thank you for participating and yeah, catch the replay tomorrow. Go for it. It's like the Olympia. Like for the Olympia, we'll be up to three o'clock in the morning. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'm I'm glad we're in the same time zone as this show. Oh my god. They still haven't started the pros yet. So, Grego has better legs from the side and the back. Uh maybe I should put that up. I'll put the I'll put the Grego. All right, put that I'm run and grab like some water real fast. Go for it. Go for it, man. All right, so I'll respond to your questions, guys, while we're looking at these two. Okay, so Gregor has a better legs from side and back. Absolutely. From front legs are more strided. Yeah, I mean, Gregoro's legs are better from the front. All he's really he's got better sweep, but they're not, you know, Wesley's quads don't look horrible from the front. They're not bad. They're just not great from the front. Wesley's more shr double back. Wisely Wesley has the edge. Legs look awful on that pose. Yeah, from the back is where his legs really sleep is huge for recovery. Oh, I hate missing sleep. Hate missing sleep. I hate missing meals. I hate missing all that stuff. Question regarding the side chest post. First, who has the best side chest ever? Oh boy. I mean, it's hard to compare different eras because you could say Arnold, but in Arnold's time, they weren't really prioritizing leg size. So his side legs from the side were not very impressive. They weren't really super lean those guys compared to today's bodybuilders. So it's hard to say, man. But side chest, Levon had an awesome side chest. Jeez, there's been a lot of guys. Uh geez, Ronnie's side chest was really good. Phil Heath had a great side chest. Dorian had a really good side chest, man. I mean, yeah, it's I I never really thought about it, honestly. So, second, how much you count the chest in that pose? It's more about side leg. No, they're looking at everything. You can't have a weak chest. You can't have a weak side leg. So, even though they call a pose the front double bicep, it's not just about the biceps, rear lat spread. They're also looking at your lower body, not just your lats. Every pose, they're looking at the whole body. They're looking at everything they can see. But yeah, you're something like the ab and thigh. They're specifically specifically making sure you have good abs and good quads in that shot. But they're always looking at your abs and they're always looking at your quads in the in the shots so they can see those body parts. Back bucket worth of oil. Geez, you guys are going hard on Bonak. If SAS couldn't prove his arms and shoulders become dangerous in the open. I saw I could see SAS had a uh he had uh a torn bicep. It was evident to me. I'll go back to their footage in one second here. Cassan's right. It's his left bicep that's torn or had been torn and it doesn't look like he's had it repaired. So, we'll leave that up while we talk. Still waiting on the process start, guys. Still waiting. Uh, proudest bodybuilding moment, man. I Geez, I don't know, Dan. I I've been very fortunate. I was backstage. I was in the front row at so many shows. Proudest you I got to interview Arnold, but it was over the phone. I really wish it could have been in person, even on FaceTime. It was just literally a telephone interview a couple years ago. I had Go ahead. I had a drumstick. I've had f I've had fried chicken in like years. Holy crap. That's got have crack in some. Bro, that was delicious. You just ate already? No, I just had I just had a a little bite real quick. I'm out of If you want to eat right now, I'll I'll do the talking. No, I'm good. Actually, the show's starting to at 7 o'clock final start. So, we're good. I'm good. Energy, man. I'm ready to roll. Okay. Okay. Really like Sean Ray physique the most. Early Ronnie Coleman looked great. Great. Yeah. Yeah. But that that 03 look it just I just when he walked out I just laughed because that was just we never seen that and there was it wasn't a lot of there was no photos leading up to that either. So it just shocked the world. We didn't have updates. You know the the last pictures we got of these guys. We they didn't they didn't take pictures in the offseason. They didn't take pictures during prep or if they did we never saw them. You'd have to have somebody at like an expo or or so or a guest posing to take the picture, get it developed, and show you what they look like. Yeah. So, you know, we have we see these guys all the time. The mystery is gone. There's no mystery anymore. You know that that that's what I miss about the old days. These guys were larger than life figures because they you didn't see them all year and then they just popped up at the Olympia basically. And two, no two and when you're constantly posting pictures, you got to deliver that on stage. Yeah. Like you can't you have if if it it's not close to what you've been posting and nobody posts their weak shots on you know I mean you don't post your weakest body part ever. So but we see it all. The stage light is different than a gym light you know in a filter. 100%. Would you agree that if Flex replicated his 98 Arnold look for the Olympia that year he would have beat Ronnie? Good question. No doubt in my freaking mind. Huh? Yeah. I that he looked hollow at that 98 Arnold like it looked like it didn't look like the SK it looked like that bodies exhibit where they they go around just that's what he looked like that day but for at least for me dude because that 98 Ronnie was special but that that flex we look it was just and that never came back again like that. Well, I mean, we talked about people who looked there are guys who always looked better at the Arnold than they did at the Olympia. That's that was Flex Wheeler. Yeah. To me, he always he always looked better in the at the Arnold in the spring Grand Prix tours. For some reason, when he had to prep again in the fall, it just he never hit it 100% again. No, man. It's And it's just And he was on Dennis James podcast and he was saying, too, that a lot of he just wasn't mentally ready to to be Mr. Olympic. He wasn't mentally where he should have been at that. You know, I just felt a lot all the pressure because remember going to that 98 Olympia like that everybody had there was nobody thought Ronnie Coleman. Ronnie Coleman was an afterthought, right? You know what I mean? It was just it was Flex Nazer Kevin John. Well, he had been Ronnie had been eighth place the year before, right? Yeah. Ninth place. Nice. Yeah. So, nobody was too worried about Ronnie Coleman, but good lord. Chad Nichol Chad started work with him after that after that show. after that 97 Olympia and the rest is history as they said. No. Is Luke Priest invited to what, Joe? Is he invited to this? He could certainly pop in. I'd love to have him. But best pro show you guys ever attended? Dan Dylan says 98 Olympia. Uh, best pro show. I I go back to my first Olympia 91 because it was like 30 guys on stage. It was everybody I had seen in the magazines for years. It was Haney. It was Dorian's first Olympia. Lee Labrada was in it. Rich Kaspari, Vince Taylor, Samir was in there. Geez, it was a great 89 classic for me. That was just because you you didn't know what it would turn into at the time, right? But seeing um Gustpari stride on Bob Paris. Hold on. I'm sorry honey. You want one? I'm sorry. We're discussing crumble cookie orders. It's okay. I'm trying to get answer this guy's question. Zionic says who you got above. I don't I don't know which question you're asking about like building the perfect bodybuilder. I love these questions, dude. I'm not sure that was the question. Cle got above uh for different body parts. But yeah, that's because I had you address that while I was Oh, that one. Yeah, you were gone for that one. Uh whose legs, chest? I mean, legs, plats, chest. Uh maybe Burle Fox or Lee Haney Arnold. Back back, I'd go with Ronnie. Uh conditioning, I mean Andreas Monzer, I guess. If you want to go with Olympia conditioning, I thought Phil Heath always had pretty damn great conditioning. I said Hamdulla Akatuling. Remember that guy from 93 Olympia that Oh, that's Somebody corrected you because he's from Turkey and you must have said country. I love that. Well, sorry guys. My bad. Turkey. I think I said Iran. Oh, well, there you go. Uh, in your guy's opinion, and Arnold from back in the day was competing in today's Olympia, where would he place? Well, are you assuming he's going to look the way he did 50 years ago, which he wouldn't because he would be on the same PEDs, eating the same way these guys eat now, training might be different. He would look very, very different. If Arnold was 30, 35, 30 years old today, he would look very different from the way he did in 1974, 1975. Who's to say? He, like I said, his legs weren't awesome, but he wasn't trying to make them huge. He would. And the back was good. He They didn't focus as much on the back and the legs back in those days in the 70s, 60s, and 70s. It was a different It was just a different time, you know what I mean? But it's cool to play those games. But you can always say, you know what? If if you gave Frank Zayn some stuff now, like what they're doing now, you know, how would he look? Or it's fun to think like if you gave these guys what they got to have now, what would the outcome be? But it's hard to say, man. You'd never know. Probably best. Wesley's probably is the best inconsistent bodybuilder. When he's on, he wins. When he doesn't even place. Well, he plays fourth at the Olymp at the Arnold. So, I wouldn't say he doesn't even place. He was like down in seventh at the uh at the Olympia. Matt Grego wins. Seventh best bodybuilder in the world, man. Like you don't suck at seventh place doesn't I would give my left pinky for seventh place. What are you talking about? [\h__\h] Yeah. So, when are the results? So, I can't pronounce your name, sir. I'm sorry. Tusi, they're uh they haven't even started the finals, so the results are probably a couple hours away if we're being realistic. Sorry, it's just a black screen. But we they gota they're going to let everybody pose. So, we're going to get through uh I think they got how many of them? 13. 13 classic and 14 and 15 open. So, it's gonna be a bit two. Was it two minutes each? Two or three minute pose routine. If Juice didn't exist, the top two ever would have been Coleman and Haney. I don't know. I think it would be Coleman and Kai Green. Yeah, because we never saw Lee Haney natural, but we saw Kai natural. We saw Coleman natural. Kai was a freak natural. Like those guys are they're just they're freakish like that. Kai Kai turned pro uh at the universe and I do believe he was natural because he got way bigger very quickly after that. So he was 5'8 supposedly and I think his best natural stage weight was around 215 220 215 and then he came back he eventually got up to like 270 two he claimed 280 on stage I don't know if he was ever really that heavy that's that's 280 I would say subtract 10 pounds yeah I'm I'm sure I'd buy that 280 is that dude 280 on a contest ready physique is just insanity Flex was amazing. Oh, we got another one for us. If you had to coach one classic monster from history. Oh, a monster. Now we're talking actual monsters. Frankenstein. Dracula the Werewolf. Who the boy? I I need to smoke some dope to answer that question properly. Geez. Frankenstein had an awful structure. Dracula looked like a regular guy. I don't think any of them would have been great bodybuilders, honestly. Maybe Preacher from the Black Lagoon would have been best. Main site said finals are at 7 p.m. 7 p.m. now. Yeah, they're starting. I could see they're on stage. I wish I'd known that. Uh because I wouldn't have started this so early, but we had a good time. When we see it's going to be a while, Amed. Did I ever mess around with any SEOs? No, I did not. I did one shot of regular gear in my bicep and it hurt like a mother and I never did that again. It was regular like test or something. Never did. Uh, and I did one I did a couple shots in my tries and that I gave up on that very quickly as well. So, you know, the late the late Matt Porter, God rest his soul. You know, we we actually used to joke about it. He used to say even synthol couldn't have helped your arms, Ron. There's nothing could have helped. Like the synthol would have gone into my arm and then evaporated through a black hole into another dimension. It wouldn't have even stayed there. uh a guy that a guy that we both know who I won't I won't name but you know him he's a tall guy. He was using SEOs and he had me doing all the shots for him because he couldn't do it himself. So we meet at the gym and go into the family locker room and lock the door. He would bring all the pins with him and I would sit there and it was it was awful. The pain I had he'd sit there with like this gritting teeth, grimace like almost tears coming down his eyes. And this is a very tough tough guy. Trust me, guy. You would know. Anyway, he did put like an inch and a half on his arms, but uh a couple months later it was gone because you have to keep it up. I don't know. The other guys, I think they've just got so much scar tissue built up that they stay permanent. But even it's permanent. It's not like I thought it was. Oh, good. That was It seems so painful, man. Dude, they called it was it called painless pump the first one? Yes. Yep. I'm sure it was because they had it had lidocaine in it. So, it had a painkiller built into it, the early one, but I don't know if the other ones did. The calf was so painful, too, man. The calf. I never did it one time. Never ever again. It was awful. Oh, the calf. Oh, good lord. Worst pain ever. Your calves and your forearms the most dense muscle tissue on in the human body. Have my son bring me a shake. I'm gonna I'm not gonna last without a shake. I think they're starting now. Yeah, I think they're starting. Let's go. Yeah, we got some We got something playing on the TV screen. Okay. A lifetime achievement award or something. Nothing here. We're This is straight old school bodybuilding, bro. Get right down. What are they doing here? I'm gonna tell my son I'm have to have my son bring me some bring me something to eat or a shake. Please bring shake. Yeah. I'm not gonna I'm not going to last. My blood sugar dropped so fast. That's the worst feeling, isn't it? Yeah. The shake inside of refrigerator. Gota be very You'll You'll get to see my son in a minute, I'm sure. He's doing cardio now. He's I got him doing uh 350 calories on his weight train days, 400 calories on his off days from weight training. Nice, man. That's badass, dude. Yeah, it's it's it's exciting watching him go through his first prep after your f after your cardio. Uh shake on side. Just want to make sure he gets this. Yeah, I'm not going to last, man. I'm not going to last. That's the worst. Let's see. Flex would crush the current pool of bodybuilders. He beat most of them, I'm sure. Momo 910. He was uh No, I don't think he was in the 91. Was he? No, he No, not 91. He was 90 921. I think I think he only No, you know what? I think he missed 911. I think he did. But he was in the He was in the N. Was he in 80? He was in one other Olympia. 88 because he turned pro in 87. He did the 88 88 Olympia 89 and then 92. Okay. Yeah. 92 unfortunately passed away. He did a Grand Prix show. He won I think it was in Holland. Holland. The Holland Grand Prix. Yeah. And he uh he passed away that night. He died from dehydration. Thank you, son. Yeah. There was like it was this. You want to say hi to the audience? No. There's my son. Christian. Good luck, bro. Enjoy. He's He's terrible lighting. He says terrible lighting. He's a mehead, bro. He's a behead, Ron. Got to find the good lighting. I taught him well. I taught him well. Yes, you did. Take it easy, guys. See you later. So, I'm sure the price the prize money is not low. It's actually $30,000 for first prize where the league minimum is 15. Most of these shows out there only pay 15,000 for first. So, Fouad doubled that. And I think second prize, second place is 15K. So, and giving you a free live stream. And there's three other awards I think are like 2500 bucks each that they'll give out later in the night. So, we got Classic up now, guys. Uh, this is going to be like a confirmation round. Oh, yeah. Are they gonna do the confirmation round then posing? I'm guessing. Right. Are you? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They get They're probably closing around after this. Who's that guy? One, two, third from the right. I missed it. So Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. You're You're behind. My bad, Ron. Hold on. Again. Sorry. I don't know why I'm behind. I'm only behind like a second or two, right? They're they're going into their front last spread on my screen. Not me. So yeah, that's this is just everybody coming out in in groups. They're just showing you all the competitors first. Then I'm not sure they if they're doing that, they're going to have to go right into a confirmation round. Yep. Yeah. I don't like when it's this far back because you really can't you can't see. This is like being in the 20th row right here. It is okay. Wes, his back was good. I mean, I I'd be I'd be very surprised if if Greg can sharpen up and pull this off. That would be one of the best comebacks I've seen in a while. Get the qualification and maybe shut it shut it down. Back looks best. Attit monsters who we beg the most bodybuilder. It was kind of silly. I think he was just trying to help us out, help us kill time, right? 91. Yeah, 91. I'm so happy I was able to be at that 91 Olympia because it was Haney's last Olympia and it was the best he ever looked, dude. That's crazy. And it was Dorian's first Olympia and we kind of all saw the writing on the wall that this is probably going to be the the next guy. Sure. And the terminator routine. Yes. It was the first time we ever saw that anyone ever did the Terminator routine. Yeah. All six wouldn't be on Arnold's side today. That's the difference. What's up, sir? Here we go. Hope you're all doing sorry. I actually saw it wasn't the Terminator, but it was an early shitty version of that in 1988 on the Muscle Beach Venice show. Okay. It was this older white guy. He did an awful job, but it was kind of the same thing. I could It was It was the beginning of the Terminator. All right. So, they're going right to the top two guys immediately. Yeah. Which is crazy. Matt and Wes. So, did Matt tighten up? Did Matt did he do enough? I guess we won't know until we see the butt, guys. It's all about the act, right? It looks like he did. You tell me. Yep. Yeah. I mean, I can already tell from the side shot. Yeah. Yeah. I think Greg's got this, bro. I bet you I bet Wes was ahead in the judging earlier. I would doubt it, but now I'm not I'm not so sure. is deal. They're neither. They're not both 100% which makes it hard, right? Yeah. I mean, damn. Wesley looks very very good. This is far better. I still think Matt looked better at the Arnold. Yeah, I do. I totally agree. But he does look a little better than he did four or five hours ago. Yeah, a good prep coach can do that. That's crazy. I just fixed that like that. True. They they can this is the the um the camera, the webcast, the live stream is very clear, too. One of the best. So, this is Gilo Productions, guys. They're the best in the game right now. My god. They must have like cameras from the future or something. I don't know. They got It's just so crisp and clear because we've we've seen some webcasts, some live streams, especially smaller shows that were just they were ass. It was horrible. Yes. Yes. It looked like the, you know, the built-in webcam on someone's iPad or something. No, man. I I there's I won't name the show, but there was one a year or two ago that I was watching. I think it was last year. I swear to God, they just put an iPad up on a table, pointed it pointed it at the stage, and that was their that was their stream because there there was definitely no multiple cameras. It never zoomed in or out. It was just a static shot, a wide shot of the stage the whole time. So yeah, it's no way. I remember that show. Okay. So impressive. Nice condition. So this is the I guess they already got their top two guys clearly. Yeah. Battle for third, fourth, fifth, and on down the line. The um man, the man guy looks really good, too. That's my dude. streamline on. I'm behind. I'm behind. Oh [\h__\h] man. I'm sorry. You forget about winstrol. No, I mean I'm way behind the comments. I'm looking at comments from like 10 minutes ago. Shot windstro on the biceps. It was lovely. 25 gauge one and a half inch baby. Well, 25 gauge is not a a wide needle. I mean, if you told me like a 20 gauge or 21 or 18 gauge, yikes. That's long. That's a long needle. That's a long needle. I mean, sustenon, when I used to get sustenon from Mexico, the the the ready jacks that you just had assembled a syringe that was already loaded up. I think those are 18 gauge needles that came with them. My dumb ass didn't realize I probably could have got smaller gauge needles somewhere and just swapped those out. So, I was in 20s for a while because we couldn't get them. It was hard to get. Yeah, we couldn't. There was, you know, there was when I started gear in late 97, the internet was just dawning and I don't think there was a way to get them. So that's Jack Eagles in the middle. And who's the guy with the man BUN? I don't want to call him man BUN. That sounds like AI forgot his name by the way. He's good. Can you see his number? Looks like a four. Daniel Fabode from USA. All right. Daniel, you want to do Daniel? Yeah, he looks good. And who's third place? I think that's Alex Kent from UK next to him on the left of him. Yeah, that guy. I like that guy. He looks really good, too. He got great calves, too, man. Because you could see they're they're clearly trying to figure out third, fourth, and fifth now. It's crazy because those they're they're all good. They all look very good and close. You know, say we talk [\h__\h] that there was like 60 guy classic guys in the Olympia, but honest to God, the fourth call out guys at the Classic Olympia, they all still look really good. Yeah, because they all had to win a show to get there. So, they beat a bunch of guys at some pro show somewhere just to be on that stage. You you no more points and you got you got to win the damn show. Yeah. You know, I think that's a good thing. Although some guys obviously don't choose their shows strategically and they end up getting a few second places now and they don't make it to the Olympia. It's it's it happens man. It'll happen this year. I guarantee you especially well because yeah we because of this this Pittsburgh all these guys like Derek jumping in and now Bonak's doing all these other guys are doing it that weren't planning on doing it. There's there's going to be like Nick's probably not going to win the Pittsburgh. He's probably not going to be Derek Lunford, so he's going to have to do New York. And then there's a bunch of other guys still like now they're going to need to win a show. Luckily, there's there's two more right after that. The Cali Pro and then uh there was another one. Legion Legion Sport also happening. So, there's two more qualifications for two more guys. But you know what it I don't think everybody should be on the Olympia stage. It's the best of the best, man. Like some sometimes you don't qualify. That just it just happens to be that way. Especially now that you got to win a show and you've got and the competition is so they're so even, you know, and then again like you said Derek doing these shows. But again, you know, what if Martin wins? Martin's already qualified as well. Martin can can win maybe one of these shows, take qualification wave, does Nick can Nick do three or four shows in a row or that means Tampa and Chicago and Dallas are going to be pretty stacked as well? So, let's see. Brock up there with the hair. He looks good. And that's that's Pharaoh with the glasses, right? Ralph Farah. Yeah. I wouldn't say no relation. He's a distant relation of George Pharaoh. Let's go Sass on. Go sauce. I'm thinking I'm think I'm going Wesley for this. See, look at this. How close it is. They're doing this again. Yeah. You know how this this goes to show you the judges are they're scratching their heads right now. is. And I guarantee it's got to be at least a one or two point decision. Oh, it's it's gonna come down to the wire with these two. No doubt. No doubt. But man, I don't I don't know. I'm having a tough time. See how I think what helps a lot too though, bro, is just there's Look at Wes. Oh, you're not there. His back double looks so good now. I don't know why I'm like two seconds off of you, but side shots. Jeez. Wesley's upper body looks just freakish. Watch the back double here. This is just looks crazy. Generation angle king. When Momo died, he had two women that show up to hospital as girlfriends. One of them wants to say it was on the younger side. Oh boy. I don't want to speak of the dead. Come on now. This black background is just great. Yeah. Yeah. Wesley's got a crazy back. Yes. Sure. Matt Matt's back is pretty damn good. He trains with Derek. So those back days must be pretty pretty amazing. Consider having a watch party with you. Guess everyone turning and wear their posing trunks. Yeah, definitely. Your son looks handsome, Dan. Well, thank you, Walls. I'm sure he would appreciate. Yeah, I can't remember a black backdrop of the Olympia in my in our time. I know in the old old days, I think every I think that's all they used to have for everything in the old days was black backdrops. Arnold had that for a long time. Remember, even up until like when Cedric was winning, they said that back that back leg drop for Grego Smash. Yeah. I mean, he does have a better thigh sweep for sure. His legs from the back look way better. I like Wesley's upper body to me is far better than Matt's upper body, right? But like Wesley's the hams with Wesley are just I don't know. They It's not there. Even Grego's cams aren't are striped either. Oh, Wesley condition. Wesley's still in better condition. This is the only the back shots. Grego's legs look twice the size, don't they? But look at how Look at how thick and dense Wesley's back and his shoulders are, the arms. Look at all those clean, deep separations. Wesley delts. Yeah, I like that. See Wesley, you can tell his muscle been training for a long time. just put on sides. Yeah, Matt has a lot of new muscle. Matt Grego. Yes. Fresh muscle. Very fresh muscle. It's I I think like the last 15 pounds have only been put on the last year or so, honestly. And that takes it some time to bring that into perfect condition, too. You know what I mean? Because we're seeing that with Lunford. He's he's starting to mature the muscle mass that he had. He's finally starting to get a little bit more detail in the in the shoulders, the arms, the chest. It wasn't there before because he he got big fast time, man. Time, you know, I mean, it's just Derek needed time and and that's like more training is just starting to always start to come together. I would disagree with this that Wes looks skinny next to Greg. I wouldn't say that. Stop. Okay, so that was the end of their confirmation round. Will they pose now? Probably. Or have men come on, do their do their thing? No, probably not. Nothing beats Sustanon 250. Yeah, it's pretty good. Yeah, man. We didn't have when I when I started on gear, trend wasn't even around yet. I I'm sure people were using pheniplex the cal the cattle pellets that they would grind up. Yeah, we we had those mano. I didn't hear about trend till maybe I want to say like 2001. I know by 2002 I was using it for like contest prep, but I don't remember trend being such a big deal until maybe Yeah, like I said until Okay. Yeah, they're going to pose now. So, I think everybody's posing. This is number one in classic Basim Ashuri from the USA. Damn. for them. I mean, let them pose, man. You're flying from overseas. Show your thing off, you know. Very sus. 18 gauge noodle is brut. That is a Yeah, 18 gauge noodle needle was ridiculous. Totally. That's why you draw your blood, isn't it? Andrew should Oh, I mean, it wouldn't stop bleeding for a long time. Andrew should Yeah, Andrew could have won this show. No doubt. Oh, yeah. I don't know why he didn't. Well, I don't know. I heard Andrew is doing a show in China now. Is he? How would Sam Sull I'll let you answer that, Mike. They could hate you first and then I'll then they can hate me when I answer. How would he play? How would Sam place in this classic lineup today? He wouldn't be top two. I mean, it's hard. You You have to put him in there. You have to see. But you also realize too Sam he's he's young, man. He's not The maturity is not there. You got to fill out his physique. He's got a very novice physique. Yeah. Right. He's a novice bodybuilder. He's not a season pro. These guys are pros. There's a there's a big difference between what he did and what these guys are doing. Um he won't he won't he's not he won't get embarrassed. He's not like gonna get smoked. But, you know, it's like going from, you know, the NFL college to pro football. It's a it's a learning curve, right? It's not easy, but he's fine. Like, and I can take the eight. I don't care. I don't care. He wouldn't have done well today here with these guys, but give him a year to make some improvements and then we'll talk. Let's see what he Let's see what Sam can do to his physique in a year. Matt did be crazy with him there. You know what I mean? Greg. Oh, good. Dude, can you imagine? I mean, because his fans, like you said, they don't typically go to shows or anything, but they might turn out. They might turn out for that. For the Arnold, for sure. Number two. This is Gabriel Castillo from USA. All right, Gabe. Not familiar with Gabe. Nope. Lot of pros now, Ron. It's a lot of pros, bro. Seriously. Yeah. It's It's tough. It's gonna be He's, you know, he's in the top 13. Put it that way. Top top. Yeah. There's 13. Like you said, the cream always rises to the to the top, man. No matter if you're good, you'll be good. This guy could fill out more. I doubt he's at the top of his weight cap. Fill out a little bit more. You got your food. Wesley, I'm gonna grab a rumble cookie. I'll be right back. Gabe, keep doing your thing, bro. I'll keep talking. Matt has less flaws to me, man. We can see everything. There's telescope on stream quality. Obviously, the black background is going to be mad. Now, the black background is something most promoters will not do because they're trying to please their sponsors who pay for all this stuff. Thousands and thousands of dollars from each sponsor. Uh many thousands of dollars. So, you know, you could see uh they have the they have the sponsors logos on the top of the stream. That's not on stage. So, they are still getting the exposure. Greg struggling posing. Wesley, no problem to go. Two more pounds. Yeah, I wonder if Wesley, sorry, if Grego had to do something to cut water something. He is not He's not looking really confident in, you know, relaxed in his posing today at all the way he was at the Arnold. How would Terrence? Uh, I think Terrence Ruffin would have won the show very easily. He's not in complete contest condition yet. He's still got uh how many weeks is it? He's got six weeks to go from today till Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh is six weeks out. So, but I think Terrence Ruffin would have easily won this easily. Classic physique. Oh, did you hear that, Mike? Yeah. I said they said, "How did how would Ruffin have done in this show?" I said, "Easy win." Easy win. First place. Yeah. No, no doubt in my mind. Muscle machine. Where do you guys think Carlos goes from here? I don't know. Um, I don't know his who his camp is. I don't know if he's still working with Patrick Tour or not. I don't know. I don't know. This is Jack Eagles from UK. 22 years old on stage right now. Lot of promise. Potential. He's got the cool youngster. He's a kid, man. Yeah, me too. So, he's he's got a bright future ahead of him. Jack, I think he's a hostile athlete, I think. Is he? I don't want to say it. Find out. They'll they'll let us know. Oh, I mean, I could just look at his Instagram or something. Greg got ab cramps. You know, probably went hard on the diuretics. So, if he did, they they did what they had to do because he was he was losing to Wesley as far as I'm concerned. He was Wesley had him dead to right. So, if they had to dry him out with a diuretic, if that's what it took to sharpen him up, and if that's what it takes to get him to win, I guess he's he's going to have to fight through. They're all doing exact the exact same thing. Wesley's got this. Gregoro was drier. Uh, Gregoro was not drier, flatter, and he really fade as they worked him. Yeah, Gregoro is not he doesn't have the posing endurance that Wesley has. That's obvious. So you can see he the longer they're up there, Gregoro has starts looking like he's having a hard time whereas Wesley looks a lot more confident and relaxed even as they go on. So this being up there in those lights and dry it out is hard. Oh dude, like holding is hard work. And if you don't practice it over and over and over and over again. Yeah. But that third call out be like, "Oh my god." There's been times I was on stage I'm like, "Oh my god, please get me out of here." Yeah. Because sometimes he's tired, man. Like pract. Oh, hell yeah. I mean, these these guys are exhausted. Make no mistake. Especially the classic guys who had to really fight to make weight. Oh, maybe they had five, six, 10 pounds to drop in the last 24 hours for weigh-ins. Can you imagine how exhausted? Because a lot of them, they'll go without food or water. That's Grego, not Greg, but that's what that Jack Jack said. He he went out he wasn't drinking food or water. Yeah. What are you gonna do? Where's the weight gonna come from? You got to do something. This is Daniel Fabode. Daniel Fabode from USA. I like this guy's look a lot. He's got very condition. This division is so competitive. You know, open. We have like a couple new good guys a year. Classic. There's like 10 10 guys every year that come on every season. At least 10 guys. So, I'm like, "Wow, this guy's great. And they're the thing is it's hard because they all come in condition and they're very complete. So So you have like a a battle for those those middle of the pack guys that they all not they all they don't all look the same but they're all very competitive with each other, right? Yeah. I mean it's it's it's the most competitive division as far as I'm concerned. Classic easily. Easily. I don't know. Maybe you could say men's physique if you really want to be accurate because there are like a million. There's a million of them. Yes, Jack is garbage for the sport because he's younger than Sam Sull. You're right. Yeah. How dare you be young and using gear and all that nightmare direct stories I heard. I don't know. Is this one uh Dragon Coup says Christo is the master of bringing classic guys better at finals, which doesn't count for crap. Well, it actually does because they're doing half of the judging at finals. So you can make you can move up a place or two. Places change. We've seen them change. Yeah. Yeah. So to say it doesn't m doesn't doesn't count. It does count. I've seen guys like Ake moved up a couple places at the Arnold last year, I think it was. When you come back Yeah. If everybody else stays the same and you get better, you can you can move up a spot or two. It happens all the time. Yep. M and it's a part it's part of it's you're a professional so your job is to stay being professional until the show's over with and even knowing even do we know when you come back you you eat a little food you fill out a little bit more may make a difference. Yeah. And these guys they have to do that. It's part of the job. So I think we can both How many years of training do you think it takes to be ready to compete in classic physique? I'd say probably at least two or three at least. Yeah. But these guys, so these guys were looking at their genetic cream of the crop. They get the results in the first two or three years of training that regular human beings it would take them five to 10 years of training to to achieve. They build muscle quick, you know, even once you add the gear in, these guys have, you know, good genetics for responding to gear, too. So, yeah, they make much faster gains. But I would say still two to two to three years minimum to to build a a good classic physique type of build. Open bodybuilding, you could probably say three to five years. Um Mike Cox in Northeast Ohio. No, it all right. All right, Mike. It's a Cleveland, Ohio question for you, sir. Uh, where did you live in the Cleveland area? I lived in University Heights, which is on the east side of Cleveland, which is about uh 25 minutes east of downtown Cleveland. Okay. Sir Grom, were you close to him or not? So, that was from Sir Gramm. So, I'm wondering if he's gonna tell you where he lived now. Okay. So, we got Greg on stage right now. Matt Grego, he was my favorite going into this. He was definitely my because he beat he beat Wesley at the Arnold, but you can see things can change in four weeks big time. And they did. He's trying, man. Like it's I don't know, man. Ron, it's it's hard. Every time I see him, I'll see Wes and oh, Wesley's gonna win. Yeah. Do you see Matt? You're like, "Oh, you know what? Matt looks phenomenal." which he does, but it's just it's I don't know. This is why I'm glad I'm not a judge. Oh, I would hate to be a judge at this level because you can't you can't win. You can't win. But I think you know what Greg will do, he's got such the potential to be great is there. Um cuz he he can build he can still build on that frame and it doesn't look like he'll he'll get boxy or anything like that because the chest honestly the chest will get bigger the the arm everything get bigger but he holds his on the frame so well. This is interesting. Do they not score the finalist for classic? Is that true? Oh really? Uh I would have to take a look at a score sheet to tell you. I'm actually gonna find I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna check it out because I'm now they got me wondering. Fit World Pro. So, let's see. Fit World Pro results. Sorry, I'm looking at the Arnold results. I have to know. Men's physique does not score finals. Wheelchair? Nope. Bikini? Nope. He's right. They don't score finals for class. Wow. So why do they even bother with the with the whole confirmation round? What's the point? So is that can't just be for the fans, right? It must be because it's not on the they get no score for finals. So why did they just why do they go why do they bother? Yeah, I guess it's just for the fans. So if people misjudging, here's another chance to to see the guys compare. I wonder if if they if the class of guys know that. Yeah, they know that. Of course, the pros know that they have to know because they look at the score sheets after their shows. I thought he was doing the uh what's that? Generation DX or degeneration? Oh, degeneration. I thought he was doing that. So, this I thought that's Brock. No. Isn't that Brock? Is that I thought that was Are they not letting everybody pose? Oh, yeah. Brock was after It is Brock Jenkins. He's after Matt Graham. So, Brock, sorry. This is Brock Jenkins. is number eight. All right. He's He's thick for a classic guy. This back especially really impresses me. I like his good back. Look at that. I love the lock though, man. It's weird though. Yeah, the hair. I mean, we both I got a hair transplant, but I'll still never have hair like that. That's just a god-given hair right there. He can He can do things with that hair. It's like a rock rockstar hair. Grego downsized in the quads. Is that true? I don't know. I think. Oh, this quads look full-blown to me. They didn't look I don't know. I don't I don't remember. May maybe. So, what's if the consformation round is not a second judging? What is it? It's just I mean, I don't know. They shouldn't be changing any scores from the from the daytime. No, that's said that's over and done with. So I don't understand really if it's a conf confirmation round usually to me that meant we want to make sure everybody stayed in shape and nobody faded, nobody spilled over, right? Ice cream. Yeah. I mean in open body we have seen guys move up much as three places. I've seen it happen at some shows. Phil Heath always he always changed Saturday. Always better Saturday night. They called him what? Mr. Saturday night. Uh, the great is it nine times? How many? I know Iris won it 10, but I didn't Linda win it 10 times, too. Linda, how many times did you win the Olympia? Tell me, please. I hate I hate getting it wrong. I know it was at least eight, but I feel like it was more than eight, but Linda, Linda's pointing out that judges can always change their minds, which is true. Eight times. Thank you, Dost. Uh, so this is Alex Kent from United Kingdom. He's got a strong beard. Strong beard game. Beard is looking great. Oh, wait. Watch his his back when he does his back double. The glutes are peeled. Yeah. No, he's he's very good this guy. I like him. He looks good, man. I love his physique. Oh, look at that. Yeah, all right. Linda's confirming eight. Eight is great. So, the same as same number as Ronnie and uh Lee won the Mr. Olympia. Yeah, Dorian is like greatest of all time. I still that's every time I see Lyn at the at the Tampa show, it's still kind of like that that fanboy that 16-year-old fanboy moment, you know what I mean? Oh, yeah. I mean, you know, and and Linda, we have to say you look great for any age, but for being 60 or 61, whatever you are now, good lord. Yeah. If only if only everybody aged like Linda Murray, this world would be a we'd have a lot more pleasant visuals to uh to keep us entertained walking around all day. So, Depot says it's past midnight here in the Netherlands. Yeah, you better stay. This Well, men's open is not far away. They're just gonna I don't think they're going to do awards for these guys. So, they only have a few more of them to pose. I think four more guys. I think maybe three or four guys. Yeah. And then they're going to do open confirmation round and open uh posing routines. And then I'm I'm assuming there's gonna do awards for classic and awards for open. Yeah. Then the probably the the bodybuilding the award the body awards. Was I wrong? Is Farah not in this show? I was completely wrong. There is no Farah George Farah. Ralph Farah. He was in the open. This is actually my bad. This is Hamza say Hamza say guys. My bad. You know I only make mistakes about three times an hour, four times an hour on average. Yes. This guy, he's he's very a very thick guy. You know, you probably see him in clothes, you wouldn't think nothing, but he's got a hell of a physique. Yeah, he looks I'm really surprised how many of these guys in classic have such thick dense backs. They're very thick backs and and the legs that condition looks great because they their weight cap they've they've actually bumped up the weight cap three times since this division started. I don't think they're going to bump it up again after this, but it's still for like uh I think a guy around. So, if you want to say you're what do you think you're like 5'6, 57? 56. Now, I think for a pro 56 in classic, I think they can only be I want to say like 180. Oh my god. 185 I believe. So yeah, cuz you know, Bumpstead Bumpstead's 61, his weight cap was like 240 or 241 or something. So you're essentially a middleweight at 56. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's they did give them a little more time, a little more weight because I remember Bion stayed one more season because Yeah, I remember that. Okay. So this is Luke Andre Stanker from Germany. Yeah, my my dude from Germany. So I said the first first part of his name sounds like France. The la his last name sounds like Germany. But Luke also looking good. Out to the front like that. That's when you got a great he is very this dude's very put together man. Yeah. And he could use a little more arms because you know I I I always feel like I can say that like we can rip on short guys because we're shorter. I can rip on guys with their arms because my arms were never great. Yeah. A little more arms will help them out for sure. Uh, but again, look at the back. Look at the calves. Look at that. Very good back. Very good. The thick thick round delts. That's a good pose for him, too. Yeah. I'm always I'm a calf guy. Whenever I see big calves, I get jealous. I can never have big calves. Like I said, the I always say calves are nice if you have them, but if you don't have them, it's never really stopped anybody from achieving anything in bodybuilding. I'd never I'd wear like cut off pants huge guys like that. Luke Andre Luke Andre bringing it. Yeah, bro. Good job. This is high quality competitor to the show, dude. Says uh no one's ever moved up more than maybe one spot in classic. Yeah. So is only if somebody really screwed up and you would hope that they would have caught it before that, right? But Right. Exactly. 53. Linda, God bless you. Yeah. I mean, I've I've stood right up. You We both taken pictures with Linda many time. We're still like fanboys. Yes. I I've known Linda, you know, professionally. We've worked shows together and stuff, but I still fanboy out whenever she's around. Greg struggled to pose his quads and finals. Yeah. Dehydration and exhaustion. Yeah. Grego was having a tough time. said, "If you've ever gone without any of you have competed and you've been really dehydrated up there, you know, muscle contractions need sodium. They need water. And if you you don't have any water in your system, good lord, you're in you're in a world. All right, let's look at the possibly the winner. Could be Matt, could be this man, Wesley Vis. He always he always starts out his routines like this. So you could see the shoulder striations from the top which if I had shoulders like that I would do the exact same thing. And he present dude he present he knows how to pose his body perfectly too. Yeah he's you know when I say the classic guys are great posers some of them are even are another level like I think Ruffin is the best. Urs is like very entertaining. He's a great poser but he does like more dancing type of stuff. Roughing gives you goosebumps when you watch them both. He's like theatrical like Dickerson, Bob Paris all rolled into one. He's that good. Yeah. And there's a scene in Pumping Iron where Arnold is watching Ed Corny uh up on stage and he says to the guys around him, "That's that's posing." That's so great, man. I'm watching it 10,000 times. I don't know. But again, you know, it's funny because even if even though if he's better, if they're both better at night, it's not like it's gonna make a difference. Like I don't know. Maybe listen, I'm nobody, but it would make sense to maybe judge Nisho, right? Yeah. Well, I never understood it honestly. I mean, in the old days, they would have they had another round. They had the symmetry round, which was the quarter turns, muscularity round. So there were two rounds in the daytime and then we come back at night and the posing round was scored back then and and a pose down round was scored. Pose down. So that gave the judges some wiggle room to sort of manipulate things when they wanted to as well. Yes, that's very true. And they did four. How do you judge the posing round? Exactly. Like I always said, what if someone's like they're not the greatest bodybuilder, but geez, they're an awesome poser. Like you get chills at how great they are up there. Do you put them ahead of somebody with a superior physique who isn't as good of a poser? Well, Dorian got perfect scores in the posing round every year. Yeah. And he was, you know, he was a serviceable. He was an adequate poser. There was nothing special about Dorian's posing. No, he was he was good. He was decent. But, you know, we had like Labrada, Ray. I mean, does Bob Paris get it? By Paris win the posing round every year? He should have. LeBron should, right? Yeah, they should win the posing round. They're the best posers. What's weird is I know Wesley has super wide shoulders, but he doesn't look very wide in the front lat spread. No, Greg. Not opening up all the way. Yeah, that might be it. Maybe his shoulders are jacked up now, too. But I like a lot of these poses. These are some real old school classic poses. But he throws in the crab for the muscle fans, too. Yeah, he all the he's had very good stage presence. He's very comfortable on stage. I mean, and that goes a long way. He's very, very charismatic guy. How many crabs is he going to hit? My goodness. That's like number six right there. No time limit. Yeah. I I I think they if they you know those old hooks from the old days where they pull you off stage. Yeah. They're not going to do that today. Is he um Was he 13? Was he the 13th guy or 12th? We got Jay Y from the USA is coming up next. He's the last. So, we got an accusation here. They let Sebum and Mike go much over their weight limit because the politics of IP judges. That's the star. They choose for dominance even though Mike looks 212 with height like Keon. Well, the weigh-ins are actually in a huge room full of people. I've been to the weigh-ins at a lot of these shows. So, they have to weigh what they weigh because everyone's looking. I've been there and like I'm got my camera pointed right at the scale to make sure nobody's screwing around. I've done that. There's no funny. They can't they can't cheat it like that because it's it's not done behind closed doors. And Sebum can pose as long as you want. He's bump set. He can post for 20 minutes for monster. They're not gonna say what he say. No, stop. Gains less. Oh, this should this should have been my caption for the uh the live stream. Zionic should have had you write my caption for me. You're better than chat GPT or whatever the hell that crap is. So, this is Jay Young, our final competitor in classic physique. Looks good. Looks really good. I mean, all these dudes deserve a shot because they all look phenomenal. And honest to God, uh, at least half of them I've never heard of until today. But that just goes to show you how good Classic is, how many how much talent and depth there is in that division. Yeah, like like some of these guys I would swear around like some of these guys, I don't know if they just don't want to do open bodybuilding, but some of these guys would do really good. Even some of those men's physique dudes, man, would do phenomenal and classic. Oh, hell yeah. I mean, we were we were arguing our our old MD group chat, which is they call it the Ron Squad. It's not mine, but anyway, we were we were looking at pictures was posting of this Ricardo, I don't know what his name, men's physique. He's a men's physique pro. He is massive. Shoulder, chest, back, like an open bodybuilder and and this little tiny waist. But size-wise, he could definitely be an open bodybuilder because he's got legs, too. I don't understand. But again, I'm from the era. Uh, so Jared thinks uh these guys are messing around with their weight, with their weight. I don't believe that. How do they But they can't. I mean, they really can't because the officials are right there, you know. Yeah, you can't. You can't because I remember there was a controversy at a at a show in Brazil a couple years ago. I'm sure you remember it where some guy didn't make weight and I think they were going to I think they tried to play it off but there were way too many people around looking at the weight and they said no he didn't make weight. He was eight pounds over. Was it Horse MD? Yeah. Horse MD. And that was the end of classic for Horse MD. He never tried to make weight for Classic again. He went to open. He looked eight pound. It's not like you're a pound over. You know what I That's a little different. To me, he looks way better as an open guy anyway. He does. See, they kind of see about his hair and the height. He doesn't have big broccoli hair. That's true. Being bald giveaways. So, being bald is a disadvantage. Oops. In classic height, you started covering putting out videos of being height and weighted. Yeah, they they have it all in video. There's it's a room full of media people. Well, you can't you can't you can't cheat the height and the weight. No. No. But you know they they should they should hide them in like once a year, right? Right. I keep a big database with the height [\h__\h] Yeah. I dis Oh, they're throwing free [\h__\h] out to the crowd. Good stuff. Free shit's the best [\h__\h] That Fouad, Paul, Ben Chow, Seth is up there. Seth up there. Oh, yep. Yeah. So they got all the bros. Martin was up there somewhere. Okay. They got all the bros throwing up free swag. How awesome is that, dude? Everything's free. I love that. I disagree. I disagree that I know that Summerrfield's not classic. He does have more mass. He looks thicker than a lot of the guys, but I I think he's got beautiful shape, symmetry, lines. He reminds me of guys like uh he reminds me like Francis Benf or someone from that you know and Benfo could have made classic I think I think he could have been the king of classic bro. Yeah, if you guys don't remember, don't know who he was, Francis Benfo from France was a great competitor in the uh late 80s, early 90s. I think he did as high as six at the Olympia. Yeah. And probably giving up like 30 40 pounds to most of the other guys. He was They said he was 170 in 1990. Yeah, I believe it. Hope Jake Wood are learning from this lighting backdrop. They're they they're not going to change the Olympia, guys. There's no way. The Olympia has massive LED three huge LED screens. They're each like 200 feet long and 100 feet high. There's no way they're going to give those up. I mean, that's it makes it look like a rock concert. It's a concert. It sounds like a technical concert. Open bodybuilding is more health risk in this day and age. Sponsor social media. Oh, I mean, you could make more money. Look, Sam Sull made more money than almost all these guys without ever competing. Uh, and you have influencers that are making great great money that have that that will never compete. They don't need to. No, it's it's a whole different world out there now. Social media has has created opportunities that just didn't exist before. But, you know, like the men's physique guys aren't natural and classic physique guys are natural. They they take the same amount of stuff. They just don't eat the same amount of food, right? You know, I mean, they're huge myth. They're [\h__\h] too. Yeah. I I kind of get miffed when people say, "Well, those guys are natural." Like, they're not natural. Get the Get the hell out of here. They're close. They're probably not using the higher doses and they're not eating as much food, but they're using all the same crap. Exactly. Can't flip the scale for Seabbum. How are they the scale? How are they going to do that? Manipulate the scale for one guy. I think Phil was only natural when he was a basketball player. I think he was already starting a little bit tiny bit of gear when he started competing. Want show David laid as I remember Chris in his own video. David is 6'3 looks three inches taller at least. They even have a picture together. Yeah. I mean I've stood next to bumpstead a few times. He's at least six foot. You know he's been heighted at between 61 and 6'2. I know that. So I think he's like 61 or 61 and a half. Just hide them in once. Yeah. The LED stuff isn't necessary. It's it's it's more of a spectacle that they want to present that show in a certain way and make it look a certain way. And the LED screens are a big part of that. So, they're not going away. They're not they're not black. Well, here we go. Mike [\h__\h] Small World, our youngest daughter. John Carolyn University Heights. I went to Chanel High School and Case Western Reserve University. I I lived within like 10 minutes from John Carroll and the guy I used to play baseball with went to Chanel. His dad was actually the I think the principal of Chanel and Case Western is what I used to train at there. They got a gym at Case. That's a super like crazy smart school. Holy crap. Smart world, man. Oh, Shardan. Nice. Very nice. Yeah, Eric is still upset about Logan Franklin losing uh losing to Mike Summerfeld the Arnold, but it's over with. It's done. It's done with Stfan Matala. No, I'm pretty sure it happened with Horse MD also. Gman, I'm sure it happened with Horse MD at a different show. It was in Brazil. It happened with Stefan. I think Stefan it was the height that they were arguing about. Not so much the weight, but whatever. Maybe it was the weight, but I know for a fact I recall distinctly. My memory sucks, but some things stick in my head for some reason. I do remember horse missing his weight. The screen is black. I agree. Okay, good. I just make sure it's the live stream is uh Yeah, check it out. There's nothing. Live stream is uh black screen right now, right? Yep. You have two things going. Was Ronnie Natt Ronnie Coleman Natty? He was up until his first up to and including his first couple years as a pro. He was natural. He's he's just he was those guys. Listen, they're freaks in nature. Like they're just Ronnie. Even Ronnie Natural is still had those crazy armor. They're just stupid strong. You know what I mean? It's just when you're dealing with these guys, like you said, within the first couple years, you'll know. You'll know if you're good enough. Like Eddie Robinson was built like a grown ass man. He was like 19 years old. Bet like 500 pounds. This something stupid. I'm going back to it. Yeah. Still a black screen, guys. Still black. Oh. Oh, they're back. They're back. Okay, let's bring them back. Open menace. Okay, let's get to it, son. All right, here we go. All right, let's go full screen. All right, now we're now we're getting somewhere. Okay, so I missed I missed that. It was James and who was that over there? James, they're the first Oh, wait. We're We're behind. We missed a bunch, huh? Couldn't have missed too much. Unless the screen was black while stuff was actually happening. Yeah, I think so. Oh. Oh yeah, people are saying people are saying uh stream fell off. So this looks like the second call out guys. There's Justin from Germany there. Ben Rafa, remember him? Carlos Thomas Jr. Bartley Weaver there. That's Chris Miller. Yep. Chris Miller on the left. This thing is so I can't stop looking at his quads, man. Well, I'm glad I'm glad to know it wasn't Mike. That was a stream. It wasn't We didn't really miss. It wasn't us. So, we probably I think we all missed a call out there. Everybody missed it. Yeah. Missed the first call. Yeah, we missed the first call out. We got Wesley or Matt? H I don't know, man. I don't know. I could flip a coin right now. Uh I I like Wesley's physique a little bit better. That's just my personal preference. I would go with Wesley personally. I don't think Wesley gonna go get the win. But again, dude, we've been wrong before. You know what I mean? Does Justin don't know what the judges are thinking. No, I mean, you know, they they worked the hell out of those guys. So clearly, it's it's very close. It's not going to be a perfect score for either guy. I promise you that. And you know, you don't see shows now where like one guy comes in and just like destroys everybody, right? Like it's never like that somebody just totally down. These guys are all so like close on every level. 100%. Okay. So, it's a call out. Yeah. Bonak. William Bonak. Ronald Gordon. Ronald. I'm sorry you got that same name I did. It's It's rough. It's rough. Ronald McDonald used to call me when I was a kid. James. Yeah. James. Ron. William and Sus. Sassan. Sus is good, man. Yeah. And I'm still I'm still thinking he might have a chance here. bubble gut bone axe. Somebody just said it's not a bubble gut. He does have a thick It's a thicker waist, but I don't think the the gut is sticking out. And he's a stronger one, too. I mean, short torso. It's where where's all that muscle gonna go? But you know, his side leg, look at it's just the side chest is crazy looking. Man, if Ron Gordon had uh bigger legs, goodness gracious, he'd be a nightmare. Yeah, because his shape his shape is so good, man. It's It's the side shots. They really look smaller. It's weird because some guys their legs look they only look good or bad from certain angles. Yeah, it's different for different guys. I've noticed like some guys who don't have their quads aren't that great, but from the side they appear to be a lot bigger. Yeah. side. Even when Luster's legs were downsized, from the side, they still look big. Dumb. Bubble got James. Yeah, James doesn't have great abs. We've established that. Bonak shouldn't win. Awful proportions, zero aesthetics. I agree with Be 77. I wouldn't say he has awful aesthetics. Um, awful. I mean, different. If he had awful aesthetics, he wouldn't even be in up there right now. And listen, those aesthetics got him second got him what? Top three at the Olympia. Second at the Olympia. Second Olympia. Two Arm Classic wins. Exactly. So, he must be doing something right. Yeah. Who is the head judge? I have no idea. Okay. I do agree that William doesn't have a crazy Vtaper. That is true. But, I mean, he's got so much thick, dense muscle everywhere. someone like, you know, you look at Ron Gordon, it's not as evident here as it is like in his Instagram picture, but crazy vtaper. Very, very wide across the clavicles and the upper back, very narrow waist. He's got the best Vtaper up there out of anybody. But he's just not as thick and dense overall as as these other three guys. And you know what's funny? When you see them on online by themselves on the internet, you're like, god damn. But when you see them next to like even next to James and the amount of muscle, the dense muscle James has, it's a it's telling, you know, James James I think looks best in side shots to me. Killer are killer. I don't like his two front the front double and the front lat. But I love his side chest and his side try. He's so intense. Here's a funny comment. Bonax physique is cartoonish. Looks like his upper back has been inserted into his ass. Yeah, I would say so. I mean, he's got very low insertions on his lats. That's how it's supposed that's not what you want. Yeah, that's what you want. That's why Beck is huge. I mean, you look at these other like like James' lats, they're not they're not high, but they're not as low as Williams. No, Kai had those low lats. The late Franco Columbo had those very low insertions on the lats. I thought you just like grab like with two handfuls of just your hand chunk of meat, man. Do you agree with this? Barnack is more distended in the finals. No, I don't see it. Well, I think you know people when he's posing, he's holding his abs tight. You know what I mean? Like it's not like his stomach's hanging out at all. Yeah. And you never these guys they all if you notice most of them cover their stomach even when they're when they're relaxed. Correct. You'll cover the sto with your hands anyway, right? Don't look at my abs. When your hands are there, it draws attention like you're hiding something. Yeah, true. This guy's very disrespectful to Barnac. Well, it happens, man. That's bodybuilding. Not anything he's passed do, but get credit. He's most complete one up there. I don't know. He's I think he's still got the win, but Sass is getting a lot of love today from everybody. Sass level up. Sass is only gonna get better as the year goes on, rightfully. You know, he's I mean, he's not he's not a young guy. So, I don't know how much longer he's realistically has to to do what he wants to do in the sport, but this was a great comeback for him for sure. Yeah. Fantastic showing for him, man. Back will lose to Hibler. Hibler. Uh, let me see what they're actually trying to say. Are they trying to say that? Couldn't be a couldn't be Cassan. No, I don't know who Hibler is supposed to be. I have no idea. Well, there's big Aaron Guy from Canada in the middle there with the red trunks looking absolutely massive. Big dude. Justin from Germany next to him and the purple trunks also looking really good. Chris Miller, former classic guy. Are they gonna move him around somewhere? Carlos, there you go. Carlos Barnak easily winning. Yeah, look how much taller. Eron's got to be like 6'2, 63. Carlos in that frame. Carlos is about 5'6, I want to say. Yeah, I look maybe 5'5. Do I see William top three at Pittsburgh? Don't think. Not necessarily. No. I mean, if Geez, you already have uh Martin Uh Derek Lensford, Nick Walker. Uh geez, who else was in there? Rizzo. Um yeah, it's gonna there there's your probably your top four right there. Regan's doing New York, not Pittsburgh. So they're a weak apart. He might end up jumping into Pittsburgh, too. Cover the judges know what you're trying to do. Bon Hall of Fame in the show. Oh, yeah. He's not He's not as great as he was. He's not as great William as he was, but he's still very good. He's still better than most of these guys. What was he like eighth in the world last year? Eighth. Top five of the Arnold Classic. Yeah. I mean, for a 42 year old guy that's been competing probably close to 20 years at this point, I think he's he's holding on pretty well. Bubblegum. S posing is back double a lot better in the finals. Carlos has the best physique there. Uh he's freakier than most of these guys, but he's right. He needs more back development. Okay, got what I think about Carlos? I think he has a world of potential. I think he needs to keep building his back. His back's not where it needs to be yet. Needs to be a lot thicker. Needs more upper chest. Arms are done. Chest is done. Legs are done. They're They don't need to be any bigger. Just needs conditioning. He has so much potential. God damn. Yeah, that's a young hottie on stage. Who's a young hottie? I don't know who they're comparing to Audi Chupan. Who they talk about? The guy the guy on the far right maybe. Oh, I guess not. That's all that's all I can think of. Yeah, very young. I would think when was like a middleweight or something. Maybe much better lineup than Pitts. Well, yeah. Obviously, they're Pittsburgh's got to have the better lineup because they're giving away far more money. It's Jim Manion show. All these guys want to make Jim Manion happy. So, they're gonna show up and show their support for the show and they want that money. They want they want that 100 grand. I think second prize is 50 grand. Not bad. I mean, at all. Reach out the dialogue. Thanks. Good. Veto will also be in Pittsburgh. Yes, that's right. We forgot about Veto. We I did forget about Veto. Yeah. So, there you go. I I think a a dialed in veto would be hard for even Bonak to beat. Yeah, he got big. Beetle got big, dude. Beef with me because I say William isn't as good in the past. He's He's not as good as he was. He's still very good, but his midsection was a little bit smaller a few years ago and he had more muscle fullness and pop. He had a little bit more size overall than he does. He's not He's 40. He's not 33 years old. If you go back and look at him from like 2019, 2020, 21, 22, which wasn't that long ago, but he was better in those years than he is now. He's still very good, but nobody stays in their peak in their prime forever. You know, they can hold on to it and they can stay close to it, but your peak is it's a brief window of time and then, you know, like even Ronnie, all the greats had a few years where they were at their best and then things just started to go downhill. It's everybody gets old, man. Father time is undefeated. He is. It's true. I say everybody gets old unless they die young. So, you don't want to die young, guys. Right. Po city would make Nick Walker cry again. Can't believe we have kids old enough to compete. Yeah. Well, my son, I mean, I started competing at 19. Mike was 16. Yeah. So, my son at 25 is kind of getting a late start, honestly. Talking about Cassan because he's Persian, too. Oh, is Sissan? I didn't even know Sissan was Persian. I think one of the problem of James or food on the peak style problem is probably the anxiety. No, I the the abs is a lack of development with James. I don't think it's it's like a condition issue. He's he's in great condition. James is just abs aren't thick. There's Walter Martin. Derek Derek improve his ab Walter looks good, man. Good for Walter. But Derek Ron improved his abs like they got better, right? What's Nick gonna do if he loses Pittsburgh? Easy. He'll go to New York the next week and win. That's what he'll do. It'll be his third third pro win. Third New York Pro win. Veto smash. Like Hulk smash. Creo's back and posing sucks. Yeah, he could. His posing needs a lot of work. His back. I would back sucks, but it could be better. Could be better. I mean, his arms very impressive. His shoulders and arms are just like from another planet. Ungodly. He's He's The thing is he's so tall, but he's got a lot of muscle. The shoulders are just obscene looking. Yeah. You were with me at the 23 Olympia where we were both interview we were there to interview him. That was that was the first time I ever saw him in person. Stood next to him. He's a massive human being. Just massive. I was just like, what the qualifier? James looks fantastic. There's plenty of other qualifiers luckily. Yeah. There's a lot of shows this year. a lot of shows this year. Even that month, there's there's four there are four open bodybuilding shows in uh in May. And then Toronto's right first right in June, right at the beginning of June. Yeah. So, there's plenty of chances. Okay. So, this is Justin Abbott. Everyone gets to pose. Justin Abbott from USA is a big big guy. I'm assuming he won super heavies at one of the proqualifiers somewhere because he looks like a super heavy to me. Look at his delts. Glutes are in. Calves are massive. That's good. Now, Veto is not here. Veto is probably gonna have a pretty easy win one week from today in S. Paulo, Brazil at the Arnold Classic, South America. Uh he was third pl Yeah, he was second last year to uh No, no, he was third. Last year was Tony Burton, right? Yeah. Raphael Bondo and Veto was third there. And then Veto took went to Detroit and got second behind Martin Fitzwwater, right? Yeah. But he he blew up. Like he blew up. I did a whole video about Veto the other day and people were comparing him to Ramy. He's starting to look like Ramy size. He's got It's gonna be funny, dude, to see him next to all those other guys to see how that size equates next to like Nick because listen, Ron, when they're by themselves, they all look good, right? This is open. Question. Yeah, this is open. We already had uh Classic. Yeah, Persian equals Iranian. I know that. I'm well aware. I did I did know that. I'm I'm not the brightest guy, but I did know that. Uh let's see. So, okay, here we go. The Conqueror. Let's check out very likely winner, William Bonak. So, yeah, the waist it's just a little bit wider than it used to be. It's It's not crazy wide, but Oh, he's still very very good, guys. So, when I say he was better before, I'm just being I'm being factual. That's my honest to god opinion because I've seen William through his entire pro career. I've followed this guy. I've seen him compete probably 15 times or more. You know, he's damn good. He's still very good. He's still beating most of the people in the world. And if you're if you're still and you're doing that and you're making money, you're going to the Olympia, like why stop, right? Right. If you're healthy, you know, so I don't think he needs to hang it up quite yet. He's still got some gas in the tank, as they say. And I think I he mentioned on Fuet he's starting his own supplement line overseas in Amsterdam. So yeah, that's one of the reason he say he's he's keep on competing as well. Yeah, you want to stay relevant. You want to stay out there. Alone Powers, what's up? Balone, how are you? Appreciate you stopping by. Ben Ruffin person is crazy. Yeah, I mean all the honestly all these guys, Tyler, all the open body open pros pretty much if you see them in person in contest condition, it's it's crazy. It's it's unreal looking because they are the genetic cream of the crop. They've been training and eating like that for years. The peeds enhance all that and they just look they look like another species. It's hard to believe that they're they're human beings. It's kind of like all dogs are the same species. You know this, there's only one species. Ka, it's I think it's Canis Canis or something. But you have uh you know like Samson has that Kane Corso. It's like a 200lb dog. Then you have your like three pound Chihuahua. They're both the same species but different breeds. And these guys are a different breed. Yeah. Bonak. I I I I think Bonak's going to pull this off. I I think so. Is it's not Is it Is it pretty? Not necessarily, but it's it wins shows, man. Yeah. He's had a hell of a career, though, R. This dude's had a had a when you look back on it, he's had he's won a lot of shows. The top tier bodybuilder. Like, he's William Bock is established as one of the greats in bodybuilding. He's had a good run. 100%. They don't seem to do the bodybuilding hall of fame anymore. I think that's gone. But if they did, he would be inducted eventually. Oh, yeah. Oh, most definitely. No doubt whatsoever. Yeah. Whatever happened to that Hall of Fame? They they got rid of that. It just stopped. But that was a thing for a long time. Yeah. Hall of Famer. Well, I'm a Hall of Famer. You know, like baseball has a Hall of Fame. Uh Rock and Roll has a Hall of Fame, which is which is actually one of the coolest things you'll ever see. If you ever get to Cleveland, that's one of the most amazing things I've ever seen in my entire life. I'll be skipping that, but thank you. Uh would you say Creo is a Dennis Wolf this era, or is that disrespectful to the Wolf? I mean, Dennis W, he's got to do something first, right? Like, yeah, I mean, Wolf was winning shows. He was third at the Olympia. He won the Arnold, battling out, you know, battling Heath and those guys. Won Europe as well, you know. So, it's it's pretty you you got to let these guys just marinate, man. Let them do their thing and just in this era, they want them so quickly to be the top. Everybody can't is not going to win the Olympia. It's not gonna happen, right? So this is Ralph Farah. This is Ralph Farah from United Arab Emirates. Very wealthy nation. Very very like Dubai. It's right I believe it's right next to Dubai. Oh wait is UAE. Oh god. I don't want to sound like a [\h__\h] So I'm just going to shut up. My lack of Middle Eastern geography knowledge. I'm just going to shut up. As you see I stopped talking when you're in geography. Uh oh. Yeah. Carlos could be very dangerous if he puts it together. Someone actually earlier in the chat during judging had a good quote. I don't know which one of you guys it was. Said, "He has all the tools in the shed. He just needs the key or he has all the tools in the toolbox. He just needs the key to the tool shed or something, which I agree. When Carlos puts it all together, he'll be winning. He'll be winning a lot of shows." Oh, for sure. And keep that condition right. The shape's good. Everything's there. This guy looks like a block of cheese. No, that was a few minutes ago. I don't know who who because I'm behind on the on the the chat. Not sure who looked like a block of cheese. Be Oh, I mean, man, I hope Beirus gets a visa, but I'm not holding my breath. Listen, I hope hottie can get here. You know what I mean? But Be is my I think Beirus is the top five Olympian. He's a phenomenal bodybuilder. I don't think Heidi's gonna have a a hard time only because he's he's been here several times already, right? He's gone through the process. Even though Hottie Honey Ramad is not his official coach, which I kind of suspect he's probably still coaching him, on the down low, as you young kids say, for the last 40 years. It's not a very new phrase, but Hottie's Hottie is still his employer. He still works for EVen Nutrition. He's so he's he's employed by a United States-based company. So he could get here on something like a work visa, I'm guessing. Um and yeah, but yeah, and that that Donald Trump he came out with basically his wish list of countries he doesn't want to ban travel. That's not that wasn't proved by anybody yet. That's just people kind of jumping the gun. He's not the king. He's not the emperor. Everything still has to go through Congress. And Bray Ruse, dude, he's he's qualified for the past three two three years. Last year, he won two shows and still couldn't get the Olympia. That so sucks, man. So, we're looking at Canada's Aaron Golly right now. Yeah. I think he told Giles in interview he's like 340 or something in the offseason. God, 350. I don't know. That's humongous. Yeah. Because he's a tall dude. I want to say 6'3 because you remember Morgan asked from France. Yeah. Uh, was he 6'3 or was he even taller? I think Morgan was a little bit taller. He Dude, Morgan was rid He looked like some kind of like Game of Thrones dude. Yeah, he was that big. He was well over He was like three 320 on stage, shredded with glutes and everything. Oh, I don't know what this guy weighs, but I bet he's around I bet he's close to 300 if he's not 300. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I'm sure. If you're three like that much in the offseason, you're you're pushing three bills on stage. You know, you can see he's got longer limbs, so he could even looking at it from this far away, you could see like he could probably even fill out a little bit more. Yeah. But I he could hold it. It wouldn't is not capped out. Yeah. I mean, everybody looks much bigger on Instagram stage. People people always ask me, "Why does everybody look bigger on social media?" It's because the stage is so unforgiving. It's even with this really good lighting, it's still not the lighting you're going to get in your gym in this one spot under a skylight or next to the garage door at 3:42 p.m. You know, you can we all all of us true meattheads know exactly the spot in our gym where the lighting is the best and even the best maybe even the best time of day. But in the house time of day for the bathroom, the light in the bathroom. Yeah. Exactly. What where to stand exactly at? Yeah. Not too close. That makes you a real bodybuilder, as we used to say on the MD forums. I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] that's pretty good." Then you like, "What the fuck?" Yeah. So, Erin, big big dude, but I think he could fill out even a little bit more. I don't think he's very old. He could definitely add some size to that frame, man. But, um, he's he's got a ton of mass right now. Let's I'll give him his credit. He's a big big dude. It's a big dude. The amount of food to fuel that kind of body in the offseason has to be just crazy amount of food. I mean, food's so much more expensive now than it used to be, too. Yeah, that's what sucks, man. I used I used to go through like two, three dozen eggs a day because they were cheap. Yeah. Eggs. Eggs. I remember as a as a young broke bodybuilder, canned tuna. I would wait till it went on sale somewhere and get it on sale. you know, for like 60 cents a can or something. And that would be a meal that like and a potato. And uh eggs, I used to get like five dozen eggs at a time at at Sam's Club or wherever I was going back in those days. I worked at a produce market, so I got like discounted. I was getting like 39 cents a dozen, dude. Like large eggs. It was great. Now you need to fill out a credit report to buy eggs. That's [\h__\h] stupid. somebody's pro debut, Justin Abbott, was it? Oh, yeah. I missed that. I missed it. I'm sorry. Gosh, I'm way behind on the comments. Uh, so I gotta try to rip through these. Anyone know anything about David Henry? Is he done? Don't know. I don't know. He did the Masters two years ago. Did Tampa a couple years ago, Ron? I thought he looked he I I thought he got screwed over. I thought he was a clear winner. He looked pretty good. He looks phenomenal at him. Yeah. 212. He's He's one of the legends and he's still at He's He's got to be over 50 now. He's got to be. Damn. Bic wins on Sassan for quads, I think. Overcomes cancer. Walter. Real winner offstage. Yeah. We'll be seeing Walter. Is that what he had? You said he had a stroke. Did he have cancer? Oh, stroke or can I can't remember. I thought it was I thought it was a stroke because his eye was messed. I thought it was a stroke. I don't know. Don't something awful. Whatever it was, it was awful. So, it was bad. Ron Gordon up there now. Big Ron Gordon. Another great Ronald. Look at this dude. He's rock hard, too, man. Yeah. I'm reminded of a few guys when I look at him. Tony Freeman comes to mind. Thanks, man. Eddie Abu, remember him? Yes. He's like an influencer now. He's he's kind of crazy. Yeah. But Ron Ron looks good, man. the quads. When he turns them to the side like that, they don't look bad at all. He should He should flare his feet out a little bit even more. Yeah, he's doing it now. And they don't look bad. And they're lean. His legs are they they're very lean. Separated. Well, Bonax's the one that looks like a block of cheese. Okay. Just want to make sure. Just want to make sure I got it right. Why Dennis wants to compare us to Creo? because he's white. Yeah, that's I I never I never thought to compare them really. It wasn't I don't think that those two aren't really comparable, but whatever. Yeah. What's the obsession with Barnac? Yeah, because I live in the past, man. That's why. It's because, you know, if you followed people for years and years, you're remembering them at their best. It's hard for me not to look at somebody who I I remember from years ago being better and not remember that version of them. Even if they still look very good. He still looks very very good, guys. It's just a natural thing in your head, bro. You know, it's just a natural because I remember you remember when he took second to Brandon and you were like, "God damn, Bonx Bonx G is giving him the business the show. He's gonna take the show, you know." And when Bonx was at his peak, like that first time he made the top three, he looked rid he looked awesome. Yeah. I mean, if I if I had if I pulled up footage of him from, you know, five years ago, you'd see what I mean. So, yeah, it doesn't it does. But like, you know, Mike Mike said this, too. It doesn't matter how somebody looked five years ago or or last week. All that really should matter, how do they look right now compared to how everyone else next to them looks. That's all that should matter. Yeah. So, if somebody's not what they used to be or not as good as they were at a show a few weeks ago, it doesn't matter. Are they good enough today to win? That's all that really matters. He's probably is good enough to win today. Yep. Good show for Ryan Gordon. HD Method. You were the one that came up with that toolshed reference. That was cool. Dubai is in U. So, United Arab Emirates is a group of countries in the Middle East. Okay, got it. I don't know. I believe Kuwait is one of them. I'm not gonna even I'm gonna stop right there before I say anything else because what the hell do I know? Carlos just needs No, I Carlos does need some time in the gym to get that back thicker, but size-wise, he's not lacking for size. He is a freak. He is just a freak. So, more better condition. He's right there. Here we go. Sassan Harati. Okay, Sass, what do you got? What do you got? Very impressed with him today. I condition. I saw him once. He came to New York Pro. I want to say 8 2018 was 18 or 19 and I was like wow I think he was fourth that year was he but uh very very impressive he's been working with aceto I think he still works with right he's and to come back and for he took a a years off not a couple month he took a couple years off yeah and to come back after that listen come back after a layoff is hard but to come back after a layoff to look like this is very impressive If any of you guys in the chat know why he was away because I I have no recollection. Maybe I knew it at one time, but I have no memory of why he was out of the competing for a few years there. He really brought a good good look today, though. He does, man. He's not the widest guy, Ron. But when he makes for that in condition, he's got a freaky look to him, man. Look at the traps. The only only pose I really don't like is his front double. Looks cuz he's got that that bicep on your right. His left bicep is torn. Yeah. And the waist he doesn't the lats really don't show very well from the front. So you don't have much of a V tape. But shots like this where the crab the side just My favorite shot of his is actually the hand on Hypnos muscular which I'm sure he better do that pose. Nope. Come on. Did he not even do it? S gotta go, bro. That's Yeah, he's got that I put that in my uh my graphic because I thought that was his best shot. He that's a very listen sauce if he doesn't win, he's gonna be talking the show because Fouad might do 100k next year. You think? That's what Muscle Machine thinks. I don't know about that. 130 to 100. I mean, I I can't imagine he's making a ton of money on this show. I I just can't. He said he actually said on his podcast they don't make it they don't make a lot of money off this. Yeah. They probably they probably break even if that honestly right. That's that's a true fan of the sport that would do that. For the love of love it. Yeah. I mean the free live stream he could have charged for this. Oh yeah. There's 5,000 people. 20 bucks at 5,000 people. That's a nice little payday. Sure. James. Yep. I love his side try shot. Love that shot for him. I love his side chest. back really good in that. Yeah, the only again he's another one I I don't The only two shots on James I really am not a fan of or his front double and his front lat. I think everything else is pretty good. The a What's that? It may take some time to get the timing down with um Stefan, you know. Yeah. So that that's that's what it is, too. And listen, we drive to our shows. He's flying from the UK. They're flying overseas, but it's a it's a lot to travel, but he leveled up. He looks good. And I like the fact that he's owning the stage. Like, he looked a little lost there. I don't But just going back and forth, you know, having that kind of rapport with the audience is huge. Yeah, he does. I don't know what he needs to do with those abs. I don't know how to get those abs sticker. I mean, ask Derek because this, you know, you know, it's easy for us to say he should do more weighted ab exercises or something, but how do we know he doesn't already do all that? Yeah, it's it's just something. It just may be a genetic opponent for some people, you know. Yeah, they're just shall they're shallow. I mean, yeah, they they don't look that bad there. I mean, you're not really in the most muscular pose, the abs aren't really your focus anyway. That's true. But they're doable, but not when they crunch down. Yeah, they just need to be thicker. Great legs. I've seen him squat like seven plates for good reps. Yeah, like e like it's nothing. Hack squats like 10 or 12 plates aside. Hey, Dave's a good dude, man. Like you you root for him because he's a good dude. It's a very humble guy. See, I watch is it called Bro Chat or is it called Real Bodybuilding Podcast? Bro, there's there's Bro Chat and there's like there's both there's two. You got two two podcast. Yeah, he's on James is on broch chat, right? He's on bodybuilding and bollocks. Yeah, yeah, it's funny. The bro chat is it's it's like it's like dude like talking in the locker room, guys. You know what I mean? But just here when you hear James, man, he just he loves bodybuilding, you know? He loves the training aspect of it. He's a very thoughtful guy, you is just very not they're very in tune now to their the mental aspect of things, right? Yeah. Um and so like they're very open. He's very open about some you know the some struggles as far as you know confidence and things like that. But yeah, it's just it's a different world now like but it is what it is. So this is Daniel Corman from USA. Not familiar with him. Needs to beef up a little. needs more mass to hang with these with these this caliber. But, you know, he looks like a younger guy. He's got time to work on it, time to improve. And he's got red boots. Yeah. He's in shape. You know, he did he did what he could do. You know, I I always say in any competition, if you show up at your best, you have no regrets because if you get beat by somebody better, you just got beat by somebody better. It's not because you weren't the best you could have been. And you can't control what other guys look like either, bro. You know what I mean? Correct. All you can do is control what you look like. Come in, shred it, do you know what I mean? Do do your thing and hope for the best. It's out of your hands. You know, I you know, I tell my son because he's going to get out masked. There's no question in my mind. But I can bring him in great condition and he p he practices posing every day with me. He's going to pose like he's been he'll pose like he's been doing for 20 years. That's he'll pose like a pro. I I promise you that because that's those are things we can control. You know, I can't put I I wish I could put like 30 pounds of muscle on him, but I can't. Uh you know, he's he's lifetime natty, too. So, he ever gets if he ever gets on a little bit of stuff like I don't want him using gear, but like TRT or something if he needs it, which his generation, they have like such low testosterone levels. It's awful. Oh, man. It's crazy, isn't it? Yeah. You know what his tested out at? Was 500 at age 25. I'm sure I bet I was like 1500 natty at 25. 25 raging hormone. Dude, that's uh I would have banged a tree stump if I could. Here's uh Walter Martin. Walter representing for the older crowd. He's not as old as us, but he's not that far behind. Oh, and look good, man. Like Walter, love his post. Lovely. Got owns a gym over there. I believe you want to say the Youngsttown area. Don't qu Young, right? Um Oh, is he in Ohio? Huh? He's an Ohio guy. Yeah, Ohio guy. I I believe I believe he's from Cleveland from my neck of the woods. But um yeah, follows prepped the whole way through, man. Like he was excited about getting back on stage. That was the one goal after the couple setbacks and just to get on back on his body on stage and he's and he's served well. He's in shape, you know. Yeah. Me, he brought a great look. Did did everything he could do. Is he going to be top five? No. But you know what? If if if only the only people who could compete in any shows were the ones who had a really strong chance of winning, there'd be nobody in these shows, right? You know, he'd have like, you know, he's up there with like um with all these guys on a pro stage, you know, Carlos legs Carlos's legs are too big. Yes, I agree. They're too big. I mean, the only I I can't think of anyone except Ramy who had such freaky quads in recent years. Ramy's legs were absolutely when he at 2013 it just was like a freak show when he walked out. Yeah. I mean that first I was there for his first New York for his pro debut. The New York pro. I was up front and I was like who is this guy Mu Elbier it said on the score sheet from uh I think they had him as from Kuwait. He's from Egypt but he was living in Kuwait at the time. Who has more potential Mike Carlos Thomas Jr. or Neckzilla? Rubio Moscetta. I'm gonna say Carlos Thomas Jr. just because the shape's a lot better. Yep. And you know, next Zilla, he's a freak, but that physique is not won't I say it could win a show under the right circumstances. Yeah. But Carlos can go if Carlos wants you can bring him back up, right? He can bring his back up. And once he does that, Yeah. Carlos be winning shows like this, bro. So, I think his potential is a lot better. But I'd love to see Nezilla in person because I love the freak show. I want to see a science project. He's a science project. He is a freak. I I agree. The structure, he kind of looks like he's some body parts thrown together. It's the physique really doesn't flow very well, but he's a big freaky bastard with those legs and the even the arms which don't match the legs. They're still pretty damn freaky. All right, we're Go ahead. I just want to make mention this is Adam Adam Millage from USA guys that we're looking at right now. Go ahead. just real if next if there was a lot of guest posing still. Next Zilla would wipe up the stage with guest posing appearances. Oh yeah. People love they don't they don't have that anymore. No. Cutler told me because it doesn't really bring in many more ticket sales is it's just the expense of bringing the guy in and giving him his fee and everything. They don't make the return on it like they used to because it's all these other divisions. People are coming to watch their their their person in bikini or men's physique or figure whatever. They don't care that you got some top 10 Olympia guy on stage. They don't care. So, Adam looks good. He's a thick dude here. Lot of muscle. Good abs. Shoulders were really massive. Quads popping. Big nice long long calves. Good showing for him. Yeah. Good job, Adam. You know, I always first cast. Yeah. I'm glad these guys came out and competed and supported Fouad show because Fouad he's breaking even at best and pro I wouldn't be surprised if he loses money on this. Yeah, it's like uh I went to that Ronnie Coleman weekend 20 years ago and um I think he might have possibly broken even on those weekends, but I'm pretty sure he he lost money every time, but it was his gift back to the fans because he was paying for the whole fee. I did the math and there's no way he could have made money, you know? We just had to pay for our own flight. Uh um he covered the I think the hotel was included really for three nights. He covered all our meals. He took us out to eat at restaurants three times a day. He took us to uh Yeah. He took us to uh not the Mavericks game. No [\h__\h] He took us to his church. Yeah. This is uh Yeah, he took us to Metroflex twice. We trained at his home gym. It was a hell of a weekend. Chris Miller, former classic guy who was filled out considerably, still has fantastic shape. That's I like when these classic guys move to open because they they still bring a lot of those aesthetics with them. It's just a more a fuller a bigger fuller version of that same physique basically. And also look at the condition too. He had that classic physique condition with the open size, right? And he'll keep obviously he'll keep gradually keep filling out more and more. But this is this is a perfect example like some of those guys like should move up because he looks damn good. I you know I didn't pay too much attention this morning. Yeah. But I like the physique man. Yeah. I'm kind of I'm thinking you know I'm not going to say he was overlooked. I don't think anybody got overlooked guys. There's only 15 competitors. It's just that when when you have so many guys who are really good and you know this isn't like the the sickest craziest pro lineup I've seen. No, but it's pretty quality lineup. There's there's only a couple guys here who I think look a little bit out of place for the most part. Everybody's everybody's hanging up there. They're they're and they and they brought their best look, too. You know, nobody's there's nobody like, "Oh, he shouldn't be here." But they should, right? They all dieted hard and they came in shape and they look good. Let's see. uh says, "If I own the Olympia, I would have Olympia agent try to get the girls to model." What? No, I don't want more. I don't want to see ring girls in the Olympia. Really? I like I like looking at girls, but I don't want to see like ring girls in in boxing or something. Yeah. My gym my gym mirror I look the best from like about 20 feet away. The closer I get, the worse I look. So, yes, I like to stay pretty far back. This is uh Justin from Germany. Justin Mus Mus. Oh god, I have no idea how to pronounce mus iol. I'm just gonna say mushul. Mushel. Mushul. Dubai is a city in the UAE. Damn it. It's not even a country. God damn. Really? It's getting worse and worse. From the UAE. Abu Dhabi is the capital. God, it's confusing. Justin looks good, man. Thick thick and in condition. Big big ass shoulders. the quads from the back. Look at that. Look insane. Very dense muscle, man. Good lat. I do wonder though. Should they be allowed to have their trunks pulled up like that? If my ass run, I would have I would have Sure, I would too. But I'm just I don't know, man. I I think there should be like a little bit of coverage back there. Just a little bit. I'm not saying that smaller and smaller, dude. Like the the 70s trunks. No, we don't need to go there. No, but like bikini girls were thunks. There is a thong. That's true. That's true. You see what I mean? The dark horse in the show. Oh, there's a few people with great potential. I mean, Carlos Thomas is someone I think has got a very bright future ahead of him. I like this guy right here. This guy Justin from Germany. I think we'll be seeing more from him. Uh Sass is not a new guy. What's wrong? That Chris Miller that we just looked at, I think if he continues filling out, he'll be really good. I like Yeah. Chris Miller and the class this guy I love this guy. This is one of my favorite guys of the night, man. Yeah, Justin. I mean, I was getting a lot of comments on Instagram or seeing a lot of comments that he was kind of the German it was mostly German fans, but they were telling me to watch out for this guy. And I went to his Instagram. I was like, "Wow, he actually is really good." I think this is his this might be his pro debut today. I might be wrong, but I think it might be because I've never heard of him before. Uh, let's see. Machine, very sad. Remember one of those Olympians? They even had Beirut's They even had Beirus's name on the table for fans and he couldn't make it. I I don't remember that. I mean, we were right at all the wasn't showing up. Okay, this is Ben Rafa contract bosses. All right, we're just getting out of there. So, Ben Rafa from USA. Yeah, I want I He's I don't think he's from New England area, but God, he must be from somewhere around here because I think he won a show in Boston. I think he won a show in Connecticut years ago when he was making his way up the ranks. He's got a good size chest, man. He's got a good good very complete physique. Yeah. Just needs a little more of it. You know what I mean? Yeah. Uh answer question about how to learn how to pose. So, they say, "Would you take posing classes?" Uh, watching tapes is not going to do it for most people because you're you're probably going to make a bunch of mistakes still and nobody's there to correct you. It's like I could bang away on guitar for the rest of my life and never learn how to play. Just keep trying and trying and trying. And I could watch people play and it wouldn't help me. But if I had someone sit there and teach me how to do it, like my son taught himself guitar. He plays like Yeah. He taught himself from YouTube videos. He's He's not awesome, but he's he's he's not bad. He's he can he can play some tunes. I feel But yeah, I would get a posing coach. There's a lot of good posing coaches out there. There's a lot. And there's all there's always posing seminars, too, like which I would have killed for back in the day, but there's so many different avenues to learn now. It's not even funny. Like there's you're in the temp area. Don't they have like one one every couple weeks down there? all the time. They just had one in Powerhouse a couple weeks ago out there. What mus was that? This is Carlos Jr. Carlos. Yeah. So much potential, guys. Do not write him off. No, he's still a young guy. He's like 31. He's still very young. Got time to time to figure out what he needs to figure out. Damn. Uh Carlos, everyone keeps forgetting about Carlos' medical condition. Yeah, I don't forget about it because my son has ulcerative colitis as well. We actually got a have an appointment next Wednesday with his every year we see his gastroenterologist. You know, they adjust his medication and stuff like that. But you can I know from from my son having to deal with it for the past five years. You can control it pretty well with medication and diet. The flare-ups happen. Certain foods you'll figure out tri will trigger flare-ups. And flare-ups mean you're you're like you're having diarrhea like all day and night. It's it's just like never ending. You're living in the bathroom basically. It's a miserable miserable way to go about your life. You've seen the commercials for like ulcerative colitis medication. They show somebody's like all happy. They're ready to go out on a night on the town and then they they put their hand on their stomach and they feel it's coming on and next thing you know they they're in like a bathroom or pajamas because you can't be more than 10 feet away from a bathroom at any given moment. Yeah. Oh, you know, you need to be within like, let's say, 30 seconds of a bathroom. You can't be more or else you're gonna you're gonna crap your pants. Put it that way. So, it's a it's a tough tough tough affliction, man. Start dropping some content. What else did we miss here? H I'm way way behind. Way behind chat. It's hard, guys. It's hard hard to keep up with the chat. Uh, Young Broke bodybuilder, we need a t-shirt for this. I don't even know what that's about. Wesley beat Gregoro. Hasn't happened yet. Nobody's beat anybody. One more guy left and open name RPG. Yeah, Ron Ron Gordon's nickname is Mr. RPG. All right. So, this is Bartley Weaver. The fourth. There's the four generations of guys named Bartley Weaver in his family. Was it? Is it really? Yes, that's true. He's hyped. So, turn pro classic a couple years ago. Um, structurally he's not gifted. Yeah. I mean, he's up there and I'm not, so what can I say? He is a competitive eater, which is kind one of the coolest things I've ever seen on a bodybuilding stage. I believe he's ranked fifth in the world as a competitive eater. And the contrast of being competitive eater with severe caloric restriction is it just blows my mind. It's just one of those things, man. And I I asked him, "Did I already tell you about this?" I asked him, "Do you do you throw up after those?" Because I would, he said, "No, I you know, it takes a takes a long time for me to be hungry again." Of course, hours and hours. But yeah, I'm sure he takes some hellacious dumps after that. Oh god. Oh man. Come on, bro. If you've seen somewhere, I'm pretty sure he ate like three large pizzas at once. It might have been four. Yeah. just a disgusting amount of food. Like he does that the the Nathan's famous hot dog one every year that Yeah. Does he really? That's like what hundred 200 hot dogs? I don't even know. It's It's I want to throw up watching this. He got like six I think one got like 60 something one time and like there's a girl from our city that lives here by us that's the change. She ate like like 50 something hot dog. It was that it the number was disgusting. I felt sick watching it. It was awful. Yeah. He looks like Captain John Stub. I don't know who that is. Talk about Ron Gordon has a Wesley legs for open. Yeah, he's it's a similar situation. Genetics man. Oh, Ron Reginald Johnson works with Ron Gordon. Okay. Obsessed with Bonak as it reminds Ron of the word boner. No, you know, I I'm not gay. I I've uh I'm not homophobic, but uh sometimes in there have been times in my life I probably liked women too much where it was detrimental to other areas of my life. Caused me a lot of problems. So sucked. Zion, I used the same stuff back in when I was a trainer. Stabbed two crosses in the sweet potato. Yeah, we all did that. Yeah. Right there between clients tune out of the camp plane. Okay, so this is classic awards it looks like, guys. Looks like they're doing some awards. What's Sid doing? Oh, maybe they're doing this the uh No, because they didn't do individual award. I can't have the audio on because of the music. I'd get a copyright strike. So, I don't know what you're asking now. I feel like I gota listen to it. Okay, it's gonna be a pose. They are going to pose down. I think I turned it off again already. Yeah. I don't know what that Okay. Well, this is good time. It's body. You can't You can't make bodybuild what it is. Like, just pose down. Let's roll. Oh, Escooked now. And I I just disagree with that. Oh, yeah. Check. I mean, I was there for those shows. I was front and center for all those shows in that time. I mean, Boston Pro is a good example. I was right up front when he won that show and he looked phenomenal. That was three years ago. Damn. J, but he said he was bombing Draenmore. I don't know what the hell that means. I love this [\h__\h] dude. Chat saying Bonikas is good, so he should win. Oh, I didn't say that he's not The fact that he's not as good as he used to be. That has no bearing on whether or not he should win. I never I never said that. No, you just have to be the best guy on stage that day at any show. It doesn't matter whether you look awesome at any other show, whether it was a week ago or five or 10 years ago. No, I don't I don't judge people. I don't judge people uh when I'm watching a show based on how they used to look because it doesn't matter. It's are they still good enough to beat the people that are standing next to them right now and from this day. Captain says sauce is the winner, but I don't know. I think Bonak might have keeps forgetting where Carlos Oh, did I did I already do that one? I did. Yeah. Judged. Yeah. James would look so insanely big if he had a smaller waist. Yeah. If if kittens had mittens, if wishes had fishes. I don't know. Can you actually reduce open Bonak first, Sass James third? That's probably going to be the way. Uh, can you reduce the waist? You can't if you have hip bones that are your bones can't be changed. If you have wide hip bones, that's that's that if you have a a distended uh midsection and you figure out it's either because of the types of food you're eating or the quantities of food you're eating or uh the GH or the insulin, whatever it is. If you if you figure out a way to get a handle on that. Yes. I've seen guys take their waist their midsections back down like Roly Winkler. Best example. Yes. That's crazy what he doing. Remember he had a he had a bubble gut and uh latest classic. This is the end of classic guys. So here are they doing top six, top five? I don't I think Well, there's five of them there on the side. So I guess this is going to be top five. So, fifth place. Not really sure. Jack, is it Jack Eagles? Yep. Okay. I'm I'm like five seconds ahead of you. That's okay. I got it. I think I'm only like a half a second behind. Jack Eagles place. Yeah, you're you're good. Okay. And I think I remember I remember who everyone else is eventually. So, the All right. So, Jack Eagles, 22 years old, fifth place. Good showing for for young Jack there. This guy look good, man. He look when he poses he looks he comes he really comes to life just standing there. Not so much when he poses [\h__\h] happen. That was uh Alex Kent. Correct. Yep. Good job, Alex. Alex Kent from UK. No. Here we go. Fourth place. So, I think it's going to be Daniel Fabode. We called him man BUN because we didn't know his name but he looked really good. I believe he got third. Right. Yeah. I'm gonna take a wild guess. So just don't shout out whether it's Wesley or Matt until I see because you're gonna know you're going to know like a second before me. So Daniel Fabode third place. Great job. Got the novelty check there. I know. How do you take that home? Well, I mean, Happy Gilmore had a bunch of them in his car from his uh golf winnings, didn't he? That was so awesome, wasn't it? They're making a sequel on for Netflix. I saw that. I'm sure they already made it. It's just It won't be out for a little bit. I can't wait. Yeah, it was a good flick. Okay. Oh, wait. Oh, did Wesley just get second? No, they bring him out. Oh, they're bringing them out. Okay. Again, I have to have the audio off, guys, because the background music they're playing would give me a copyright strike. YouTube doesn't screw around with the with music copyrights. Trust music licensing and copyrights. All right, so they're side by side. This a tough tough place to be in for any bodybuilder. Very close. Uh I saw Wesley clap and he doesn't look too happy. Well, no one looks happy yet, so we haven't got a winner announced. What are they waiting on? You're new. They would all be new Detroit Pro Classic champions because they never had this. And still you're new. Yeah. Bob Bob does have some catchphrases, doesn't he? He does. He does good. My son asked me who's you talking about the He said, "You talking about the guy with the flashy suits?" I said, "Yeah, that's Bob." He saw the New York He in the gray shoes. Yeah. What are they doing? I don't know. I have to have the volume off. Oh, okay. It looks like I see Matt looking very, very happy there. So, that means Matt Grego pulled off the win. Congratulations. Yeah. And had he not improved uh and sharpened up for finals, I don't think we'd be seeing this outcome. I think Wesley would have had him. So, Wes wasn't doing the Olympia anyway. So, the fact that Wes didn't get the Olympic qualification sort of irrelevant. But Matt, he just picked up his Olympia qualification. Congratulations, Matt. Robbie Rob, man, that's not a bad little payday. No. So, J.R. Williams. So, we have the classic champ right now, Larry Holstein. German power. Deutschand. Deutseland. That means Germany overall. They were very proud. Yeah. I mean, we're very proud to be Americans. It's okay. Why can't you be proud of your country? Exactly. I'm from Germany. A big fan of Justin, but honestly, I'm a bit worried about the waist. Yeah. It's a thicker waistline. He is. But hey, man. Robbie Robinson. Ultra is horrible. Yeah. Yeah. My son, it's I it broke my heart when he was diagnosed with I was like, "Oh, no." Because he was already like getting serious about lifting and I like this is not going to make it any easier for him. Oh, yeah. And my wife honestly believes in her heart of hearts. The reason he's so much smaller than I was at that age is because the food is just not getting processed. Yeah, that's true. I think the test has something to do with it too, to be honest. Yeah, I'm thinking too because think about when at that age you're just you should be debt, dude. Like all I could think about was was pee pee and assid, you know, dude nontop. The wind would blow and I would get hard. It was ridiculous. Oh, dude. It was so bad. It was just so bad. You can't trust a fart. Oh, I mean I got a taste of Cadiff because I had sorry of colitis when I had Do you know what Cadiff is, Mike? Have you heard of that? Yes. I know. I got it at a gym in River that's no longer there. So, I caught it from from a gym, dude. I was [\h__\h] my brains out like 247. It was so bad. I lost I think I lost 10 or 12 pounds in in like four days. And I kept taking I thought it was just like diarrhea. So I was taking diarrhea medication which only made it worse. And so I finally I finally went to urgent care and they did like a culture. They said, "Oh, you got CIFF and you have to be given like the strongest antibiotic you can possibly take." And I was on it took another couple days, but dude, I I I'm ashamed to say I crapped my pants a couple times. I was stupid enough to keep going to the gym while I had that and really running to the literally sprinting across the gym to the bathroom, crapping my brains out, and then coming right back to do my set. It was horrible. Horrible. So hardcore, bro. That's some hardcore [\h__\h] though. Wouldn't wish that on. Maybe my worst down there would wish it on, but I wouldn't wish that on many people. God damn, dude. Who looks like Wes Watson? I don't know who they were saying. That was because that was like, dude, that was 10 minutes ago. Wes is not 5'6. So, let me say this about Wes Watson, who's only famous because he's like an ex-con who was a life coach and yelled at people for a lot of money. He's had all these controversies. Wes Watson. John Bravo Films has made probably 50 50,000 bucks just off his Wes Watson YouTube videos, maybe more. Uh, I saw him. I was down at Elevation Fitness in Miami over the Christmas and New Year's visiting my daughter and I I trained at Elevation Fitness Miami four or five times and I saw Wes three of those times and one of those times he walked I was actually talking about him on my phone to somebody because he had just got in a fight at the gym the day before. Uh, which he's probably going to jail for right now. Yeah. He beat the crap out of this guy with like a a belt, like a weight belt. Anyway, long story short, he walked right past me and like, "Oh [\h__\h] does he know I just said his did he hear me say his name?" But I'm I'm a little under 5'8, like 5'7 and 3/4, whatever. He's at least six foot. So all these people saying Wes Watson, I think he's a piece of piece of crap as a human being. I have no love for Wes Watson, but he's not 5'6. He's not 5'8. I can promise you guys he's at least six foot, if not 6'1 or maybe even taller. But all these people saying he's 5'8. He's a garbage piece garbage influencer. He's a garbage human being. I think he's awful, but uh he's he's not that short. Does anyone know who Carlos worked with for this show? I don't know if he worked with anybody for the show. I don't even think he even said anything. Yeah, he was working with Patrick Tour. They were working together for the Arnold. I think they worked together for last year's Texas Pro, but I pro right too. Wasn't he working with Patrick for Pro Guard? I'm not sure. But yeah, I'm I'm I didn't see Patrick make one post about him. I haven't seen him make any reference to Patrick. So, I have no idea if they're still coaching client. Carlos might have done this on his own. I haven't heard anything. Maybe I need to interview him. Okay, let's see. Wesley got it. See, this is old. Wesley did not did not get it. So, we were wrong. Probably the best Bonx 2019. I think it'll recreate that physique. Yeah, J.R., I was there. I was so impressed with Bonak at the Boston Pro in 2022. It was a week after the 22 Arnold that Brandon Curry had won and that was a very controversial win for Brandon. A lot of people thought Bonak should have had that win. He probably should have, but you know, but uh it was a good show. That was uh Boston Pro Urs Kalchinsky won the classic and classic went on last instead of open at that show. Only time I've ever seen Classic be the last division at a show. Yeah. What's this? Oh god, we're I'm way behind. There's so many comments. Gosh, my bad, guys. Geez. Wesley not doing this show again for sure. Wesley should have won. Wesley's done. Oh, now he sucks. Wesley Rod. Wesley got screwed again. Really? Modof winner open finals. They're almost over. Joe, they're almost late, buddy. You're very late for the party, Joe. I appreciate you being here, though. I think Joe's an Ohio guy. Wesley's not planning on going to the Olympia. I think Wes is gonna be in jail. So, Oh, Wesley Visser, not Wes, not the other guy. Yeah, Wesley. Wesley Vissus has already said uh in his videos and his Instagram, he's not doing the Olympia this year. He's not qualified now anyway, but he had no plans of being in the Olympia this year regardless. Yeah, Wesley did not get robbed, guys. I probably would have given him the win, but uh Matt did tighten up. He closed the gap in condition pretty well. It was Listen, and we got to see the scorecards tomorrow. I'm pretty sure the scorecards will say how close it was. Yeah. Okay. Well, we're on we're on open awards already. Yeah. Wesley didn't get robbed. Matthew has better upper lower balance for sure. And that's that's what you're supposed to be. You're supposed to be balanced and proportionate. That's you know. So we doing top five, top six. What are we doing for open? They usually do top six. We got top Well, it's going to five top five. The Canadian Canadians up there. He's in there. He's in there. He made it. Good for him. Damn. A good showing. Good job, dude. Good job, Erin. Aaron Guy. Golly. Okay. So, fifth J. I'm gonna guess Oh, they got a pose down, too. Okay, never mind. Did they not have a pose down? I guess they didn't. There it is. Okay. These guys are like, "Oh, damn it. Thought we were done." Dude, they just wasn't water. People no one knows are judging. You tell when bad people people no one knows are judging. What? No, man. They don't have Wen Fuks probably a little biased towards No man, they don't have bad judges at this level. All the judges at at these shows are very very experienced. They've done this. People don't realize like they don't know how how they're judging a score number one. So they just think they just pick a winner, but like they know what they're doing and there's there's things in place to so that it's not any any hanky [\h__\h] funny business. So highs and lows are eliminated. You know what I mean? So politics. No, it's not really politics. If Hottie was in Wesley's place, he could have stormed off the st Oh jeez. Because he didn't storm off stage. He simply walked off stage. He left. He just walked off. He didn't smash a trophy or anything like that. No, he didn't pull a Tvita bust his trophy. Wesley's arms are better than the winner. Wesley's upper body is better than Matt's upper body. Matt's lower body, people. Yeah, it's it's if you if you put if you put uh Gregor's legs on Wesley. Yeah, you could flip-flop him, you know. Yeah. What's this? Wes looks great. We're still talking about Yeah. Wes will continue to struggle. I don't know. Is he at the top of the weight cap? If he is, I don't see how he's how he's going to make any much much improvement to his legs without busting out of that weight cap. Seiff. Yeah, it was hard to get rid of. No, that is one way to cure it is someone else's feces. I did not do that. Uh that's actually uh they they try to do that with people with colitis too, I think. But yeah, really they put healthy feces up your butt. Uh if you have that's one way to do it, but I didn't do that. I took the uh it was a very harsh antibiotic. Like it dried my skin out really bad. Give me the antibiotic lotion. But it worked. It worked. Oh god. That's a [\h__\h] nightmare. Seediff is the worst at the smell. Yeah, it was rough. The contagious. I don't This was years ago, guys. I had it like five. This is like seven or eight years ago. I had it. Same thing again like last week. He was a huge fraud. The Wesley fans are still very, very upset here. I can see Bill Olstein. Yeah. I mean, I get it. He's your favorite. You want him to win. It could have gone either way during the uh during the judgment. There's no there's no like favorite. The judges had no re no political way reason to have picked one of the two. You know what I mean? So it's just the best physique on that day. Uh to say Wesley could be a Schler Cam 2.0. Wesley would need about 50 more pounds of muscle. Yeah. To be at the level mass-wise that Gun was a lot more. Grunter was a huge huge human being. I posted a picture of him with my wife back backstage because he guest posed in Boston years ago when she was competing and it's like he looks like a little like a a toddler next to him. He's huge, man. Yeah. He was six 6'2 63. Yeah. On stage at least. That's a lot. Congratulations, Aaron. You pulled off top five. Good job. Oh, sorry, dude. Didn't know Matt has been that broken. No, SWAT is a douchebag. Interesting. Interesting way to spell douchebag, but I'll take it. Uh Ron Gordon fourth place. Uh kind of saw that. Yeah. So, you know, still hanging up there. Third last year in a in a much smaller show, right? Tougher lineup. We got, you know, got these guys from Arnold Capid. Oh god. James, Dude, every time I think I've got all the comments, it like refreshes and there's like 30 more. So, I apologize, guys, if I'm not getting to all of them, but a lot of you guys are just upset about Wesley right now. Anyway, there we're way past that. Looks so good. Hope he gets top. Oh, he's already top three. We know that. So, yeah. Talk. What's up? You're trying to eat. I'm sorry, Missy. Missy Trescott, ladies and gentlemen. Two time Arnold Classic champ, fitness champ. Is she a two-time Olympia champ? Two time. And yeah, future figure figure champ. Yeah, she'll win that. Yeah, I think Sid Gillan will win wellness. Yeah, for James. Not bad. Third place. I mean, this is playing out pretty much exactly the way we saw it. James, good job. Wesley sneeze. Still talking about Wesley. God, a lot of comments, guys. Fell behind the stream. Guest posing. Good showing for James. Yep. Very good. Good. Great. Yeah, Gunter was not Oh, we got Natalya. What's up, Natalya Bonia? I only ought to say good day. It's not even daytime anymore. Another another Olympia champ. Good job. Appreciate you jumping on. Okay, so now here we go. The moment of truth. I'll keep my I'll keep my face normal, bro. I won't I won't like let it slip. It's okay. Why didn't Matt have a live stream? Uh, he had to go to a show today. He's talking about Muscle Discord. He had to go to an amateur show. He He couldn't be here. It's like I'm gonna miss the I can't cover the the Pittsburgh Pro because my son's competing that day. That's my priority. Yeah. I'd like to be able to watch it, but I'm not. I'm definitely gonna be there for my son. I'll be there like uh helping him uh say psyched, oil up, tell him what to eat, yelling at him to flex his legs on stage, all that good stuff, right? Yeah. Legs. Legs. Christian. How's that guy? You're forgetting all your all your training. Sit on your hands. Yeah, that's that's that's I'm I'll be that proud coach Papa combo. I'll be a better coach than Lufrio's dad was for him. Oh god. Yeah, Matty was Matty wasn't the best. He was a fake coach. It was completely fake. He just wanted to be 100 Lou said years later he said he never did anything. He had nothing to do with my training or anything. He just wanted to be he knew they were gonna put me in a movie and he wanted to be in the movie. So that's how he did it. Okay. So William won, right? Yeah. He looks He looks happy. William Bonak picks up another pro win for his career. Congratulations, 25, bro. Another Olympia qualification. That is so awesome, man. And Sus will have to keep going if he wants to get to the Olympia. That Brandon or Samson. Oh, Sam. Yeah, Samson's there. Samson is a hostile athlete. That's for sure. Yes, he is. I definitely am not making that up. He is a hostile athlete. Uh that's a nice little got a nice little payday past, you know, past the Olympia, the um Arnold, and now this. Yeah. So, I'm going to just put the places up here because everyone who was late is going to keep asking me. Second was who won? Who won? Well, we're not gonna be on much longer anyway, but when's when is open going? When's open coming? When's when's Rammy go on? What time's Ramy on? I used to get that all the time. I'm like, he's not in the show. They used to do that. The hottie fans would always do that. When is Hottie on? Like, hottie's not in the show. Kind of. If you're his fan, you should know what shows he's in. Man, if you was you're not even watching the show, so why do you care? Right. They just they're they're fans. I get I'm glad that we have all these fans. So, that's true, right? I don't want to [\h__\h] on the fans, but some of them are they're not very well informed. Some of the questions I get from them, it's very clear they have very little idea what's going on here. Dave got some bank money. Okay, so that's it. He got 30 grand right there. So add banner 25. All right, guys. There's your placings. Oh, you can read Yeah, you can read the numbers on those checks. Okay, very nice. 25 G's. 25. I heard it was 30. Now, now it's okay. Did they do the awards for the other things? I don't Nothing at all. Uhuh. I I thought they were going to do that, too. That's what he said. I mean, you can't do them now. It's kind of anticlimactic. Yeah. Everybody's g Everybody's leaving, right? So, what happened to that? He's just gonna unless privately and just like post it online. I don't know. I mean, we didn't miss it. The only thing we missed because of the stream falling off was like one call out. We didn't miss much. Yeah, that's it. The first one. Yeah. Wow. Huh. You know, actually, you're happy for Bon's a good dude. He's been around for so long, man. And to see this guy still winning shows, Ron, it's it's phenomenal, man. I'm happy for dude, you know. Uh if Matt had a live stream. Yeah. So, Matt from Muscle Discord and Fouad have some beef. I have no idea what it's about. I don't want to know. some Canadian problem. That's a Canadian problem. I don't want to know about it. That's [\h__\h] great, man. Because I I've been going on Matt's show like the last couple months. Part of the reason is I like to sort of counterbalance when he has crazy views about something and I have a different view. I like to throw it out there. It helps because sometimes it's like, did he just say that [\h__\h] You got you got to put stuff up for to get to get people to watch. I get it. You got to get views. You know what I mean? Stop doing shows with shorter guys. Good luck. Yeah. Okay. There's no there's there's no height there are no height classes in pro classic physique. So, no, not anymore. They're all shorter. I mean, most most open bodybuilders are between 56 and 5'9. Most of them. Yeah. And subract subtract the inch from what they say about their weight. Yeah. 212 most 212 guys are are 52 to 56. I'd say open 5'6 to 510. The vast majority of them 5'9, 5'10. There's not many of them that are shorter than 5'6 in open. There's not many that are taller than 510. You know, I'd say maybe like a third if that are already are taller than 5'9. Yeah, but they're so dense full of muscle. It's insane. What was the top five? Really? Heavy. This is uh I Kevy is a young guy trains at this uh gym I do posing seminars at. He's part of the Here's your top five. William Bonac, Sasan Herati, James Hauling said Ronald Gordon, and Iron Erin Golly. That's your top. Should I just leave that up? Well, I when I put the comments up, it goes away. Oh, no. Bonx Gut looks like he just ate everything on the Burger King menu. This is terrible. Over. I think Will has to be up there with some of the most consistent bodybuilders ever. I mean, he's been doing it at a very high level. Yeah. for a very long time now. I totally agree. This is a guy that thinks he looks like a block of cheese. Why couldn't Couldn't go with mailbox refrigerator. Had to go with cheese. Well, just not happy. It's torn tricep. Why not? Who has a torn tricep? I don't I don't know if it's torn. It looks a little shorter, but it's it is what it is, man. I mean, good good luck going all those years training, not tearing something. Good luck. No [\h__\h] Right. Like and share. Thank you. Not sure his name, but Ryan, your guest is the best. That's big Mike Cox. How could you not know Big Mike? What's his name? Darkest 69. Dragon Cous 69. Yeah, Mike's been around. Mike's been around for a minute in this industry. He goes back to the Get Big. He was a legend on the Get Big forums, the MD forums. covered a lot of shows with me for MD. Uh Bonica's narrow American had to tape American Muscle comes on at one o'clock in the morning. Wow, that's right. I did. Well, I was I was taping it before I worked on the show. I used to I used to tape it, bro. Wow. Some hate for Bonak. Short guys better. Okay, I'm with you on that. I like the short guys. Shout out to Brian Deaks. Is that Who's that? I don't know. Who is that? I have no idea. Is that Who's Are they doing the awards now? Those special awards? No. I think he's just taking a judging. Oh, okay. So, that's Paul Lison, who was one of the co-opers. He is a judge, but he did not judge this show. No, he did not. Ben Cow, who was a a good friend of the late Luke. Luke Luke, what was Luke's name? Bend. Luke Sandow. Thank you. Yeah, you could tell I' I start losing it after like a certain amount of time of not eating. Good show. Classic had a lot of very good competitors. Open was also very solid. Yeah, this was not a bad show. I mean, we had some No, not at all, man. Good good depth to the lineups. You know, you're not gonna get Oh, they do the pose down. I think they're gonna vote what overall between these Yeah, that's insane. Okay. D I mean, who else would do that? Yeah, you can vote. Oh, okay. on on his uh on the stream. Yeah. Um I'm not sure. Wow. Okay. So, they're gonna compare classic champ Matt Grego to open winner William Bonak. Size differential. William is probably uh a little probably like 10 or 10 or 15 pounds heavier and ah I bet he's like four four inches shorter. Yeah. Five inches shorter. He's a lot bigger and thicker. Obviously, I mean, open bodybuilding is supposed to be bigger. Come on. Stop. That's just It's, you know, sometimes when when people say like I get it certain guys from classic could move up. Yeah. But the pro bodybuilders are a different level. Well, William guys like Bone, they're a different level of bodybuilder, bro. You know what I Like that kind of top Olympian is different. That top 10 Olympia, what was this? The top 20 in the world, those guys are just special. But the top seven, eight. Yeah. I mean, that's So, what would you do here if you were if these two if you're a judge and you actually had to pick a winner here? I mean, Matt has AI like Matt's structure and his overall shape better for sure, but Barnack destroys him on muscle mass. Muscle mass, bro. Conditioning. I think they're they're pretty close. muscle conditioning, right? But like come on, look at the quads. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like it's just Backax's a tank. That's it. This is This is the guy that was second in the He was second in the world. You know what I mean? You know, this is because it's basically you can vote. So it's like a popularity contest. Yeah. Like if this if this was Cull Sull would win because more people would vote for him. Sull would win against like Phil Heath, dude. They would they would think you even train say Broccoli Head wins this. Would you say he has broccoli hair? I don't know. No, he's got good hair. Yeah. Just tuning in now. Oh, dude. Where you been? Too late. Uh so Matt Grego here on the left one classic and this was your top five for open right there. Hope you got a good look. Bonak Harate Hollings Head Gordon golly that was your top five. Okay. Good show man. Yeah show will he'll get the overall in my opinion. Yeah. I mean, I don't think you could unless if you're a classic fan and you like classic physique better than open, you'd probably vote for Matt, right? Well, exactly. Yeah. It's is what you're familiar with. Right. Right. Too much pick Matt. Dragon Coast would pick Matt. Okay. Now, I look forward to the Pittsburgh Pro. Can I wait to see how it will go? Yeah. Six weeks. Next week is the Arnold Classic, South America. Uh, I'm probably not going to cover that only because there's a posing clinic at GymHub in Boston with Nate T and Jose Raymond and uh, my son's going to that. Always a good time. Yeah, I like I like Jose. They're good buds and Yeah, Nate's good people. I'm not gonna send Christian there by himself. He likes He likes No, dude. He's not as incapable of doing going places by himself, but but still. Yeah. Plus, we usually train there. It's It's got a lot of cool He's got like a panata pieces there. They They handpicked every It's not a huge gym, but he's handpicked every him and Jose went around uh US and Canada for like a whole year. I think they they went to like eight or 10 different gyms, looked at all this equipment and they they figured out what they wanted for that gym and that's what they got. That's awesome, man. That's badass. They got good good equipment in the gym. Yeah, Matt probably got a couple poses on him. Yeah, dude. Back makes Greg go look stringy. Yeah, I mean, yeah, he's a lot thicker. Yeah, just big difference. I was a church. No jokes, dude. I would never put anybody down for having religious beliefs. I that actually gets under my skin when people make fun of others for being religious now. You know, you don't have to be rel you don't have to believe in anything yourself, but I say respect other people's beliefs instead of uh you believe in this ghost or this mythical this or that, you know, they they really they really put people down and that's that's not right, guys. No, just relax. Everybody, if you did that in some other countries, they'd cut your damn head off. So, you would be stoned to death. Luckily for you, you're in most of you making those comments in the USA where you could pretty much get away with saying anything, right? You go Yeah. go overseas and try that. Yeah, it's not going to fly. Trust me. Yeah, Sam looks so big still. He is. Well, what's I mean, what's he he's probably in his health phase, I'm guessing. Yeah, health phase. I love that now. Yeah, I I'm He didn't come out. He's going to pose down. Okay. Matt's height and weight. I I'm not really sure. I think he's about 510. Watch what's about to happen, dude. Oh, they're gonna do it. Look at his legs. Jeez. Samson ain't he ain't scared. Samson's taking everything off. Wow. Good job. I mean, Samson's not scared. Jesus Christ. Martin takes his shirt off. Yeah, Samson looking so big. He's probably like 330, 320, 330, somewhere in that range right there. But he has abs. Well, he was 306, he said, on stage at the Arnold four weeks ago. If he's 300 pound, if he's like 300, 299. Well, if he was if if that's what he was at the Arnold, I bet he's he's back up to like 320 here. Oh, yeah. Now, we're talking about schlongs. Shorter guys have longer schlongs usually. I I' I'd like to believe that's true, but I'm gonna I'm gonna just I'm gonna call BS on that. Imagine Nick Walker posing next to Classic Zeke winner. Well, oh my god. Could you imagine that? Morning, Australia. Thanks for the coverage. Yeah, they're way ahead of us. I'm surprised it sound like next Wednesday over there already. Nick, they're gonna their quads. I thought Samson was gonna take the pants off. Oh well, he doesn't want he doesn't want none of those. He doesn't want none of those Martin quads. Or does he? Because now he looks like he's thinking about it. Nope. Still keeping him on. Huge. And wonder who would win if Pearson would head open. Uh huh. It's a good question. Keon's only Keon was only like 200 pounds at the last Olympia. And you know what, dude? Dude, is the the muscular the muscle maturity isn't there yet, but it all depends on who shows up. No, there's no doubt Ke would do great at this show, but against that harder, more mature look and open guys, you know what I mean? Like, let him just do 212 for a minute. Just stop trying to push them to open. Give them a bit. You know what I mean? Yeah. Okay. Merch. They still doing more stuff. More merch. Okay. I can't believe the people are still hanging around. I know, right? Shredded body at all times in his prime. He was very good. Eduardo. He was very lean. But it I was able to see Munzer three times compete, I believe it was. And he was I I've seen a few guys condition-wise who were just Kandula back in the day. Aulu from Turkey. Crazy condition. I saw I saw us 94, 95, and 96. Like he and he's when you saw him, it was just like you kind of just look like that's just not normal, right? That's that kind of condition. Yep. Is not normal [\h__\h] See M the best Wayne Bonnack putting up the top five again for those who are if you're just joining us you know you'd have to got a lot of rewinding to do but um show's over. Well, congrats to William Bonak. I think I think it's this is this gonna be the last thing they do. I think if they were going to do those awards they would have done them already, right? Yeah, they probably would do it already before they did this. Compet bounce after this thing. I mean, I can't believe people are still there. Maybe they knew they were gonna get some free [\h__\h] so they hung around. No [\h__\h] They may They may have told him that, you know, we didn't hear. Yeah, stick around, guys. We're getting free stuff. Fitz holding his own against Yeah, Fitz. Martin has definitely put on a lot of size the last couple years. Uh, didn't come in flat. He just wasn't that big a guy. He wasn't as big as the other guys. He wasn't small, but he didn't have the mass of some of the other guys he was competing with. But he was just You could see every muscle fiber on that guy's body. Literally straight in. He was like that in the offseason, too, though. Yeah. Yeah. It's over. Good show, man. Detroit. I don't know if it's over. I think it's over. I'm waiting to see if they're going to do anything else, but I don't think they are. How much merch are they giving out? My god. Like 10 boxes. I'd feel bad if I had like bought bought merch ahead of time. I could have just waited and grabbed it at the show for free. That's hilarious. All the shows have black backgrounds. Thank you for watching. Thanks for watching. Appreciate it. Appreciate you guys watching. God, how much longer are they going to do this for? It's insane. I think I'm gonna call it, Mike. I'm gonna call it. Okay. All right, bro. Gonna call it. I'm gonna stop sharing that screen and it's back to me and Mike, your favorite uh your favorite commentator. So, that's it, guys. Uh appreciate you. Big Mike Cox, did you not sure loved it? Great time. You still got your food ready, right, to go? Got you. I got I got cookies, too, bro. Okay. Okay, I'm I'm starving. I'm going to chow down myself. So, thank you so much, Mike. Appreciate you helping out again. Value your commentary and you're a great dude on top of it all. So, that's it. Thank you. And thanks everybody who watched. Uh be back with more content. If you're not liked, subscribed, and sharing and all that. Please do all that. Love to have uh more subscribers and more feedback and all that good stuff. So, if you're watching this on the replay, drop some comments below. That always helps, too. And that's it. Thanks for watching our coverage of the 2025 Detroit Pro and we'll see you right here