Heat. Heat. What's up everybody? What's up? Uh, Legion Sportsfest over in Reno, Nevada has concluded its judging. It's about an hour ago. I'm a little late. I was in Rhode Island for the NPC Rhode Island. They treated me very well. Got to sit right behind the judges. So, I haven't watched it. I'm going to watch it right now with you guys for the very first time. I did see some social media posts where uh as as most of us expected, Tonio Burton is the front runner for the win, but I haven't seen anything. So, let's take a look at it together. This is not the live stream I'm showing. I would not pirate a live stream. This is uh Artha Lab channel uh commentario. It's called Legion Sportsfest 2025 commentarios in Portuguese. I turned off the Portuguese commenting. You can still see the lovely Artha in the corner, but let's take a look. Let me make sure I'm sharing it because I've been known to f that up at times. All right, guys. So, here we go. First call out. Who we got? Okay, so that's right there is Kennedy on Yanu, who was sixth place of New York Pro his rookie season here. Right after him, we see Blessing Audioo, who looks much better than I thought he would. Tonio Burton in the middle in the red trunks. Next to him is another North American champion, uh, Olawabi Ola Tubi, Toby Isola. And at the end, I believe that's Felix Norman. I could be very wrong. I'm not sure about who that is on the end, guys. Correct me. Correct me. So, right now, they just start off the chord turns. Uh, Antonio, beautiful shape, beautiful structure. Uh, Blessing also has a very nice shape to him. Uh, and he's got some very decent size. In terms of size, he actually does have that advantage over Antonio. Tonio has a little better balance. Um, Blessing's quads never quite really match the upper body. They're they're better than they were. U, but you can see how how much he turns his feet out to try to really show the inner quads to make the quads look bigger. Front of a bicep. Oh, hitting some elbows there. those guys. Kennedy there on the left. Massive quads. Colossus Ken. Who is that on the right, man? I'm going to get some flak for not knowing who that is. Process of elimination. I know most of these people. Uh, that's either Adam Millage. I think that's Felix Norman. It's got to be Felix Norman. So, they moved him around, had him hit the bicep again. I'm going to look. I'm going to I'm going to check and make sure. I hate when I don't know somebody's name because it really obviously looks very unprofessional. You can't read the numbers with this resolution. Felix Norman. Yeah, that looks like Yeah, that's Felix. That's Felix. Okay, so advantage here in in pretty much every shot I see going to Tonio. Although Ken on the end, man, I I think he should be right next to him. Ken Ken is somebody to watch. Condition pretty damn good. This is not the greatest resolution, so I don't expect anyone's condition to look awesome on this later when the high resolution images come out. You will see much much better. Great comeback for Blessing. Yeah, when Thanks, Martin. Thanks, Mark. When I saw Blessings updates, I was really concerned he was not going to be in shape for this. And it's hard for me to tell. It looks to me like he'd probably be a little tighter. I've seen him tighter than this, but considering the way he looked a week or two ago, I'm surprised he looks this good. And I'm happily surprised because I like Blessing. Uh I don't know what all that is. Nathan Blessing looks horrible. Eight weeks out in a bubble gut. Oh boy. Good job. They don't judge calves. Yeah, they don't care about calves. Tony looks a bit light in the quads. You know, we were having this argument on the muscle Discord channel Monday, last Monday night as we were doing the preview for this. Um both Phil Clayhar and Matt Sinkerang they expressed their belief that Tonio's quads were better uh be prior to in 23 24 they think his quads have come down. I didn't see it and I still don't really see it. Goku's predictions Antonio Kennedy smoke king blessing. Who's the smoke king? So that was your first call out. I Who is the smoke king? Goku be very surprised. Yeah, blessing it. Like I said, we'll we'll go to some individual stuff because there is actually there is individuals before this. So that'll give us a little better look because it's not this is what we call a wide shot where you're so far back from the stage. So it looks like here we have Patrick Moore. Uh God, these these bald white guys, we all look alike. I guess that's out of Millage. And that's Jonathan Padilla in the green, Florian Porson in red, and on the end in the right, that is Bruno Santos. You now I'm wondering, was that even a call out or is that just a random collection? I think this is just a numerical. This is just when they come out in numbers numerically. So, this is no reflection on first, second call out, or anything like that. This is just where the judges get their initial look because there's no way Bruno wouldn't have been in that first call out. So that was not your first call out. But it still was a pretty good group, wasn't it? It's a It's a smaller show. We only have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. It's 10 guys. It's a very manageable amount of competitors, which I like. As anyone on the media side enjoy. If anyone If anyone on the media side says, "Oh, I love it when there's 50 people in a show in a class." No. No, you don't. It's a lot of work. Bruno Santos really standing out there on the on the right in the green. And like I said, this is the round where the judges just get their initial look at everybody and this is where they decide when the guys come back who they want to see in their first call outs. I can already tell you Florian is going to be in there, Bruno's going to be in there and rightfully so. Both are very, very good athletes. Cool. Thanks for thanks for this round 4 a.m. What are you doing awake Mark? You either get up very early or you stay up very late. bald white guy. Well, I'd be a bald white guy if I hadn't gone to Turkey. I'd be a very receding hairline white guy anyway. Certainly bald on the top. That that was getting very very shiny up there. Smoke King is the other Nigerian. Yeah, we're assuming everyone's Nigerian because these names kind of all sound have a similar ring to them if you want to put it that way. Aadibu, that's blessing. Andrew Andrew Jack's real name is Chen Chenku Oida. And this other gentleman we're talking about with kind of the high flat top, his name, he's a North American champion. Olu Olawa Tubi. Olo Toby. Isola. Yeah. God. Patrick far better than last week. Yeah. I like to give credit where credit's due. Patrick does look better than he did last week. You know, I I hate counting anybody out. I mean, but I say it all the time. I was hoping he would be further along in his career by this point. Tony outstanding. I feel bad for Blessing. His career is over. I wouldn't say it's over, Brian. I wouldn't say it's over. This is his first show since 2023 Flex Pro weekend in Italy. So, he has been gone for almost two years. There's Artha. Lovely Artha. She helped me translate for an interview I did toward the very end of the MD days for uh I believe he was a he was a UFC guy from Brazil. I can't remember his name. I only remember hot women. So, I remember Artha. So, she's commenting there. The guy's going to be back in a second. Try to jump ahead. If I go too far ahead, then I lose. All right. So, this was your first call out. We got Florian, Patrick Moore in the first call out. There you go, Patrick. All right. Florian, Patrick Moore, Antonio Burton, Victor Bruno, and Blessing of Wibboo. So, I guess that's your top five. Much much better than Patrick did at the last showing. He was not last place, but he was only a couple spots away. And that he has a great front double, Patrick. I know the quads could be a little better, but his his shoulder to waist ratio and his arms crazy. But Tony in the middle and and for a reason, man, he is just very complete, dense muscle, beautiful structure, shape. I'm not going to compare him to guys like Flex Wheeler, Dexter Jackson. Those guys were another level. They were some of the greatest bodybuilders we ever seen. Actually, Flex is my all-time favorite. Uh, but Tonio looks very very good considering he's only he's only about 220 222 something like that. A former 212 champ. I saw him win his his pro debut, the Indie Pro back a few years ago. I think it was 2019 or 2020. I don't know. I had never heard of the guy and I was like, "Wow, geez. Where the hell did you come from?" Nevada. That's where he came from. Yeah, he's from right there in Reno. So, this was AI think he said it was a 20-minut drive from his house. Let's look at the back shots here. Obviously, the back shots are important because this is where a lot of guys fall off in the lack of back development. But Patrick has a pretty weak back. I'll say it right now. But everyone else up there pretty damn decent back. Blessing has a very good back. Tonio's back is next level, but Blessing is Blessing's back is right up there. Side try. Florian looking really thick. Side try is a great shot for Patrick. His arms are just insane. his shoulders and arms. You can see even from this, you know, low resolution video image from pretty far away. Antonio there. Yeah, Antonio's just got the total package. Victor looking really good, though. I'm I I'm going to guess I know the finals aren't going to start for another over two hours from now, but I'm I'm gonna say right here and now. I think Victor will be second. Uh I think Blessing will probably be third, Florian fourth, and Patrick Moore. Give me your top five, guys. What you got? Go to bed at 8:00 PM. Okay. Well, then that's eight hours of sleep. Mark, cool. I just want to make sure everyone's getting enough rest. It's very important. Mark, is Mother Effer not joining you then? Who's Mother? If you're talking about Giles, I I don't usually bother Giles for these things, especially because of the time difference. We have a fiveh hour time difference. I I wasn't even sure I'd be able to do this because I was at the Rhode Island show. I left halfway through the women's divisions because it was going on and on. I'm not bald. I just have more face to watch. Well, you know what? A lot of guys pull off the bald look very, very well, Mark. I know. I can just I had my head shaved bald for my hair transplant. They shaved it right before they did it. Oof, it was rough. Yeah, you can see this is a very, very good top five. They're running them through the the poses over and over again. It's not just a quick a quick run and run down like, "All right, guys. hit the poses once and back in the line. They're taking their time. And I think that's another another advantage of having a show that's only 10 guys in it. They don't have to worry about, oh, we got to do a third call out, maybe a fourth call out. No, there's only gonna there's only going to be two groups here. What's going on there? Did she freeze it? Oh, Branch. Branch, you okay? My dog's here. All right, Branch, you got to be careful, Pas. I can't see Branch, but he's right here. Branch, get up here so people can see you. Get up. Yay. There you go. That's my boy. He's a good boy. He's such a good doggy. He's such a good doggy, branch. All right, that's not back. I'm gonna get back to this. Yeah. Yeah. Patrick is in the top five. He's uh he's in this, you know. He's not in the he's not in the hunt for the win. No. No. But he's up there with the He's right next They have him standing right next to Tonio. He could be as high as third. Yeah. We'll look at them individually after this because I that's the only way I'm gonna get a good chance to uh you thought uh Perez. Yeah, you're talking about Leandro. Leandro would have done very well. Leandro would be pushing Tonio. I still think Tony would beat him. Personally, I like Tonio's physique better, but Leandro would be a very, very solid second. Who knows? Maybe fighting for the win. First call out wrong. I got the first call. Morris, you think more second? Wouldn't that be something? Bless could pull a second. I mean, I I think after Tonio, it's kind of close. Second call out, which is pretty much it's everybody else. Yeah, because there's only 10 guys. So, the bald white guys, I'm so sorry if I'm mixing you up. Uh, actually, I know the the guy in the green, that's Mil That's That's Adam Millage because the other guy was a little bit bigger. So, Felix Norman on the left we have uh Holu Toby Isola. Next to him, next to him is Kennedy Ananu. Turn around. Uh Adam Millage, bald gentleman there. Second from the right. And then all the way on the right we have Jonathan Padilla from Mexico. Big dude. So these are not the top five guys. Obviously listen giving Orville Burke vibes regarding his back. Orville Burke was a great pro. Had a very very short career. Very short career. He had I don't know what happened. He had like a something happened and he was hospitalized and he never never came back. Same picks as you run. Well, great mind sink alike, Gary. What's up, Xavier? Xavier, it is very early. What's it 7 in the morning for you? I don't know. It's tomorrow. I know it's already Sunday over there. How was Rhode Island? It was not a bad show. The classic guys were actually better overall than the open the bodybuilders. Much more competitive classic divisions, I thought. Uh oops, Branch fell off the horse again. No, that's my dog, Branch. Five dogs. Great. Talk to the wife. Uh, no. So, this is not a live stream. This is um a woman named Arita Lu. She has a channel called Artha Lab. She's a Brazilian journalist. And I I don't know, does she have a supplement company? I don't know. I She helped me out with an interview uh like a year and a half ago for an MHP sponsored athlete, a UFC fighter from Brazil. So, she speaks perfect English, perfect Portuguese. I think she speaks Spanish. So, this is her channel. She was streaming the live stream. I don't know if she has the rights to it, but I am not pirating the live stream. I am showing her video and uh I think that's okay. Ken should have been first call out. I totally agree, William. I'm looking at Ken here and I'm thinking why was he not in that group? Why? I mean, there was there was a guy it was it was a good top five, don't get me wrong, but you could have had six guys up there and saved. Second call out could have been four guys. I think Kennedy definitely deserves I'm curious to see if they have another call out with the top a few of the top guys and Kennedy. Yeah, guys looking great. Should see Blessing could be fifth. Yeah, I I don't think it's clear-cut after after Tonio. I think it's it could go several different ways after that. Monica Kennedy looks great. He has a great structure. Was that all the calls? 7:14 a.m. Woo. Doing very well, Xavier. Hope you are, too. Yeah. My son's visiting my my daughter in Miami. All right. Well, was that it, Artha? Was there any more Artha? Isn't she adorable? All right. Let's go to the individuals then while we have them. Okay. Is that the first one? I don't want to miss anybody. So, if you got to watch if you got to look at her beautiful face for a few seconds, uh I don't think it's going to bother too many of you, right? I'm sure a lot of you are partial to the Latin look, aren't we all? All right. Okay. Thank you. Ken should definitely be in first call out. You named your dog Branch Warren. Well, it's not Branch Warren. His name is Branch. We actually were torn between Branch and Dexter. And at the last minute, we just went with Branch. He came to us. He already had a name. He was only a puppy, but I don't know why they bother naming little puppies that are going to be adopted anyway. Name was Timmy. We're like, nah, he's not Timmy. We're going to come up with a cooler name than that. Hauling said should have done us well. There's a few people that would have done done well in this show. You could look back at these past couple weeks and there are people that were in Who was in the Cali that could have done this? Leandro would have done very well from the Cali show. Rean, he's doing Toronto next weekend. Sassan, Sassan could have done it. Sassan probably could have could have won. All right, so first up is Kennedy. Kennedy. Oh god, I mess up. So hard to remember. Any Wu. Yeah, I I'm a big fan of this guy. This is his rookie season. He's already been six at the New York Pro. Lot of muscle, beautiful shape, quad sweep, round, full muscle bellies. This guy is good. I'm I'm a fan of this guy and he's just getting started. He put on some really good size since he turned pro. If you look at his uh Colossus, Ken is his Instagram. I think there's an underscore in there. If you put in Colossus, it'll come up. He's put on uh I want to say like 30 pounds of of lean tissue since he turned pro two or three years ago. And the shape just beautiful. He kept all the lines, kept his midsection small. Antonio for the win easily. Hongs would lose Tonio. What would Yeah, I mean it's I'm trying to think who would definitely have beaten Tonio out of these past couple weeks and I really can't think of anyone who definitely would have beat him. Sassan would have had a good chance. Tonio's got much better shape. And that's where Sassan, it's the shape and the structure that really hurts him. A little narrow across the shoulders. Florian's in the show. The Aleandro. What about New York? Who was in New York that would have? Well, New York was a couple weeks ago. Yeah, it doesn't matter. They're not here. All right. Blessing. What do you got for us? Blessing. So, I was concerned, as was Matt from Muscle Discord, that he was really flat looking, and he was. That was earlier in the week. He's filled out. This is still not comparable to the best blessing I I've seen from a few years back, but he's definitely on the way back. He's certainly looking way better than I expect expected him to the condition wise and he came in a little fuller and bigger than I than I was thinking we were going to see based on those progress pictures. How did Patrick beat Kenny? Well, no one's beaten anybody yet. Uh well, I mean the score sheets are what they are, but there's still the evening finals and the confirmation round coming up. BL Blessings back is just amazing. Look at that. Nice and wide, thick all the way down middle back thickness, which a lot of guys don't have. just super wide and he's his waist looks so small when he hits those back shots. Hits a couple very unique shots there showing off the abs and seratus. You might say his obliques seem to be getting a little bit on the bigger side. That was blessing. What's going on his left leg? I It's been like that. He's had a difference in the leg size for a while. I don't that's nothing new. All right, let's take a look at Tonio. Tonio Burton odds on favorite for a reason. We did not see him at all. Uh actually, well, we saw him last year. He won the Cali Pro last year. He was the Cali Pro Champ. Um he's won this show before the Legion Sports. He's a New York Pro champion. He's been eighth place at the Olympia. As a 212, I believe he was fifth place at the Olympia. He only did the 212 division briefly. I think it was one season and he was done. Look at that. Look at that back like a cobra. Great back shots. Condition. If you follow him on Instagram, you know his condition is just lights out. This is not not doing it justice. You would have to be all zoomed in and have a Gilo video to really see what's going on with him. Good job. Good job. Good job. Ken versus Keon will be battling for Mr. Olympian in a few years. Yeah, maybe. So, well, Keon definitely. Ken, I still I'm not gonna I'm not gonna put that prediction on Ken yet. All right. So this is the other Kenna is one North American champ. This is the other one in the in the lineup. Alo Toby Isola. This guy's very good too. Again, just very nice structure and shape. Look at that Vtaper. Look at those lats popping out like a V. That's how it's supposed to look. Look at that hamstring drop. Nice round, full hams from the side. I'd say he just needs to be a little bigger. He needs to fill out. Everything's there. Well, I shouldn't say that till I get to the back shots. Let me see the back. Let me see the back. She's running ads on her video there. Or somebody's running ads. How do I get rid of that? I don't want to see all that. Okay, we're back. I think she has these mid roll. They call them midroll ads. I I don't know if they pop up on my videos, too. Yeah, but uh gosh, it's it's hard to remember his first names. Olu Watubi. He needs a nickname. Somebody give this guy a nickname so I can just remember a nickname. A lot of these guys look so much better. I think everyone looks the best on Instagram because that's like right close up. They're usually all pumped up. They just worked out. Look at that. Nice kneeling three quarter back shot. Beautiful pose. This guy's very good, too. Blessing. Blessing with way bigger quads to be a threat. Yeah. I mean, he's had a few years to do it. Uh, this is Adam Millage. He's had a few years to do it and it hasn't happened yet. So, I I hate to say he's never going to get the quads, but if he hasn't built them up, he's already been a pro now for four or five years. If he I think it's five years. If if he hasn't built the quads now, when's it going to happen? Tonio is a great poser. Yeah, better. I mean, too early. Yeah, it is. It's very early for you, man. I can't believe you're actually on here, but thank you for being here. Forgot he was in this. Great structure lines. I'm not sure you're talking about Adam. Oh, High Top. Yeah, High Top. I like that. So, High Top's the hairstyle. It's like, you know, Kid and Play had that hair. A lot of a lot of 1980s rappers and hip-hop stars, uh, artists had that flat top hair. You don't see a whole lot of it anymore. It's because it's, you know, probably considered out of style. But things go in and out and things come back. Bell Bottoms came back, tie-dyes came back. All kinds of things have come and gone. So high top guy. I like high top. You're going to get credit. You were the first one damn funk to come up with that. Patrick Moore winning this show is only equivalent Nick Walker winning the Olympia for Bob Chick. Well, I have no, you know, I don't talk crap about Patrick. I have nothing against Patrick. I don't know if that's the case with Bob. I'm not saying he hates Nick or anything, but he does not like Nick's physique. I actually I like Patrick's physique a lot. I would just like to see it with more quads, more legs. That's all I want because look how wide he is. Those shoulders, they're like four feet across, you know? It's a beautiful frame. He's just got very long limbs. He's filled out the arms. The arms are enormous. And those quads on most other guys with shorter legs would be would also look enormous. Look at that. I love how he pulls a vacuum. He's got a tiny tiny waist. Yeah, Florian looking good today. I think he he'll be up soon. But yeah, Patrick definitely definitely looks far better than he did at the Cali Pro. Just seven days ago, I don't know how many times how often I've seen someone pull it together because he was looking really watery and not just water. It looked like he had too much fat. I mean, he definitely improved significantly. I'd say like condition looks 20 25%. I'm going to throw a number out there. 25% better right here than it was Yeah. a week just a week ago. Alter a game. Paul Barlo, what's up? The only stays on style is Ron goddamn hair. Since 1969, Paul, I've been I've been on this earth since uh I think I was born a week after the man two weeks after the Manson murders, the Tate Lab Bianca killings, September 1969. Yeah, Patrick, I got to give the guy credit. I I give credit where it's due. When he looks like ass and he's out of shape or anybody, I call him on it. But when they look a lot better, absolutely. Congrats, man. He pulled it together. He's top five. You know, they're gonna there's going to be another call out. Um the confirmation around everything. We'll see where he ends up, but he could be top three or something. Who knows? Felix Norman. Yeah, this is it's probably the best I've seen Patrick in maybe a couple years ago at one of the European shows. He was looking pretty good, too. You know, I think he has a pretty fast metabolism, so theoretically getting in shape shouldn't be that difficult. He's not like a an endomorph. Like there there have been some pro bodybuilders who if they didn't if they didn't watch it, they would be they would be obese. He probably should beat Bruno and play second. Uh he's definitely got a better frame, better bone structure, super wide clavicles, narrow waist. He's got a better structure than than Victor Bruno from Brazil. Definitely does. But conditionwise, I think Bruno's got him on that. Did you enjoy the Milos meltdown, Alexander? I did not like it at all. I don't like anger and people yelling and insulting and swearing at each other. I'm I don't like that. I would never want my channel to be about that. I get stress. I was stressed out. You could see me just being I was very uncomfortable. So, I wouldn't do that again. And the last time I talked about it, Milo sent me a a message. It was a screenshot saying, "Ron Harris is a live talking [\h__\h] about when you're on the show." I never did. Uh he was very very angry and passionate and and that it is what it is. All right, let's take a look at Jonathan Padilla from Mexico. This guy's got a lot of mass, pretty good shape. I was not a fan of his condition last week in Cali, Galley Pro out in Anaheim. It's a little better here today, not a lot. Actually, let me change. Let me let me backtrack. He's tighter. He's definitely tighter than he was a week ago. Born in August 9th, 1969. Okay, so that was the day, August. So, you would know, Richard, I was September 21st, so I was more than a month away, but it was a hell of a summer. We had the Mansa murders. We had the moon landing supposedly. We had Woodstock. I don't know if anyone famous got assassinated that year or not, but it was a big It was a big year. Padilla looks good, man. Next week, Jaws versus Jake Paul face what would happen to Blessing. Got way too fat in the offseason. Blew out his midsection. His obliques do seem to be larger. Definitely Bruno's glutes just throw me off his back shots. For what reason, Alan? Are they too big? You see National Jack just dropped. No, I did not. We'll check that out. Ron is a warrior for peace. Exactly. I'm a lover, not a fighter. I definitely enjoy loving more than I enjoy fighting. All right, so Florian Parson from France, great condition. When someone looks that lean and and the muscle separations are that clear and deep on a crappy, you know, this is like copy of a copy of a copy basically what we're looking at cuz Artha's streaming or she's sharing the live stream or she was and I'm sharing her video. So this is like three generations down from the original. But Florian looks really good, man. Look at this kid. I say kid because I I believe he's still in his late 20s, mid to late 20s. Look at that nice thick, dense back. Could be a little thicker in the back in the middle. I'd like to see more thickness in the midback. That's something that not a lot of guys have. I don't know why he's not locking that side try out. The the arm was still bent. Should have locked that out if he could. But the kid looks good. He's been a classic physique pro as well, but he's he's got all the mass right there to hang with the open. Not a problem. Is that Bruno coming up next? Joseph Patrick is one of those leaks when he's on points, he threats home saying, "Who should spit off?" Yeah, I mean, he's he's in the running for this. I'm curious to see where he ends up. He could be he could be as high as third, second, who knows? Victor Bruno or Bruno. Why do I call what I call him? Victor Bruno. Who the hell is that? Bruno Santos. Bruno Santos. Did I even write it down? Yeah, I wrote it down. Right. I'm just remembering wrong. Yeah, Bruno. I I I'd probably have him a solid second like he was at the uh the Cali Pro. I'm sorry. Leandro was right. He was third. They were actually those two were tied for a while driver, right? I threw away the paper with the place on it. But Bruno very thick and dense, great conditioning. The only thing that throws him off is that structure. Uh, so Berno fourth last week, Florian was second. I'm sorry, Florian was fifth. Yeah, last week was Rean Sassan. Yeah, Sassan was so that was the end of that. I'm going to see if we have any better individual footage on Instagram. Just curious. Sometimes you find some pretty good stuff on Instagram, obviously. Beyond Stage TV, what do you got for us? Any individuals? Game over. Let's see. Maybe AJ. Maybe AJ's channel. AJ Kelly usually has a lot of good stuff, too. AJ Kelly Robert, what do you got for me? He's got a couple things there. Doesn't everybody have Doesn't there one chance? It's got like everything. Felix Norman, AJ Kelly, buys and tries. Maybe I'm seeing the same same footage from pretty much everybody. I'm going to look at one more. If I don't see it, I'm just going to leave it there. Beyond stage, buys and tries. Maybe bodybuilders are borders. If I can type bodybuilders correctly. Bodybuilders. I'm looking for good stuff on Instagram, guys. From the media channels. Okay. Yeah, this is actually better. This is actually better. I'm gonna pause this for a second, guys. And I'm going to share the Instagram instead. All right. Because this has some good individual stuff. A little bit closer. Uh, who do we want to see first? Let's look at Tonio first. Oh, yeah. That's way closer. Way closer. Look at that. Yeah. And this is just somebody's iPhone. And I could tell they're not even that close. They're probably a few rows back. But look at that. He's just so complete. So complete. Nate Spear commented top. I was just sitting next to next to Nate. He came up from Florida because he's coaching. He was coaching some people at the Rhode Island show. He was sitting next to me in the front row behind the judges eating his chicken and rice out of a big tub. Look at that back, Antonio. Awesome. Awesome. One of the best backs in the sport right now. This guy, I think. Look at that. So wide all the way. It inserts down near his hipbone. Yeah, great job, Antonio. Great job. All right, let's go. Ah, Kennedy. Colossus Ken. Let's get a better look at Ken. Yeah, look at that. This guy is going places. Condition could be better. It's not horrible at all. He could be a little tighter, but he has got everything. A little more back, a little more lower lat. A little more lower lat. I'm being picky because I'm trying to think what what would it take for this guy to be winning shows because there's a few people out there right now who are newer, but you can definitely see the potential. They're going to be top guys within a year or two. And I see that for him. Condition's a pretty easy fix. You can, you know, you can fix that from one show to the next. Uh the back's going to take a little more work. That's going to take some offseason training gaining, but but this guy looks phenomenal. He's going to be He's going to be winning shows. It's not going to be It's not going to be like 10 years from now. It's going to be like within a year or two. Who's up, Antonio? We just saw Florian. Yeah, Florian looks really good. I like that crucifix shot he does. His frontal bicep, it reminds me of like old school guys like Larry Scott. Who's Larry Scott? He was the first Mr. Olympia 1965 and 1966 and then he retired. That was it for him. I think he only did those two shows. Well, pro the only that was the only pro show back then. Go back to Florian. Always in shape. I believe he's been with Patrick Tour for most if not all his career. And Patrick is very very skilled at getting people. Yeah, that why does he not have that arm locked out straight? I think that would make unless he's incapable. Unless there's some sort of injury or some issue going on, but I don't think so. I'd like to see him hit that pose. That's a great shot. That just reminds me of the old school like 80s guys for some reason. And here we go. Bruno Santos. You have Bruno. I could see Bruno actually needs more light more quads now that I'm looking at him. I probably have noticed that before, but I forgot. A little bit light in the quads. Thick thick chest, shoulders, arms. see the condition. He was in pretty damn good shape last weekend at Cali. Looks like he's maybe just a touch off that here. It's hard to say. I'd need to see side by side, but I believe his his glutes and his hams were a little tighter and that's kind of like what we go by. That's sort of what we judge these things by. Yeah, looked really really good. Was there an individual of Patrick anywhere? I'm wondering Antonio. No, I want to see Patrick's individual if I can find it anywhere. Does AJ have it? AJ's a Patrick fan. He might have it up there. What the heck? Uh, no. Am I on the right thing? No, that's Bible's up order. AJ, I'm surprised he doesn't have Patrick because he's always been a really big supporter of Patrick. That's way back. We don't want to We don't want to see the footage from way back there. What's up, Branch? You hear Branch? Something outside? Okay, what else we want to look at? Be on the stage. Muscle Insight. I'm going to go to your comment, guys. Do you know uh anyone that's got awesome footage that I'm missing? Share this tab instead. Great structure. See light in the back. Shawn Ray. Yeah, Shawn Ray had a high top back in the 80s, early 90s. Everyone has to admit Patrick Moore looks good. Hey, like I said, man, I'm not a hater. If if someone looks good, I I'll I'll say it. I even if they've looked especially if they've looked crappy at the last few shows, I definitely always want to come out and say great job, big improvements. This is the best I've seen Patrick look in a very long time. He might be He might be right up there in the top three. No condition. Oh, I already said all I already went through all the figure what would happen. Bless you. Got too fat. Yeah, I went through all these. Bruno's glutes. I already did that. Uh Martin vers Beus in Dubai. We got Oh, uh out of those two, I like Beirus AI mean, I'm a big Beirus Tobani fan. There's nothing personally against Martin. I don't hate Martin or And I don't love Beirus. I don't know Beu Mahol. I've never talked to the guy, but I conditionwise, very few people in this sport bring the kind of condition that Beu Tobani does, and he's got plenty of muscle. Martin's got plenty of muscle, too. We'll see what happens. I think Who else is in Toronto? I don't know who else is going to be there to challenge him. I I think uh Rean's the front runner. A born on the moon. Man on the moon. Born under a dark sign. Born under a bad moon. Dominant feature is beast. It looks like small. Mustafa more detail. No sir. Smartest person you've encountered bodybuilding industry throughout your whole career. John Meadows. Uh the entire industry. Let's keep it to pro bodybuilders because low ho. Because if you want to include like supplement company owners, people like that, there's there's, you know, there's some people out there with PhDs and they're obviously very very intelligent people. Um, but I would say out of the bodybuilders I've I've known over the years, John Meadows definitely one of the most intelligent. Milos is one of the most intelligent. Uh, Evan Capani is a very bright guy. There's been a few legs are undersized. Agree. Hi Katherine, thanks for joining me. Rean was shocking but happy for him. Think Blessing really need to think about retiring. Zero gains. His legs are way too small. Where's his triceps? Actually got pretty good triceps. I think his waist got wide and got distended. It just got worse. So yeah, we're looking at here. These are not callouts. These were just as the guys came out individually. I apologize for drinking so much, guys. When I talk I get thirsty. Like I don't think I'm diabetic, but geez, I get thirsty a lot. I wish Blessing would push himself a little more. Can't Paul is very uh very adamant about busting people when they step over the line, cheating the line. Reminds me of Bonak, but with better retaper. Well, that's a decent comparison. He's got a better structure than Bonak for sure. Tony looks so much better on the high def footage his day. For sure. We really haven't seen any high def footage. Everything we've seen is either from this or the stuff we're looking at before. I think it was just somebody's iPhone. Working with Dave Palumbo. He has a lot of good things to say about you. Good guy. He's definitely be on excited to be on RX Muscle crew uh with film. Oh, you've been working on the on the media side. I I thought you was coach. When you said that, I thought he was coaching because Dave's been a a renowned coach for decades. Yeah, I have I have a lot of respect for Dave. Dave's been around very long time. Dave's a very intelligent guy. You want to talk about intelligent people? I think he's probably one of the foremost peed experts on this planet. Dave Palumbo, two more weeks dieting, dialing. You're going to be Are you talking about people that need to dial? Give her a thumbs up. Thank you, Carson. And if you're not already subscribed, please subscribe. Damn funk. Ken should be first call out. Yeah. Yeah. is it's you know that when this happens they'll say he was overlooked but I wonder if I don't know if she stopped the footage because I I suspect there was another call out that she didn't get for whatever reason. Uh because usually there's a final call out which we didn't see here with just like three or four guys. Let me see this. Let me see what she's got. Yeah, because she has this just up on her screen. She's just leaving this up live the whole time, just running out the clock. But so the last footage she had was I find it hard to believe that they didn't have like a final call out with the top three, four, five guys again. I bet they did. But that's where she ended it. She ended it after this, which I don't think was the final call out. I don't think it was that. Oh, wrong division. Oops. Wrong division for my purposes anyway. I'm just gonna lay this up while we talk. Okay. a blessing. Yeah, I don't see that he's improved. You're right. I mean, he looks about the same same as he did a few years ago. And he's had time to grow. I I I don't know why he's not getting any better. Look at the shape on him, though. That frontal bicep is ridiculous. And the front lating has been blessed with some of the best muscle bellies and bone structure. Quads, I know he's had issues. He's got like a doublejinted knee that folds back sometimes when he's training. It's It's got to hurt. Did you catch Krie's all these videos where his physio and seems to be putting in the work to get his posing? Oh, I hope so. That's good to hear, Black Patron. And I mistakenly said in one video talking to Dr. T, which the video didn't even get that many views, so you probably didn't see it, but uh I said KZO was done for the year. And I I had forgotten he is doing the EVLS Prague Pro because he didn't get his Olympia qualification this year yet. He still needs to get it somewhere and that's that's where he's gotten it before and that's his sponsor EVLs and I think Prague Czech Republic is I think it's only a few hours drive from where he lives in Slovakia. So, it makes sense for him to just come come out later in the in the season, win that, get his qualification for 2026, and then he has all the all this time to improve, fix his posing, improve his back a little bit more, build up the glutes a little bit more, the hams a little bit more, make the improvements he needs to move up because Kriso has a lot of potential. He just has a little couple little gaps that he needs to fill in. It's like Bob the Gob. Larry Scott had a comeback, did he? I know like Bill Pearl did, but you know, there was Tyrus, the Tyrus, there was like there was literally like no money in bodybuilding back then. And that's one thing that's changed so much for the better over the years. They retired very young back in the in the 60s bodybuilders because there was like nothing like winning the Mr. Olympia was was $500 first prize and I don't think I don't even know if anyone after that got any money. So there were no sponsorships, nothing like that. There there was no way to make money. So they just they left and they went back to lifting for their own amusement and satisfaction and got a real job. All right. So this is High Top. I'm going to call him High Top because I every time I say his name I feel like I'm murdering it, mutilating it. Although Toby Isola, he's an IFBB uh North American champion. He's smiling. He looks up. He looks angry sometimes. Men's wellness IPB pro league will never institute that but I saw they are doing it in Brazil they are who teach these guys to lean forward like that for game to the backlight Antonio is the only one who gets proper yeah you do see some wonky posing men in bodybuilding you do Dr. Scott Stevenson, obviously he's a doctor. He'd be very intelligent. You know, there's there's a lot of bright people in the sport. John Jwitt, agree. Agree. Just top five afterward 610. Kentel. No, we don't want we don't want anything that sounds like fentinel. Blessing bulk too much. Put too much fat in our season. Uh do I know how the wellness went? I didn't watch it. I literally turned this on. I'm watching uh this woman's video, Artha. This is the first time seeing of anything today. I was at I was at a contest in Rhode Island, an an NPC national qualifier, an amateur show. So, I I wasn't able to watch this live. So, I didn't see Wellness, but Blessing always bulks up. He always gets heavier than I think a bodybuilder should get in the offseason. I don't likes to eat. I don't know. I don't know. Going live watch always learn. Thanks for watching. I always appreciate you guys. Guys like you who always show up on the lives. So many pros could came and got the proqualification. You mean their Olympia qualification? Yeah. Yeah. There's been a few guys uh like Kriso. Obviously Kris is all done. He's back in Slovakia. He's done until the Prague show, but I think Krisio would had a really good chance of beating Tony here. So expect more from Tony. I'm skipping last year. Oh top 10. Uh the top 10 is always stacked. Everyone everyone except for the usual suspects. I mean, we know Hottie, Samson, Derek, Nick. That's probably your top four in no particular order. Then you got Andrew Jack, you got Martin. Uh there's a few more few more people who could really make an impact. A lot of Golden Air body. We got work as movie extras. Yeah. Yeah. If you watch Muscle Beach Party, that one of those dopey beach movies with Frankie Frankie Avalon, Net Funichello, Muscle Beach Party has uh a bunch of scenes, probably like three or four, with a group of bodybuilders coached by Don Rickles, like he was a like he was a bodybuilding coach or something. Larry Scott was in there. There's a few pros from that era that were in that movie. They have no speaking lines, I don't think. Dr. It's Todd Lee. You know, anyone that says doctor in front of the name, they have to be pretty bright. All right, here's Patrick Moore. Yeah, this is a really good showing for Patrick. Son definitely saying nose genetics. Yeah, he's definitely my kid. Alli, there's no no question he's my son. Dr. Mikeell, yeah, he's a doctor as well. Be no quad sweep, which is Martin Strong Point. Olympia Martin just as conditioned as Beirus. Uh I've I've never seen any of the Olympia guys as conditioned as I've seen Beirus at times. I haven't seen maybe Hottie, but I've never seen Derek that conditioned all over. I've ne certainly never seen Samson is conditioned all over his beer ruani. Great movie, Muscle Beach Party. Plus, he made no change. Yeah, if Andrew Jack blew his legs up, he would be Mr. Olympia. Huge imbalance here. He was influenced years ago. Yeah, you you realize he he only turned pro in 2022. This is only his 22 23. He's just started his fourth season as a pro. Three years ago in March, he was an amateur. return pro at the Arnold Classic amateur. Arnold amateur in in Columbus. Glad for Patrick coming in so much approved. Hope he continues on gets qualification. Dr. Israel is a bum. Well, he's certainly got a big gut right now. Could 100% Martin San rivalry? No, Jesse. I don't see Martin as as pushing for the Mr. Olympia title. Not now. Maybe in a year or two. I don't put him in that league as guys like Hottie and Samson and Derek. He's not there yet. Dr. in front of my name and I'm basically an idiot. I doubt that. Florian should be top three. Well, everyone in the top five should be top three. So, what is your opinion on the look of guys like Tonio and Stu who have big quad sweeps but less in adductors. Uh the adductors typically can be can be improved a lot. quad sweep I think is largely genetic, but if someone is lacking in the adductors, uh the inner thigh, I think anybody could really build those up like, you know, couple times a week on that adductor machine, you know, if you can build up to using like the whole stack on that thing or more for 15, 20 reps for a few sets, uh and doing wide stance leg presses, sumo squats, things like that. I I did I had really good quad sweeps and I had shitty adductors. This is years ago. And it was Dante Trudeell from DC Training who pointed it out to me. He told me, "You know that girly machine that that men stay away from where you squeeze your legs together? Do that. Get really strong on that." And he was right. My my adductors they filled out and it really completes the look of the leg. Patrick Moore would give it to him. Oh, you think you Tony waist bloated and quad full of oil. I don't think I would give give it to Patrick over Tonio. But Patrick's looking really good today. Did I ever see Frank Zayn? Uh, I did not I think I I might have seen like a YouTube clip of it, but I didn't see that episode. Team Israel or Palestine? Ali? I'm not answering that. Your name is Ali, so I already Well, that's tough. Ali sounds like an Arab, like an Arabic name, but Jacob's sounds like an Israeli name or a Jewish name. So, I don't know. Dr. Todd Lee. Obviously, any bodybuilder that's a doctor, they had to go through medical school unless they're a doctor in music or something like that. So, they're all going to be very, very smart guys. This is Jonathan Padilla. Will Be Ruse get a visa under the Trump administration? Uh, if I was a gambling man, I would not I would not bet on it. Sass Lander probably could win this competition. Tony is a master picking shows. I mean, everybody's everybody should be a master at picking the right shows to compete in. Tonio lives in Reno. His first show was was in Reno with these same promoters. So, it made perfect sense to me that he would do this show. He said it was a 20 or 30 minute drive from his house. So why wouldn't he do this show? And the timeline was right. He got hurt. He had a motorcycle accident last late last October. Thirdderee burns. Um so it took him a few months to get back back on track in his training and everything. So this I think timing wise this just worked out really well. And you know like I said it's literally in his backyard. He lives in Reno. Europe show where Bonak beats the show. Bonak was more conditioned be. Okay. Patrick is yurro. I don't know what that means. Peekmore is a waste of stage oil. Oh boy. And a snitch. Oh boy. Guy is enormous. He's the biggest one of the biggest Mexicans I've ever seen. That's for sure. More looks great. Absolutely. Yeah. This is Florian. I've I've run the same footage over and over again, guys. I I apologize, but I don't have a lot to work with. And again, this is not the stream. I am not pirating the stream. I'm pirating Artha Labs video which is titled her video is called if you want to watch it Legion Sportsfest 2025 commentarios m Portuguese. I I do not speak any Portuguese. I speak some crappy Spanish but that was my weak ass attempt at correct Portuguese pronunciation. Heart to heart is on YouTube. Yeah, most things are on YouTube if you do a little searching. There's so much on YouTube. Shoulder surgery. Thank Bio muscle June 25th and I can't wait. I cannot wait. I'm counting the days. It's only 25 days, but I'm I'm psyched to get that surgery done. My shoulder replacement. Can't wait to be out of pain and get back to range of motion. You see, this arm goes all the way up. This arm does not. That's as high as it goes. Yeah, I would had Ken the first call out. I thought he looked he looks he looks amazing. Leandro in peeled condition could win the Olympia. M no, not the Olympia Dan Funk. No, he's not that good. He's good. Don't get me wrong. He's not that good. Olympia, these these guys like Hottie and and Derek right now, they're at a higher level, Nick. They're just at a higher level. They're very very tough to beat. Uh you going to share your painkillers? Uh they don't give they don't give out many painkillers. Leandro, more muscle mass and a better structure. 99% of the open class. I don't know about that. No, they're only going to give me enough painkillers to last a few days, I'm sure, because my brother just had the surgery. He's my younger brother just had a shoulder replacement. They only gave him enough pain pills for like a week. Uh, one of my older brothers just had his gallbladder out and they only gave him pain pills to last him like three days or something. Derek is garbage. Okay. You don't like Derek? Oh boy. Did you injure your shoulder? Oh, it's just wear and tear. So bone on bone you have in between the bones you have this cushion called cartilage. I'm sure most people you already know this I know but you can wear that away and I wore mine away about 15 years ago. Completely wore there was no cartilage. So I had one surgery in 2011 an arthoscopic surgery called a decompression which it's kind of a quick fix. They go in they clean the joint out and they make a little more room so you're not bone on bone anymore. But after a couple years and it was like three or four years after that, the pain was back and uh it bought me some time. So the surgery was in 2011. I competed uh one last one last round in 2013. And I'd say by 2015 16 it was already getting very hard to press with free weights. By 2020 I I was down to like all machines for shoulders and chest pressing. I can't even do I can't even do an overhead. Ah, that hurts. Just trying to show you right now. What this guy smoking underwin Olympia? Whatever he's smoking, I want some of it. Big T. I like that. What's that? A Lego Trump. It's your logo as your avatar. I broke my femur. I was told I wouldn't take enough painkillers. Wow. Well, cuz you're OG. Yeah. I don't It's It's I I've talked to I've talked to probably about a dozen people now that have had the shoulder replacement surgery. There's not that much pain. It's not that painful. It takes a while to get your range of motion back and your strength back, but the pain, it's not bad at all because you've been in so much pain from the arthritis. The pain I'm in now is is much worse than what I'll be feeling. You know, maybe maybe a few days after surgery, it's going to be bad. But after that, I'm not worried at all. No. No, Darren. When you need a shoulder replacement or a hip replacement, when you need a joint replaced, stem cells aren't going to help you. Peptides aren't nothing is going to help you. It's like if I cut your foot off, is BPC what is stem cells going to grow you a new foot? No, probably not. She successful should surgery recovery. I want to thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that, Ellie. Appreciate it. It's a sandwich. Ron, look closer. Oh, it's a Trump sandwich. If donut Derek would look at anyone can donut Derek, thank you for watching SoCal Meadows. This guy has no idea Derek is guard. You know, everyone's got what do they say? Opinions are like [\h__\h] Everyone's got one. We've all got an [\h__\h] and we've all got an opinion. And you know what? You're all entitled to your opinion. Every one of us. If if he wants to think Leandro is the best body in the world, if somebody wants to think this guy on the right over here is the best bodybuilder in the world. That's your prerogative. You know, who am I to tell you? No. No. You can't like that bodybuilder. So, saw Simpson's latest YouTube is gigantic. I saw that too. Hope he's learning. Doesn't need to get bigger. I'm mostly need focused on trying to Yeah, he looks he looks enormous. Not being MD earn a living in the industry is via YouTube. YouTube and online coaching. Ollie, that's it. It's I'm not making anywhere near the amount of money I was. I'll be totally honest with you. My bills are getting paid. Uh but I don't have like money for luxury to go on vacations and stuff like that right now. I don't have extra money. They have just enough to cover, you know, all the bills, you know, the house payments, car insurance, I have a lease on my car, stuff like that. Janessian, I will not be in Amsterdam. Sarcois, I had to choose between going to that show, the Euromuscle show, which sponsors this YouTube channel. Thank you, Matthew Piercel. Piercell from Eurom Muscle. uh he was going to bring me over and I was I was really looking forward to it, but I'm getting my shoulder replaced by one of the best surgeons in the Northeast United States. This guy is he comes highly recommended. He's worked on a lot of bodybuilders, pro football players, baseball players. He's great. Uh Dr. Glenn Ross, he's got a waiting list a mile long. If I didn't get my shoulder done June 25th, the next possible opening I had was like November. I think it was like late November. I like no this hurts. It wakes me up all night. So, no, I I couldn't wait. So, it broke my heart to have to not go to the Euro muscle show, but I I didn't want another six months of living like this. Plum about shoulder placement incline bar. Yeah. Oh, I'm definitely I'm getting it done. Yeah, it's happening. It's happening. Three of the worst shots class. Dan Funk does not like Derek. Thumbs up. Yes. Algorithm. Thumbs up. Hit the like. Subscribe. Whatever it is you can hit, hit it. Uh, if I take enough of Celtic, can I look like you one day? Absolutely. You could look like me in uh two days probably. Thank you. Appreciate it, Saros. Appreciate it. Guy that fixed Cruz should be some sort of wizard. I He just had soft tissue damage. I think he had like a rotator cuff tear, maybe a labum tear. He had he had some torn tissue in there, which that's easy. They go in, they literally, you know, they suture it up and it's good as new after a while. Joint replacement's a lot more complicated. They're actually, you know, they take a big chunk of the bone away and they put in this metal implant and plastic on one side actually more body. He doesn't like woo folks. He doesn't like them. So Ken is ahead of more more guy. Uh from the judging I Patrick's definitely ahead. Do you do diet plan for spiring natural? Yes. Yes. Yeah. By hit me up on it's my Instagram is the same as uh YouTube Ron Harris Muscle. I actually prefer I work with enhanced athletes and natural athletes. I actually prefer working with natural athletes because I'm never 100% comfortable counseling people on drugs. I do it. I know enough to do it and keep them keep them as healthy as possible, but I I can sleep easier and breathe a little easier working with people that are 100% natural because I know I'm not they're not harming themselves in any way. When everyone when ever anyone's prepping or just in general on gear and on other drugs, are they 100% healthy? Are they or are they taking a risk? There's always a risk. Always. So, yeah. By please hit me up on my Instagram. Ron Harris muscle. Second that we speak. Thank you. Thank you. Rip tendons. Okay. Yeah. So, yeah. Black Petron tendons because I had, you know, I've torn a tricep and I've torn a quadricep. So, those are easier in terms of they just they they stretch the muscle back down. They put the tendon back on the joint that it's supposed to be attached to, the patella in the case of the quad. Uh, this one, the elbow, and they just suture it up and everything's good as new. Uh, Instagram. Okay. Share this. I'm tick off soon, guys. Broke my pelvis in oral. Oxygen. You mean Oxycontton, not oxygen? Shoulder problems almost always stem from the shoulder press. Yeah. I mean, and the thing is, listen, folks, I was such a great shoulder presser and my ego got the best of me. I used to do 315 with a barbell behind the neck. Legit. I swear to God. I did it in front. I don't think I ever went heavier than 315, but I could do 315 to the front for like 10, 12 reps. Barbell, not a Smith machine, not a hammer machine. We're talking barbell. Seated dumbbell presses. I could do the 120s for anywhere from 12 to 20 reps any day of the week. And when I was really pushing it, I could do 130s for like six shitty reps. I know I tried 140s and the spotter was probably doing part of it. 189 watching lines. Hit the like button. Thanks, Darren. Trying to I'm trying to click on your comment. Ah, there we go. Thanks. Good man, Ron. Thank you, Daniel Marquez, beard lover and bodybuilder. That reminds me of the uh Zezy Top song. Beer drink beer drinkers and hell raisers. Yeah, the fans. These live chats are awesome. We get sometimes I have to delete a comment. Someone will throw like an n-word or homophobic, you know, something like that. I have to delete it. But for the most part, everyone's cool on the live chat. You know what kind of issue Hunter has with shoulder? Says he's getting it sorted. No, but I mean there's there's so much that can go wrong with the shoulder, guys. It's it's awful. The shoulder can it's it's used in everything you do because if you if you ever have a shoulder injury, you'll find out exactly how involved it is in everything you do. You know, now now even like curling hurts my shoulder. I can find like a certain angle with a cable or machine. If I get my elbow on the on the pad at a certain angle, it's okay. But oh man, like everything hurts. When your shoulder is is trash, it just it it ruins everything. Thank you, Tyler Deran from Fight Club. Branch, you want to come up again? Branch, you want to say hi? Don't whack your head this time. Branch wants his walk. He said his morning walk, but he wants his evening walk. Right. You good boy. You a good boy. You're such a good boy. You good boy, papas. You a good pit bull. You a good pitbull. Can you look over there? He chased a deer this morning. I let him off leash. I let him chase the deer because I knew he wasn't gonna catch it. Deer hauled ass. Got got away. Venuk. So my situation has been bone on bone for 15 years. Peptides wouldn't do anything for that. When the bone has just been grind ground away, it's gone. It's obliterated. There's nothing to heal. The peptides wouldn't help with a with a with an injury like a like a rotator cuff tear. Giles, my my guy Giles over in UK, he was supposed to have rotator cuff repair surgery, but instead he decided to do BP7, BPC-157, TB-500, and it healed within three months. He canceled the surgery and he's feeling great and he's training again. So, if it's a soft tissue injury like the tendons, ligaments, let's say tendon because that's the thing, that's where most people have the issues, those healing peptides will do a great job. But if you're if you have severe arthritis for years and years and the joint has just been trashed, it's too late. Van Halen used to do a get cover. Oh, yeah. Talking about the Zezy Tops. Yeah, it is rainy again today. I was just on the highway from uh from here to Twin Mirror Casino in the rain. Still dealing with break my femur. Yeah, thanks. I wish wish good you you good luck as well for live friends. Meoku, I don't know how to say you're welcome. I can only say yoku. I hear a lot of French around here, but it's French Creole because we have a huge Haitian population. But when I was growing up in my hometown, Walt, Mass, we had a very large French Canadian population. So I did hear a lot of French being spoken. They were all from they weren't from Quebec though. They were all from uh New Brunswick. Most of them were from the same city, Monton. And they all a lot of them were named Leblanc or Leger last name. I forgot. Yeah. Oh yeah, of course. I was at that Olympia Daniel and he looked phenomenal and it looks like he's on his way back. So when I say I don't like to write anybody off, this is why. Because Patrick could look like crap. Anybody could look like crap two, three years in a row, but then they pop up and suddenly look way better. I've seen it. I know it's possible. That's why I never say anybody should retire or anybody's finished unless they have some horrible, you know, medical condition where it's just it's impossible. Uh or, you know, it's even like a a PET. Some things are there's no coming back from. But with most of these guys, there is there is hope. There is hope for the future. Peptides were from miniscus tear. I don't even know if he would know the answer to that. Sarco, and I'm probably not doing a show with him for a couple weeks, so I don't know the answer to that. I I you know, I don't these peptides are very unproven. There's no hard evidence that they work. There's a lot of anecdotal evidence from people that have used them, but I've also talked to people that said, I I didn't see any any benefit. I didn't see any improvement. So, the jury is still out. I know. And the same thing with stem cells, which are so much more expensive. Ontario, Canada. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I've been to Toronto a few times for the Toronto Pro show. Everybody spoke English. I didn't hear too much French being spoken. I've only been to Montreal once and everyone spoke French and they got very upset. This is 20 years ago, 25 years ago. They seem very annoyed if you didn't speak French. So, I just kind of kept kept my mouth shut. I let other people do the talking for me. Anyway, guys, I'm going to take off. Branches is walk. So, I'll probably do a wrap up on this later tonight. Not sure how late it's going to go, but we'll see. I'll probably steal the same woman's channel because I'm not stealing I'm stealing her channel. I'm not stealing the live stream. Serious peptides peptides Boston life. Well, that was a a fat loss. I don't know if it was a pet. It was something to melt fat and it it was it was already it had already shown to be very deadly in the uh the animal subjects, but he thought he was going to be okay. See you soon. All right, guys. So, that's it. Uh I'm going to stop this, stop sharing. Now, it's just me. So, thanks thanks guys for watching. Appreciate it very very much. Uh I'll be back for the finals hopefully. I think I will. We'll see how late it goes. I hope they start with bodybuilding. And anyway, that's it. I appreciate all you guys so much. Hit the like, subscribe, do all that good stuff. Share, and we'll talk to you later. Peace out.