What's up everybody? It is time time for the Middle East Mr. Olympia as I kind of call it. The Dubai Pro is kicking off right now as we speak. It is about 5:15 5:19 p.m. over there in Dubai. Let's see what's going on. They have not They hadn't started a second ago, but they should be starting this show any minute. Let's take a look. Okay, so this is courtesy of Artha Labs. Big show over there. big channel over there in Brazil. Uh you can see Artha, the lovely Artha Loose down there in the corner. So this is not the stream. I am not pirating the stream. I'm showing Artha Lab's video. I don't know if she paid for access to this or not, but it's not full screen. So we'll see how far we can go. So typically this is uh how these things start. We got Bob Chick, Bob Chickerillo, the MC. It's just uh about to start. Your mom's flip-flop. Hey, just Jen. Thank you, Jen. Big show. Big show. Yeah. Okay. So, uh I think they're starting with open, but do these look like these look like the 212 guys to me. Yeah, I'm guessing these are 212. Oh, no. Wait, who's that? Yeah, looks like they're starting with 212 division. There's There's Free right there. They just walked out. Uh, a lot of names I'm going to be unfamiliar with. So, um, please excuse me. Forgive me ahead of time. You see the live stream commentary in the corner of this video being done by Sid Farooq and the boss of Outlaw, Stefan Keynes, who has several clients on the show, including William Bonak. Who else does he have? Nathan Dasha is also his client. I'm sure he's got some other ones. Sure he's got some other ones. Um, so this is a 212 division just coming out for initial looks. This is not a call out. Just numerically, the first five competitors are coming out so the judges can get a quick look at them, make some notes to see who's really standing out. That way when it's time for the head judge, who I believe is Steve Weinberger, yeah, Steve Weineberger's over there. Um, this gives them a heads up so they know who to ask to see when the guys all come out. So, I'm looking for the young guy, Nihhatz, but he's not out there yet. That was Ro. I think that's Rodislava Angelov there on the in the yellow trunks. Second group of 212 competitors coming out. Anybody we know? Uh, it was unfortunate. I learned yesterday that Mie Jabari, Jabari from Iran, who was looking to do very well in the 212 division. I had never heard of him before, but once I looked at him, I was super impressed. Didn't make it out of Iran in time. There's Kihi there in the turquoise trunks, second from your left. He's 22 years old. And uh he's one of the he's one of the front runners. He's got just beautiful shape, structure, symmetry. He's not as thick as Angel Cderon Frius as Ratoslav. Um, but boy, he's got just beautiful shape and that that that can take you a very long way. That can get you past guys who have superior mass as long as your conditioning is there and Nihad's condition is where it needs to be. Uh, I believe he's a Patrick Tour client. Patrick Tour. Yeah. Patrick is just one of the most consistent coaches in terms of bringing his athletes in in great condition. See, we got any comments. Good morning, Richard. Good morning, your mom's flip-flop. Yeah, so they're just getting started. I thought they were going to start with open, but it looks like they're going to start with 212. We got the 212 up there right now. hoping it goes to open after that because otherwise there is about there are about 40 classic physique not classic men's physique competitors uh and the divisions I'm really interested in as I've made no secrets open 212 and classic men's physique respect those guys they work very very hard uh it's it's hard for me to judge I'm just not not able to really comment even on men's physique that well because I I don't understand the the criteria of that division as well. So, what's up Tony? Good morning. It's evening for a lot of you guys over there. Actually, no, in Europe. So, it is only 2:23 in the UK, 3:30 in other parts of Western Europe, but over here in the Middle East, in Dubai, it is 5:24 p.m. And I believe they're just going to run straight through judging straight into finals. Pretty sure that's how they're going to do it. So, again, we're still looking at 212 division. We haven't had a call out yet. This is all the competitors getting an initial look from the judges after which the entire division will file back on stage and head judge Steve Weinberger will make his first call out. Can I make this any bigger? Let me see. Can I? No, not really. That's as big as I can make it, guys. My bad. So, I'm looking to see who I recognize in this group. That guy looks pretty good. Number 108. I should probably put up the pull up the competitor list and show you that for a second. Should probably just keep that up. So, I'm going to pull up the competitor list on a different screen here. Okay. So, yeah, this is who we're looking at. Uh, this is the 212 division. I don't know. It's a pretty small print on your screen, but you can see it's it's a good size class. It's a good size class. Uh, I don't think that's numerical. So, I'm It's still not going to help me identify anybody. I only really know four guys in this cl in this in this division the 212 division who are competing today. Uh I basically uh from previous shows I know Nihhat Maya or Kaya Nihad Kaya what I was calling him the wrong name. Angel Calder on Frias Vera Salvangelov and Jeppi Zagarella. I've seen all of them before in previous shows. A lot of those other names I was I am not familiar with. Is that Zagar? Zagarella should be the last guy. Did he not make it or we got one more group? I think we have one more group. One more group of 212 athletes before they bring them all up. Bring them all back it looks like. So this is a good size division, but the biggest divisions by far today are classic is packed. It is a ton of guys in classic and men's physique packed open much more manageable. It's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, nine, 10. It's about 20 guys actually. It's not a small class, but it's very manageable. Oh, are they doing individuals for everybody, too? Wow. Okay, we're going to be here a while. Uh, I'm just going to try to figure out who this is. So if this is 212, oops, 212. Is this Mahmud Adele from United Arab Emirates? That's who that was. If that's if they're going by numeric uh alphabetical order as far as how they got their numbers, we should see Rislavangelov next. Yeah, I find it uh almost hard to believe that boss of Outlaw can do commentary while he's while he's coaching athletes. Yeah, this is Ratislav from Bulgaria and he has won some shows over in Europe. I don't recall seeing him over in the US. I'm not sure if he's ever made it over to the US for a show, but he's Bulgarian. He wouldn't have a hard time. Otislav is a very, very consistent competitor. I've never seen him out of shape. Looks to be a shorter guy, but thick, nice round muscle bellies. Condition looks pretty good. This is not super HD footage. It's not super 4K footage. So, when the images come out, you'll see photos probably on the the Dubai Muscle Show uh Instagram page. Everyone's going to look so much so much leaner, so much more defined because the quality of those photos is always superior to what we see in these live streams. You can see some guys in traditional traditional garb there. Okay. So, this is Oben Roxman Ara from Cameroon. That's West Africa. West Africa. Uh, where you have Nigeria, Ghana, all those awesome places. Skip the commercial. And this guy looks pretty stacked, too, doesn't he? Big dude. Yeah, a lot of these 212 guys have difficulty making weight, meaning they could probably compete anywhere from 215 to 220, some of them even heavier than that. Um, but they they know they need to get down to 212. So, that that helps with the condition, too. There's the front row. I don't know if these are chics or just very wealthy wealthy guys. I don't know what they're who they are, but they're right there in the front row and some nice comfy comfy chairs. Yeah, I've definitely never heard of this guy before. Oben Roxman. Ara Ara. Okay. Looks good though. Cameroon. Trying to think of who else came from. Cameroon. I want to say uh Sylvio Samuel. Sylvio Samuel Savoir. Savior. I think that's where he was originally from. Cameroon. Then he moved to Brazil. Okay. This is Vahed Baharu. Baharu from Iran. Okay, take a look at Vahid. Where did we skip straight to Angel? What happened? I missed him. There's Okay, so we got Angel Calderan Frias, who is the heavy favorite. Oh, is my stream? Yeah. Yeah, I'm I'm live. Okay. Yeah. So, Angel, super thick, super conditioned. Yeah, we know he doesn't have the the prettiest structure, but you know, there there have been a few very successful 212 guys who you could say had a stockier structure. I mean, you can tell even when he's alone on stage that this is a shorter guy. I believe he's about 5'2. Um, so that means, you know, his head and proportion of his body is going to be a little bigger. I always say, you know, perfect proportions are hard to come by where somebody has the limbs, the head, everything's just just perfectly proportioned. But Angel looking very very tough. The wear and tear probably starting to to show on him. He's done a couple shows already this season. And yeah, I have seen him a little sharper than this if you can believe that. So there's Angel. Angel called Fria. So up next should be Farad Ganji from Iran. That does not look like him. They look I'm thinking a lot of these guys from Iran didn't make it. I don't think that guy made it. So this is Richard Gail from Jamaica. Yeah. Uh, I guess if they didn't get out of Iran in time before all the bombing started. Oh, pretty weak legs. I mean, size-wise and condition, very weak on this guy. I'm going to I'm going to throw it out there. This guy looks natty to me. He looks completely natural. He could have gotten into better condition, drugs or no drugs, but yeah, this is he's he's definitely out of place here today. I applaud his decision, which I I'm going to I would bet you good money this guy we're looking at is drug free. I applaud his decision to stay natural, but it does put him at a disadvantage when he's up against these other guys who are just so much more muscular, just physically impressive. Um, he looks good. He doesn't look like a young man, so props to him. He's at least 40, maybe closer to 50. It's hard hard to say. I've never heard of him before. So yeah, I'm already seeing a couple names here from Iran that did not make it. Right. So this should be Muhammad Gumar from Egypt. There's a lot of guys from Iran in this roster. I wonder how many of them are actually were able to to make it. All right. So looks good. It's good lat spread. You see the difference between him and the last guy. The muscles just have a much rounder look. Especially the shoulders are all capped. Quads nice and sweepy. Needs more back. Needs more back thickness. Uh good width as you often see. Uh he doesn't need a lot more back w thickness. I don't want to say he has a weak back. Great side chest shot for him. Needs to control that midsection when he's not really paying 100% attention to it. You do see a little bit of a bulge at the bottom there, which you know, he doesn't have a bubble gut, but everybody should keep their waist cinched in as much as possible. Okay, so this should be maybe Jabar from Iran, but I don't think it is. No. Is this Nihad? Yeah, this is Nihad. So, like I said, maybe did not make it for a lot of these Iranian athletes didn't make it out in time to get to the show, and I'm sure the airports are closed. So, we're looking at 22-year-old Nihhat Kyla Nihad Kaya. I spelled his name wrong in my notes. It's K A Y A. 22 years old. Amazing future for this guy in the 212 division. He's already put on substantial size since this show last year when he was only 21. I mean, how many 21 year olds are are up there hanging with the pros? This kid, this kid's 22 and he's right he's right there. He might win this thing. We'll see from the call outs, but I'm I'm guaranteeing right now they're going to put him right next to Angel. Uh right next to Radislav. He's going to be in that initial group, and I I would not be totally surprised. So, what am I what am I seeing? Yeah, you see a little bulge there. Obviously, he's put on a good amount of size. His back has come up substantially. Look at those glutes. They're like Ruffles potato chips. If any of those, if any of you know what Ruffles potato chips are, the potato chips with all the the notches in them, great delts. That's a great most muscular shot for him. Streamyard Angel is great. Yeah, these are all pros. Fati, let's go. Nihhat. So, that was Nihhat. This is uh Muzzi Mazi Mal Malu. Malu Le from South Africa. Looks good. Great quad separation. Nice sweeps. Good vape on that lat. Nice driations in the pecs. I'm always looking for weak points because you could talk about strong points all day. I'm really impressed with the pec thickness. We don't see a lot of super thick pecs these days. Good thickness in the back, too. He is a more compact guy. He's narrow. Doesn't have a lot of width. I'm sure the lat spread's going to look better. Yeah, he looks wide there, but you could see in the the rear double the clavicle width is it's like average. Nice arms. Good good separation there between the biceps, triceps, and brachiialis. Nice. Look at that. Beautiful side try shot for him. Can't fast forward. Hasn't up. Wendy Hut show off. It's all done. Let's go. Neon Angel is great. Yeah. So, the Chinese guy won China Pro. Oh, the China Pro is already over. Geez. Uh, we did a whole video yesterday about the open guys, how they look yesterday, but I have not seen them. So, okay, that was This should be Felipe Masaroka. Masaroka from Brazil. Look at those quads. Looks great. This is 212. This is 212, guys. No problem if you want to do it yourself. Yeah, I'm going to do this one myself. Uh, they're not I don't think they're ever going to get to open, but thank you, man. Angel is great. Yeah, this Brazilian guy looks great. Looks good. Nihad Kaya is from Turkey. Big Mike Cox in the house. So, who follows that gentleman? This I don't know if this is Medi Mustafalu from Iran because I don't know how many of these guys got out of Iran in time. We know Beirus did the heavy favor. Imagine Beirus had waited to come over and got stuck in Tehran waiting to go to the show. Oh, that would be awful. He would have missed out on what's probably going to be $140,000 payday. Yeah, I don't know if this is a gentleman from Iran, but let's assume it is. Yeah. So, he is Medi Mustafaloo from Iran, I believe. We'll find out in a minute because the next guy is either going to be from UAE or Philippines, and I know what Filipinos look like. Should they film? No. No, Simon. There should be They don't have a replay. There's no time to do video replays when they're judging. They have to do it live and they have to do it quick. There's no time for them to sit there and really analyze and scrutin scrutinize too much because they need to Is that in Turkish? Is that the Turkish language? Okay. So, this must be okay. So, that guy did get out of Iran because this looks like Mahmud. Negm. I'm just gonna say Nem from United Arab Emirates. Mahmud. Because this guy does not look like he's from the Philippines. Mahmood looks good. Legs could be a little drier because yeah, his condition could be better. We're seeing some really spectacular condition on some of the guys. So, this condition is not going to cut it. It's not bad condition, but this is a class of about 25 guys. And if you want to be in that first call out, uh, which you do, yeah, he needs some back thickness. That back is pretty shallow. This guy's not going to do well. I keep it real, guys. I call it like I see it. Call it like I see it. It's a good shot for him. He just did not bring the condition today and that is going to hurt him. That is Mammud Nem negm I don't know from United Arab Emirates. Next up we should have a gentleman from the Philippines. I'm way behind. Yeah, this looks like a Filipino. So, this is Ramil Penaflur from the Philippines. Let's take a look at him. All right. All righty. I'm seeing some nice cap delts. Uh legs are good. They're not great. They're they're conditioned, but I want to see some more thickness and some more sweep. He's a he's on the narrow side structurally, which again, you know, bone structure, nothing you can really do about that. That's that's genetic. You're born with your bones. Nothing you can do with your training or drugs or nutrition or supplements that's going to really change the structure of your bones, your clavicle width, your the width and size of your hipbones. Uh, this guy looks really good. Uh, it's it's just going to be tough for him to compare with some of these top guys we've taken a look at. decent back thickness. You'll notice even the guys that they need more back thickness, they usually look pretty good in the lat spread because that's spreading everything out anyway. So, a lack of thickness isn't as apparent in the rear lat spread. Good bicep shot there, Ramil. Yeah, a lot of guys I've never heard of. Yeah, condition good, not great. And we've seen some great condition. Okay, next up, Orlando Peromo Lopez from the USA. And I've never heard of him before, Orlando. So, uh, I I don't know if he turned pro as an open guy or as a Masters. He looks pretty young to me. I mean, he doesn't Well, when I say young, I mean, I'm almost 56, so he could have turned pro as over 35, over 40, and he'd still look young to me. Yeah. He's not a young young guy. No. So, as I always say, looks good. I always start off with that because I haven't seen anybody that looks awful yet. Um, the guy from Jamaica was out of place. This guy's not out of place. He doesn't have the size, the width that's going to compare with the top men in this division. He will not be in the first call out. I'm telling you right now. Legs need some more sweep to him. They're just kind of eh. And he's out. Okay, so that was Orlando Peromo Lopez. Next up, we have Artim Reva Reva from Russia, Mother Russia. Let's take a look at Artim. Artim, I'm going to say right now, he's probably on the taller side for a 212. You can see some of these guys, and I say that because if he made 212 and this is the mass that he's carrying, he's probably probably more like a 5'6, 5 foot seven guy as opposed to some of these guys are angel calder is way down there at 5'2. Uh Ardum, nice definition, separation. He's going to suffer in terms of mass comparing to the other guys. Glutes are starting to come in. They're not all the way in. So condition could be better. Uh, arms definitely definitely need to be better. I should know. Uh, I can spot weak triceps a mile away because I've had him all my life and he needs some more triceps. Yeah, those remind me of like my arms when I'm on gear. Uh, good for Ardan, though. He came out came all the way to Dubai. Next up, we have Roman Ukrainian from the Ukraine. His last name is Ukrainian and he is Ukrainian. I don't think I've ever seen that before. So, let's take a look at Roman already. He's walking out there. He's got some big cantaloupe delts going. It's that lat spread. Okay, these are proper thighs. Nice and sweepy. I know the thigh sweep is largely genetic, but this is all genetics. This the sport is 90% genetics anyway. So, you can call people out on things that aren't really their fault because we're scrutinizing the physique and there's no excuses. This guy looks good. Roman Ukrainian from the Ukraine. A Ukrainian named Ukraine. That's crazy. I wonder if I wonder if he changed his name. I wonder if that's an error on the scorecard. Is his name really last name really Ukrainian? It's pretty wild if it is. Brought some pretty decent condition. Yeah, he's he's uh doing himself proud. Yep. Nice side chest shot. And we should be looking at our final competitor here all the way from Italy. Joseph Zagarella. Joseph Zagarella. Joseeppe is uh like Joseph in Italian. Yeah. Like Jose is in Spanish. Joseeppe would be the Italian version of Jose or Joseph. I love those quads on him. I always I'm a big snob about legs. Look at that. Nice pecs. When you hit a front shot like the front lat spread or the front double bicep and your pecs still look full, that's when you know you've got some some really good pecs because other guys they sort of go away. So Christian, just like my son Christian, but Christian uh not a massive guy. I mean, you put him next to you put him next to Nihut or uh Angel and they outmass him, but beautiful shape, structure, symmetry, and he always brings a condition. They zoom out a little bit. We could see those glutes because it is a glute show, guys. It is a show where we judge everyone's condition by by the glutes. But no, those quads are really nicely separated. You can see all four heads. Some feathering there. Some nice striations in the pecs. Good job, Christian Zagarella. What' I call him? Christian. His name is Jeppe Zagurella. Why did I think Christian's middle name? So, this gentleman right here, he must have turned pro yesterday. This is how it often goes at these shows that have a proqualifier the day before. You'll see that person who gets their pro card the next day on stage. And this gentleman, I don't know who he is, but he must have turned pro here yesterday. So, here's his pro debut. Uh, anybody in the comments know who he is? Oh boy, we have a lot of comments. 360 camera. Try to do a back double without your gut sticking out. Foolishness. Yeah, I agree. I'd suck to be born without bones. A lot of Turkish watching the live stream right now because of kneehot. Yeah. Would a black background be more flattering? Everyone's not going to do a black backdrop. It's a that's a that's a Yeah, this is 212. That's a a matter of choice and a lot of people a lot of promoters don't want to do it. It's it's it's not very fancy looking. This guy must have turned pro as well yesterday. This is another new pro. Are there more people to Dubai show in person at the Olympia in Vegas? I don't know what the size of this venue is. Does Wood need to rent a larger venue? Uh I don't know. You know, the problem with that is you can't have uh a show like the Mr. Olympia in a huge huge auditorium or huge stadium because it's it's it's guys on standing on a stage. So if you have to be seated, you know, 50 100 rows back, what are you really seeing? You're just watching it on the jumbotron on the big screen. You might as well be watching it at home in that case. I can't read Turkish. I'm not going to pretend I can. Open starting. I don't know. This is 212. I'm not sure what the order they're going in for divisions. I'm hoping men's physique is last so I don't have to sit through men's physique. But if I do, I'll just uh Let me get rid of that. Can I skip this ad? Yeah, she's got ads running. Uh, was that the final guy? And then they're going to Jeez, more new 212 guys. So, wow. Yeah, this is 212. Someone's got to represent the Ukrainians. Wow. So, this is the third addition to the 212 class. It looks like they've had since uh Yeah, I remember seeing this guy on Instagram. Let me pull it up. I I can find his name because of the braids. Dubai Pro Event. I'll find him, guys. I'll find him. No, I don't know what I did with this. I'm looking at the Dubai Pro event. They've been posting a lot, as you can imagine. So, I don't know who this guy is, so my bad. But he's a brand new pro. It'll be pretty uh amazing if if any of these new pros are able to get in this first call out. That would be a huge accomplishment considering they were amateurs yesterday. Yeah, I can't find anything on this. I know it's they they've they've put up an incredible amount of posts since yesterday. They've added like 30. Okay, so this is Oh, they didn't tag him. They didn't even tag this guy yesterday. All right. Well, doesn't matter cuz The Division's coming out. Okay, you should read the entire chat. Leos in the chat. Yeah, but he could only do it for 45 minutes. Men Fuks. Yeah. And I He won't be around for the open. I really would like somebody on the open. Replay was used to final go. Place him right. Yeah, there's no way they could do a replay. There's just There's no time, Simon. They they have to move right along to the next next division. They don't have time after every class to look at replays. They they have to be fast. They have to do this on their feet. Let's go to mini bay ruse. Classic next open. No idea. No idea. Okay. So, Taylor Swift girls got up. Yeah, but that's music. Concerts are different. Concerts are different because you're listening to the music. All right. So, this is first call out. It's a big group. It's six guys. I could see Nihhat, Maya on the end, Angel Cder, and Frias, Rolav, Angelov. I'm not sure who that is. I'm at a loss for everybody else, guys. Uh, but they're going to move they're going to move some guys around. Angel got moved in one. Wow. Okay. Nihhat's going to go next to Angel. No. Huh. Surprise. Oh, yep. Yeah. They're going to put Niha right next to Angel. Nihhat Maya and Rodislov there on the end did not get the middle. He's probably not too happy about that. You want to be in the middle. So, it looks like right now they're looking at Nihhat Maya from Turkey for the win along with Angel Calderon Frius. We see Nihhat there in the turquoise trunks. Angel Calder Frias there in the purple trunks. Uh they move. Okay, there Roav did get moved in a little closer. So, he's probably fighting for third along with this guy who I I don't know his name unfortunately. Yeah, Nihhat is looking great. I mean, he's just got a prettier physique. Angel, you know, in comparison, just because of the structure, he comes off as looking kind of blocky where Nihhat does not look blocky. He's got a very nice shape, very nice structure. 10,00 MPD guys. Mr. Olympia, this is 212. Inihot to be champion. Can the com branch show off the physique? All the physique. 212. 212. Yeah. Sean Franklin says hi. Let's go for his call out. O from way back to Nahan Guulair won the ProTel and Pro show on the same day as Dubai Pro 2023. Angel uh did he win something already? Yeah, I think he did. Jurassic World Rebirth. Yeah, I can't wait to see that. Looks really good. Cream surgery. Thank you. What's up Top Run? Paintball with Popeye 212. I I would go with Nihut for the win personally. You do the Milas versus Jaws round two video again. I'd have to see if those two are both up for it. Is live now. This is live. Yeah. So, this is not the stream. It's the stream as being shown by Artha Lab. That is her channel. She's out of Brazil. But this is live. Uh I don't know what is that. I don't know what language that is, guys. Angel second. Yeah. Some very sexy men. Yeah, I agree. Nihhat first. Who is your winner? I go with Nihhat right there in the turquoise. Nihhat. Nihhata. The 22-year-old kid. He's a kid. Is it Ka? Well, let me look at the score sheet. Yeah, it is. Kaya. Ka. Why do I keep saying Maya? Gez. Mayangelo. Ka. Kaya. Kaya. Thank you, man. Ka. Geez. Angel one. Uh, K. Okay. No, I don't think he's going to get it this time, guys. Angel. Beauty against the beast. Yeah, it's apples and oranges. It's two very, very different. Two very different physiques. I would go with the prettier physique today because Angel's lean. I've seen him leaner. I've seen him in better condition. Nihhat Ka from Turkey, the 22-year-old, impeccable condition, plenty of size, and uh just better shape and structure. Come on, Niha. You got it. Nihad Kaya number one. Easy for Nia. Yeah, I mean, Sagerella is the guy. Oh, is he the other guy? Christian, the other guy I couldn't think of who's right there on the left. I know. I was just looking at I'm going to black out right now. Nih for the win. Are you blind? Who's blind? These camera shots are terrible. What's wrong with him? No, I don't think Nihhat's underrated. I think assuming he wins this today, he gets his Olympic qualification. U people are going to be talking a lot about Nihad Kaya from Turkey. top five at the I mean I he's not as massive as these other guys but you know what it's not it's not all about mass it's it's very well put together it's the physique flows very very well Turks is coming yeah you know I I thank Turkey for my hair I went to Istanbul in February 2024 last year got a hair transplant at hair time now in Istanbul um beautiful country I got to do a little tour of Eastanbul that day and saw a lot saw a lot of historical sites going back to the Roman Empire. Nihhat will be next Olymp. I don't know if he's beaten Keon Pearson, guys. Let's not get crazy here. So, that's your top four. Looks like uh Turquoise there next to Niha. That's Jeppe, Zagarella. Then you got Nihhat, Kaya, Angel Calder on Frias. Where' they move Ratoslav? They moved him again. Oh, poor guy. He got moved over to left now. Gez, you showing men's physique, too? Uh, I will. I I'm going to have a hard time to commenting on it because I don't know a ton about men's physique, but I'll I'll try. I'll do my best. Love from Nepal. So, this is Rodislav. And that was one of the guys from uh from Iran, I think, or UAE. I'm not sure who that is, but this is probably the battle for fifth place right here between fifth and sixth show. Kaya means rock. Well, there you go. I don't speak any Turkish. I did learn a few phrases for that trip, which I've forgotten all of them already. Yeah, I mean, we call Keon the Prodigy, but Nihhat's right there, man. Nihhat looks awesome. Yeah, this is a this is they've it looks like they've got their top four locked down and now they're really trying to figure out five, six, seven, eight. You got for the open uh I think you were trying to say room, not run. I don't know. But uh I haven't seen anybody. I see Arabic player. The blue trucks guy. Trunks. Nihhat the rock kaya. That's a good nickname. The guy to the right knee out looks good. Yeah. So, they've got their top place things figured out now. They're they're really trying to to get their best most fair and impartial scoring of the rest of the top 10. That's what's going on right now. Shabban Fitness, is this Mo Shabban or is this different? Yeah, I will be showing it. Um I I'm horrible at commenting on it, so please forgive me ahead of time. Angel's top three Olympia. Angel has actually been top two. Zagala Zagarella has been so. Well, you can't always go by who's beaten who, but um you got to remember we still have Keon Pearson as the reigning Mr. Olympia. He's very good. Still have Sean Clarita competing. He's a 212 Olympia champion as well. He was second place last year. So, Nihhat would have to get past both of those guys to win, which I'm not saying is impossible. Yeah, Zagarella is very good. I'm a fan of uh Jeppe Zagarella. They're putting him in the middle now. Is that him? I have to keep clicking around. No, that's not Zagarella there in the middle. No, Zagarella's got way better quads than that. Zagurella is probably fifth place, I'm guessing, based on what's going on. Nihad is a joke. Why is he a joke? You can't just say somebody's a joke. You have to say why. What do you What do you have against him? What's wrong with his physique? Looks pretty damn good to me. Guys, shut the f up and watch the Turkish tank. Nihhat turkey. Turkey. Who's in the purple trunks? Meatthead. I have to go back and try to find your other comment now. Oh, there's so many comments. It's hard. We got 700 people watching. Appreciate all you guys, man. Thank you. Appreciate it. Uh let's go. How far back am I? How far behind am I? I should say. Yeah. So, Nihad Kaya number one. I think I'm way past that. Yeah. Okay. Nihad is way overrated. I don't think he's overrated. He's pretty damn good. Hope Nihad wins his class for all structure lines. Crazy condition as well. Yeah. I mean, he looks to me he looks like a clear winner. This is 212, Shelton. This is 212. Nihad's father. Are you Nihhat's father? I don't know. No travel ban for Turkey. No, Turkey is We're cool with Turkey. Trump has no problem with Turkey, I guess. So, yeah, it's Iran that we're having a lot of issues with. We're bombing them. So, technically, officially, we're not at war with Turkey, but I'm sorry, Turkey with Iran, but we've been bombing their nuclear facilities, the US Air Force. So I think if you're bombing a country, you're at war, right? Nih. How does he win? Angel midsection. Yeah, I mean he doesn't have the smallest midsection. Agreed. Agreed. What's this? It's about the golden ratio. Yeah, the golden ratio. Yeah. Now this is like third, fourth call out, guys. Uh they're not going to be in the top, but hey, they made it and they're in shape. Yeah, the golden ratio uh you know that was going back to like ancient Greek sculpture, the proportions that they followed for bone structure, for muscularity. I know in the very old days of bodybuilding, we're talking about like the the 40s and 50s, they used to strive to have equal measurements of the neck, the upper arm, and the calf. So like remember Steve Reeves uh you know he was a movie star and he was Mr. Universe champion. A lot of a lot of people in the old days considered him to be the perfect physique and I think he was 17 and 12 or 18 inch uh neck arms and calf. Everything was perfectly in proportion. Smash it kneeh hot. Lot of love from the Turks. Turks you love your guy. Timing is not accurate. I said about the near shot so you see them compare the quality from the live stream is good. Yeah, this is not bad. This isn't a bad, you know, we got spoiled with a couple 4K live streams, but this live stream's pretty damn good. Turkey where they kill all dogs and cats. No, I mean I when I was in Turkey, they were running around wild all over the place. Your thought on Indian men's physique lineup? Well, we haven't seen men's physique, so I have nothing to say. Uh I'm not sure what you mean by that. Turkey, turkey, turkey, turkey. Don't support Turkey. Well, you know, I don't want anybody killing dogs and cats for sure. Uh, yeah, I'd like to come back again. There's a lot of places I want to go. I still want to go to Greece, Italy. My wife's going to Italy with her sisters in the fall. I wish I could go, but it's a girls trip. I'm not invited. Uh, next place I know I'm definitely going is Australia in 2026. My daughter's getting remarried to her husband. They're married, but they're they never did a really big wedding. They had a smaller wedding uh back in 2016 here in Boston. Um you know, partially secure his green card. I think he's from Australia. And yeah, Kaya got the gold medal. Is this prayer? Stop spamming your religion [\h__\h] What time is open? We don't know. We don't know. We don't know. I don't know why you keep asking me this, Shabban. Because there is no men's physique lineup. I don't know what you mean. You're going to have to rephrase your question. Keon is untouchable. I don't see anybody beating Keon for a long time, guys. I don't. So, the 212 guys, we're looking at like third, fourth call out guys right now. You know, the judges are the judges are giving everybody a good look. These guys, they trained and dieted just like just like Nihhat and Angel and Jeppe and Roto. They trained just as hard as the guys who were in the first call out and they they prepped for this show. So, I'm glad Keon's Yeah. When Keon's in shape, he's just got almost perfect genetics. Genetics are insane on that guy. Look at the arms on that gentleman right there. Wow. Is there a reason guys choose certain color trunks? Well, you're supposed to choose one that complements your physique well, which you know, that's sort of an aesthetic choice. I used to typically go because you can't go wrong with black. Typically, if you have a wider waist, you want to go you want to go with a darker color because a really bright or a light color sort of draws attention to your waistline, which you don't want to do if you have a thicker waist or a wide waist. I always went with black trunks for judging sometimes even for finals because I was I never had a really tiny waist like my son does. Uh the guys with the smaller waist, they can get off get away get off. They can get away with brighter trunks, brighter colored trunks. Some Turkish right there. Turkey. Turkey. It's funny because usually you see BRB bras. Brazil. Today the Turks, you guys have come out to say hello. And I have been to your country. I have been to Turkey. And uh I toured Istanbul. Um beautiful place. We went to the Blue Mosque. Amazing architecture and uh geez the the the tile work, you know, millions of tiles in that place. Very impressive. The kaya. We went to the old Roman sistn, the thing underground where they used to keep all their water and there's still uh sculptures and columns down there. That was really cool. But yeah, there were a lot of dogs and cats just running wild in the streets, strays, like packs of them. They would they would they would run in packs. You'd see like anywhere from four to 12 dogs together, four to 12 cats all kind of hanging out together or walking around some place. For Nihad is only 22 years old. Yeah. If Nihad looks this good at 22 and he's improved drastically since last year, you can imagine. Okay, so this is your final call out. This is your top two. And no surprise. Oh, who' we get out there? Is that Zagarella? Yep. Jeppi Zagarella. And who is that gentleman in the on the left? I don't know. Anybody know? Nihhat will be two at the M Olympia. I mean, he does have incredible shape. What's up, Ron Harris? I'm gonna jump ahead to see if anybody knows who who was that in the greenest trunks. Does anybody know? Oh, is that was 958. I don't know if that's still Shane because I'm so far past Shane Dudshak on the left. So, is that one of the newer guys that just turned pro? Because he wasn't on the list. Haters not for because of religion. Don't mind. I mean, let's not talk about Is that Hector? Was He Hector there? Oh, is is Hector? Is that you? I didn't realize that was your account. Hector Mendoza, my buddy. I haven't seen him in a long time. I got to skip this commercial. Oh, they skipped it already. Name the top three. I mean, I know the top two are Nihot, Angel, and I'm not sure who's going to be third. Uh, what's good, Hector? Don't overdo. Keon can't lose. Nihad, I think second Olympia Turkey. Turkey. Yeah, that's the That's how you spell it in your language. Correct. When does the open competition start? We don't know, Theo. We don't know. I plan to. Yes. I haven't been to a show since the New York Pro in 2024 was my last show, a pro show. Now, so the judges are having a uh a final look at the top four, but you can see in the middle it's down to Angel and Nihhat. Nihhat, Kaya from Turkey. Sal Mexico, that's salutes, you know, hello basically from Mexico. Niha top one, it's the winner. Yeah, Angel's a bigger man. He's thicker, but Niha is just perfectly put together. Beautiful shape. I'm giving him the win. Yeah, I would hope he has more muscle maturity because he's got to be I'm not sure how old Angel is. He's got to be 40 or close to it by this point. Classic. Well, we'll see what's next because everybody's leaving the stage. Uh I don't know, Carlos. I hope not. I hope not. Uh, I'm streaming, but I am I am not streaming the stream. This is Aretha Labs channel. She would be the one to be upset with me, but I hope she won't be because I'm a big fan of Artha. Met her uh in my final days with MD. She helped translate for a UFC, I think his name was Carlos Olivivera, a UFC fighter who was with MHP Labs, and we did a uh an interview, ended up doing an article about him. But Muzzy Muzzi is not in the show. I think Muzzy's over in China and I think that's already all over. Yes, sir. Be happy. Nihhat classic. I'm not sure what's next. Not sure what's next. Muzzi, what will be next? That's a good question. It's a great question. Nihhat, thank you. When open show start, we need to see Beirus. I I agree. I want to see Bay Ruse, too. I can't wait to see Beirus. What about Classic? We're going to find out the next as soon as we see it. Yeah, you're correcting us. It's Turkey. Turkey. I don't have all those characters on my keyboard, though. Well, I guess I could figure out how to get them, but it's Turkey. Ti. Am I saying it right? Probably not. Bro, we are watching a bodybuilding show in Dubai. We've come a long way. A long way from the old days when we wouldn't have even found out the results of this show for a month. He not overrated yet because you know Swint guys walk around looking like that everywhere. I mean he's not overrated. He looks He looks really good. Long way from what he used to be. Mike come to Nepal. That was the 212 show. We just did it. Uh I'm going to run to the bathroom real quick guys. I'll be right back. Right back. Papa's bridge. Okay. Okay. Back. All right. I can see it's classic physique. I'm sorry, not class, men's physique. Um, show you how many class men's physique guys we have here. Take a look at this, guys. Men's physique. Wow, that is a lot of guys. Uh, I think it's 30 37 or something. I don't even want to count. I'm wondering how many of them I see from Iran. There's a few. I wonder if they all made it out. Unfortunately, not everybody made it out. Okay. Well, this gives me time to go to to all your comments. I certainly have time now. Okay. When open show. So, we know that we're getting men out of the way now anyway. Yeah. Nakaya Mustafa Camille. I'm not sure who that is. Nih. Turkey. Turkey. Turkey. Did I miss masterpiece? So, the 212 division went up first and now we have men's physique. Uh, I assume they're be happy. Love you. Well, thank you. Calderon. This person believes Bora Sema believes Anel Calderon Frias will be triumphant today. He might be. He might be. I mean, apples and oranges, you got to pick one. If you're a if the judges were more inclined to reward shape, symmetry, flow, structure, um a little bit more over mass because it is an object subjectively judged sport then angel will be uh I mean if it's if it's more leaning towards shape and symmetry and flow uh I would give it to Nihut all day. If you decide mass weighs more heavily in your estimation, you're going to go for Angel. Think about Nihad's future. I think he's got an incredibly bright future. He's only 22 years old. Um, so we have not even seen his full potential by a long shot. He did this show last year and uh I was looking at that footage or looking at those photos and videos when we did the preview show, me and Giles the other day, and he's come a long way. He's already put on significant mass in one year's time from age 21 to 22. So, you know, you don't keep making that same rate of progress forever. But, uh, like I said, I I had heard that he was 20 pounds over under under the 212 limit last year. Plenty of room to grow. He's probably closed the gap by about 10 pounds, I would guess. So, when he gets to 212, assuming he keeps keeps that waist in the midsection nice and small, a flat midsection, uh, unless he doesn't blow out his waist, he's going to be right up there pushing guys like Keon. I don't think he's going to give Keon any trouble this year. But in the future, for sure. But, of course, by then, Keon Pearson might be long gone from 212. This might be Keon's last year as 212. I don't know how much longer. um he was 205 or so at the last Olympia. He's probably going to be closer to 212, but I think once he hits once he starts having trouble getting down to 212, which thus far Keon has not, but once he does, that's when I see him moving to open and I think he's I I I believe my heart Keon Pearson will be a future Mr. Olympia. No, you didn't miss Classic. Uh, the only division that's been judged and completed so far was 212 division. Turkey. Turkey. I've never seen so many so many Turks on live stream. Good to have you guys. Like I said, I have been to Turkey. I could say I spent I think I was there for five or six days in Istanbul. Cool thing I didn't realize about Istanbul until I started looking into it is half the city of Eastbul is in Europe and half is in Asia. I stayed at a hotel where they put us up uh now hair time. Everyone stays at the same, you know, it's like a five-star. It's a very nice hotel. That hotel is actually in Asia, but then, you know, they come pick you up in their limo and you're driving for five minutes and now you're in Europe. So, the clinic uh the hospital setting where they actually did the hair transplant. Same place I went was the same place that Chris Bumstead went. Uh his brother-in-law Ian Valier was there with him. They both had their hair transplant done at the same time. They went two months before I did. They went in December 2023. I went in February uh 2024. Coach Greg Ducet has been there. Um if the dogs, which kids kill, well, if a dog anywhere kills a human, it's going to be it's going to be destroyed. They're going to kill that dog. A lot of times, even if a dog just bites somebody, not a fatal wound, that they're going to put that dog down. Turkey, Turkey, Turkey. There's a guy from Egypt who lives in Greece. It's going to be today to open. Uh he he's from Egypt, lives in Greece. Ashra Hassasin. Uh is he in this division? Classic physique. No, I don't see his name. Yeah, I don't recognize too many of these. Eric Lisboa. I do recognize some of these names. Richard Naggi from Hungary. Oh, that's classic. I'm looking at classic. So, men's physique. Uh, so who are you looking for? Ashraf Hassasin. Men's physique open. I don't see him on the list. Oh, well, the list is sort of jumping around alphabetically, but no, I don't see him. It's a big big group. Did anybody from USA make it over? Nope. Nobody from USA made it over to compete in men's physique. Classic physique. Did we get any Americans? Obviously, this is not a show where a lot of Americans come out to. No, not one American in classic. We did have an American guy in 212. I was I had never heard of him before today. That was Orlando Permo Lopez. Berdomo. uh in the bodybuilding in the open bodybuilding we do have uh USA represented by Antonio Burton. So that's coming up. All right, back to your comments, guys. Turkey, Turkey, Turkey. Yeah, there's a huge men's physique lineup. The two biggest classes here today. Uh and there's no women's divisions. That's why the show is going to move a lot along a lot faster. We don't have to look at bikini, wellness, fit, model, figure, fitness, physique, bodybuilder. There's a lot of women's divisions and we don't have any of them here today. Today at the Dubai Pro, we have four the four men's divisions and that is it. So, we're looking at 212, which has already gone on, men's physique, which is up now. Uh, and after Oh, no. They're going to let everyone do an individual. This is going to take forever. My bad. Good lord. Uh yeah. Um so yeah, just the the four men's pro divisions are all we're going to see today. Nihhat, Turkey, Turkey, Turkey, Vi Oir. I feel like showing my Turkey pictures. Well, I got so many guys from Turkey here. Why not, right? I know this is a little unorthodox, guys, but since I appreciate all you Turkish fans joining in the live stream, didn't I do an album for it? Yes, I did. Yes, I did. Okay, I'm going to show my turkey pictures while these guys are up. Why not? I just want to show you Turkey. Show you guys in Turkey that I was there. No. Stop screen. Present. Uh, where do I want to present? I can only show so many things at once. Uh, yeah. Present. I can't show all the screens at once. So, I have to close out the Dubai Pro one, I think. Yeah. I'm going to close one of these screens out. No, let me see if I can do it. No. Well, I thought I could do it, guys. I guess I can't. Guess I can't. I'm going to go back to going to go back to the uh competitor list so I can show that. Oh, I can share this tab. Okay, I can. Am I sharing it? Okay, so just going to show you guys my Eastanbul trip while we're waiting for these individual guys. So, this was in front of the Blue Mosque. This is inside the Blue Mosque in Istanbul with our tour guide, Sema. She was great. Had a spent a full day with Sema. We had a great lunch, some snacks, good coffee. Look at the tile work. You know, I It's over a thousand years old, I believe, this mosque. Correct me if I'm wrong, guys. I know it's old. It's It's hundreds of years old, maybe even over a thousand years old. There we are again. Blue mosque. Blue mosque. It's beautiful. You can see all the tourists. And this was in February when it was pretty cold, pretty chilly. Uh, so that was an obelisk came from Egypt 2,000 years ago. Somehow they moved that entire obelisk from Egypt to Istanbul while this was all part of the Roman Empire. The Romans controlled most of the civilized world at that time. Uh, these were the police. They had some cool uh, Bentleys. There's a Bentley and there's a Ben's sports car there. They're police cars. Traffic. So that means uh traffic police traffic police. Yeah, I guess Turkish is probably not that hard a language to learn because I think some of the a lot of the words are similar to English. I did learn some catchphrases while I was there. The Hajia Sophia, which is another ancient mosque, very rich cultural tradition in in Turkey going back thousands of years. Hajia Sophia uh ancient Roman sistn where the where the city's water was stored. Uh my buddy Chris Griff Chris Griffin reminded me that it was in the James Bond movie from Russia with Love. So yeah, this is all underwater. You see it's about two feet deep in water and it's a Medusa statue with the Medusa on its head on its side there. It's upside down. The inverted Medusa head is one of the columns. This is all underwater. They've got it lit very artistically. Yeah, there you can see the Medusa with the uh with the snakes for hair. More still in the sistern. There's some coffee and some uh baklava. And these uh these are all hair. The rest of it's actually just hair. My hair transplant pictures. So that's yikes. That was my pillow. That was me bald. Oof. Weird look for me. Weird being bald. Popeye's chicken. That was the airport. We're just waiting to go home. And there were packages. There was the limo. All right. Time to stop stop sharing that and go back to the Dubai Pro. Okay. Oh, I need to I need to share that. Share screen. All right. We're back. We're back. All right. So, men's judging. Hope I killed some time there. So, go top. You mentioned Roman Empire. Modern Turkey goes back further to Helenic Greek Empire and Persian Empire. Thank you, man. I took ancient history years ago. I'm talking like 40 over 40 years ago. So, I've forgotten quite a bit. Persian Empire long before Roman Turkey. Appreciate the stream. Yeah. Persian Empire which was uh you saw the Greek Greeks and the Persians fighting in the movie 300 and the sequel 300 Rise of an Empire. Very cool movies. If you haven't seen 300 who hasn't seen 300 Turkey turkey turkey trunk number 90 and Muzzik is from India what's he come I want your thoughts on him. remember 90. Shaban, I am awful at uh judging men's physique. I mean, they all look great to me. To me, they all have huge shoulders, wide back, little waist. Uh this is what bothers me. A lot of times their calf development is just awful. I mean, this this guy here, I don't know his name, and I'm not picking on him, but look at how look at how muscular and developed his back is, his shoulders, chest. He's even got some legs. You can see his legs peeking out there. He's got some leg development, but his calves are just almost non-existent. So, that was 82. So, I guess you want me to wait and talk about number 90 when he gets up there. That's fine. Turkey, turkey, turkey. Guys are arguing with each other. Turkey, turkey, turkey. Vi ozamir. Am I saying your name right? Probably not. Some of these guys look like they didn't diet in men's physique. No way. That must have been on the 212. Where you from, you stupid [\h__\h] Oh boy. How far back? Jeez. How many comments are there? Oh, thank you so much. Nihad Kaya Adami Nihadkaya legend. Thank you. AV alenis shoulder surgeries Wednesday. Yeah, it's coming right up. Basihat bas. What does that mean? Tulaik, I don't know what language that is. Who's winning 212? Well, Ruben, I'm guessing it's gonna be Nihhatkaya, the 22 year old. 22 years old. USA. USA. When does the ranking start? Do they rank at the same time for the categories at once? Well, this is judging and I think they're going to go straight to finals from judging. I hope Heidi can still come to the US. I don't know. I don't know, man. if we're at war with a country that that gets me really worried about any travel from uh from Iran to there. But, you know, obviously there's no flights from Iran to the USA anyway. He would have to connect somewhere. I don't know. I'm not I'm not ruling it out. I want to see Chupan in the Olympia. Of course, he's a past Mr. Olympia champion. It'd be pretty crazy if he can't get to the Olympia this year. It would be awful because he has been working all year. He did not do these other shows like the Arnold and the Pittsburgh and New York Pro like a lot of these top Olympian guys. He's saved everything, all his prep, his energy, his time. He's devoting everything to the Mr. Olympia. And I would hate to see all that go to waste and him not get into the USA for the Olympia. That would be awful. Yeah, this is men's physique. men's physique. So I can train now 90 minutes. Yeah, I hope this doesn't take 90 minutes. So body can still come to the US Mustafa. I wish I even knew what language that was. Turkish. Is it Turkish? When does the ranking start? This all looks like the same language. I'm guessing this is all Turkish. Yavan, get ready. 300,00 guys. No, it's it's about it's close to 40 guys. It's a lot. It's a lot of guys. And I'm sorry I'm not commenting on the men's physique guys. I I really I don't want to say they all look alike. That sounds like I'm putting them down, but it's to me it's hard because they do they all have a very similar look. Bodybuilding, I know that's how some people say bodybuilding is is they all look it's a bunch of big buff guys. How do you I can differentiate and delineate between the different types of bodybuilding physiques like Nihot and Angel two very very different looks. I don't see too many guys in men physique that have vastly divergent looks from each other. I see very very similar looks over and over again stuff Kik. Sorry if I'm murdering your language guys. Bos nihad bos tulas I I gota who's winning 212 I already went there I went back because I know I have time to Where's Hidayette? Who's Hidayette? I gota look at the competitor list for men's physique. Sorry. Who are you looking for? Uh Hideayette. Was there hide? I'm looking at the list of Okay, so you're talking about Hideayat Maharali from Azerbahan and I don't think he's come up yet. I don't think so. We still have a still have a good amount of guys to look at. Uh, is this number 90? Is this who I supposed to look at? Oh, I missed number 91. So, I wouldn't even be able to tell you, honestly. I mean, I could say this guy's lean, but the men's physique guys in general, they they bring condition. I I don't think I've ever seen a really out of shape men's physique competitor. Um, I'm not saying they all have fast metabolisms, but I don't think there's too many of them that would have been fat guys had they not gone into men's physique. There's your VIPs up there in the front, the front row still going. Okay. Thank you again. uh for that 44.99 in Turkish money. When does the ranking start for 212? They're they're done. 212 is over. Yeah, they judge 212 first and now we're looking at men's physique. Zaguro is looking good. Reuben, I think he's going to be probably third place. Probably third place. And then I think I would have Rislov. Roado Angelov from Bulgaria. I think I would have him in fourth or vice versa. And yet killed it. 22 years old looking like this is insane. I agree. Totally agree. It's the next show on the calendar. Um, next show. Go back to schedule. Pro schedule. Next show uh for Open Men is next weekend. No, wait. June 22nd. Yeah, next weekend we have the Flex Weekend Pro in Italy next weekend. Uh, Open Masters 40. Yeah, I mean I hope I'm in good enough. I should be able to do it. I mean, I'll my arm's going to be in a sling. I don't really need two hands to do what I'm doing right here, do I? Probably not. Schedule results. Uh, homepage. I want to go to Dubai Pro competitor list. I want to keep I want to keep the competitor list up. Yeah, I should be able to do that. No problem. Meatthead. My [\h__\h] Chicago Pro. Chicago Pro. No. So, it's flex weekend Italy is the next one. I mark the big shows on my calendar. For instance, I know. Yeah, this is an actual old old school calendar. Uh, Tampa Pro is August 2nd. Texas Pro is August 9th. I know there's other shows happening. Yeah. Feel like I want to go grab a a snack. Getting on no plane. After we got a villa for the Tampa show, we'll be there. Oh, wow. I'm I'm really gonna miss seeing you guys because I'm fairly certain I'm not going to make it to Tampa. Mike Mike and his uh lovely wife Mandy uh always love seeing them at the Tampa show. It's been like a you know for many years in a row, but uh I didn't get to go last year because I have to go on my own dime now. I don't get uh I don't get anything paid for anymore. MD used to send me to all the shows. uh you know airfare hotel I got a meal allowance every day mini vacation in Tampa yeah nice nice guy with purple shorts is Moroccan what's your opinion about him I don't have opinions on any of these men's physique guys I'm I'm so I'm sorry Keon 212 category Where he at? Hussein and Karima from Iran is here. Oh, we made it. Brandon C and I work on a resiliency seminar. Oh, wow. It's a good idea. Salafin, I think Nihhat Kaya is winning. Is there an upper body competition? Well, they're not judging. They're really not judging the legs. Some of them do have pretty good leg development, but they're not judging it. Neat is not here. Objective. Some of the Turkish guys are swearing. Oh, no. I wouldn't know because I can't read I can't read Turkish. Will my break work? Did open preing? No, you didn't miss open. You didn't miss open classic after that open. Okay. Oh, these are the owners of the show, not VIP. Okay. Same because they utilize the delt and rear delt needle regime. Well, they all have amazing shoulders, little waists. See, rewind. Yeah, you can rewind. Thank you, Katherine. Appreciate that. Atlanta show next bami. Uh, so after this is classic physique, I guess, and then we're going to do open. So, it's going to be a minute. It's going to be a minute. Yeah, this is live right now. I'm sure a lot of guys would love to have a men's physique body so they can play about Oh, I would love to have that body. I I wish I had a small waist like that. These guys all have better shoulder to waist ratios than me. Most of them have better arms than me for sure. What's up, Mark? Do you think Sam Samoan can win a men's physique show? Most Samoans I've seen have pretty thick bones. They're they're wide in the waist. I'm sure they're not all built like that, but I've seen a lot of them. A lot of Samoans that are just very very stocky guys with big joints. physique is really killing him. Nh come to Olympia. I know you meant Samson. No, Samson couldn't do Samson couldn't do men's physique. He need to lose about 100 pounds of muscle. Uh, can Dubai Pro show overtake shows like the Arnold Classic? I don't see that happening. It's definitely a huge show and I'm glad they're giving away so much money. That's great. Uh, I'm going to run away. I'm going to run away and get a quick snack, guys. I'll be back cuz I don't want to go away while we're doing open at all. I don't want to miss any of that. Oh boy. Oh boy. All right, guys. All right. What did I miss? Okay, I'm back. Sorry about that, guys. I just had two bowls of corn flakes with chocolate protein powder as my milk. Yeah. See how far back I am. Okay, let's get some comments. Wow. I can't I can't read that. Oh, he's in the open. Ashrafine. Did he just turn pro yesterday? Cuz in the open. Oh, no. There he is on the list. Ashra Hassin from Egypt. Okay, I'll be looking for him. Sure. Don't know what that means. I assume most of this is in Turkish. I don't know. What country is that? In in in in I don't know. All hell the queen. Five years ago, Samson could have done men's. No, I think like uh 10 years ago, Samson could have done men's physique. 10 years ago, he was just starting to train. Uh he didn't have a lot of muscle mass on him. Samson Dada being a genetic phenomenon. As soon as he started training, eating, and then, you know, adding in the PEDs, he blew the f up. He's huge. There's absolutely no way he could do. Was Sunny Schmid Samoan? That's a good question. I don't know the answer. Milos would know. Um, he was a very good friend of of uh the late Sunny Schmidt. Sunny was Sunny was from Australia, New Zealand. I can't even remember now. It's been so long. Yeah. Don't know. Don't know. Check his old pictures. Waiting. Open category. I'm streaming Ortha's channel. This is not the stream. Yeah. So, yeah, I'm taking a chance here, guys. I Anybody English and Turkish speaking, you know, talking war [\h__\h] here. Yeah, I hate to lose my YouTube channel. The war on stage. War with the weights. What a name. Oh, I must be India, I guess. Guys. Yeah. No, no talk about wars or anything. No talk about wars. We don't want to get into politics here, guys. So, yeah, this is not the stream, guys. This is Artha Lab. She's got a great channel, uh, out of Brazil. Um, and she is streaming. I'm not streaming the stream. She is streaming the stream and I'm streaming her channel. And I hope, uh, hope Arita doesn't come at me. But, uh, beautiful woman, intelligent, because you can see she's got glasses. She's actually a very well-known journalist in Brazil. That's why she does coverage for these shows. She can comment on all the men's divisions, which I give her a lot of credit because I can't comment on most of the women's divisions. The only women's divisions I can sit there and really give uh a meaningful commentary critique on, I would say, are women's physique and women's bodybuilding. Bikini, I have no clue what I'm looking at. They all look great. They all look the same to me. Figure kind of. I can kind of judge figure, but I'm not confident. Fit model, forget about it. um fitness I don't know fitness to physique round I can judge because they're actually pretty close uh some of them are closer to women's physique the women that compete in women's fitness they're very very welldeveloped most of them have more like a figure body uh but the physique round I could judge the fitness routine round you know I would know like the ones I I could probably judge the best routine I could say wow that was that knocked my socks off but I'm going by what's entertaining me when I'm watching their routine routines. I'm not going by the standards of they have to have certain strength moves in there and the gymnastics and you know I know there's criteria that the judges they have in mind when they're looking at women's fitness but I'm not really aware of that. I think all these guys train legs Donald Pump um a lot of times if they have tight shorts on and most of the times lately they've gotten away for the most part. A lot of a lot of top guys don't wear the tight don't wear the loose shorts anymore. They have pretty tight shorts where you can see the development of the legs and they do have pretty pretty good quad development uh hamstring development. I do come down hard on them a lot of times for not having any calves. Oh, why is there an oppression live stream with sound? Oh, so there is a stream you can buy. You can go to the Dubai Pro event uh website. I'm sorry. go to their Instagram page and there's a link there to get the high quality stream and you don't have to look at me or any of these other wacky [\h__\h] You can stream stream the whole thing perfectly as it's meant to be seen. It's $30 US. Um, and go for it and you don't have to you can hear the sound. You can hear everything. Africa sucks. Oh boy. We'll need to make our own sounds. Yeah. one thing uh I don't know if this is first call typically the one thing you can't do on YouTube anyway you can't have any music on YouTube that's you know licensed music because you can get a copyright strike very easily. Uh the music is one thing that they they'll catch you almost immediately for. So, like when I when I do uh screen recordings to use for clips of video of of posing routines and things like that, I I cut the sound out because otherwise that's the easiest way to get a strike as a YouTube channel is using using licensed music, which all the music, all these hits that you're hearing, it's all licensed. So, yeah. Nihei Niha Donald Pump, our president. Yeah, there is a professional stream. It's Men's Physique. Who needs sound? Where I Googled it. Uh, I'll show you if I can if I can do it. So, I do want I do want to come on Instagram to buy Provent. So, this is the Dubai Pro Instagram page. Check that out. Dubai_pro_Event. And that was Nihot and one of the classic guys. Oh, that's uh Dool. That's Michael Dool. There's Nihhat with Michael Dabul. who's in classic physique. They were doing a little pose down. It's pretty cool to have guys from different divisions posing against each other. You could see classic and 212. It's all bodybuilding, guys. It's all bodybuilding. I know there's they call this classic physique and that's 212. And it's classic physique to me is bodybuilding. They just have a weight cap so it's a little different. So, if you go to I'm sorry, go to their uh stream. If you go to their bio there at the top of the screen, you click on that where it's the little link. It says watch and then you can go right to right to it. Okay. So, here were some good shots that they had from Did they tag the guys? No, they didn't tag anybody. But that was uh that's Zagarella on the right. uh that is next to him. Nihhat kaya from Turkey. Angel Calder on Frias from Spain. And I cannot recall this. I don't know this guy's name. I'm sorry. He's he's definitely going to be in the top four. Uh but that was a great a great top four for 212. Very very competitive. Yeah. Show that. side tricep. Yeah, you could see that. Geez, Angel and Niha were just so close. So close. Just different types of physiques. Angel is a much thicker, more herculan physique. You can see the the condition on Angel is really good, but it's starting to fade. Nihot Nihot edged him out a little bit in the condition. It'll be interesting to see how it goes. So that was the whole top six, the whole first call out. Good lighting at this show. Good backdrop. I know you guys want a plain black backdrop, but you got to say this is a pretty plain backdrop. It's there's not it's not what we call busy. There's not a lot of banners and flashing lights going on. I think they have banners up high. I'm not sure, but it's a pretty pretty pretty well well lit show. in the background does not distract or take away from the physiques in any way. So, I think they did a hell of a job, these Dubai Pro. And obviously, they're they're putting out a lot of money. They come up with some really good prize money. This was just posted 37 minutes ago on their on their show. Yeah, we're still Men's Physique is still up. Good look at the uh the venue. Doesn't look like a huge venue. Well, then again, I don't know where this camera is. Yeah, this is definitely a lot smaller venue than say what where we watch the Arnold or the uh or the Olympia. The Olympia seats like 5,000. The Arnold I don't think seats as many as the Olympia. The the Battel Hall that they have there in the convention center. See, everybody's probably streaming. They're not supposed to. This one the camera setups. There's Angel. Good shot. Good shot of Angel. Nihhat. Uh, number 17. Not really sure who that is. Looks looks really good. That's Rodis Lavangelov. Can't remember his name. They didn't tag anybody. No, there's no tags. This guy looked really good, too. It was a very competitive class. 212 division. That must be the Filipino guy. Looks Filipino. Wow. I think they're showing everybody in this in this post. So, this is uh the Dubai Pro Event Instagram page we're looking at right now. Yeah, looks like they have individual shots of every 212. That's Zagurella right there. I know what he looks like. Yeah, this guy number 30. I wish I knew who he was. He looks He looks pretty pretty great. This gentleman turned pro yesterday. I know that I think the 212 division had four guys in it that were Oh, there's Bon backstage. Brianna Ensley, everybody. Brian doing some interviews with Doul back there. Bion of course two-time classic physique Olympia champion himself. Doul still trying to get that Olympia title. Uh he's been top five a couple times. He's no joke. Sid backstage Pro Live and they've got some interviews going on backstage with various professionals. is Ahmad Ashkanani, the 212 champ who's been as high as I think he was second at the Olympia one year. I know he's been top five a few times. Also won the Arnold Classic. The very first year I covered the Arnold Classic as the online editor. And I would go on to cover it in 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23. So seven years in a row I covered the Arnold Classic and the Olympia and the New York Pro and other shows as the online editor for MD. But then there was no empty. Stop sharing. Okay, we're back. Well, I want to go back to Dubai Pro. Dubai Pro. Okay. All right, we're back, guys. We're back. We're back. We're back online. Ron Harris makes sounds. pay 30 for it. Well, you can uh again, Dubai_pro_Event and go there and get get your live stream. It's 30 bucks and it's, you know, you don't have to see me, Artha. You don't have to see all this other crap. You can probably see a little higher quality because this is kind of a copy of a copy. No, it's available everywhere in Ninja. Um, the stream is available wherever you are in the world. You just have to go to the Dubai Pro Dubai Pro event Instagram page and there's a bio there that takes you directly to a link to purchase the live stream. And here comes Ron Harrison. Yeah, I was uh I did I did leave the room for a few minutes to go eat. Someone just had a nap. No, I actually went to eat. That's I have to if if I waited until this whole judging was was over because we still have classic and open to get through. If we waited for all of that to get through, I guarantee you I would be fading. I would be getting brain fog and low blood sugar and all that. Donald Trump, my president, what's up, man? Where's Amit? I'm not sure which Amit you mean. Um, I'm looking at the men's physique lineup and I think you mean Amitagre Eager. E A G R E from India. I see him on the list. It's a lot of guys though. It's a lot. It's a big big show. General link. I guess you can access. Yeah, I wouldn't be able to keep it somewhat civil on the chat. I mean, sometimes we get a troll here and there. You know, we don't have too much politics going here because I'm not a very political person. I don't get into, you know, I'm not going to sit here and talk about Israel and Palestine and Gaza and what's going on with Iran and the US and it's awful. I mean, I I I athletics sports should really supersede and be a totally separate entity from politics, which is why, you know, that's that's the Olympic Games. the spirit of the Olympic Games when it was created like 130 years ago um or longer. They wanted to bring all the countries together in the spirit of uh athletic competition sporting and they're just put all their differences aside, you know, who's at war with who. Okay. So, physique's over. Good. Good. Classic. There's a post with a QR code in it. Yeah. Yeah. So, so he's talking about uh the Dubai Pro event, Dubai Pro Event Instagram page. Uh there's a a link in the bio at the top of the page and there's also a QR code in this post. You can scan that and purchase your live stream. You can get that anywhere in the world. You don't have to be you don't have to be anywhere in particular. to buy the live stream. It's it's a worldwide thing. We have a worldwide web www. So, we're waiting now for classic, I guess. Okay, I'll be watching for Ashra Asasin for sure. Oh, you don't use Insta Instagram. Okay. Uh and I don't know how you're going to find it. Uh maybe if you do a search 2025 Dubai Pro live stream, it'll it'll come up with a link. I don't know. I thought everybody was on Instagram. I thought it was like mandatory. Silverware jingling in the background. Oh, that was for music. Guy in red takes a swim. Glad you were able to figure it out because I wasn't black and yellow. Sound is off. Yeah, the sound is off on the stream. Um, you can't have music playing on YouTube or you you get a copyright strike and you're done. That's one thing they're very adamant about. And now they got Bon Anley joining Sid to do the commentary on classic physique. That's great because who better than a two-time Classic physique Olympia champion Bion to provide the commentary for classic physique. Great. That's his Greek Egyptian. What's that? A Yeti over there. What the heck is that? Uber Eats. It's It's an Uber Eats ad. I gotta wait till it's so I can skip through it. No, looks like we're gonna have to watch the whole Uber Eats commercial. Oh, it's over. Okay, so India in. Now I know India is in. I know TK is Turkey. BR is Brazil. So, I did not ask permission, but uh I encourage you all to subscribe to Artha Lab. And if you are watching her stream, which is commentary in Portuguese, you would have a bigger picture on your screen than you do on mine because mine is picture in a picture in a picture two generations down. If you go to Aretha's channel, Artha Lab, you could watch this without uh without me and the other stuff that's around hers. So, predictions for the Open. Uh I think it's going to be either either Be Ruse, Nathan or William Bonak for the win. When is open? So, we have Class of Physique now and then open is going to be after that. Could you explain competition because we can't hear? Well, I can't hear it either. I haven't been doing much commentary. Well, looks like they're bringing This must be the top the top few guys that they want one final look at. I've eaten a lot of breakfast cereal in my day. That is absolutely true. So, this is probably your top four. Uh see if I can look at any of the number. I don't I don't have number names to match any of the numbers anyway. I was told to look out for a number 90. Did he make it? A number 90 from India. Yeah. So, uh, Artha, I'm using your stream. So, I'm giving you a plug though. You can scan her her QR code there. And Artha Lab is her channel. Arita Loose, fantastic journalist from the great country of Brazil. No, number nine did not make the final four. So, that was your final four. Looks like they're done. Uh, so classic is next. I heard I heard Yeah, they they typically save it for open. Yeah. So, we'll see who's going to win Dubai Pro. Who was the best bodybuilder? So, yeah, they have Zagurella in a solid third. I think Jeppe Zagurella solid third in the 212 and the win is going to be it's got to be either Angel or Nihhat. I would go with Nihhat. I I prefer his physique. Next Zilla. Next just posted a picture. Let's go to Nexzilla. show you Nextzilla's latest shot. He just posted this while we were covering the show. Okay, so there's Rubel Moscara aka Nexzilla. That's how he's looking before he goes on stage. That was his final hotel room check-in. Incredible. Incredible uh side shots. His side tricep is one of the best I've ever seen. He's damn near perfect in the side tricep. The the waist looks great from the side. Those quads are insane. It just looks a little thicker. This is a better condition than I think I've ever seen Rubel in. So, Rubel might be a real a surprise today. You know, I didn't really have him in my top five. I didn't. I had him probably sixth somewhere around there. I thought he was going to get beat by Beirus, Nathan Bonak, Antonio, and Mofod. Maybe even Ali Edward co Ali Edward Kogbot, but we'll see. Things could change. Things could really change. You know, I have nothing against Rubil. Uh I the structure is a little funky to me, but you know, he's a freak. Bodybuilding's always had a a place for freaks and a a big fan base for freaks. So, yeah. Are they on break? On break. All right. So, the classic is out now. They're doing groups and then they will do individuals. Classic is a classic physique is a big big class today. But sucks. For a guy who sucks, he's done pretty well. He's done he's won two Arnold Classics. He's been as high as second in the Olympia. He's won I don't know how many pro shows. He's probably close to 10 at this point. Looks like a superhero. Yeah, I mean to say he sucks. Some India Ron Seam representing India there. MPH clear winner to Czech Republic. We got top five. Well, let's wait till we see what they look like. The open hasn't started yet. They're going to do open last. Wait till tomorrow morning. I was on points. No, I'm back at 14,000 steps. Shakri is the best from Egypt. We have predictions for the open. Yeah, clearly win. Angelo have no change. I think you mean an calder has no chance. Niad kaya kia kaya not really sure you'd say see that bundansra bundans sundra deir yeah there's a a lot of lot of stuff I don't understand here all right so your skeleton will still have the that's not true I think your hair goes Right. Lord Jan asking, "Do I need anything from Costco? Sunny grew up in western Simone." They're talking about the late Sunny Schmidt. Let's take a look at the classic lineup real quick. Men's physique. So, this is classic physique. Lot of guys. A lot of guys. I'm not even going to try to count. There's some names in there I recognize. Of course, there's a lot of names I don't recognize. I'm sure some of them will really surprise me with how good they are. So, oh, share this again. Every time I do that, I lose the uh I lose the the stream, so I have to bring it back. Okay, this is the commentary in Portuguese, Dubai Pro 2025, commentarios in Portuguese. This is a video from Lab. Currently, we're looking at the initial look look at the classic physique competitors. All right, let's go back. Yeah, Arnold did he's not a fan of the the board shorts. Um, you know, I'm not either. I think these guys the guys in men's physique, they could wear shorts that are similar to Skip that commercial. very similar to what the classic physique guys wore in the first year of classic physique back in 2016 when the shorts had a lot of coverage. Um much much more coverage than bodybuilding and much more even than what they have now for classic. These shorts are about half the size half the coverage or or less or twice yeah half the coverage of what the old shorts trunks the trunks in classic were in the early days. It's a lot of a lot of stuff in Turkish here that I can't read. I hope it's not a lot of bad words. It's a big dude in the black, yellow, white shorts. How long ago was that comment? That was Jeez, it was almost 20 minutes ago. When is open? Open open is after classic. And this is classic. Yeah, you can still get the uh the stream there. There's still any anytime the stream is on, you can purchase it. I know that they're not going to close out the sales. So, I think even if the there were 10 minutes left in the whole show, if you wanted to buy the stream, that's on you. You're spending 30 30 bucks for 10 minutes, but they're not going to stop you. So, after this will be the individuals. This is classic. Yeah. And they will do individuals for everybody. Yeah. Don't ask me to sing. Oh, I'm an awful. Not only that, I'm an awful singer, Donald. Yeah. So again, I have to keep reminding us copyright be careful. Yeah, I I had a strike from the Olympia in 2024. Was it 2023? 2024. And it took me four months. I couldn't go live. It was about three months. Took me a long time before I could go live again. So I'm hoping I'm safe now because I'm not I'm not sharing the stream. I'm not sharing the pay-per-view. I'm sharing Artha's video and I'm saying so many nice things about her that I'm hoping she would not strike me uh for using her video. And again, I encourage you if if you don't want to see all this other stuff around her video, you can go to her channel and you wouldn't see me, you wouldn't see the Eurom muscle stuff, it'll be a little bit bigger on your screen. So, you have your choice, people. You have your choice in airlines. Okay, pardon. This broadcast is cool. Okay. Appreciate it. Appreciate it. So, we're still looking at uh uh Atlanta show. No. Uh next weekend is Flex Weekend Italy Pro. Nad has a face like a little child. That's Yeah, I like to see that because so many times I see young guys on gear in their early 20s and they already look like they're in their mid to late 30s. A lot of times you'll see guys by the time they're in their late 20s on gear, they look like they're 40. Uh Nihhat still has a very fresh look to him. He looks like a 22-y old. You would never see him in clothes and go, "Oh, guy looks like he's 40." No, he looks his age. He has a little child. He's 22. 22 is is not a child. It's an adult. But when I think back to when I was 22, I was still a kid in so many ways. I was married. I've been married for a year. I got married at age 21. But I I I I didn't really start feeling like an adult until I was about 30. To be honest with you guys, my whole 20s I didn't really feel like an adult. Even though certain milestones, I mean, I got married at 21. I had my first child at 24, got my first home at 27. So, I mean, there were some milestones in there that were indicative of adult behavior, but I just didn't feel it. I didn't feel like I was starting to be like a a real man, a grown-up, until I was about 30. No, he's 22. Nihad is only 22. 22. Give him time. If you could recommend one thing, maybe you can revise how you read comments because you're usually reading the chat with five minutes late. Well, it's because I'll I'll linger on one and then I'll start talking about what's on screen and then by the time I go back to the chat, you know, because I want to comment I want to comment on what's on screen too, not just respond to a lot of the chat is it's comments in I'm guessing this is Turkish most of it. Away for a bit more behind than usual. Yeah, I did I did go away for like almost 10 minutes to eat. Make sure you look 33 with all the ros. Well, let's hope not. Let's hope. Let's hope not. Is that Italian? I don't even know what language that is. Calderon. Gosh. Nihad win easy. Uh gosh, very little of this is in English, so I can't really can't really pronounce. Okay, so here we go. This is our first guy. All right, so this should be uh Almost Mustafa Al Jafre from Jordan. Let's take a look. Our first class physique competitor. Okay. Uh, I know it's kind of small on the screen, so it's hard to comment. I could tell you from right now the condition is not great. His glutes are soggy, the hams are soggy, quads. Yeah, this guy's lacking condition. He's not going to do well today because there's almost 40 of these guys in classic. And I guarantee you most of them are going to be in great shape. Or was that the second guy? Uh, this is Crimo Amari from Iran. I don't know. Once I get to Michael Dabul, I won't be messing up anymore. I think this is Crimo Amari. Take a look at him from Morocco. Okay, looks good conditions there. thick chest delts. You know, I I still look at classic I I look at it with a bodybuilder's eye. So, to me, these are just really aesthetic bodybuilders who aren't overly massive. They have a weight cap for their height that they have to stay within those parameters. This guy's in really good condition. Yeah, good for him. Okay. All right. If next No. Okay. So, I didn't miss anybody. So this is Vahid Vadpe from Iran. He was able to make it from Iran. Let's take a look at Vahed because not everybody made it from Iran. The ones who waited too long, the airports were shut down. They couldn't leave. Okay. Vaper. Uh yeah, I mean he's classic. Doesn't have the the prettiest overall shape just because some of these guys have really round muscles. He doesn't have that. Uh he's a little bit on the smaller side. I know they're not supposed to be massive, but look at that condition, though. Okay, glutes are in nice. Give him credit for that. Yeah, he'll he'll struggle today. Again, there's almost 40 men in this classic physique division class. Uh so, it's going to be tough. It's going to be tough to stand out and be in that first call out. Anything else from Costco? Yeah, there was Vahid. So, next should be Michael Dabul from Syria. Yeah. So, Doulool has won the Arnold UK. He's won some shows. He's uh he's very confident as he should be. He looks fantastic from Syria. call him the Saharan eagle bas you know from the Sahara desert front lat to me that's his best shot which is not a classic physique mandatory pose it's an optional pose when they say your favorite classic pose you can hit anything you want and he usually hits that side chest is a mandatory shot I knew he'd be in shape look at that striations all over head to toe lower back glutes great rear double very detailed failed. Michael Dabul, uh, you'll remember, was the guy that had that unfortunate incident early last year where he was beaten backstage by three or four security guys in the UK at a show. His girlfriend or wife, his wife was competing, I think, there goes Dool. Yeah. All right. Next up, we have Joe Davis from the USA. I don't know, Joe. But he's the only American competing in classic physique division today. He looks like a very tall guy. I'll say it right now. You know, I could say when some guys look like they're short, this gentleman, based on the length of his limbs and and the size of his head compared to the body, I bet this guy's over six foot. I bet he's 6'1 or 6'2. I'm going to go out on another limb and say he probably turned pro as a Masters like an over 35 or over 40 if I had to take a wild crazy guess, you know. Good for him. He went all the way over all the way over to Dubai to represent us. Good for him, man. Not many Americans made it over there. Of course, Americans aren't too uh keen on traveling to anywhere in the Middle East right now anyway with everything going on. can imagine why. Okay, so that was Joe Davis. This is Khaled Elawi from Egypt. You have two guys in a row coming up from Egypt. Khaled like the way he stands there with the hip thrown to the side. Great way to present your physique. Make your waist look smaller. He's seeing the vacuum almost all the time. Keeps that vacuum sucked in. See how he looks from the back. Okay, I guess he's either not hitting the glutes or they're not that clearly strided. You don't have to have strided glutes, but most of the top guys do have strided glutes. That's the conditioning level that we've sort of become expectant of. And if you don't have that, we don't consider you to be in great condition. All right, so that was Khaled. Next up, we have another uh Egyptian Ramadan El Shakawi. Ramadan El Shakawi. I hope I hope that's him. Although this could be the guy from Bulgaria. It's hard to say. I'm going to assume this is Ramadan. Al Shikawi. Uh legs are a little bit on the weak side. Yeah, he needs more legs. Upper body is certainly overpowering the lower body. Let's see. Rare double looks good. Back's nice and detailed. We're missing any great comments. This guy's named Mohamad Nim. That was a long time ago. See, I'm so behind. Sun was from Simo was actually. Okay, so this is our next competitor. H. No, I think we I think we missed somebody. This is Sun. This has to be Sunni Gil from India. This looks like an Indian gentleman to me. Unless it's hard to say. Or is this or is this the Bulgarian guy Valerie? It's hard to say. He's one of those two guys. Yeah, I know. I don't have a sheet with the numbers to match up with the names and I don't I only know a few of the names of these guys. Luka Rajarn Classic. Okay. Um, so Hector, I'm showing Artha Labs video. She's live with the live stream. Okay. This must be the guy from India because he's got the turban. All right. So, I'm guessing this is uh Sunni Gil. Sunumi Gil from India. Yeah. Let's take a look. Yeah, I'm not showing the pay-per-view. I'm showing Artha Labs video. She is live. I did not ask her permission, but I'm plugging her every chance I get because uh I don't want her to try to strike me down. She's got a huge huge audience. She's doing her commentary in Portuguese, so it's a totally different audience. Uh I'm doing mine in English because I don't speak Portuguese. Uh this guy looks really good. Not as big as some of the classic guys. I know size is not the overriding factor the judges look at in classic, but I would like to see a little more sweep on those thighs. Okay, that was him. That was Sunni Gill. Now we're going to look at Ethan Gohari from Australia. Ethan's rocking a pretty cool hairstyle and beard. Very rugged look to him. a little on the stockier, thicker side. You can see how much thicker he is than gentleman we just looked at. But let's see how classic he looks. Some guys in classic really don't belong in that division. They really should be in 212 or open. I'm a little bit on the fence about this guy, you know, because what is the difference between classic physique and bodybuilding? Is it just size? Is it aesthetics? To me, it's aesthetics. Obviously, there's there's some guys in open that if they were smaller, they would be great classic Z competitors because they have beautiful shape. Nice back on this gentleman. Nice back on uh Ethan Ethan Gohari from Australia. Yeah. Yeah. So, the actual uh what is this? Only with stuff white men can look like black men. Know what that means? Here's jealous here. So, next up, we're going to have uh Wasim Hassan from Syria, just like uh Michael Doul, also from Syria. Wasim Wasim Hassan. Let's take a look at him. All right. Yeah. Again, I want to see more quads and more quad sweep. I I I do a quick scan immediately and I think, what does this guy have that's strong? What's weak? And right away I would go with the legs as kind of a weakness on this guy. You need sweeps, man. Without sweeps, if you have that width in the upper body and the shoulders and the upper back, but you don't have the quad sweep, you don't have an X-frame. Uh legs look better from the side. That's often the case. A lot of these guys with the who lack the quad sweep, they still have, you know, decent quad size overall and hams. So from the side, their legs look pretty good, their thighs. It's from the front that we have issues. Okay, next up is going to be Paulo Enrique from Brazil. Paulo Enrique again. So, this is Artha Lab. This is her video, her live stream. She's showing the pay-per-view live and she is doing commentary in Portuguese. So, I don't think I'm stepping on her toes by doing this because uh she has a huge audience, mainly Brazilians, which is a massive country as you know, over 300 was it 330 million people. So, I don't think I'm taking away her audience. Anybody who wants to watch in Portuguese since and hear some good commentary, they would be watching Artha and not me. Uh, this guy looks good, man. This guy looks really good. This is Paulo Enrique. Paulo Enrique. Yeah, nice calves. You know, you don't need calves, obviously, but they're nice if you have them. This guy's got a got a nice shape. Look at the vacuum. Quad's a little sweepy. Nice crossstrations across the teardrop. Okay, next up. This guy looks pretty big. Adama Jama from Sweden. Adama Jame. Jam Mh. A Swedish guy. What do you know? Takes all kinds. So, there he is. Yeah. Let me let me let me hold on. Let me reserve judgment. Yeah. I mean, he's to me that's a bodybuilder. Classic physique is bodybuilding, don't get me wrong, but it's it's aesthetic bodybuilding. It's very very aesthetically pleasing bodybuilders who aren't overly massive. That's if I had to describe classic physique in a nutshell. Aesthetics, shape, symmetry, flow, those things all weigh it more heavily than just pure mass. Got to look good. Not as shapely as some others. Not as shapely. All right. Who is this? This is Azamat Karabashev from Russia. Azamat Karabashev. I bet I'm pronouncing that perfectly. Look at that Vtaper. Look at that little waist. This guy's got a great structure, man. Perfect. You really want that as as any physique competitor, but especially classic. You want to have the super wide clavicles, a very narrow waist, and the limbs in proportion, not too long or too short. This guy's got a really good overall package. Let's see the condition. It's good. I'd like to see a little bit more. I'd like to see more lines the ham in the hamstrings. I'd like to see those like cables, the quads. I'd like to see more sweep. I'm always looking for more. Always. Next up is Ahmed Khalifa. Oh, Khali. Yeah, Ahmed Khalifa from Egypt. Let's take a look at Ahmed. I could already tell he's a shorter guy. I can tell by the size of his head. Is that right? Is that him from Egypt or did we miss somebody? No, this is John Lee from Canada. So, I don't know if I'm somebody didn't make it. This is John Lee from Canada. I know that that's Lee is a Chinese name. And see how I'm making some logical assumptions there. Jumping to conclusions. John's a very good competitor. I've seen him a few times. Solid physique. No real weak points. Let's see that back. Crank it in there. Nice thick back. Yeah, I believe I'm not sure. I believe John has been top 10 at the Olympia, but I'm very unsure about that. Very unsure. Maybe he was, maybe he wasn't. All right, who is after John to John, we got Eric Lboa from Brazil. Eric Lboa. I think I get him mixed up with Eric Wildberger. They're not the same person, are they? Because sometimes these guys use uh different names. They go by different last names. I know in Brazil they go by like the mother's last name and the father's last name with a e with a y in between. I think this Eric Lisbo is not the same as Wildberger. I think it's a different guy. They do have a similar look though. I could be completely wrong, but um if it's Wild Burger, if it's the same guy, then I saw him at New York Pro last year and he looked pretty damn good. gonna go way down the comments back live tons of Bible and competition. It's going to be after this after classic. So, we're gonna have uh this is classic and then after that is open and then we're done for judging classic. This is live. This live I mean I think I'm like five minutes behind her now at this point. Okay, this is Li Lishuan Luwanlu from Taiwan. Lihuan Lishan Lichuan, sure you'd say it. Uh, smaller guy, not very conditioned. Uh, a great poser. He's got a good physique, guys, don't get me wrong, but he's he's going to struggle today. when you have a huge class like this, uh, anything, you know, the judges need any reason to sort of take you out of that top top grouping because they have to get through these guys quickly. They have to get through the judging and be fair and impartial and give everyone a fair place in quickly. All right, this is Miguel Malimo. Miguel Malimo or Malimo from Mozambique. I think Mosmbique's in Africa. You can see my horrible lack of geog geographical knowledge apparent there. Uh good back. Um yeah, he's he's good. Is he great though? You're gonna have to be great to get a look today. Uh this is no joke. This show they came out for the money. I think this is the third highest payout in classic physique after the Arnold Classic and the Olympia and the Arnold Classic. So these guys want that money. So they got a huge turnout today. All right, that was Miguel. Next up is Abdalah Muhammadi from Saudi Arabia. Muhammad, I'm sorry. Abdullah Muhammadi. Abdalah Muhammadi. Saudi Arabia. So he didn't have to go too far for this show. Skipping a jump as we say. What's that? Leave that there. Okay. Uh, I gotta go back to that. All right. So, that is Abdul. We have Rita Nasardin from Morocco next. But this is uh Abdullah Mohamdi finishing out his 60 seconds that they usually give you. 60 seconds. Good. Good. Good. We'll see how he does. Okay, so that was uh this is Rita Rita Rita Nas Nasardin Nasardin Nasardin from Morocco. Let's take a look at him. Uh arms are really good. The legs legs are a little lagging behind the arms and it's it's not going to do him any favors today. Uh yeah, condition good, not spectacular. I'm telling you, there's there's almost 40 guys in this class. So being really good is just not going to be good enough to get that first call out. You're going to have to be excellent, outstanding to be in the first call out. These guys are no joke. No joke. This guy looks good, you know. Don't get me wrong, but he needs more legs. Needs a little better. Who is this? This is Richard Naggie from Hungary. He's very good. He's also very good. I've seen him win some shows before. Did he win Empro last year? I know he won a show last year. You know, he doesn't have the most massive arms, but they're not they're not small. He's proportionate. He's not a huge guy. Everything's really well proportioned and balanced. It's all about balance. classic physique in particular. Look at that nice conditioning. You can see there with the glutes. See the hams how they're in their cords? That that's what you want to see. You don't want to see one smooth mass of the hamstrings. You want to see those those individual heads of the hamstrings clearly delineated from each other like steel cables. Richard Naggie from Hungary brings a really good package. I I predict you'll see this guy in the top five. I think he's going to be up there. That was Richard. We're about halfway through. Kent Nasarondo from Philippines is next. Yeah. Filipino. A Pinoy as we say. He's got some mass on him. He's got some size. You see how much bigger he looks than a lot of the guys we've seen in the past past few uh minutes. Very masterful poser. Look at that. Very confident up there. That goes a long way, too. just competing classic. I think it's 37 politics everywhere without knowing Dubai so rich they can't afford a free stream. Well, it's not the country of Dubai putting this on. It's a watch Ibraham sober and open. He'll be the biggest in open. All right. So, that was Kent Nasarando from Philippines. Next up, we have Bad Nuri from Saudi Arabia. Bad Nuri from Saudi Arabia. Let's take a look at him. He's rocking an epic mustache. Beautiful head of hair. Of course, I noticed the hair right away because I had a hair transplant. I definitely look at everyone's hairlines a lot more than I used to. Legs are weak in that that leg on the left, his right leg is even smaller than the left leg. So, even though he's in good condition today, uh this is not a physique that's going to be, I don't think, even in the second call out. There's just too many things you can pick apart. The condition is pretty good. But yeah, those legs those legs are really holding back. Again, these guys are all champions. They all they all worked hard to get here to this stage today. If I'm putting down things like condition or legs or whatever, it's just me being the critic that I'm supposed to be. I'm I'm pointing things out. Okay, that was Boner. Next up, we have Chanuk. Chanuk A from South Korea. Chanuk A. Never heard of him until today. Classic division is stacked with guys. There are so many classic pros. He's on the smaller side. He's on the smaller side. And even though the legs are good, I expect Korean guys to have massive quads, massive calves. They're pretty good, don't get me wrong. And I like that separation in the quad heads. the big dude in some aspects, but yeah, size-wise, when I say he's a big dude, I was speaking a little too hastily. Uh he's he's not as big as some of these other people we've been looking at. Again, I I keep reiterating that back the back thickness the back thickness is lacking. When it's spread out, like I said, in the lat spread, you can't really tell, but when someone has it crunched together in that rear double, that's when uh back thickness or lack thereof becomes far more apparent. All right. Next up from India, we have Chaitana Prabhu Pura Lacheti. Chaititananya Prau Pura Lacheti. That's a long name. Wowee. Looks good. Looks really good. You guys might remember Amit Roy was a really good classic physique competitor. He still is. I don't know when the last time Aid competed. It's been a while. I think he's done 212 and classic. I think he's done both of those divisions. comment. No, this this gentleman here looks pretty damn good from India. Uh would like to see a little more separation of legs from the side there. Yeah, the glutes are not in at all. The hams are smooth. So, that right there is going to knock him out of the running for uh you know, an initial call out. You can't be that. You have to have pretty good definition everywhere. You can't be lacking. and he is lacking in the the glutes and the hams condition. Typically, that's where you see it. Most guys will look pretty hard and lean from the front like he does. When you turn around, that's when you see sometimes things. Okay, this is Luca. Luca Roger from Reger. Reg Luca from Germany. Luca re e g- er re regger re regger re regger re regger riger maybe it's rigger that sounds German he looks like a very young guy if I had to guess he's probably in his early 20s himself mid20s at the latest at the oldest nice structure and shape nice quads good separation there see the glutes are in they're nice and strided yeah this is a very good overall package from Luca Luca eer Regger. I'm gonna I'm gonna call him RieR. I might be wrong. I'm trying to get these names right. I'm trying. 212 is over. They did that first. They did 212 first. We've already seen uh 212 and men's physique. And this is class physique. And then open is going to be last. He's just interviewed. I don't get asked a lot, but the stream when does the open class start? Uh, I can only estimate it's probably going to be about 20 minutes from now. Okay, this is Dennis Rose from Spain. Dennis Rose from Spain. Yeah, guys, it's it's impossible to give you exact times because they didn't even start the show on time. It was it started about a 20 minutes or half hour late. Um, and the divisions I didn't even know the order of the divisions, but they run the divisions straight through. So, whenever this division, Class of Physique, is over, that's when Open men, the one we've all been waiting for, that's when they're going to come out. And I can only estimate, we still have to get through uh individual presentations from uh about 10 more guys, then they're going to do the call outs, uh the judge, the actual judging for classic, then they're going to do open. So, it's going to be a bit. It's going to be a bit. Okay. So that was that was Dennis Rose. This is Mustafa Salman from Iraq. Mustafa Salman. Let's take a look at Mustafa. Yeah, very small waist. Nice sweep to the quads. I would like to see deeper separation in the quads, though. Uh even though they're lean and defined, we don't see deep deep separations between the individual quad heads. which I want to see that. We always want to see that. Uh I could say he probably needs more glute development. You can see some strikes there. You can see that they're kind of in his condition's pretty good. It's pretty good. Uh I don't think he's going to be a front runner today. Arms look a little bit behind in that shot. A little bit weak. So who was after that? Uh now we have Sajad Samandere. Samar from Iran. He made it all the way from Iran. Assuming this is him. This could be the Brazilian guy that was supposed to be after him. I'm not sure because some of the some of the guys from Iran, uh, a good number of competitors didn't make it to this show because they waited too long. If they were if their flight was going to be later in the week, they were they were out of luck because the airport's shut down. You know, the country is being bombed. They're at war basically. So, I'm not sure if this is a gentleman from Iran, Sajad Samar, or if this is Julio Simo from Brazil. I don't know. I don't have a sheet to match up numbers with names. But this guy looks good. Uh, not a sticking round. He's going to struggle today. You know, when you have almost 40 guys in the division, it's it's tough to stand out. All right, so who do you think this is? This guy looks pretty white. So, h this is Kevin. So, that was the guy from Brazil. That was Julio. This is Kevin Stuts from Austria. This looks like an Austrian to me for sure. He doesn't look like a Brazilian. And I know there are people in Brazil with German heritage, of course, but I'm gonna take a wild guess and say this is Kevin Stutz from Austria. Looks like a young guy. Pretty young. Anyway, doing the flying the bird flying thing there before he gets in his back shot. I believe I can fly. He's good. He needs more size. He's a work in progress. I don't I don't know. Yeah, those arms. You can see the triceps. Triceps from the back should be a lot fuller fuller and rounder. He's kind of like Urs in that way. Urs Kachchinsky. Uh great legs, but the arms are never never quite matched so far. All right, so that was him. Who do we got next? All right, up next from Russia, Mikuel Timoshin. Mikuel Timosin. Timos Shin. I think that look like a Russian to you because the guy after that after that was from Mexico. All right. So, I'm going assume this is male Timotion from Russia. Big arms, big quads. I'm sorry, big delts. Glutes are are carved out. Back looks good. This this this is one of the better guys I've seen in the past few minutes. Yeah, waist. You know, it's not a thick chunky waist, but it's not a tiny waist like some of these guys. And the bone structure gives some guys a massive advantage. Wow, that's a tricky shot. And he almost fell. He's done. Okay, so who do we have next? All right, so if that was him, this should be Edgar Danielle Valencia Palifox from Mexico. Yeah, he looks Mexican. I can say that because I love the Mexican people. I've been to Mexico many, many times. had Mexican girlfriends in my younger years. Merida Cuban. All right, let's take a look. Nice arms, good quads. Yeah, he's uh nice nice separation there in the legs from the side. See all those lines? We haven't seen that on too many guys. That's how it's supposed to be. You saw that more in the 212 guys with the more massive leg development. Oh yeah, look at that. Glutes are glutes are in nice and tight. Only thing that might hurt him is he's just not as big or as wide as some of these other guys. He doesn't have that width and the overall mass. And this is bodybuilding, guys. I know it's not open bodybuilding, but classic physique. It's it's still bodybuilding. All right. Next up from Russia, we have Dimmitri Vortens. Dimmitri Voroinsf. Gosh, I'm I'm doing my best, guys, with these names. All right, let's take a look at Dimmitri. Nice shape. Nice quads, Vtaper. X-frame. Okay, look at how little how small his waist is when he pulls that vacuum. He's got a very narrow waist. See how I'm talking about this is a narrow waist. And that's there's nothing he did specifically to get his waist so narrow. That's just how he was born. Some people have a wider hip frame, a wider hipbones, and wider waist. And some of them are very lucky like like this guy uh Dimmitri and they have nice thick pecs there. Got another Quantis airline commercial D is running. Okay, great job Dmitri. Only a couple more guys. Actually two more guys. Alexander Westmire. Oh, I forgot about him. He's in the show from Germany. Alexander. He's very good. Um, I think I was at New York Pro and he took second. I can't remember who won. Was it Neil Curry that year a few years ago? This guy's really good. Solid competitor. Always in great condition. Yeah. I'd like to see more legs, but look at the look at the glutes, man. Glutes are in. It's not a glute show, but is it? It's impressive to see because you have to be so lean. Your body fat has to get so low for you to see your glutes that strided that clearly. Uh Westermar, he's probably going to be a first call out guy. Just got really nice overall proportions and balance. Yeah, haven't seen him in a minute. I forgot about Alexander Vestimaya from Germany. Is he Germany or Austria? Germany. Okay, last gentleman coming up is from Turkey. So all you Turks, wake up. Mustafa Yelis. Mustafa Yldis from Turkey is our final competitor. And after that, after that, we can get into the judging. This is a big dude. This is a big guy for classic. Some He's one of those guys that makes me wonder, how did he make weight? His bones must not weigh anything. How did he make weight? Because those are some serious serious arms, serious legs. He's got some mass on him. This guy, thick guy. Thick guy. Mustafa Yldis. Not familiar with him until today. Yeah, look at how many these classic guys really brought the condition. Those glutes are in nice and tight. Go ahead and insert comments about Ron talking about other guys butts whenever you feel like it. It's fine. Okay. And there. Oh, so now we're probably going to have guys that turn pro here in Dubai yesterday. We're going to have them and I don't know how many how many new pros they minted in classic yesterday, but what a chance for these guys to go right from amateur one day to pro the very next day. That's pretty amazing. Okay, so I don't know the gentleman's name. don't know, but he looks pretty good, you know, to to win the uh Dubai Pro uh or the Dubai Pro qualifier. I saw pictures, the classes were huge. Middle Eastern competitors are no joke. Uh they train very very hard over there in places like Kuwait, Dubai, UAE, uh Iran, and you get a lot of quality competitors coming out of the Middle East. And this this was like their amateur Olympia and their Olympia basically this show the the Dubai pro. Here's another new pro. Don't know who he is, but they they made some new pros. Let's go to since I don't know now I can go to your comments. Uh open's probably going to be in about 20 minutes, I'm guessing. Uh you can rewind, but Nihhat was a 212 competitor and that was the first division. The first division. So, we've been going for two and a half hours. That was the first division that we showed. You can rewind. You can rewind on a live on a live video. It's before men's physique. So, if you see men's physique in the board shorts, keep going. It was It was in back of that. Bion had seven inches to his height with that hair. It's got a lot of hair. I mean, I've never had hair that high. Obviously, it would be pretty hard to do. Olympia, I don't know. This is all. Yeah, a lot of these comments. This is still another another new classic pro. Wow. When is classic? This is classic. That was the Wow, you posted almost an hour ago. Wow, I'm that far behind. Yeah, classic on stage already. Yeah, I get behind in the comment in in the chat because I'm I'm looking at the screen. Refresh your stream. Yeah, definitely Angel. That's no next. Yeah, because a lot of times you guys are commenting on someone who's on screen and by the time I get to your comments, that was like 20 minutes ago. I need to train legs more after watching Exilla. What are we doing? Classic is on stage. Refresh the stream. Go to her stream. Yeah, she's live. I'm only I could see on the right I'm only about five minutes behind her. So I'm not live. I'm like five minutes behind live at this point. It's pretty close guys. Wouldn't you agree? Another CL new classic pro. My goodness. Yeah. Wild predictions real actually comes in. You know what? I can actually go skip through that. Okay. Oh, they brought him out in groups. Is this his first call out? Who's this first call out? That's too many damn guys for first call out. Okay. Well, there's Dool, so this must be first call out. All right. So, now we're on first call out, guys. I didn't want to miss it. Okay. So, this is going to be the first call out. Again, I don't know too many of these guys in the in the classic. So, forgive me. I only know Doul, who's my heavy favorite to win because I've seen him win a bunch of other shows. Uh, but I think there was a there was a big group, man. I think they had like eight guys up there in the first call out. Bonak bomba best quality. No chance for the v. No change for the vending machine. What? Uh, no horse is not. He's over there. He went to watch. He's He's not competing. Bonac will win. Last guy on the right. Be fighting for title tonight. Okay, so you're talking about Eric Lizboa. Okay, I do know him. Luca Rigger. What an announcement 121. Hope Luca will win. Well, you're a Luca fan. That's good. You support your favorite guys. All right. So, this was your first call out. All right. So, there's Luca there. He's right next to Michael Dool. Uh, and where's Eric? I see uh who's that? Richard Naggie there as well. Second from the left. I don't see Eric Lisboa in this call out. And this was the first call out. Did they move him in after? Typically, if you're not in the first call out, you're probably not going to win the show. I I've seen people move around in places where they weren't if they weren't in the first call out, which might be like six guys, but then when the judges get a look at them, they might end up in the top five, but they're typically the person who's going to win stands out so much from those initial looks the judges had. um that they go right to uh right to those guys in the So if you're not in that first call out, you probably you're not going to win the show. It's just I've never seen someone who was in the first call out. Ronnie Coleman claims he was not in the first call out of the 98 Olympia that he won, which I would have to really go back and try to see if I could find a full judging tape of that show to see if that's true. That sounds that sounds really far-fetched to me that Ronnie wasn't in the first call out. Okay. So, we can see him Michael being compared very favorably with that as a young the young guy from Germany. What's his name? Uh, Luca. Yeah, Luca. Wow. Good for him. Luca's getting a good look right there with uh Michael. I don't think he's ready to to beat Michael yet. I think Michael has the edge on him here. And now they're moving some other guys closer to Michael. Who was that? He looks familiar. Maybe you guys know. Yeah, there's so many comments, guys. It's impossible. It's impossible to keep up. Yeah, Luca's condition is very good. I could see it when he was uh when he was out there by himself doing show what he did in previous competition. Yeah, a lot of you guys are fans of one particular athlete, so you sort of focus on them clearly. And there's nothing wrong with that. Wish they would hold their pose as well. They don't have any time. They got to get they got to get through this, unfortunately. Uh, check out Arita Lab. Yeah, Alita Lab. This is her video, so I'm not I'm not streaming the pay-per-view. Artha is. She is doing commentary in Portuguese. If any of you guys would rather hear commentary in Portuguese, go to her channel and and watch her stream instead of mine. Uh, I don't speak any Portuguese. She speaks very good, perfect English. Yeah, Doulool is the highest ranked competitor in the show. He's the only one that's been top five in the Olympia for sure. I think Westermire has been top 10. I'm not sure about that, but I know Doulool has been top five. He was top five last year and it's been more than once. Miguel from India. Yeah, these these comments go so quick. The chat is going moving so fast, guys. It would be it would be really my favorite is uh Dool. I would go with Dabul. And I'm not sure who these guys are. Any stream better. Thank you, man. Forov. No, that means hello. Uh, how do you say thank you? Spaciva. There you go. Right. I know. I know like five words in Russian. Do anyway. All right, we're going. We're back. Back with classic. Sebum is favorite. He's gone. I agree on the calves. I always look for that, too. So many guys don't have calves. It's It's, you know, I understand if you have really high calves. We're looking at probably second and third call out guys now. If you have really high calves, you're never going to be able to build big big calves. It's just not in the cards for you. Seeum is a junkie. What uh I did see some stupid video a video thumbnail where it says why Jay Cutler hates Chris Bumstead and it was just Jay Cutler saying he's a drug addict. But there was nothing in that video. It was pure clickbait. There was nothing in that video that uh indicated in any way, shape, or form that Jay Cutler hates Chris Bumpstead. He doesn't I'm sure he does not hate. I don't think Jay hates too many people. He's a He's a very mellow guy. Yeah, there's Eric Lizboa from Brazil there. So, the fact that he's being compared in this huge group of guys doesn't doesn't indicate to me that he's anywhere near uh in the running for the win here. Uh don't get me wrong, the guy looks good, but there's 37 guys here. Most of them look pretty good. And that's why judging is so much harder than people give it credit for. People like to [\h__\h] on the judges and say they're blind. It's politics. They don't know what they're doing. But let me tell you, I've I've judged a few shows and it's hard. I can't imagine. I've never judged a pro show. I can't even imagine how difficult that would be when the guys are so good and so close to each other. You know, they're all elite. Local shows are a lot easier because, you know, you'll have a couple people stand out and then some mediocre people and some people are just not very good at all. So, judging is a lot easier. But everybody's good here. Everybody here's a pro. Everybody won a bunch of shows to get to this stage today typically. Um, so you're seeing the cream of the crop. And judging them, you have to look for the most minute differences. You know, this guy needs more sweep on his quads. This guy's back is pretty weak. You're looking for weak points to sort of eliminate people. If you have a class of 40, 50, 60 people, and some of these divisions do, you have to figure out really quickly who you're going to look at for the top 15, who stands out among that huge group of people. Not easy at all. Looks like Eric's being moved there toward the center. I know we just want to go to the open. I know we wanted to move ahead, but I'm only like one minute behind right now behind live. What else? Sebum is not competing in the show. Correct. Sebum is not competing anymore as far as we know. Biceps rock short and blocky trying to trying to get Yeah, when you're commenting on people that were on screen, keep eye on Eric from Brazil. Yeah, he did win the he did win that, but he didn't he's not going to win this. the best way to bring up quad sweep. I mean, it is mostly genetic, but I still believe if you do most of your compound movements, and I wouldn't do it on like barbell squats, but pretty much everything else, if you can keep your feet together, your legs together and a little bit lower, a little bit below center on platform, you will target more of that vasis lateralis, the outer quad. Um, the people with these great great quad sweeps, they didn't do anything special for it. just trained legs and they grew that way. Uh, I always had really good quad sweeps and I attribute that to genetics. Um, there were guys that had much bigger bigger better not better but bigger quads than me. If you throw a tape measure around them, but because I had that that sweep that went like, you know, in a half moon shape out to the side uh, for each of my quads, they looked bigger than these guys who probably had two, three inches circumference on me. This guy looks great. Yeah, that's Eric. How far behind am I? Jeez, Luca has no chance. Gluts very nice but chest too soft where you watch the list of names. So that is a website called iffbbppro.com. IFBBpro.com has the schedules for all the shows, flyers, uh contact information for the promoters, the websites, uh and usually Monday evening every week before a contest, the shows for that weekend, they will post the competitor lists for those shows. Uh it'll say competitor list added. When you go to the homepage and and you see the flyer for that show, you'll see that. So, it's a good way to keep track of who's doing the shows. Hold on. Let's see. It's a duel between Doul and this Eric from Brazil. Let's see with the final call out. They'll I They'll probably do a final call out as they usually do with just a couple guys and that's going to be who's fighting for the win. Have they looked at everybody? Okay, this is just this the final four. Nope. No, Doul's not there. So, this isn't the final call out. You know, this father's man just died yesterday. I don't know who we're talking about. I don't know that. But that's awful. I mean, I lost my father 1986. So, I feel for anybody that loses a parent. I've lost both of mine. I don't know who's I don't know who you're talking about whose father just died, but that's uh my condolences. Use all the oiling at their hands. Oh, that's that's that's rough. rough. So, Luke, I thought it would be great if he did not look anyway with thought. I mean, he doesn't look bad. He was they they stood him next to uh Dool, Michael Dool. And the fact that this is like almost 40 guys and Luca was right there with him. He beat he beat most of the field. He did pretty darn great today. I wouldn't be disappointed in him at all. And six little boy. Yeah. I mean, Luca looks very young. I don't know how old he is. He looks very young. Oh, you're behind if you stream or live stream. Oh, because I can click back and forth, but I'm only I could click like watch. I'll do this. I'll catch up to her stream. I'm barely behind. So, right now it's just her on the screen talking. So, did they did they even finish? Was the final call? No. Bringing everybody back. What the heck? What's going on? Oh, they're still doing like third, fourth, fifth call outs at this point. I know we're we're all impatient. We want to get to the uh to the open. We're almost there, guys. We're almost there. We're getting there. We'll get there. Don't stay with me, guys. We'll get there. We'll get there. So, yeah, the chat just moves so fast. There's so many because there's 759 people watching right now and a lot of people commenting. So, it's hard to stay uh it's hard to stay live with the chat. He was quitting the show to go back to his country. His friend's coach should encourage him to I don't know who you were talking about. Did he go on stage yet? Time stamp box probably. What's up Oliver for Luca? Was Luka Was that mean? Was he already on? Vluka Shondrron Shandron Heron Stash TK the fact comparison their classic. Yeah, it's almost 40. It's a big Men's physique and classic physique were the biggest classes. They had 40 guys. Men's open is smaller. It's only about 20. So, it won't be as long and drying out. And of course, we also have a lot of big names in the open that we're looking forward to seeing. So, it's going to move faster, but they're almost done here, I believe. Yeah, Luca was already on stage. He should be coming back if they do a final call out. A final call out. Uh, does that mean was he on stage? Is that what that means? Veruka Shandran. Yeah. Yeah. He's a smaller like like Nihhat, the guy who's most likely the young man from Turkey who's likely going to win. The only thing he was lacking last year at this show was size. He just needs to be a little bigger. And he came back this year with more size and he's probably winning. Most likely winning. What the heck? Okay, so this is your final call out. How many guys did they bring? So we can see Doul there. Uh Luca Luca, what's Luca's last name? God, I keep messing up his name. Luca Regger Rigger. Luca Rigger. And I don't know who these other two guys are. I'm so sorry, guys. Oh, okay. On the left, that's Richard Naggie. I do know he's from Hungary. I know Richard. I don't know the gentleman on the right, the bald gentleman. Yeah. Wow. It's hard to keep up with that stream. Look at how many in the chat. There's so many. This German made second last year in Spain. I think you mean Resttomire. Alexander Restire. little shock because Luc is so short score high. Uh he's he's in the top four. I mean, they have him right next to the Bull. I'm gonna I'm gonna say he'll probably be second. Luca will be second place to Michael. And that's you know, Michael's been doing this a long time. Michael's won the Arnold Classic UK. He's been top five at the Olympia. He's he's the highest ranked competitor here. So logically, he was the favorite anyway because he's accomplished so much. He looks so good. It's not because of the track record. He's got that track record because of his physique. It's earned him the placings and the track record that he has. So, they're hitting their favorite classic pose. Okay. Is that it? Is it over? Can they go? Cuz we just want to see those open, guys. I want to see the open, too. Yeah, cuz gosh, we've been going almost three hours, guys. Almost three hours. I'm gonna run out and use the bathroom in one second, guys. One second. I'll be back. Open is next. Open is next. All right. Oh boy. Arita Lab Dubai Pro. This is her channel that we're looking at. This is not the pay-per-view. She is streaming the pay-per-view. Um, and she's doing great commentary in Portuguese. She is one of the premier bodybuilding and fitness journalists in Brazil and uh she runs a great channel and we're just waiting for open now. Uh she must be going to the bathroom. She probably needs a break herself. I don't think she left the screen that whole time. I can't go that long without without peeing, urinating. I just can't. I could go without eating. I'd be miserable, but I could do it. I can't hold my urine for like three hours. Even when I'm asleep, I wake up constantly. All right, let's think. Everybody should try open class. It's not working and go lower. A lot of people Melo Man don't have the Melo Ninja. They don't have the mask for open. They would just be so out of place as an open as an open competitor. Uh I'm just going to let that commercial run its course. Yeah, they just don't have the mass. And you know, you don't want to go up on an open stage way smaller than everybody else. It would just be embarrassing. Like, you know, a lot of these classic guys would need 20, 30, 40 pounds more muscle to really stand on open stage and look like they belonged. All class are not bodybuilding. Their body shrinking. Yeah. It's funny how they call everything bodybuilding, though. Like a bikini competitor will I don't know have a heart heart attack. Something will happen to a bikini competitor and like the news story will say bodybuilder suffers bodybuilder in tragic uh murder suicide or something and you know bodybuilder. She was a bikini girl. There's only 198 likes watch. Go ahead like. Thank you Katherine. Thanks for reminding us. Hit the like. Shame about the tattoo. Oh here we go. Here we go guys. All right we're on. All right. This is the first group. We already see Bonak. We see Tonio Burton. We see Nathan de Asha. They are just going in uh order of how they appear on the score sheet. So that's Georgio Adit Kajilli from Georgia, part of what used to be Russia. Sad El Rafae from Kuwait. William Bonak from Netherlands. This right? Oh, I must have missed a guy. Is that Bonak? Who's after Bonak? Who's between Bonak and Antonio? Adolf Bhard from Germany is between Bonak and Antonio. And then we have Nathan. I wonder if the first couple guys didn't make it. Who's who's before Bonak? Say El Raf from Kuwait. So, the first guy on the list, Georgie, must not have made it or else he'd be up there right now. All right, second group coming to the stage right now. It's our initial look at the open division, guys. Finally, finally, finally. It's been a long morning. All right, so is that Rubio? No. Is it? Yeah. So we got Mofod, Dennis Friedrich, Ashraf Hassasin, Hassasin, Ali, Edward Carbo, and Rubiel Moscera. Great group. Uh, Sophot looks really good. He stands out. Rubial is a monster. He's a huge, huge human being. Ali Edward Carbo also looks massive. Photo really standing out to me. shape and the condition. Yeah, Rubiel, put your legs. I don't know if I don't know if See, look at the calves on Ruby. Those have to be 23 inch calves. Those are enormous. His calves are bigger than his arms, which you rarely see, but I I believe his calves are bigger than his arms. And his quads are just ridiculous. But man, you see how he just it's not that he's smooth. It's his skin texture, color, the definition doesn't show as well on him as it does with the guy next to him, Ali Edward Carbo. That's the end of them. Ali is from uh United Arab Emirates. And we're going to have our final group coming to the stage. Uh, I won't know anyone who just turned pro yesterday, but we're looking at Sed Hassan Musavi Najad from Iran, Ismael Radwan from Egypt, Ibraham Soi from United Arab Emirates, Beirus Tibbani Tabani from Iran, and Mazaher Tabana Barani from USA. So, where's Beirus? Oh, man. Yeah, there's Beirus on your right. So, yeah. Be Ruse gets away with the motorcycle stance because he's just that good. He's damn good. Obviously, Beirus standing out in this group. This is not a call out. This is just the initial look at the lineup of open competitors. Be Ruse is last on that list. Oh, no. I'm sorry. So, this guy must Mazahare. Maybe there's another group with Maza and uh some of the guys who just turned pro yesterday because they typically don't want more than four or five guys up on stage at a time doing this comparison. Be this is Beirus's Mr. Olympia because it's been three times that Beirus has qualified for the Mr. Olympia and has not been able to get into the USA for the Mr. Olympia. It's awful. Uh, he's trying. He's trying. All right, so that was that group. Let's see if there's another group. If we have some new open pros from yesterday, I think that's going to be the final group that we'll see. Probably Brazilian. Wow, look how far I'm way behind. 212 was first. So if you rewind on this, you'll see that this is the last to go on. I think black and white men should not compete against each other. What? Best guy I've seen the last few minutes run. Yeah. Well, try to be complimentary. Okay, so looks like we have the individuals now. So this is Georgie Adi Adiki from Georgia, which used to be part of the Soviet Union. See how he looks. Nice teardrop on the thighs. Big dude. Uh, I mean, I say big, but when he's stands next to someone like a Nexzilla or a Bonax, someone who's really thick, he's not going to compare thickness-wise. By himself, he looks pretty big. I think you'll agree with me. If you had nothing to compare it to, you'd be like, "Wow, that guy's huge." Legs look kind of weak from the back. Yeah, I want to see more more width to the legs from the back. More overall, and the calves are kind of weak. Yeah, he's a little on the narrow side. I know I'm being I'm really picking this guy apart, but I mean, this is a very this is a top-notch show. This is a $140,000 cash prize for the winner, which is the third biggest payout after the Olympia and Arnold Classic. Pittsburgh is 100, so it's not far behind. That's a brand new show. But is this Bonak? We got Bonak already. Yeah. All right, let's see. The Conqueror, William Bonak. How's he looking? Usually he's very consistent. You don't see him off his mark too often. Motorcycle stance. Double bicep with a little bit of a twist. Looking huge, very thick and dense. Doesn't have the smallest midsection. It's a little bit on the thicker side. He's got a shorter torso is really what makes it look that way. And again, there's that's a structural issue. Nothing you can do about that. But he's done very very well. Continues to do very well. He's still in the top top five at the uh at the big shows in the Olympia, just outside of the top five. Uh he's still on his game at 42 years old and he's been a pro for over over a decade now. I think it's been about 12 years he's been a pro, maybe longer. And he's still mixing up. He's still beating a lot of the young bucks, so good for him. Bonak looking fantastic. Yeah. Let me see. Am I even anywhere near current? No. Look at there's just there's there's literally hundreds and hundreds of comments, guys, in the chat. That's why I'm having a really hard time keeping up. But William Bonak, some people think he could win. I I think he could. We'll see. Uh, Luca. All right. All right. Next up, we have Adolf Adolf Bergarts from Germany. Adolf Bergarts. I'm not too familiar with him. Good physique. Good physique, Adolf. All right. Now, look at those quads. Look at those delts. He's got a lot of good mass. Oh, look at the leg from the side. Look at that hamstring drop in the quad. That is That's a huge leg from the side, guys. And with all the proper muscle separation, glutes are in. Adolf Adolf might get a look today. I'm not saying he's going to win. Don't get me Don't get it twisted. But he looks really good. I'm just gonna have to jump ahead to the bottom of the chat, man, if I can. I can't even keep up with it. Every time I go down, there's like another 50 messages or 50 comments. Yeah. Wow. Okay, now I'm I'm caught. Rubel is done. He's just getting started. Adolf, it's an unfortunate name. I mean, I wouldn't name somebody Adolf. It's like I wouldn't I wouldn't name them Saddam or something. I know. Saddam's looks great. Normal German name. Yeah, I mean it's too bad that that name had to Okay, here we got Tony Burton from the USA. Tonio Burton, the USA's best chance of winning this thing today. Beautiful shape on this guy. I'm not comparing him to Flex Wheeler Dexter Jackson, but he's been uh he's been compared to those guys. He's he's got that gifted shape with the round full muscle bellies. Uh 212 was already 212 is over. That was the first division that we did, guys. Olympia where Rubiel is coming up. Fedo is coming up. This is Tonio Burton. We're going alphabetically and he's Mosca. It's Tonio Burton. Uh I was very concerned about him because when he got to Dubai and started posting pictures and videos earlier this week, he looked way off to me. He was holding about a gallon of water. Yeah, Mike, I agree. Hold the pose longer. He's gotten rid of the water. I'd have to go closer up to really tell you if the condition is where I think it needs to be, but it looks pretty good from here. Comparing more to Melvin Anthony. Yeah, that's a good comparison. Melvin was very good, too. Melvin was one of the best best uh posers we ever had. Massive and popping. All right. Next, we have uh a guy who could win this from the UK from Liverpool. Same place as the Beatles. We got Nathan to Asher the Prophecy. Nathan, I know his condition, unless something's went drastically wrong in the last 24 hours, is bang on. He is ready. He's going to be the one in my mind, in my mind, pushing Beirus the hardest for the win today. So, let's take a look at Nathan. We know he's got those crazy shoulders. Lats, yeah, they're a little bit on the high side, but so are Dennis Wolves. It's not necessarily a a a deal breaker, you know, to have higher lats. They're not they're not way up high. They're just a little higher than the average guy. Man, Ron, thank you. My dad, your dad was reading my articles. That's how old That's how old I am. It's hard to tell unless we zoom in that Nathan looks big. He is big. Nathan better legs and back. Nathan looks big. Nathan's very good. Yeah, Nathan's Nathan's going to be uh in that first call out obviously. Let me get rid of Artha's commercial here. Okay, we're back. Yeah, I'd be I'd be very surprised. Now, I know he's going to be in the first call. They're going to put him right next to Beirus and William Bon is very complete for win. Who do we got next? Who do we got? Who's after Nathan? Uh, this Mod. Okay. Muhammad Fod, who came to the USA last year from Egypt, or does he live in Dubai now? I don't know. Came to the USA to win the Chicago Pro last year. And this guy has got a wonderful physique. I'm a fan. Front latch spreads a killer shot for him. Very, very complete. Quads. Look at that. Hits that side that side chest variation kind of like Kevin Leone, your sidemost muscular. Really impressed with the pec development on him. condition looks good. I would like to see more cords in the hams. You know how picky and nitpicky I am. Uh so the back it's come up a little bit from last year from what I can see. Still needs to be thicker. Uh it's a work in progress. That might that might be a liability because Abonic has a crazy crazy thick back. Nathan and Beirus also have really good backs. I mean, I had him as in my fifth place pick. He could be he could be a little bit lower. I mean, fifth place was was tough for me. I mean, my top four is Beirus, Nathan, Tonio, and Bonak. And after that, I get it gets I think Rubiel, Ali, Edward K, Carbo, and Mofod. It could be almost any any combination of those for fourth, fifth, sixth. All right. Who is this? This is Dennis Friedrich. Dennis Friedrich from Germany. All right, Dennis. Let's see what you got. You picked a tough show, Dennis, but that's okay. No one touching Beirus. Mafura. Impressive. The back's still behind. Yeah, I agree. This is Dennis Freda from Germany. Legs legs are not uh overwhelming me. The legs, they're lacking in sweep. Uh he's just not as of a guy. He's up against guys that have really round, full muscles. Rubel's coming up soon, guys. Don't worry. Rubial's coming up. This is just the first individual presentation round. After this, they're going to go into the judging, the call outs. So, that's coming up shortly. Skinny legs. Yeah, his legs. His legs need need work. Uh I don't know. Next looks like a big black balloon. Someone says black angel said that. Well, I hope you're black. If I say it, I'm AI'm a racist, but he does look uh very very big. Say about everyone so far. Skinny legs. Well, some of these guys don't have skinny legs. You wouldn't you couldn't say that about uh Nexzilla Rubel Moscara. You could never say skinny legs. His legs are enormous. Uh for sure. Nathan's got pretty good legs, too. Let's see what else. So after Dennis, we have okay, Ashraf Hassin from Egypt. I was told to look out for this guy. They said he would be the biggest guy in the open. That is not true. He's not the biggest guy in the open. Uh I guess that was an Egyptian that said that or one of his fans leg. Oh my goodness. Legs are legs are weak for an Egyptian. I mean, I'm thinking about like big Ramy legs. Ramy's from Egypt and he's got those massive legs. What's Why didn't this guy get him? So, this guy came in, brought the condition, but those legs are a liability. And this this is a tough tough show. There's a lot of money at stake here. If you didn't if you're lacking in any of these areas, whether it be size, shape, condition, you're probably you're probably going to get knocked into that second or third call out. And uh that that's going to be the case with this gentleman. Unfortunate, but uh it's not a participation trophy thing. There's winners and there's losers in this. So Ali Edward Carbo is going to be next. Where is Ali from? United Arab Emirates. I'm not sure where he's originally from. Out the window. Make sure no one's creeping up on me. Yeah. Yeah. This guy I like the color stage color. He's got some good body parts. I love those delts, but those legs are they're not going to cut it. They're just not going to cut it. All right. Here's a big boy coming up. Big guy. He was top five last year. I think he was fourth. This is Ali Edward Carbo from United Arab Emirates. I don't know where he's originally from. Maybe not United Arab Emirates. Master would be laughing right now. Ibraham Soi is actually the biggest you say. Well, we're gonna find we're gonna see him in a minute. We'll find out. You might be right. You might be right. I'm wrong all the time. But right now, we're looking at Ali Edward Carbo. This is a massive guy. Uh yeah, conditions pretty good. He could be a little drier, a little bit tighter, but he's he's in better condition than a lot of people we've been seeing. The back was a liability last year. It definitely looks thicker than it was from what I remember. Got really good width to him. He's a big guy. Massive guy. I wonder if he's originally from Nigeria. That's possible. Look at that. That was a great shot. Showed a lot of that density and thickness. Yeah. Ali Edward Carbo. Look at that. That is a great shot. That's the one that we kept seeing the Phil Heath variation, the most muscular. He kept posting uh progress pictures of that of that the last week or so. All right. Finally, neck zilla Rubiel Moscera, which means a guy from Iran in between them did not make it. Sed Hassan, Mousavi, Nijad did not make it. Oh, no, no, I'm sorry. I'm wrong. I'm wrong. This is Rubial was next on the list. So, let's take a look at Rubiel. Those legs are ridiculous. He could probably stop training them for a year and they would not shrink much. Yeah. You see, he has big arms, but when you compare it to those legs, that's that's why they don't look as big because it's all about balance. If you didn't see his legs, you could just see his upper body, you'd be like, "Geez, those arms are enormous." Okay, I saw some glute striations there. That's encouraging. That's encouraging. I don't know if it's the skin tone. He just He doesn't display the detail as well. And I think it's just that odd. It's just that the skin tone. I'm not really sure what's going on, but this is better condition than he was in last year. He's pulled out of some shows. Look at those calves. Those are ridiculous. I wonder if those are the biggest calves in bodybuilding right now. Can you guys think of anyone competing right now who has bigger calves than that? I don't think so. You'd have to go back to like Mike Modazzo 30 35 years ago to talk about calves like that. Rubel Neckzilla, will he be first call out? Probably. Probably. I think he's fighting for the the bottom of the top five. He's fighting for fourth, fifth, something like that. As is Ali. Be interesting to see who who wins between him and Ali who beat two. And we got Mo Fod in that mix, too. All right. So, right here we have this is Sed Hassan Musavi Najad from Iran. Luckily, he made it out of Iran in time. unlike some of his fellow countrymen did not get out in time and they are stuck there. They prepped and prepped for this show and they weren't able to get out of Iran. War sucks guys. Rubiel should be like seventh or lower. I mean I don't I don't have it in top five. If he can scratch his back, he wins hitting a vacuum. I saw that. Yeah, I wouldn't I didn't expect that either. N should get much more respected but a nice poster from Earth. uh Rubiel at his best. It's he looks good. I don't think he's he's not in the you know, people were saying he could shock us. He could possibly win this thing. I don't see Rubiel at all in contention for the win here today. He's not going to beat Beay Ruse. He's not going to beat Nathan. He's not going to beat Tony or William. That's just as someone who's watched a million of these shows or at least many thousands of them. I'm pretty confident in how they are judged, what attributes the judges score high and low, what they're what they're looking for in the physiques that are going to win. And he's he's does he have quads bigger than Ramy? I don't know. They're pretty we need to do a pose down, but they're they're up there. Rubio is so big. We probably make a six-man call. Bonak, Tobani, Antonio, top three. What about Nathan? Biggest cast since Modazzo. If you put a tape measure around, they're probably bigger. All right, that was Rubiel. Now we have Sed Hassan Mousavi Nad from Iran. I hope I hope this is him because some of these Iranian Iranian guys didn't get out of Iran. I don't know if that's him because I don't know what that guy would look like. I don't have a sheet with the numbers on it to correspond to the names, which throws me for a loop. Okay. Yeah, this guy is just too small. Too small. He's not super shredded either. He'll be probably like third or fourth call out. I mean, look, we got some quality people in the show. We got uh let's see who's been to the Olympia. Nathan's been to the Olympia. Be Roose has not, though he should have been. Bonak's been to the Olympia many times. Tonio's been to the Olympia. Fod, did Fod get to the Olympia last year? I think he did, right? I think he was in the Olympia last year. Anyway, yeah, we have a few Olympia competitors competing today and uh they're tough to beat. Okay, so all right, so this should be Ismile Ardwan from Egypt. Is Mal Radwan again, it's a decent physique. It's nothing spectacular compared to these other guys. You know, if you ever went to like a regional show and you saw somebody like this, you'd be freaking out like, "Wow, this guy's awesome." But we're on a pro stage. It's not just any pro stage. This is the Dubai Pro. This is the third biggest payday in bodybuilding after the Olympia and the Arnold. $140,000. Remember, the Olympia was 650. The Arnold was 500, but they are raising that to 750. And I believe the Olympia will go to $1 million this year. That is what I believe is going to happen. Uh I think Nate is massively top smallest comparison. We'll see. Yeah, Rubio is nothing but size. Gonna get tossed to the end of the line. Think was the only one legs. Rubio beat Nathan before. He did. Did he? Did he beat Nathan? I don't believe that. Change of rules. After three wins, they should leave and give face a new ones. Nah, mass isn't everything. The symmetry isn't right. You can't win big shows. Yeah, I agree with that. Okay, who do we have now? Uh, is this Ibrahim Soie from United Arab Emirates? Not sure. Oh, is this Beirus already? That's Beirus. Couple guys didn't make it, I guess. Yeah, we're already up to Beirus. Okay, great. Beani, guys. So, here's your favorite. You know, my only knock on Beirus is the quads. I wish he had more quad sweep. I'm not a fan of his quads. Everything else spectacular. He's not missing anything. Delts, chest, back, midsection looks great. Legs look pretty good from the side. Uh, I think those legs that see, you know, people say he's he's a he would if he could get to Mr. Olympia he'd be top five and I I don't think he would remember how crowded that top five is. You already have Samson, Derek Hottie, theoretically Fitzwwater's up there. Andrew Jacked is up there. Uh you know there there's a lot of good guys. Condition on on Beiru impeccable spectacular condition this guy brings to the stage every time. I like his I like his sort of classic physique poses that he came up with these little variations. They're just unique poses that he does. Signature poses. I like that little flare where he takes a couple attempts to to get the back lat spread, the rear lat spread out fully. Just adds a little bit of drama to the pose. Side shots. Great. Yeah, Beirus is no joke, guys. Be is your is your favorite. Your heavy heavy favorite here today. Look at that. He's looking fantastic. Good job. Wow. Oh, the chat is really This isn't the best Beirus. Legs look down size. Yeah, I I I'm I don't remember his legs being this small. You're right. And that's weird because this is that's something we saw happen in Lunford, right? We saw that happen in Lunsford at the 2024 Olympia. And we saw it happen to him in Pittsburgh. His legs were noticeably downsized from what they normally were, which is which is odd. Why does that happen to guys? Is it overd? Is it too much cardio? Why do certain guys lose a lot of their leg fullness and size? I'm sure cardio hours of cardio has something to do with it. But let's see what happens. Let's see who gets first first call out. Stick legs. Legs are too small to win. I mean Toono takes I mean that is a what we call a [\h__\h] in the armor. Nick Walker still competing. Not today but yeah at the Olympia. All right. So that could be that is a he exposed a weakness today. Beirus. And that could be a chance for someone to sneak in there and beat him. So, who do the judges like to see first? Uh, we got Nexzilla, we got Beirus. All right. So, we have Beirus Tobani, Rubio Moscara, William Bonak, Tonio Burton, Mo Foda, and Nathan Dasha. Yeah, Nathan does look a little flatter, a little smaller than what I remember as his best. So, we get a very good indication. They moved. They moved Beirus in only one spot. Are they going to not move him again? Yeah, here we go. They moved him. They moved Tonio to the other side of Bonak. So, in the judges minds right now, okay, so H, it looks like they're looking at Mo Foda and Bay Rouge for the win at this point. That's, you know, that's just a very very initial thing to say. Who knows? But, uh, the fact that they move him in the middle is, it's a good, it's a good sign for Fod. Beu's in the middle, Bonak next to him. It's not a good sign for either Nathan or Rubiel that they're on the ends like that. That's not a good sign because we have six guys up here. This is probably your top six. Ali Edgar Carbo did not make that first cut, that first call out. Uh, but FOD looking fantastic. They they're imagine if he beat Beirus. And this is a show that for months people have been saying as soon as Beirus let his intentions be known that he was competing at the Dubai Pro. So many people assumed nobody's going to beat Beirus because Beirus is highly motivated. This is his Mr. Olympia. He cannot seem to get to the United States of America to compete because of the political situation between the US and Iran. We're basically uh unofficially at war right now. We're bombing. The US is bombing Iran, bombing their nuclear facilities. So anyway, let's forget politics. Let's talk about Beirus and Mo there in the middle. Uh FOD has has him on the legs. Beirus has superior conditioning to just about anybody. I wish we could zoom in and really take a good look at Beirus's condition, but you know, he's been with Milo Sarv, his coach, for a while, and they they don't miss. They they they hit that bullseye every time with condition. I'm really concerned about Beirus's legs, though. I don't know how you can have a guy win a show of this caliber with legs that are they're not looking impressive to me at all. They're not. Fod's legs are better. Everybody's legs up there in the top six are better. I mean, look, Rubial, you could fit two of Beirus's, but they're keeping Beirus in the middle and they're moving everyone around him. So that's a good sign, a good indication that the judges are favoring Beirus for the win. And again, it would be a huge huge shock if Beirus did not win this show. But to me, it's not a blowout. Those legs, they they take away from the overall impressiveness of the physique that we that we should be just like, "Wow, Beirus." It should have been a case where they walked out there in a meet, you're like, "Bruz has got this. That's it. Show's over. Game over. See you next year, everybody. Uh, I'd like to see someone else moved in the middle. I mean, I I I as good as Beirus is, I think Tonio deserves a chance to be in the middle. I think uh Bonak and Fod both deserve a chance to be in the middle. But they're all getting compared. They're getting a really good look from the judges. Who you guys got, man? If Tonio takes Beirus down, dude, that would be that would be a huge accomplishment. Huge accomplishments. Tonio's stock would rise dramatically. Skip that commercial. Go back to the top five. Bonak will win. Okay. Fod looks good, man. Yeah, Bonak wins. Got a lot of winners here today. Everyone's going to win. Bonak, Antonio Beerus. How is FOD better than Tonio? I I wouldn't. They're they're very very uh very equal light-skinned. When will racism stop? Well, you're saying when will racism stop? And then you say we need separate classes, black and white. That's the epitome of racism to have separate classes. Don't you think that's uh that's segregation? You you would have separate classes for different races. And where do they what about the Asians and the Latinos? Where do they compete? Tobi not here because yeah, there's a lot of people that didn't make it. I think that was his uncle. I think Beirus's uncle was supposed to compete. They fed in second. Okay, that was your first call out. Don't think Mo can beat Beirus. Biggest show outside of US. Yeah, absolutely. Tonio is smoking everyone. Sorry. Swap Tonio and FOD. Antonio first or second. Photo looks good from the front only. Mo looks great too. Swap photo Antonio. I like Tonio and photo top two. Bonkak Beirus. How's Rubiel looking? Uh, let's be honest. Be easy win. It's not an easy win if his legs his legs are looking flat. Really flat. Be is winning. Antonio fighting with Beirus. Back. Be next to It's hard to judge evaluate him. True. Tonio looks good. Bats over second place between William and Fod. Tonio's up there, too. Politics if Tonio wins. Politics if Tony lands up out of the top three. Six people on stage is tough. There's Austria. A Austrian powers again. Uh Leo Marhoffer. Most complete balance physique is Tonio. Yeah, I like his overall shape a lot. I really do. Nick, Mr. Olympia Worldwide, you were wrong. Like the bike dasher everyone Beirus beat before. He has bigger quads than him so it doesn't hold him back. No, I agree. But his quads have they've never they've looked bigger than this before. I've never seen Beirus's quads look this weak country situation. Yeah. I mean he I can't imagine he's in a great headsp space with his country being bombed and his uncle couldn't make it. And I I I bet there were about 20 guys from Iran that wanted to do this show that prepped for it and their flights were cancelled at the last minute because they waited too long. They didn't know there was going to be a war when they booked their flights. So maybe if they booked their flight to come in on Wednesday or something, it was too late. They had already shut down. Heisenberg, what's up? I be wrong. She's never been any of your shows. I don't know if that's true or not. I like Nathan's back double. So, second call outs. Got Ali, Edgar, Edward Carbo in the middle. Do I even recognize anybody else? Not really. No. Second call out and then there'll be a third call out and then they're going to go back to the top guys. That's typically how these things go. Mr. Tribella's walk out. Was he good? He's good. He's just got I think the legs are just they're so overpowering. They detract. they take away from the physique. I would I would advise him if he would listen to me, stop training legs for like a year, they're going to downsize, and you need that. Uh you need your upper body to be bigger and your lower body to be a little bit smaller because right now he's so bottom heavy. I know he's got these massive shoulders and traps and neck and all that. His arms are pretty big, but I mean, when you got those legs so enormous, it's it's distracting. It really is. Are we already back to another call out with the top guys or is this just a twoman call out? Oh, wow. No, no, it's not. Okay. Oh, wow. So, Nathan, is Beirus even going to be in this call out? What is this? Nope. Oh. Oh, there he is. Okay. Wow. So, we already got your top six guys up again. the first call out. Guys, did everyone get a fair look? All the other guys, I don't think the other guys all even got a call out. Typically, they wait until everyone's had a look like they do a third, fourth call out. So, we got Rubiel, Antonio, Bonak, Beirus, Foda, and Nathan. In the middle, we have Bonak and Beirus. Does that mean this is your top two? Maybe. But they're going to shuffle these guys around. head judge is Steve Weinberger and he likes to move these guys around. He likes to work them. He wants them to work for their win. Uh lot of posing, a lot of comparisons. He'll switch around, have you do all the mandatories over again, and they'll do that with these guys several times. I bet I bet we're going to see them have to go through the mandatories three or four times in a row here. Be Ruse looking tough there. Looking like a winner. Legs look pretty good from the back. Yeah. I mean, then you got Rubel Way there on the left and his legs. Yeah. Look at They just look kind of mushy. They're just like He looks like he has a film of water over him. Nickzilla Rubio. I know he's lean, but it just I don't know if he's lean enough. You know, we've been waiting for Rubial to show spectacular condition. I know he's only been in the IFBB Pro League for since last year, but he was he's with the Elite a while before that. So, he's not a he's not a newbie. He's not a new pro. He was a pro in that other other IFBB, the Elite for a couple years. So, but he didn't have a whole lot of great competition. Certainly nothing like what we're seeing here today. Yeah. Does see if they move them around because I mean Tonio should get a chance to stand next to uh Beirus. I want to see Tonio next to Beirus. So, we're going to see a little shuffle here. Let's see what happens. What's his head judge going to do? Remove Nate and Rubil and keep for me scream for being gay. I don't know if she's gay or straight. I have no idea if Artha is what her orientation is. None of my damn business. Yeah, Nathan and Rubiel on the outside is not a good sign. It's not a good sign. Now, they moved Nathan in a little bit. Nathan got to go one one step closer. Now he's it's Nathan and Nabonak on either side flanking flanking Bay Ruse. So that's a good sign for them. Tonio is being overlooked. Uh I give it a chance. I bet I bet Steve's going to move him. He's going to swap out uh either William or Nathan. He's going to switch places with Tonio in a moment. I bet that's what's going to happen. Ash was present class but couldn't make weight. That's why he jumped in open. Ike. That's That's rough. If you were, if you just missed, if you just missed the weight for classic, that means you're pretty small for open. If he missed it only by a couple pounds, Rubiel needs to drop more weight like Lee Priest. Rubiel say is going to be switching to men's physique. No, no, no. Don't be ridiculous. The Angel Calderon already showed up. Yeah, 212 was first. They did that first. Bonak wins. Williams shoulders. Something is up with Beiru is not looking like any blood. His legs are really, really flat looking. So from halfway in Apple just sent a photo I lower half the one category. Yeah, that was that suggestion of having different categories for races which is ridic how ra that is the the epitome of racism to have separate categories for different races. No, we can't. Come on. That's off. That's ridiculous. I don't know. Antonio didn't get moved to mill. It's not over yet. Let's see what happens. Let's see if they move him. Let's see him. I got Antonio and photo ahead of Beirus. Wow. Antonio doesn't have the structure to win. He has a narrow collarbone with width and therefore an extreme. He's not as wide as some other guys. You're right about that. But he's built up his back and his shoulders to the point where it's really not an issue. Kind of like with Phil Heath. Phil Heath didn't have wide clavicles. So, he built up a lot of mass on top of those clavicles. Big big round shoulders to give him a lot more width in his his back. No clear winner. I agree. Rubel better than Bonak. I don't know about that. Photos back is still too weak to be Bonak. I understand he's not penalized for that last year. Well, he was the best guy on stage in Chicago last year. Uh, you don't get it. Black men can never win against white. They need their own class. White bodies are better. We What sport have you been following me? We How many How many champions of African descent have we had in bodybuilding? Not not only, you know, recently, but just in the last like 20, 30, 40 years. Ronnie Coleman, Lee, I mean, I'd be here all day talking about African-Americans and athletes of African descent who have excelled in bodybuilding. The white bodies are better. No, I mean, there there's been there have been some great white bodybuilders, too. But, dude, to to say that white bodies are better, even the most hardcore white supremacist couldn't really say that with a straight face. Bonak. Tonic. Tonio looks good. Is he He's still not getting called out next to him. We still have Bonak and Nathan to Asha flanking Beirus. How stupid of a We have more black than white. M. Yeah, that was a very silly silly comment. Nathan fifth, I think. Top four. Yeah, I mean this is your top six. Let's see. Say only black will win. [\h__\h] Don Kong. Beerus might be a bit flat, but still looks good. might be enough to win. Yeah, we'll see. I mean, it's they're going to run straight into the finals. I think Nathan is so good. Why would you even have Nex on first call out? Mo and Beiru is getting bias advantage. All the other top guys more complete. See, Ronnie was so much better. I mean, he was an eight time Mr. Olympia eight years in a row. Milos was there last year. I saw him there. Okay, so Milos did see Beirus last year. He could not let anyone else win. Beirus doesn't look his best. Legs. Yeah, his legs are legs are a liability right now. Was that it? You get my point? Unfortunately, Beirus's brother is not prison competition. Nathan missed it. At least a good show. All right, guys. Well, uh, wow. It's a lot of comments. A lot of comments. Should be top three of Dubai. They give it to Beirus and Mo shouldn't even be top four. Wow. Sick of Bonak continually getting high places in his work structure I've ever seen. Reveal wasting his potential. Bonak better legs. Be Ruse can't win with those legs. At least got six guys right. We'll see about the order though. Be Ruse Fa William. Hard to see who takes this. You reckon it's conditioning? Be the legs need. No, they need size. They need size. Why astronaut win? All right. Well, they're going to do an intermission. So, I am going to stop sharing Artha Lab's videos and everything else and I'm going to go because I've been going for three and a half hours. Wow. I don't even know where that comment is to to remove. Cool. Your comments are dumb. Lady's face bigger screen than you. I mean, oh, she's gorgeous. She's a gorgeous woman. Absolutely. Artha. Anyway, uh I can't find that comment to get rid of it. So, you can just see my face. The stream I thank you guys. We have over,00 people on the stream right now in the chat. So, I got a lot of the comments got lost in the shuffle. So, I apologize if I couldn't get all your comments up on screen and react respond to them. Um Oh, there it is. Okay. So anyway guys, I will be back in a couple hours with the finals. I think they're starting, but they're going to start with 212. And that way I'll be able to skip through certain things. I won't be live per se, but I'll be back as we say. So anyway guys, thank you so much for watching the judging of the Dubai Pro. I'll be back in a little bit. Keep your notifications on. I'll be back with the finals later. So talk to you then. Peace.