What's up guys? Ron Harris here and yes, the 2026 Arnold Classic lineups have been posted for all the divisions. Now, open and classic are the two that I am really, really excited about. So, let's get started looking at the open lineup together. And we got some big big names, some heavy hitters. Really, the only people, the only top Olympians missing from this list are uh Samson Dow and Derrick Lunzford. Look at this. We have Nick Walker, who he was six, he's been as high as third. Rafael Bernal, who took off a whole year. Akim Williams, Brandon Curry, former Mr. Olympia. Hassan Mustafa. Hadti Chupon, former Mr. Olympia. Martin Fitzwwater, who took fifth place. I thought he should have been fourth and he had taken fourth place the year before. Uh Anthony Williams, I'm not overly familiar with. Uh Muhammad Hassan, is that right? Mo, that's Mou Fuda. They have him listed as Mo Muhammad Hassan, but we know him as Muhammad Foda. Tonio Burton, who was the eighth place at the Olympia just recently. And of course, Andrew Jacked, my favorite, my favorite to win this. Uh, let's take a look at some of their updates. Go to some of your comments before we start doing that. We've only got one comment, so it shouldn't take a What's up, Kian? What's up? What's up? All right, guys. So, let's take a look at uh take a look at Andrew. I can look at everyone's Instagram except for uh Martin Fitzwwater because he has blocked me. That's right. Martin blocked me. Um, but we'll start with Andrew. Andrew Jacked. Actually, I have great footage of Andrew, but let me uh bring that up. So, Andrew is probably I mean, on paper, uh Hottie is ahead of him, right? But I I still have hot Andrew as my favorite rather than Hottie. Um and I make no apologies for that. I think Andrew looked fantastic at this Olympia. He looked, I thought, even better, in Romania a few weeks later, winning the Romania Muscle Fest, which he didn't need to do. He was already qualified for the 2026 Mr. Olympia. And he's been seeing or we we kind of knew we knew Andrew was doing this. There really aren't too many surprises in this as far as people that uh we had no idea we're doing the Arnold Classic. Some of them we were wondering, are they going to do it or not? And now we know. What's up, Goku? Live stream. The free. Oh, yeah. The Arnold has been very good with free live streams. I gotta hand it to them because I love free. Free is my favorite thing. Hottie. Yeah. Hottie in this lineup throws a huge wrench because remember Yeah. Your mom's flip-flop. It is what 6 what's it? 8:00 at night over there. 8:08. Yeah. So, Hottie has won he won this in 2024. Yeah. He won the Arnold Classic USA and UK in 2024. So, it would be kind of kind of shocking if he didn't win this. Thank you, man. Appreciate that, Kalia. Yeah, this is just the Arnold US. They have not the UK Arnold won't be uh they probably won't announce that until closer to the actual show. Andrew year 226. Yeah, let's go to their Instagram. So, uh Nick Walker. So, Nick, we knew based on his updates, is this the most recent one? Yeah, this was 22 minutes ago. >> [snorts] >> We knew uh Nick was staying very very lean. He's been posting updates since the Olympia, which was now over eight weeks ago. And it it did seem kind of suspicious if he wasn't doing the Arnold that he would be staying this lean. Um but this means he really doesn't have to worry about losing body fat going into the Arnold Classic because prep for the Arnold is probably starting around now. Today is the 12th of December. The Arnold is early early March. So there's there's what? December to January, January, February, February to March. Yeah, they have less than gez less than 12 weeks. I'd have to do the math, but I think it's like 11 weeks away. But yeah, you you could see it. It was a it was a pretty good guess. Even though Nick hadn't confirmed it, it was a pretty good guess that he was because why else would we be staying this lean? Hey, you know, we thought he would do like a health phase where he would shrink down and I didn't see a health phase happen. I just saw him staying being freaky. He's definitely not in a health phase here. He's on something. I don't know. I'm not going to speculate as to what he's on or how much. But he's not doing a health phase, which is what they call it when you go off all the gear for, you know, a month or two just to let the body rest, reset, recover, heal, do all those good things. Yeah. So, he's been training hard and he's been staying very lean. These are some updates. You could still see uh actually were these left was four weeks. Yeah, the right on the right is the current look which was leaner than he was four weeks out from Pittsburgh which is on the left. So, you can already see glute striations in this guy at like 11 weeks out. So, wow, he's almost ready. [laughter] He doesn't really have fat to lose. So, this puts him in a great position where he's not going to have to kill himself. I hate using that phrase, but he's not going to have to suffer like uh someone who's way way offseason would have to to get in shape for this. So, you can see this is his mom's basement behind him. It looks like that's where he has all the all the shirts that he sends out, all the merch that he sells. He's got a nice uh organized system there. So, Nick Walker looking fantastic. on sports. [snorts] Go back to this. [sighs] Go back to your comments before I get too far behind. Do I think Rammy will jump in? No. Nobody can jump into the Arnold. Not to say that if Ramy in the next few weeks if he decided, hey, I'm going to do it and he contacted if he contacted the Arnold promoters. I'm sure they would love to have him. But the fact that he's not on this list is not a good sign if you were thinking we're going to see Ramy in the Arnold Class of 2026. Um, the promoters like to have all the people in it now so that they have time to really build hype and excitement and sell more tickets and do all that good stuff. Nick going in coaching himself, which I highly rate, needs to show up for himself, prove his top level. Yeah, I would be I I say I wouldn't be surprised if he's in better shape than we've seen. I mean, he gets into condition every time. It's not like he's ever like way off, but I bet we're going to see a really good look from Nick. Can win the Olympia. channel is my fourth most viewed channel this year. What? It's not It's not your first, but I'm in some good company. RX Muscle, Cutler Cass, and John Hansen. Any downside if he's already this lean? Well, it depends. I don't know if he's been eating less. We're talking about Nick Walker. Uh if he's eating less and if he's being real moderate with the gear now and then he increases his food, increases the the peeds closer to the show, he could he could definitely come in bigger. But, uh yeah. Uh Josh, are there more? Could more be added? Yes, because what we had we've seen in years past is guys drop out of the show and they but they don't like to have more than 12. And what do we got here? 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11. 12 is usually the cap for the for the Arnold Classic. I think maybe 14 or something. I think one year they had 15, but they like to keep the shows elite, prestigious, and small. Uh let's take a look at someone else because we haven't seen Hottie since the Olympia. Hottie's been quiet. So, what do we got with Hottie here? This is a a new update. Well, this is two weeks ago. I don't think a lot of this Farsy comments, captions really translate well into English. Don't be afraid. It's not a gun, it's a lighter. I'm sure that made a lot more sense and it was a lot more clever sounding in in Farsy. English, not so much. [snorts] English is a weird language. Uh, you know, things don't always translate. Oh, I guess that was Oh, he's talking about the finger. He's making sure you don't think his uh his finger there is a gun. It's It's actually a lighter. [laughter] Good job, buddy. Jupon. There's his Arnold Classic trophy. Where's his Olympia trophy? Sandow. Where's that? Oh, it's up there. It's behind glass so nobody can mess with it. [laughter] Yeah, that's quite a collection you've got there, hottie. Quite a collection. That was three weeks ago. Watch that gut, dude. Oh, look at that gut. I don't want to call him bubble gut, but he's got to be careful. Everyone's got to be careful to keep a smaller gut. When he when he pops it out, there is a little bit of a distension. Like most guys, my gut is enormous. If I pop it out, it looks like I'm pregnant. It's horrible. Hottie's kids didn't I don't Wow, one of them is getting pretty old. One of them's already got a full mustache. Look at that. He's probably like 12. No, I'm gonna Look at that. He's got the bicep vein, the adult vein already in this kid. Don't know if he trains yet. Just curious if he's got anything from the Olympia there. If not, I'll put up some more stuff. No, he doesn't have any of the Olympia stuff. I mean, I do. I have like the top five from the Olympia here. Can Nick be top three here? Let me let me put something better up. Got to put something up while we're talking. Look at that. Back on Audi. Unreal. There we go. There's Heidi. Heidi the champ. Can Nick be top three here? It's going to be very difficult. Yeah. I mean, look at this lineup. We have uh we don't have the Olympia winner Derek Lensford, but we have second place was Heidi Chupan. Third place was Andrew Jacked. Fourth place Samson Dow is not in it. Fifth place Martin Fitzwwater is. Sixth place Nick Walker. So Nick is going to have to beat somehow three guys who beat him at the Olympia and it would take it would take a monumental his best look ever by far to do that to to to win. Can he be top three? Easily he can be top three. No no no point. No no no question. Channel will be in top three or two. No Dave's got a Dave's got a very good channel. Absolutely. Is it between hottie and Andrew? Yeah. I mean, I thought it was going to be not a walk, but a fairly easy win for Andrew, but uh Howdy in that mix sort of throws a wrench in that idea because no joke. Hottie, that's a 212. What am I doing? Silly Ron. Silly Ron. Tricks for kids. There's your top four. And we got two of the top four there. Hottie there, second from the left. And on the right you have Andrew Jacked. Yeah, not the biggest fan of hot. Yeah, you must be a taller guy. [laughter] None of the tall guys like Derek or Hottie. They they call them midgets and all all kinds of nasty things. I understand. I mean, I'm a huge Andrew Jack fan. I'm only 5'7 and a half and I have to appreciate. What about Kiso? No. No. He's not in there. So, I don't know why KZO might pop up again at Pittsburgh in New York like he did uh this year. I think he real I don't I don't know. Maybe it was too soon or maybe he just knew [snorts] it's too strong of a lineup. He doesn't really stand much of a chance of beating Chris's not beating Andrew. He's not beating Heidi. He's probably not beating Nick. He's not beating Martin. So, I mean, he's already fourth or fifth at best. He's kid 2030. Uh, give him a few more years. I'd say like 2035. I think Martin will be Oh, absolutely. Martin. Martin's always a threat. I don't know what you're saying. What too? If he mimics his pit look, he's way too uh Yeah. I mean, the Pittsburgh look for for Nick was a very good look. Absolutely. He didn't like it much. I don't know why he didn't like it. I liked it. I don't think it's easy for Nick to be top three. No, I don't I I think Martin's gonna I'm sorry. Martin. Nick is going to have a very tough time beating those three men, Andrew, Hottie, and Martin. Those they're all deadly. They're very, very tough tough competitors. Nick is kind of pissed. Yeah. I mean, Nick Nick is uh he's a warrior. He's fierce. He's a competitor. He wants to win this. Uh I'm actually really happy that he's coaching himself because I suspect he might bring the best look we've seen in a very, very long time. I'd like to see him a little downsized. Not that, you know, not that I want to see him small, but when he's lighter and more streamlined, the way he was uh when he won his first Arnold Classic, or he's only won one Arnold Classic, and when he won um or when he was second in the Arnold Classic a couple years later, those are really good looks for him. And he took third in the Olympia in 2022. Also a really good look. All right, who else? Who else? I can't show you Martins. I can't show you Martin's uh Instagram again. Martin, you blocked me, Martin, because I'm Jiles's friend and you don't like that. So, but who's another Raphael Bondo? Now, there's AI guess it wasn't a surprise because those of you who are big fans of his probably knew, you probably followed all his uh vlogs and all that and you knew he was planning on doing this, but we didn't see him at all this year. He was out of commission, out of competition I should say, uh all of 2025. We did not see Raphael Berno. So, he's been hard at work and we're going to see what the hard work. There's his bobblehead doll. We're going to see what the hard work has has borne fruit. We're going to see if he's more improved. Is this uh recent? Am I wrong? Did he win the Arnold Brazil? Probably. Probably. So, this was three weeks ago. Hard to say. It's hard. There he was. Smaller. It's hard to say if he's bigger or not because did he win the Arnold Brazil this South America last year or this year I should say. I don't know. I've already lost track. You Brazilian fans are going to have my hide for not knowing that. But the back [clears throat] the back is looking pretty great, huh? I don't Why'd you get that tattoo though? That tattoo throws everything off. It's like a big It's like a big uh piece of graffiti on your back. Horrible. And I say that as a heavily tattooed person. Uh what's he saying here? He's working hard with Neil Hill. Working to bring a better version 2026. Okay. So he was I guess he did. Did he win that? Did he win the AR Brazil and then shut it down? Is that what happened in the comments you guys you guys are always good at letting me know? Short kings. Yeah, I'm a short king. Me and my Cox were short kings. J's a six foot. So he's not [snorts] 185 61 and a half. I mean, I would have loved to be 6'1. [laughter] I have a younger brother that was 61 and three/4ers by the time he was in his early 20s, and now he's down to like six foot because he is 53. He's three years younger than me. 6 foot two, 238, but like Hottie's physique. Yeah, I don't think you have to be a short guy to appreciate Derek or Hottie. Just like I don't think you have to be a tall guy to appreciate Andrew. They're all great physiques. Don't want this Creo hype. Uh, Kzo has some freaky body parts. He's got a really good physique. It's just his waist is wide. His posing is still really awkward. He can't really hit his his back rear d his old bicep properly. Wouldn't be shocked if Martin wins. What's up, Mike Cox? No, I'm not going to fall off my chair. I'm not going to have a heart attack. Shouldn't say that either. I'm not going to be surprised if Martin wins. He's up. He's up there. I mean, think about the fact that in 2024 at the Olympia, he took fourth um behind Samson, Hottie, and Derek, and most of us had Martin beating Derek in 2024. So, right there, he was he was right on the cusp of winning at that point, and I think he's gotten better since then. Anyway, it's going to be a good show. Nick can't go backwards. He is what he is. Uh yeah, I agree. But I think he could streamline the physique. If if it means coming in a little lighter and more streamlined with a tighter waistline, a smaller, less thick blocky midsection, uh I think it would it would be to his it would behoove him. It would be to his benefit. He really blocked. Yeah, he blocked Giles first and then I think he blocked Giles about a year before he blocked me. But you know, I did the video with Giles and showing him yelling at the camera and all that and he didn't like that. Martin blocked you. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Soft, bro. So soft. Well, he apparently he blocks a lot of people who give him any type of critique. And I've never I've never said anything bad about Martin's physique. I don't like the way he uh he acted. I don't like the way he carried himself at that at that Prague show where he went up to the camera and yelled yelled at. But physique-wise, I never say anything. He isn't sensitive at all. I think you're being sarcastic. You go to the Arnold in person. Not unless uh Blackstone or somebody sends me. I could go, but I'm I'm not going to spend my own money. It's a lot of money to go to these things. Between the airfare, the hotels, all the meals, and the content I would get and the money I would make from that content, it wouldn't it wouldn't even come close to covering it. So, I used to go to all the shows when MD paid for everything. Those are the good old days. May take Rafa a few shows to get together. So, did Rafa do the Arnold Brazil? I know. I should know that. I know. I know. I'm a shitty fan. Uh yeah, but Brenda is he's he's a deadly physique, man. He's very very good. He's got beautiful shape and structure. No weak body parts. He's not a small guy. I think he's about two 5'11, 260 on stage, something like that. It's a big boy. Who else we got? Who else we got? Let's go back. [snorts] We're gonna get We'll go look at Classic, too, but I want to get through the open guys. Uh, so some of these guys I'm a little surprised that they invited. Not not all of them, but uh Martin, look look what happens when I try to click on Martin's. Oh, the profile isn't available. H oh well. But you know what? I'm going to be I'm going to be a good dude and I'm going to show his posing because like I said, even if I don't like Martin's character, the way he acted, uh, you know, where he said after that, I'm not going to apologize to Giles. He actually even he made a point to say he wasn't going to apologize. But anyway, when I talk about physiques, I'm just talking about physiques. And I give Fitzswwater all the credit in the world for having a very very good a damn good physique. Uh here he was at the Olympia, Martin. So, let's get this comment out of the way. Yeah, look at that. Beautiful shape. Nice. Those quads are crazy. And I think Prague he was even more dialed in than this. Wow. Yeah. Martin, I'm a fan of Martin's physique. Uh, do I have any barbwire tattoo? I do not, but I have I have some shitty uh tribal design on the back of my neck, which is pretty generic looking, [laughter] but I don't have the barb wire. Now, that would be cool. Yeah, that would be cool in uh 1995, not so much in 2025. So I get crazy about this pitch protein for the show. [laughter] Yeah, I mean that the lighting he was under there, Raphael, that was sick lighting. Look at Martin though. Glutes are just crazy dug out. Condition on Martin at the last few shows has been just spectacular. Changing lights in my bathroom has done wonders for my physique. You know, there we all have that one spot in our house where the light's great. Sometimes if it's natural light, it's got to be a certain time of day. We're all like that. It's about 11 weeks out. Okay, thank you. I'm in a few shows to be fair. Oh, I've been to hundreds and hundreds of shows. I mean, I started my first pro show that I attended was February 1991, the Iron Man Pro. So, yeah, I've been to a bunch. Aging need to get Florida. Bonu is a great gym. Oh, Andrew Jacked. Beautiful women. No, there there's plenty of beautiful women in Florida, too, guy. I don't think that's gonna make the difference. Uh, let's look at Tonio Burton. No, actually let's go. Brandon Curry was Did Brandon place one ahead of him? I believe he did. Does Brandon have anything from Olympia? Yeah, he does. It was opposed down. So, Brandon, he's in his 40s now. There's Hottie. Look at Hottie looking awesome. Brandon looked better to me at this last Olympia than he has in probably three or four years, maybe even longer. Uh, I thought his physique was slowly on the decline as you would expect as he's been getting older and he's been a pro for well over 10 years at this point. It's like 15 years as a pro, but he's still holding together. I mean, that was a great look. I I honestly thought you could have argued him beating Nick with him in sixth and Brandon in uh I'm sorry, him in sixth and Nick in seventh. Could easily make that argument. Brandon's still got that beautiful physique that those round bubbly muscles. And you know, if you're going to say, well, his legs, well, that was 20 25. Wait a minute. Was that another that was an older Olympia we just saw? Because he had hair there, didn't he? Yeah. So, here he was. And look, I mean, the quads look pretty damn good to me. They're certainly no worse than Nick Walker's quads. And everyone I know everyone talks [\h__\h] about it, but look at that beautiful shape. It's a classic look. Curry is still holding it together at 42, 43, whatever he is. Is he older than that? Not sure. He might be 44 by now. He's in his 40s. Let's leave it at that. Let's leave it at that. Powerball is at a billion. Mike, thank you. I will gladly take your take your offer there and we can uh we can go to the Arnold Classic and get some VIP seats next to each other. Okay, Joe, I'm gonna have to ban you. I'm gonna have to ban you, dude. I'm sorry. I'm have to ban you because you did this yesterday. You just came on and started saying gay. Who cares? So, you're banned and no one can see your comments anymore. [snorts] Thanks, Mike. Forward to Nick or Madison. Joe. Joe's gone. Heidi is in for sure. Yeah, he's on the list. He's He's in for sure. Uh remember Sam is doing both the UK and USA show. Hopefully he's anywhere last. That's very good for the competition. Yeah, we'll get to classic. I want to get through. Uh, bodybuilders these day develop a to thin skin. Doesn't seem to translate well on the stage, but definitely is evident in front of the camera. [laughter] Oh, so you're saying they're thin skin physically, but they don't have metaphorically thin skin. I wouldn't impress physique conditioning. Talking I think you were talking about uh Sam Martin beats big guys because I created condition. Yeah, Martin. Do I have Prague? I do. I have I have a Prague. I have Andrew versus Samson in Prague. Uh, where do I have that? [sighs] Prague Pro. Prague Pro. That's Joan. I don't want Joan. I want I want to see Martin and Andrew. Martin and Andrew. Where is that? I'm sorry. Samson and Martin. Samson and Martin. Here we go. I'll leave that for a second while we get through your comments. Okay. Rafa won the 23 classic. Didn't he win it again this year? He didn't. Who won it this year? I can't even remember. It's awful, but I can't remember. I should ask Siri. Someone like Dorian says, "I'm not in shape of you. He had the shape of Martin in mind." Yeah, Martin was in great condition. You can't fault Martin's condition. It was pretty damn great. Good Martin. Brandside chess is killer. Yeah, Curry's got some amazing shots. He's beautiful front double, beautiful side chest. Some people you can't reach and you get what we got here, which is the way he wants it. Well, he gets it. That's from It's from Cool Hand Luke, the sample that they use in the beginning of Guns of Rose Civil War. I'd love to see Brandon top three. Yeah, I would too, Mike. I don't know what the odds of that happening are. go to the Prague uh Instagram because they had some really great shots of Martin, which I said, I can't I'm not crying. It's It's fine. Martin banned me. Oh well, I'll be okay. I'll be okay. Uh but let's take a look because he is he is one of the favorites. Absolutely one of the favorites. So, okay, I got to get rid of that. [sighs] Can't be there. I know I'm this live editing. It's not really editing. It's just throwing up videos while I'm live. All right. So, here are some shots from Prague. I already had that, but what the heck? Watch it again. Yeah, Martin dialed in perfectly. He peaked both days. Uh a far cry from the year before where his peak on the first day, his condition the first day was was not great. He almost lost to Chris Bumstead. Uh but he did get it all together for the next day. Him and his coach Stefan Keynes aka Boss Outlaw. Put it all together and came back to win very convinc. Well, I think it was still close. Score sheets say he won with a perfect score on both days. Judging in finals, I think Bumpstead and him were much closer in the final, sorry, in the judging than that scorecard would have indicated because a lot of people did think Bumpstead was winning. But Martin did tighten up, fixed his tan, came back the next day, and he walked away with the win. So, you know, fair play. But look at that beautiful condition. And he just beat Samson. I I know Samson wasn't the absolute best Samson. He was, but he was certainly a lot better than he had been at the Olympia. Um, how many weeks was that? A few was like three or four weeks before this. I want to go to some pictures because I was very impressed with uh with Martin's overall condition at this show. I'm just trying to find the the posing. Here we go. Look at that. Look at the quads. Look at that. That's like Branch Warren quads right there with all those crazy deep clear strip crossstrations across the teardrop. The vastest medialis. I really love to see that. That's awesome. Oh, that's Kriso. But we're looking at Martin first. That's [clears throat] Martin. Go back to your comments so I don't get too far. That's what I was think. Yeah, Guns and Roses, man. I love Guns and Roses. Critical Derek Zeke went his gym built in Tampa is one of the ages. I'd like to go there sometime. I feel nobody brings up Martin's back. Why? I mean, Derek actually invited me to the the grand opening for to the public of that gym in January, but again, I can afford to go. I just don't want to spend my own money um when I'm not going to make the money back. It's just that's bad business. Nobody brings up Martin's back lagging hamstrings and arms looking good from the back, but the actual back, nah. Do we have any do we have any good back shots of Martin, too? I think his back's pretty good. I mean, if I said if when when I see weak body parts or whatever, I call him out. I don't uh I don't give cut any slack. Well, let's look at his uh routine here. Should probably find Hottie's routine somewhere. Look [clears throat] at that. Awesome. Yeah. I mean, bicep peaks could be better. Legs are tremendous. Fantastic. We'll see what the hamstrings look like when he turns to the side. because I'm, you know, I listen to you guys. You have eyes, too. I don't think uh I'm the only one that knows how to talk about physiques. You guys don't know anything. H be quiet. Hamstring looks pretty good to me. Looks pretty good to me. I wouldn't say they're lacking. They're not awesome, but they're pretty damn good. They're not as great as his quads. The back, let's see. Does he have a Does he have poor back development? Let's take a look. You tell me. It's not Lunsford's back. It's not Hottie's back, but it's a pretty good back. Yeah. I mean, it's it's just not on the level of the best backs, but it's it's not lagging. It's not It's not missing anything. It's just not amazing. If I were Andrew, I'd go to train Derek's gym. Well, I think they go to MI40. I think that's where him and uh Camalo Gardney train. Mental warfare. Good veto. Oh, thank you. Good veto won the 24. Thank you. Well, that was 24. Who won it this year? Does anyone know who won it this year? Uh, Arnold USA UK. I don't know the dates, but there that is the right that is the right sequence. Does Martin come in bigger? I think he could come in should just he should come in exactly like this. He look great. Why would he mess with that? Is going to be training Kamal for the Arnold? Yes. Yes, he's definitely going to be training with Kamal. Think everything overpowers his back. Martin isn't missing anything at all. Is he big enough? I mean, he beat Samson there. He beat Samson. [laughter] He can't be that bad. All right, let's go back. Let's go back. What page was this? That's Curry's page. Got to go back to the Arnold page. I do appreciate the fact they put everyone's Instagram up there. Uh Fitzwwater, Brandon Antonio, the Predator, very underrated guy. Some of the sickest shape in the sport, I think. Is this recent? This was two days ago. He's got a great back. He's got a fantastic back, Antonio. So, he's in good a good starting point for prep. I mean, the only one who's all really in contest condition right now is is Walker. Nick Walker. He's already like he looks like he'd only need a couple weeks to really dial everything in. He's that close. But Antonio, his shoulder so great, he gets accused of having oil and stuff in them all the time. Uh was a seal. Yeah. Or was that Legion when he won Legion? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I'm curious to see uh his coach is coaching a a guy from my gym, Josh Brown, who's doing nationals this weekend as a light heavy. So curious to see what uh his coach can do for for Justin. Look at that. I mean, we we've made comparisons in the past to Dexter, and obviously there's only one Dexter, and I'm not saying Tonio's as good as Dexter, uh but he's got pretty damn great sh he's pretty damn great shape, which was which was what really pulled Dexter through. Dexter was never the biggest guy, but he was he had plenty of size. He had beautiful shape, tiny joints. Uh I think he was just guest posing here. No, no, I guess not. Oh, he won the Mexico show, which was after the Olympia, which qualified him. So, he's already qualified for 2026 Olympia. Tonio by virtue of winning this uh Mexico Pro show. Tonio's pretty damn great. Big fan of Antonio. Where was this? Uh, not sure when this was. Was this the Olympia? Probably. Tony looks pretty damn great. [snorts] Space Invaders font. [laughter] I should do that. I have Canva to make my graphics. I should type in Space Invaders. See if it comes up. Tony was the worst poser. Well, he he was uh he should have he should have taken all the time he was allotted. That's all. We were watching it and we're like, he's done. That's it. He walked off and we thought, "What the did his music cut out or something? What happened?" But he Yeah. Sean Ray said Antonio was highly underrated. Tonio had hit Detroit. I mean, there a bunch of shows. The schedule's not out, but yeah, he could win Detroit. There's There's all There's so many shows that somebody like Tonio could win. He qualified. Yeah, but he is qualified. You're right. All right, let's keep on going down the line. More guys, more Arnold Classic competitors. Who else we got? Who else we got? Uh, well, here's Anthony Williams. Now, I'm not Anthony Williams. A train. I'm not overly familiar. Very good shape. I'm just wondering how he got into the Arnold. And I'm not being I'm not trying to be a dick. It's just there are bigger names and I'm wondering what the Arnold was thinking because they're they invite. It's invite only. The Arnold, you know, you have to either be invited or apply and your application gets accepted. It's not like any other show except the Olympia and the Arnold are the only two shows that you can't just say I'm going to do that show and and they let you in. Every other show you can do that. If you're a pro and you want to do New York Pro, Detroit Pro, Tampa Pro, Chicago, if there all you got to do is put your application, send in, say, "Yeah, I'm doing it." Arnold, you have to be invited. Uh, and they invite all the top Olympia guys and then you can also apply. And the reason it took until this long today to make the announcement is they wanted to see who they invited that said yes. And if they didn't have enough people for the whole full lineup, then they looked at who had applied and they start saying, "Okay, this one this one's good." And they they take a few of the people that applied. So Anthony, I imagine he's somebody that applied now. He looks great. I am not saying he does. He looks fantastic. Beautiful physique. I wish I had that physique. Oh, wait a minute. Is this what it is? He won. Okay, this this would explain it. If if he won the Arnold amateur last year, then that is an automatic qualification to the Arnold Pro show the next year. So, I guess that's what happened. Yeah. Okay, makes sense. Well, now I know. Now I know why he's in the show. Uh, look at just a couple more pictures of him and we'll move on because we haven't even talked about anybody in classic. Yeah, he's got a great look. That frontal bicep is a phenomenal shot for him. Look at the the huge arms, the peak biceps, that great Vtaper. Yeah. All right, let's keep on going down the line. Donio Martin Brandon, we talked about Akim Akams on this show before. He's been top five a couple times. I think he was fourth place at this. Didn't do too well at this last Olympia. Did not make the top 10. Uh but he's still a world-class physique. side chest and side tricep shots are killer on him. His front double is also great. Back shots. They're I don't like his back shots. Do we know? Oh, there's his front double. Look at the I mean, look at the arms and the legs on him in this. He does have pretty high lats as you can see. You see where they insert way up there? Just a few inches under his armpits, unfortunately. But the overall shape is still pretty damn good. If he had bigger lats that really swept out, that would that would add to his physique so much more. I got to keep up with the comments. Yeah, he won the Arnold amateur. I wonder who they declined. Well, remember last year, Mike, uh they they declined Martin Fitzwwater. He tried to get into the 2025 Arnold and they said, "Nah, no thanks." Yeah, good veto. And there are bigger pros, but they're bigger arms. Well, it's not an arm show. They declined. He won the RLM. Oh, you're talking about Anthony Williams there. Ron, can you come do an interview with coach Chris Tuttle? I just had him on. Check the channel. We I just had him on. Yeah. On the I think we had him on the Meatthead podcast uh like two weeks ago. We talked about coach hopping and stuff, but it was him and uh [sighs] who was it? It was Chris Tuttle someone else, but we we we had Chris on recently. So, he actually does deserve to be there. Yeah, Anthony. Thank you. Yeah, everyone do his beard and that hurts. No, it's it's his back. I mean, you could see there he should have a lot more lat like a big flaring lat popping out there and it's just it's his back is just it's not great. It's not great. But like I said, he's done pretty well. He's won he's won a few pro shows. I think he's won like six or eight at this point. Okay. So, Akim Nick Walker, we looked at Hassan Mustafa who hasn't won a show in quite a while. Uh but he did win Vancouver last year. That wasn't this year, right? I think this was the 2024 Vancouver Pro that he won. Am I right? Did he win it this year? I know. I know you guys are like Roman, you you can't remember [\h__\h] dude. You're right. My memory is awful. Hassan is just huge guy. Huge. You can tell the difference between this is an iPhone picture. This is a professional picture. You can just tell the difference right away. He is just massive. Those quads, the arms, adults. He's something like 57, 270 on stage, 280, something like that. He's a big big dude. Yeah, this is the final list. I mean, Donald, but things do change. What happens is guys drop out, uh, they get injured or something happens. the only way it's really going to change is if somebody drops out or a couple guys drop out uh and they add because you remember last year, I can't remember exactly who dropped out and who jumped in, but um like it was two years ago I think when they when they first they bumped up the prize money toward the end and that brought in um Nick Walker. Was that when was that? Was that this year? Did Nick do Nick didn't do the Arnold this year, did he? No. Are they going to be more names sneaking in? Yeah, it's only if somebody drops out. Typically, they have 11 guys. Now, if somebody like a big Ramy gets in touch with them like today and says, "I I want to I want to jump in." Of course, they're going to let Ramy in. Yeah, it's $750,000. Who is coaching Hassan the one time he turned up in shape? I I don't know. He's had a bunch of coaches. I think it might have been Chris Aceto. It might have been Chris Aceto, but yeah, he is a big big dude. Look at that. All right, let's get to it because I want I do want to take a look at the classic, guys. Uh Modota Mod is very good, too. I know that's an old shot, but that's a great that's a great shot. Look at that lighting coming up from the bottom there. Lighting is so key, man. And look at look at how G look at how it really highlights the the muscularity, the separation when you get that perfect lighting. That's uh he's lit from below here. I think it's just sunlight reflecting off the floor. But look at that. Awesome physique. Boss of Outlaw. I think he's coached by Patrick Tour now. I believe I think Patrick just put up a a few shots of him recently. Yeah. M photo very very good competitor. Very good competitor. I do expect him in probably the first call. That was a Chicago Pro show in 2024 when he won that. Front latch's probably his best pose. It's a very very complete, very impressive pose for him. He's got those shoulder caps, those really wide clavicles, flaring thighs with great separation. Great, great shot for him. Yeah, I'm a fan of this guy. My Arabic is pretty bad. I don't speak any Arabic, so it's very bad. All right, so we got Mod. Who else? Who else in this fantastic Arnold Classic? Uh photo we just looked at and hottie we already looked at. All right, let's take a look at classic physique. So, we got Wesley Vissers, Kemp's Angel. Oh, no, I can't read the Wesley Visters, Matias, Menigate, Picoli, Sam, Mike Summer. Wow, Summerfeld, Dreoli, Paul Canoe, Hungu, Gabriel Zunan, Ellie. Lot of those names I am not familiar with. Sam Solic is probably uh the biggest name up there. Um, [clears throat] start with Wesley Visters because he's won this twice. He has won this show twice or I think he won the the USA and the UK show. He didn't I don't think he's won the USA Arnold twice. It was uh yeah, two years ago when Hottie won both shows when Hottie Tupon won the Arnold Classic and Arnold UK, Wesley did the same thing at the same two shows. And we thought uh he was possibly headed to open for this next year. He's been hinting at it, but uh no, he is staying in classic for now. And why boss outlaw his coach? Boss outlaw. Stefan Keynes fantastic coach. I think that's his girl wife. Yeah, he's married. Or was that boss's girlfriend? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what their wives look like. But, uh, Wesley Vissers, 6 foot three. Love the muscle quality on this guy. The striations are just so crystal clear. So much detail, so much muscle maturity. Uh, back in the shoulders. You see that? That was six weeks ago. So, he [clears throat] does get slightly not out of shape, but he's not always shredded to the bone like uh some of these guys just seem to stay naturally. This is a great shot. Look at that. Look at that. Fantastic. Wrestling. Fantastic. [snorts] [clears throat] Okay, let me try to catch up with your your comments here. 98 on Classo Star lineup. Yeah, we've had some great lineups. Haven't heard much of Summerfeld since the Yeah, I don't I don't I haven't really been catching up with Hassan looked really great when he was working with Chad Nichols. Ah, yeah. I can't remember which one he won, but you're right. Chad Chad's an excellent coach, too. Vis been bulking. Well, I don't know how he's going to put any weight on and still make his weight cap. Sam will get more money from the expo. Sam Sull has more money than any of these people, guys. Any of them in classic. Uh maybe Wesley's close, but I think Sam Sull has him beat. It's only have to manipulate height. Well, he still has a weight cap. I mean, I think his weight cap's like, I don't know, in the 250s or 260s or something like that, but he is he's so tall. He's so tall. But Wesley Visser is very impressive. I'm a big fan of Wesley's physique. Uh you look at him and you know that's classic. Here's with Samson back uh earlier in the year guest posing. And look at that. He wasn't getting Now Samson was probably off all the gear here. Samson was in a quote unquote health phase, but Wesley is holding his and there he is with Ramon who just won a few months ago, a couple months ago, our current classic physique Olympia champion. Yeah. So, Wesley holds his own with everybody basically. That that's Matt Grego. Surprised Matt's not in this show. All right, we got Wesley. Who else? How do I keep getting so far down this list? Okay. So, Menagate, we got Matias Menagate Integraform. Is he Brazilian? Probably. A lot of the best guys are Brazilian. So, here he was at this recent Olympia. I don't recall where he placed. Those of you who follow him are very upset that I don't know that off the top of my head. Well, I'm so sorry. My apologies. But that's a beautiful shape. He's He's not a huge guy. I could I could see that right off the bat. In terms of sheer size, not a huge guy, but wonderful shape. Beautiful symmetry, structure, shape, all those good things. I would just say in terms of overall raw mass, he's not where the other guys are. But he still looks damn good. Gets in a great condition, it looks like. That tan is wonderful. Uh, yeah, all the comments were in Portuguese, so apparently he is. He is Brazilian, of course. Like so many amazing athletes these days. He's already got the graphics worked up. Matias Menate Picoli. Yeah. Okay. All right. That's him. Who else? Next up, Sam Sullik. So, Sam won the Arnold last year, the Arnold amateur. That immediately qualified him for this year's show. And uh Nick Miller from Nick Strength and Power just did a video which was kind of a trolling video. Can Sam Sull win the Arnold Classic? So Sam beating guys at the caliber of a Wesley Vissers or a Mike Somerfeld, you would have to be a heavy heavy crack smoker to entertain the notion even for 10 seconds that Sam is going to be beating guys like that. But he's a champion already. He's got way more money, way more fans, way more followers than than anybody except Bumpstead. Uh, Bumpstead's the only guy in the industry, I believe, that has more of a following on social media and YouTube than Sam. Sam is right up there. Sam's got uh 6.9 million followers on Instagram, so let's call it 7 million, round it out. 4.3 million subscribers on YouTube. That is fantastic. That is an amazing um but physique-wise, he is not at the caliber of these the top guys who are doing this. Uh, I do have one of his posing routines up. Yeah. So, here was Sam at the Arnold amateur last year, and I I I give credit where it's due. He coached himself and he got into fantastic condition, but that shape and the structure, it's it's just not aesthetically pleasing to anywhere near the level of these guys that we've been looking at. And we're going to keep looking at there's going to be about five or six more guys on this list that I've never heard of that are that'll blow him away. And I only say that because it's genetics. It's your structure. Your bone structure, your muscle shape is 100% genetic. Sam's built a pretty damn good physique. It was enough to turn pro. Uh could he could he possibly find some smaller pro show uh and win that? Maybe. Maybe. He's not gonna win the Arnold, guys. Ain't happening. It ain't happening. And I say that with no malice. I have nothing against him. I admire the kid's hustle and the fact that he's he's made such an incredible living at bodybuilding at such a young age. But no, he's not winning that. This is only one doesn't have to manipulate. Vtor's got that Arnold looking. Yeah, I I I see a lot of similarities between Wesley's physique and Arnold's physique. He's doing a seabbum stash. Wesley's very impressive. I don't think that's going to do it. Menagate. Menagate. Arms on the small side. That was Managate. Yeah. Not everyone gets those arm genetics. Managate is how you say it. Managate. Menagate. Okay. [snorts] Sam is still like 24 or so if he's doing whatever he can at this point. Yeah, I think he's You're right. I think he's only 24. He might be 25 by now. Can't expect more. It's But you know what? It's It's not the age. I mean, Bumpstead at that age was was uh Mr. Olympia or he was at least he was runner up by then because he retired with six Yeah, he was Mr. Olympia when he was Sam's age cuz Sam uh Bumpstead retired at 29 with six wins. So that means he was 23 when he won his first, right? And he had been second place the year before that. So Bumpstead was a, you know, genetic freak. It's not the age, it's it's the genetics. Sam is a Bible and a classic. Sam hope Sam appreciates this on Arnold. I mean, it's a huge win. He's going to he's going to have so many people watching and cheering for him around the world. He's got such a huge fan base. Tremendous fan base. Let's go. Okay, I want to keep going. I want to keep going. Sam, I'm still a Mike Summerrfell. Mike the badass. So, Mike was our 2024. Yeah, 202 Wait a minute. 2024 Olymp. No, wait a minute. Bump said one in 24. Oh, Mike's never won the Olympia. He was runner up in 2024. He was supposed to win it. What's this? Guest posing four days ago at the Midwest Winter Classic. He's being led out there in a blindfold. What the heck? Oh boy. I'm have to I know. I got some Oh man. Let me find some better footage of him because this is this is kind of wacky. Uh here we go. All right. All right. Well, this was Mike at the uh 2025 Olympia where [snorts] he was forced to lose something like 12 pounds in the last week and a half because there was that massive controversy over his height that he was cheating. Yes. Cheating. Uh because of his hair, his hair being so big. [laughter] And when they rehided him, he had to come in at a lighter weight. Uh and it did hurt him. He wasn't as didn't look as great here as he had the year before. Book dirt age 15 tell your future told me to stick to YouTube chat. Yeah, the same thing happened. What's up, Ryan? What's up, man? Thanks for joining us. Yeah, I had a similar experience when I was 18, almost 19. I sent pictures to a guy named Ellington Darden, PhD, who was running Nautilus at that time, uh the equipment company, and he'd written a whole bunch of training books. I was a big fan of his work and I sent him pictures and asked him to rate my potential and he called me up on the phone because I left my phone number and I was like, "Holy crap." And he said, "No, you don't have it, kid. You don't have the muscle belly." I'm like, "Ah, damn it." But he was right. Yeah, the blindfold posing thing that was I think that was that maybe a tribute to uh I don't know if that was a tribute to him or not. So Mike uh Mike had looked better here where he took second to Bumstead. This was the 2024 Olympia, Classic League Olympia, Bumstead's last. It was also Urs Kachchinsk's last uh Olympia as a classic guy. He made the switch to open bodybuilding this year very very successfully, I might add. But, uh, Mike definitely looked better at the heavier weight. Was he cheating? Well, no. They they should have pushed his hair down more, made him go wash the gel out of his hair. You can't blame Mike. Uh, these guys will get away with whatever they can. Yeah, Ellington Darden. Yeah, he had a little southern accent. But he told me straight up, "You don't have the genetics for it. Uh, young Mr. Ryan Harris, find something else to do with your life." I'm like, "Man, I'm going to prove this guy wrong." And years later, turns out he was not wrong. Look at Ursa's hair. Yeah, Earth Urs's hair was ridiculous. That platinum wasn't a mohawk exactly. It was kind of like a like a fauxhawk, I guess. Uh but yeah, Somerfeld here. Obviously, Mike would be a favorite, a huge favorite to win this. He's won it. He won it last year. These are from that guest posing. He won it last year. And uh I think at the Olympia he he had to he had to hurry up and get into shape very very quickly or I should say he had to lose a bunch of weight very quickly which I think hurt him at the Olympia. Look at that. Wow. I don't if that's recent. Is that recent? Looks pretty damn great. Yeah. Somerfield's got a beautiful physique. Look at that. That's that's classic. That shape is just insane. Beautiful shape. Yeah, he's got the uh nose strips. He's got some crazy shots. That is a great shot for Mike. Great shot. Yeah, it was cold, but he meant, you know, I appreciate people that are honest. Reowned for his research floor and received his PhD. Uh, but I appreciate people that are honest and that's how I am with people. If they ask me to rate their physiques, I do it. And I know a lot of times I I say you may not like what I have to tell you. So if you can't handle the truth, don't ask me because I'm going to give you the truth whether you like it or not. I'm wearing a nose stripper. I had some because I was I I snored until I got this snoreless mouthguard that I put in all my links uh on these videos. Uh back I tried it for my snoring. It didn't help with my snoring. All right. So that is Somerfeld. Definitely a favorite. Definitely. Let's see who else because there were some names I was not familiar with. So I'm just curious who these guys are. All right. Uh Andrea Mamole. Don't know them. I'll give him a follow. What the heck? So I'm guessing Italy. Yeah. The Italian gift. Two-time Olympian. He's been the Olympia twice. Okay. Welcome to the hell. Welcome to the hell. I can't read Italian. [laughter] So, not sure what show this was, but look at the shape on him. So, when I say Sam Sull, you can't beat some of these guys I've never heard of. I never heard of this guy before. The name is like vaguely familiar, but Sull can't beat that. Doesn't have the shape. This guy kills Sam on shape, shape, and structure. You know, this is God-given genetics. Sam has a wonderful personality. He's down to earth. That's why he has millions and millions of followers all around the world. But he just doesn't have the genetics that these people have. You know, for people that don't know any better, like a lot of his fans, they think he's going to win this. I bet a lot of his fans think he could win the Mr. Olympia. They think he could beat Derek Hottie, Andrew, Samson, Martin, Nick. I bet a lot of his fans think he's that good that he could beat all these people. But they don't know anybody. I don't know what you're looking at. Says Andrea Mamoleley. This is the most recent update. Uh yeah, not a huge guy. Again, some of these guys don't have a ton of size, per se. You know, maybe I'm comparing them to open bodybuilders too much, but look at that vacuum, that bicep peak. He's already, this was two weeks ago, so this was 13 weeks out from the show, and he already had the glutes in. So clearly getting in shape is not going to be a problem for Andre Amamole. Was that he giving it to his mom? I don't know if that's his mom or his grandmother. You have accompanied me through life. Oh yeah, it's grandma. I miss you. I love his grandma must passed away. These are very recent updates. I would say we don't need to see so much of the coach. We need to see the athlete more. So, I don't know why they're so damn far away. All right, that is Andrea Mami from Italy. Who do we got next? Next up, Paul Canoe. Who's that? I don't know. I'll give [clears throat] him a follow. Never heard of him. Let's see. Olympian. He's been in the Olympia. So, this was his Olympia debut. Okay. So, he just did his first Olympia. Again, beautiful shape. Uh legs look a little light from the side. Let me see what they look like from the front. Yeah, legs could be a little better, but the overall, you know what? I'm going to go out on a limb here and say he could be natural. This guy, he might be natural. He's either natural or he's barely anything. I Why am I talking about peeds? It's just these we all we all think of the these thoughts run across all our heads. Yeah, solid competitor. A little bit of gyno. Take care of that. So, if he came in this condition, Sull could maybe beat him just because Sull will probably come in shredded. And I don't know if Sull's going to have a coach for this. Did they just get engaged or married? Oh, yeah. Just got married. It's been a while. This is coaching canoe lifts. This is This was eight weeks post Olympia coached by Phil Viz. All right. So, that is Canoe. Paul Canoe. Now I know who he is. Let's go to Hang New Hang New. What the heck? Phil new from where? He's been the Olympia as well. Yeah, looks good. Looks good. Olympian 2025. Young guy. No idea where he's from. Don't know. Ultraflex Fitness. Where is that? Uh, what country is that? Oh, it's California. I didn't know that. Okay. Interesting. All right. This is Okay, so now we can finally see what he looks like. I didn't even know he was Asian. Look at that conditioning. Right on. I mean that that looks like a bodybuilder. That looks like a 212 bodybuilder to me. In fact, the caption says, "Do you hope to see me on stage 212?" So, he could probably go either must be very short where he doesn't have to if you're under a certain height. Um, you could do classic like Clarita I think could do classic for his height I think [laughter] or he wouldn't have to lose much. That's Phil new. Okay, there was a graphic he made. Is he from California? Maybe he's from California. I don't know. Good shot. Good shot. So, Phil new looks really good. Again, I don't think Sull could beat him. I hate to keep coming. I'm not being a Sam Sull haters. It's I I just try to inject some realism into it because I know his fans, they most of his fans have no idea how these things are judged. They just because they like him. They think he's going to win or he's going to play super high. That was hang. Let's go to uh Gabriel's unclean Ellie from Italy. I know. I do know who he is. Seen him a couple times in real life, I believe. Was he just at the Olympia or is that his uh I don't think that's him. Oh, that is him. A lot of them are coaches. Most of these people are coaches, so they put their clients up on their their Instagram, too. Uh so that was four weeks ago. Yeah. See, I wouldn't have known if he was classic or or open bodybuilder. Must be taller. She's very very short. Yeah. I don't know if either he's like 66 or she's like 410. I don't know what the case is. I'm assuming that's his girl. I don't know. Let's Let's go out on a limb and say he's a tall guy. Yeah, that was 10 weeks ago. So, we class pros. Oh, yeah. Sim's hard work. He can go anywhere. Well, unfortunately hard work who the winner isn't the the guy who works the hardest necessarily. The the people with the best genetics who work the hardest. They're the ones who win. Darden's research. Yeah. Could be on creatine. Oh, that guy that I said was natural. South Korea. Is that where he's from? I don't know. The Jimmy was at there. Hung the classic prize money. Don't know. Like I only know the 750 for open. I'm sure these guys aren't getting 750, but it it might be like a h 100,000 or something. It might it might be a pretty decent payday because I know Arnold was paying more for Classic than uh the Olympia was. [snorts] I do remember that much. All right, classic. So that was Gabriel. Let's look at Ethan Goajari. Never heard of him. Uh, two pro wins qualified for Olympia. Here's kissing his trophy. He's in love with his trophy. I would be too. Uh, what do you win? Uh, first ever Australian to win an IFB Pro show in classic physique. Which show was it? Steve Carr. That was Las Vegas Classic. those. So, he won 7,500 bucks for that. Ethan, there looks good. Atlantic Coast, did he win that, too? Yeah, this. So, he's got two pro wins, this guy. I mean, every weekend there are Oh, he's already qualified. Yeah, he's already qualified for 2026. So, he won two post Olympia shows. He's already qualified for Olympia. He's got the Olympia tattoo. Oh, boy. That's That's commitment right there. He's kissing this trophy, too. Boy. Oh boy. Okay, so that's Ethan Gohari. Good luck to him. Just a couple left. Jorge Era, give him a follow. What the heck? George Jorge Era, two-time Olympian, top 12. It's not bad because the classic physique Olympia usually has, you know, 50 to 70 guys. So to make top 12 in the class of Olympia is a really good accomplishment. Trying to find some good shots. That was eight weeks ago. See, I have issues with the pictures loading. It's taking too long to load. Here he is driving. Look at that arm. I wish I had an arm like that. I think I'm sounding like Donald Trump now for some reason. What the heck are these? Those bears. What the heck he was showing there? Uh, Jorge Era, do you have any contest shots? Contest stuff. Oh, these look like some shots in the gym. Really? He's doing the Somerfeld poses underneath a picture of Somerfeld. [snorts] Uh, that was 15 weeks ago. Horge, I find too much. Which one was this? Class got IB pro last year. All right. All right. I guess that's enough for because I can't find too much good stuff on him. But he looks good. Looks good. Wish him well. All right. We're almost We're almost through, everybody. We're almost through. And let's go back to Here we go. Vahid Badpi. Can I guess India? No, he's Iranian. Dumbass Ron. Iranian. Oh boy. He's getting a visa. Definitely not a huge guy, but you know, Classic's not supposed to be all about massive guys anyway. But look at that. Look at the how glutes are all dug out. Those striations are so deep. Ron, you talking about guy's asses. What's wrong with you, Ron? Glutes her body part, guys. It's not a gay thing, unless you want it to be. [snorts] Okay, here's the Olympia. Here's Vahid at this olymp. Was it the last? Yeah, this looks like the stage from the last Olympia. Let's take a look at Vahid. [snorts] Looks good. Looks good. These Iranian guys, they get in shape, man. They get shredded. They get to really good condition. Boom. Yeah. I'm very impressed. I mean, even those even the upper glutes are strided like crazy. Sport is genetic elite. Yeah. Oh, 100%. Like most sports, I mean, yeah. You don't see 25 foot three guys in the NBA, right? So, genetics, every sport is ruled by genetics. Don't get it twisted. It's not like who really wants it and who trains the hardest. No. No. Wasn't Arnold 100k for classic. Yeah, that was You're right. So, it's I think it's 100k rich got 60 grand. Yeah, now it's 750. Some of these guys need better Instagram pictures. I agree. Some of them are not playing the Instagram game and they can't use my excuse and say, "Well, I'm old." Most of these guys are half my age. Get a proper photographer on the IG pixel. He wants squattered deadlift or dumbbell press. No, man. Those are those are awful exercise. You don't want to do those compared to the magazine pictures back in the day. Nobody's even trying these days. Classic guys get shredded. Yeah, I mean the weight caps really help. Someone like Panal shoot me. Yeah, I was lucky enough to get a pair shot me once and I had Mike Nephew from Iron Man shoot me five different times. So, I have some pretty good studio pictures to look back at all these years later. Sound I mean that's it is a metric in terms of condition. You can't you're not winning a show typically with like fat glutes. No, that's not going to happen. I think there was only one more guy in classic. Wim Kimp's Angel. Give him a follow. What the heck? Kim Angel. Kim Angel. Four pro wins. He's been to Olympia twice. 24 and 25. Here is with some guy named Bumstead. Kim Angela. He's a Spanish speaker. Is he from Spain? Mexico? I don't know. I don't know. Good quad shot. Oh, look at that. That's That's awesome. The If you guys are big fans of Pumping Iron, you'll remember there was that that one scene [snorts] where Arnold was uh it was similar to this where they were filming him from a low angle and I think the sun was setting. It was incredible lighting. It wasn't a full sil silhouette like this. It was lit a little more than this, but that's this really gives you the the best impression of the overall shape that the posing just in a silhouette because that's all you can see. You can't see any muscle separation definition. All you're seeing is the structure and the shape and the symmetry of the athlete. And that's a great great shot. It's very cool. Whoever thought whoever's idea this was, whether it was him or somebody else, give them a little pat on the back. Nice. Okay. All right. So, it's Kim Angel. We got one more. Oh, there's a good shot. Look at that. Thick. Nice dense [snorts] shoulders, arms, pecs. Uh, go. So, he's a men's former men's physique guy. I did not know that. Two areas. All right, I'll stop. I'll stop. I think he's just saying how uh Yeah, it's been two years physique. So, this was the difference between him as a men's physique guy and a classic physique. Neutra yummy. there is winning something in Spain because there's Alilio Martinez this promoter in Spain. Uh Ly qualifier. I don't know which which show it was. Oh, he won the Linda Murray show too. Wow. Okay. He won Lender show earlier in the year. Good. Look at those delts. Nice quad sweep. Yeah. Good luck. Good luck. Oh, and there he is in Prague with uh two great guys. Terrence Ruffen, Rough Diesel and Michael Dabul Rough Diesel in Prague with Rough Diesel. That was 24 20 24 Prague. There is a Bion at the Olympia, I think. There's a Ramondino. [snorts] And [clears throat] that is your lineup, guys. That's your lineup. Let's see. Per Nevu. Yeah. I mean, I'm very, very grateful that I got the opportunity to shoot with both of those guys. They were to me they're, you know, the only other guy I wish I could have shot with and it was never going to happen because I was not a pro or a Weer athlete, but Chris Lond Chris Lund did some amazing work, too. It's cool. Those photos pumping up, pumping iron. Yeah, that stupid song. Dlette saw it. Yeah, I I I like when the Olympia used to do that, too. When the the guys would come out, they would come down the stairs. But if they start at the top of the stairs with the light behind them and the smoke and all you saw was this freaky freaky silhouette. Guess he had some legs. I'm going stop sharing that because we're almost done. Give me soccer to result. Talk about these. Oh yeah, good legs. All right, guys. So that is the Arnold Classic. Those are the competitors going into the Arnold Classic for open bodybuilding and classic physique. Classic physique, I would say my picks. It's probably going to come down to Somerfeld versus Wesley, and I bet Somerfeld's going to win. [snorts] Um, Open. Wow. Open is is it's a dog fight. Andrew Jack is still my favorite. Heidi Chupan could win. uh Martin Fitzwwater. It would be it would be pretty crazy for him to leaprog over both Hottie and Andrew, but stranger things have happened and it could happen. And then you got Nick Walker who, you know, Nick could bring a package something like we've never seen before. Now he's coaching himself. Let's see what he's capable of. Let's see what Martin can deliver. Arty's talking about photographers there. So that's it, guys. Uh drop a comment if you're watching this in the rerun, the replay. Let me know who you have as your picks. Give me your top five. Uh, open, classic, whatever you want to leave, leave it in the comments. I always read those and respond to them. So, appreciate you guys watching so much and have a great weekend. We'll see you next week. Bye-bye now.