Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour. 2025 is almost over. It's time for Giles, Tiger Thomas, and I to make our 2026 predictions. Giles actually has a nickname called Mystic Tiger. Now, you have been correct in many, many predictions over the years, Jiles. Have you not? >> Well, hate to say it, but uh yes. >> So, we're going to act I have an idea. A year from now, let's revisit these predictions and see how we did with with what we said was going to happen. >> Ron Ron, I I said I mean, now that AI is making such strides, surely there's some way that because I' i've gone on my phone, I've got photos on my phone going back to 2017. I got every every photo and I saw that we started doing the preview shows in 2017. Um, so like you think about almost every Open Pro show we've done predictions for and previews. I'd there must be a way of not having to go individually through all those videos and let AI just say right based upon, you know, the um the actual results of these shows. Is there a way of like literally running through every single preview video we've done and in half an hour it giving like a graph of how accurate um you and I both were? because I would I'd be very curious to see that because thing is people can try and discredit me and undermine me and catch me out you know like it's happened earlier this year they've tried so bloody hard but thing is facts are facts so if you like that's why I don't it stuff like that doesn't really bother me for any length of time because >> you know you can go all our work is out there to check you know in print or online or on social media so you know that's why I never get like I said never get too stressed about all that kind of stuff but um you know it's all out there to go and check guys so feel free but AI I'd I'd be interested to see if we could do that because I'm just curious. >> I I would venture to say we probably have a 75 to 85% success rate with the placings because you know typically we just we go by past performances and you know the rankings how people are ranked. Typically things do wash out that way. There are surprises and there are people that we didn't expect, but for the most part, >> the the consistent really good, well-known competitors that we predict are going to do well, they they pretty much usually do well. So that's why they there are who they are. >> But um [clears throat and cough] but the thing is we take such pride in in that fact, but at the same time, no one's happier than me than when we get it completely wrong. Like you like I said with like I keep bringing up the the one example the shining example of who you know completely proved us wrong. So I'm the one who puts my hand up first to say yeah I was proved wrong. I was proved wrong because you know we may be analysts and whatever you want to call us or whatever you want to sort of um pigeon hole us at as but the end of the day at the end of the day Ron we're fans of the sport and thing is we like surprises. though uh because it keeps me it keeps me engaged with the sport keeps me interested and also it makes bodybuilding because I was thinking about this it's like I mean imagine being um doing commentary or see like being an analyst of um sprinters okay then Usain Bolt okay nine seconds later he's over the it's like how do we how could you actually talk about that for any length of time it's like well Usain Bolt's the fastest there's the time there's the uh there's the slowed down video what more is there to talk about because it's so factual it's so black and white there's No, there's no sort of like debating it, you know, that but that's what I like about bodybuilding because it is a subjective sport >> and um and we can we can debate it till the cows come home, you know, and that's that's [laughter] kind of that's kind of what gets me coming on here and and debating like you just said there and he said we talked about something before we before we came online here. >> Yeah. >> Started recording and you said, "Well, I might disagree with you on that one." And I'm like, "Well, good, good. That's what that's what we're here for." Because if if it's just you and me just agreeing on everything, it may as well just be you or just be me doing it by ourselves. >> Okay. Well, let's start with the first one because this is one where we're not going to be in complete agreement. You're Giles Tiger Thomas. I'm going to be a doubting Thomas when we talk about Andrew Jack winning the Arnold Classic and the Mr. Olympia for 2026. Uh, and I don't think he's incapable. And I'm I'm not going to be one bit surprised if both of those things happen, but I am not as confident as you are. Tell me why you are so confident that this uh Andrew Jack phenomenon is going to keep sweeping up the big big the biggest titles for 2026. >> No, you tell me why first. >> Why he will? Well, I see [laughter] >> one second. Also, it's the two Arnold Classic because it's the AL and the AL dou that he's doing. >> H true, true, true. Yeah. Yeah, I mean who I'm fairly certain whoever wins Columbus is going to win UK. It's two weeks apart. It's almost the same same lineup minus Nick Walker not doing UK as of as of now. But I I think if Hottie or Andrew, whichever one of them wins in Ohio is most likely going to continue that streak and beat the other guy again in UK. Uh for Andrew to get ahead of Hottie, it could happen. It's never happened yet. If he does do that, it's going to put him in contention, very strong contention, for the Mr. Olympia title, which he already is at third place a couple months ago. Uh I'm I'm just I'm just I'm I'm dubious as to whether he can beat Hottie. Hottie at his best is almost unbeatable. But uh you tell me. If you noticed, it wasn't until Romania that I even said this that I even said that I thought Andrew could win all three shows next year because based upon what I saw from because like um I mean I had an um I'll say his name, Brian Bulman. He was the guy who run the backstage security. He's an IB show promoter and um and he said to me and he said, "Look, Charles, I was there. You were there. You weren't." Sort of thing. He says, "I'm telling you," he says, "Um Andrew Jack should have won the Olympia." And I went, "What?" I said, "I thought it was just purely between Derek and Haddie." And he went, "No." He said, "I'm telling you, that was the first time I heard it." And I didn't even because I had him as a solid third. I thought third at the Olympia I thought was fair. I did see it between like a flip-flop between Derek and Hadtie. Um but um yeah, I was uh and then and then all of a sudden in the weeks that preceded, I kind of started hearing it more and more and more, and I was like, "Shit." Um okay. But I mean, like I said, I thought third was fair. But then what I saw from Romania was something like I said last episode in the episode before I something I've never seen happen where a post Olympia show. Yeah. You get guys like like Kevin Neon in 97 when he did the British Grand Prix. I mean Wayne Demillion and a lot of people said if he'd have brought that to the Olympia he would have won the Olympia. That was the year that Dorian had the Ta tricep. Nassa was you know huge but his back wasn't great. Shawn Ray was kind of great but probably a little bit maybe a bit smaller against those other you know 270 260 guys. Um, and then um, but you you never saw a guy actually do anything other than change their condition. But Andrew did something that I've never seen before. And I didn't think was previously possible. And if you would have said and if Andrew had said to me personally and said, "Look, Charles, I'm going to this is good what I'm going to bring to Romania describing what he did bring to Romania." I would have I would have probably would have laughed at him. I would have said, "Yeah, yeah, come on, mate. This is me you're talking to now." But he did. He managed to actually make improvements in his physique. I mean, look at this video here. his delts. It was the delts in the back I think I noticed the most amount of improvement. And also you see like like the separation in the brachulus and the bicep. He didn't have that at the Olympia. And that's that's as a result of more development, more muscular development. Um the legs weren't quite as hard as they were at the Olympia, but they were a lot thicker. they're a lot fuller and thicker because he's told me before um he said the one thing he really struggles with um he says like like three four days out he said his legs always always look nice and full and round and the thing that always he always struggles with when he sucks it down for the shows he says he's always worried that it's going to come off his legs and at the Arnold Classic back in March if you look at it uh I mean he actually sent me some private sort of um videos and photos from his hotel room and his legs he said don't look at my legs bro and I was like look at him I was like [\h__\h] I said yeah they do look completely different I said how How long ago was this? And he said it was like 2, three days before the Arnold. I went, "Ah, shit." He said, "Do you see what I mean now?" He says, "You know, I lose a lot of fullness in my legs." Um, but at the um Romania, the legs were nice and full, but they weren't quite as dry. So, based upon purely based upon um the difference between him from the Olympia and the Arnold Classic, um I the muscle he put on and like I said, we have spoke about this. I think it was down to the only changing factor was the fact he was training that kind of old school, you know, the way of I mean, I've trained with Kamal. I've trained with him a couple of times and um and it is that kind of style that maybe isn't as fashionable nowadays, but it bloody works. You can't escape the old school basics. Like I said, Dorian, Lee, Haney, Ronnie, you know, they all trained in basic type gyms. They didn't have, you know, we ask if yes, we things have progressed in the industry with with the kind of gyms. I mean, the kind of gyms that, you know, that I'm training in nowadays compared to what I was training at back in Wales back in, you know, the late 90s and stuff, I mean, it's just night and day now, but things haven't really improved in terms of the physique. So, you can't escape, I keep saying it over and I sound like a bloody like I'm on a broken record, is that you can't escape the good old basics. >> And I think that's basically what Kamal has got him. and he will really and thing is with Kamal, he's you know Kamal's um you know he's a very very accomplished bodybuilder himself and he's kind of he's very very down to earth and he's about grassroots and he's about you know the he's a like I keep saying that keep using the phrase old school but that's what he is he's proper old school so he'll be absolutely beasting um Andrew and that's basically why Andrew wants to train with him because he knows that look at this I mean look at those look at the results they've they've managed I mean how was it six weeks was it four five six weeks between the Olympia and the Romania Yeah, >> something like that. But that is that is >> but look at look at it. It's significant for me. It was drastic. I mean, you know, Milos said that he thinks now that Andrew has got the best front l of all time. And I know Milos likes to say sensational things like that, but if you actually look at like because the Olympia the front lad at the Olympia was was impressive, but when he hit the front latia, I can kind of see where Mios is coming from because I was absolutely I mean that's a different that's a different physique. >> That is a different physique. as far from the Olympia to Romania, he's he's he's fuller, he's bigger. Um so whatever those changes in his team he made, um and I think it is purely down to him working with Kamal. Um I I just think the future looks very very good. So I do expect and I think he will beat Hadti because I think the best is yet to come from Andrew whereas we've kind of seen an I mean Hadi is a phenomenal incredible bodybuilder but what more can he really do with his physique that we haven't seen yet? We haven't seen it back in you know for the last eight years. I mean is he that much different from when I saw him in San Marino when he's in his first open show back in 2017? I don't think so. Whereas Andrew, you know that he could hold another I mean um TK and a few other people have said like Jay Cutler said it's just if he could put another five, six, seven pounds of muscle on which is very achievable on a guy that size, a guy that height. And if he does that and he keeps those improvements coming, I mean look at the improvements in his glutes, his hams, his back. I mean he's filling those gaps in that he needed to fill in. So at the rate of improvement plus I've spoken to him and he just I think he actually believes now he can I I believe now that he believes that it's his time. So he's very focused. He's got everyone in place. He's got a new sponsor and he just feels he just sounds like he's ready now. So uh for that for those reasons um I do think I do think I'm going to put my neck on the line. I'm think he's gonna I think he's going to win everything next year. >> Okay. Well, [clears throat] so we're not really disagreeing. you're just a lot more confident about than I am. I would love to see it happen. And I do agree doesn't get he's not getting any better at this point. He's he's amazing, but he's he hasn't looked any different for a very long time now where Andrew is he is improving. So, like I said, you've never beat somebody until you beat them. He's never beaten hottie yet. That doesn't mean the first time isn't coming up in uh 10 and a half weeks. I I just think I think there's more of a question mark over over Andrew because he's kind of built momentum in his own mind and also, you know, I think he's just building momentum now. And I feel like now things are starting to fall into place and uh I just uh like, you know, and also he kind of he's kind of um like even the way he's talking it's like he's believe like he said he's believing now that he can be like like that year that Derek Lunsford won the Olympia the first year in um 23 20 yeah 23. It's like he almost started acting and and and and uh conducting himself like a Mr. Olympia before he won the Olympia that year. So I think a lot of it comes to um you know and thing is things with Andrew he was up you know he he only came along like four or five years ago. So um he needed a couple of years to figure his body out to kind of really and also to really develop things. I think he just needed a bit of time to kind of fill that frame out. And from what I've saw in Romania, to me that um with a few tweaks and a few improvements, to me that is that's a Mr. Olympia. And thing is like we've had of um like I think the reason that we spoke about Derek getting a lot of [\h__\h] online. We spoke about it last week and I think a reason is and I keep saying online I says look guys you know you know you say that Derek's all the they're really putting him down and this is a horrible blah blah blah etc etc but who else would you have had winning and then they'll say oh had well well had not exactly perfect either. Um Andrew is not exactly perfect. He's got improvements he needs to make. So, so basically my point is there's no dominant champion, but I think I think like say Andrew for the Olympia next year, if he keeps these improvements going, I think we might have on our hands um a dominant Mr. Olympia. And I think um because I thought Samson was going to be at least a three-time Olympia champion. And now I'm not so sure unless he can really claw it back and kind of pull a Ronnie or even get back to how he looked when he won the Olympian 24. And for now there's a big question mark over him. So, but you know, you only need to pause for for five minutes in this industry and 10 guys have zipped past you. You know, we've we've Samson when in the UK they do the all these different shows and it' be like, you know, Nathan would be just just slightly ahead of um of Samson and then, you know, he tore his bicep and he tore his other one and then, you know, Samson just went straight past him and he's never looked back since. So, um, yeah, I think, um, I think it's his year and I and and I'm super excited to see what he's going to bring next year. >> All right. Well, we're still on the Arnold Classic topic. This is my prediction. >> Sam Sull fans will cry robbery after the Arnold Classic if he doesn't win. And uh, I I just don't see him winning. Yeah, [clears throat] they his fans Nick Miller from Nick Strength and Power did a video called, "Can Sam Sull win the Arnold Classic?" Meaning the pro Arnold Classic, not the one the amateur that he did win. So, this is what he looked like almost a year ago. >> Uh, and you know, we give the we give this young man a lot of credit. He is a young man. I think he's only 22, 23. Uh, I think he'S-23. Anyway, he did his own prep. He got into really good condition. Uh, and yes, he has had a whole year basically to improve on this. But structure and shape, as we both know, are set in stone in your womb. You do not change your bone structure. You do not change your muscle shapes and insertions. and he does not have the gifts genetically that some of these guys have. I mean, he's going up against this last year's Arnold Classic champion and the 2024 Olympia runnerup and 25 Olympia runnerup, Mike Somerfeld from Germany. Um, this was a probably a little larger version than we're going to see of Mike because he's he got heighted a little shorter, but still when you're comparing people like that, people who are so gifted um and there's, you know, he's by he's not we got Wesley Visser on the show, too. We have some really really excellent Class of Physique pros. Uh, and Sam, you know, I give him a lot of credit for having the guts to jump in and stand on stage with men of that caliber. the very top echelon, you know, minus a couple guys like Ramon and Ruffin. But, uh, I don't see this guy in the top five unless everyone is out of shape and he's able to scratch and claw his way up there. And again, I'm not I'm not hating on him. I think it's amazing what he's been able to do as a social media star and build this amazing following and make an a great living from the sport and the industry even long before he competed. But, uh, genetically, I don't I don't think he has what it takes to be a top classic physique pro. >> I guess you have nothing to say to that. >> I think, sorry, there's a there's a pause. There's a pause. You're talking and then there's nothing coming out your mouth. Um, I think everything you've said there is true and um and fair. I think a truth truthful and fair I think is everything you've just said there is completely I completely agree with. Um, and I think it's a fair assumption to say that obviously the Sam Sulick fans, as you know, are not bodybuilding fans. So, they don't know, you know, um, you know, like we've we've got like the the fans of certain type guys like the Nick Walker fans or the Hadti fans, you know, they they they don't really follow bodybuilders. They don't really understand there's different levels to it. they don't really understand that like you said in classic um structure plays a huge part because when you've got guys all hitting their limits they're all going to be of a similar size and development because of the height weight um the way it's worked out. So I do see um I do see you being right on this one unfortunately but um to be honest as long as he shows up looking good and he shows up in condition and he shows up doing himself proud um I don't think it's going to be a disaster for him. I mean, even if he took literally even if he took last place, as long as he looks good, I think that it's it's not going to harm him because if you've won the Arnold Classic Amateur, which let's face it, took balls because he's, you know, like I said, when Andrew Jack went and did the Arnold amateur in America, he said, "I want to go to a show. I want to pick a show to turn pro at that is going to most likely have the best competition, not choose some, you know, obscure show around the world where it's going to be like an easy pro card like we've seen some people do." um you know because at the end of the day you know if you can't turn pro at one of these big big amateur shows then what are you really realistically going to do as a pro and what sort of statement you sending out and plus you want to test yourself as well. So I really credit Sam for going to the Arnold amateur getting his pro card and um but obviously now because he's won that he then gets an invite to the Arnold America and you know that Arnold and um Brian Powers would have been you know really really keen to have him in the show. So, why would he say no? Why would he say no to doing uh the Arnold amateur when he's uh sorry, the Arnold Pro when he's, you know, by winning the amateur, he's got that invite. So, there's no reason why he wouldn't unless he's scared um or he's trying to, you know, not get obliterated. Um but like I said, as long as he doesn't long as he looks good, I don't think it really matters where he places because it's not going to hurt his social media follow. It's not going to hurt his his fans, you know. But I mean there's guys like Kim Angel, Wesley, uh Mike Summerfield. I mean the standard the you know guys like that is it's like um it's like how can I put I don't want to put an example you know but without trying to without making it sound like I'm putting him down because I'm not. As long as he shows up improved long as he shows my condition I think he's I think he's good. So um it won't hurt him. Definitely won't hurt him. But yeah I think you're right. I think um his fans are going to be you're probably right to prepare them for being disappointed because there's no way I I I don't see any scenario where he could come in and be ultra competitive in a show this big. >> Yeah. And again, you're even last place just getting up there and looking good, that's a win. He'll get, you know, [clears throat] this next 10 11 weeks of his YouTube channel are going to be incredible content. He's going to share every little detail of his prep. >> Yep. So, it's it's it's a huge win for Sam regardless of where he places. Oh, there. >> So, let's move on. All right. >> All right. So, our next one is uh [clears throat] uh other Olympia repeats that I'm predicting. I think Keon's going to keep that 212 title for another year. Andrea Shaw, that's it's almost like a given. Ryan Terry, fellow Brit physique. And I think Natalya Quo is going to hold on to her to her title. Uh any arguments about any of those? >> Um well, we have to look at who the main contenders are realistically for each one. Um I think Sean Karita, I think we really I mean I'm I'm a huge Sean Karina fan. He's actually one of my all-time favorite bodybuilders. Not just in 212, but like overall you think about all the decades, all the categories, he is one of my all-time favorite bodybuilders. not just for his physique, but what he represents, his work ethic, his attitude. Um, I just love Sean. And even even having said all that, I really didn't see him coming in and really pushing Keon like he did at the Olympia. And he did. He did. I mean, I actually had Clarita winning the prejudging >> at the Olympia, you know, not by much, but I felt like I felt like, [\h__\h] he's actually there's actually an argument for him winning the prejudging. Then I saw Keon and literally as soon as I saw Keon hit the first pose, I knew that Keon pulled ahead for the finals and I thought, "Okay, Keon's realistically going to win this." But um what um what Sean Karita's um achieved is he he's just he constantly constantly proves everyone proves to everyone that you cannot underestimate this guy. He's absolutely incredible. Um just when you think he's maxed out and he can't make any more improvements, boom, he goes and does it. And I just applaud him for that. And I just um you know he's he's he's absolutely phenomenal. So realistically, could Sean Karida push Keon? Yes, I think he could. Um I don't think it's a given that Keon's going to win at all. >> Um because I Yeah, I think I because I mean now Keon is now at the limit, isn't it? He's at the limit for 212. >> Yeah. >> Got rid of a bicep. [laughter] >> Can we just give a little shout out to the lighting of this China Pro? They did a great job. >> Yeah. It's good, isn't it? It's good. I like the um the way they've done the camera work as well. That's really really that's that's like I've never seen that before. >> Yeah. >> Um but um yeah, I don't think it's um I don't think Keon should um should get complacent at all because things with Sean, he's only 185 as well. So, he can put more muscle on and and still not have to even lose a a wink of sleep, not thinking he's going to make the um the limit. So, yeah. So, you got him. Um really, can anybody else really challenge Keon in the 212? knee hat, Angel Cderon if he comes back. I mean, there's any of these there's no one else really that I think realistically has the goods to really challenge Ke. So, there's that's basically Yeah. What I've got to say on the 212. Andrea Shaw. Um Oh, what was that lady who came second at the Olympia? The little short black lady. >> Oh, what was her name? >> She's she's really good. I I can't remember right now, but >> I I really She re she really impressed me, Ron. I thought she was absolutely incredible because like you said, it's almost not even worth watching the um the female body because you think, "Oh, well, if Andrea Shaw looks anything like she normally does, she's going to come in and she's going to come and win it easy." Um but um the lady comes second um not somebody's like like like Shan Ka, not somebody to be underestimated. You never know what she could do in the next year. So that's um but yeah, it's probably 80% likely that Andrea Shaw is going to win and win clearly. But um we have to we have to be open to other people coming in and sort of well we think we saw it with um Angela Yo at the um the the rising phoenix. I mean we who saw that one coming >> you know Andrea comes in 90% or 85% or whatever and then Angela Yo comes in absolutely bang on and beats her. Um and it was uh you know and it was um you know there's somebody who we thought was so far ahead of everybody else and yet it can happen. So again you know there's a potential for this um that lady for to beat her. Ryan Terry um well Ali Balal Ali Balal is coming up and if he brings the backup um who knows that uh I mean that's that is um that's a very close race as well. >> Um and then of course we got Natalyia Cowelloo um we have Sarah Viegas. So obviously, you know, with what everything that's going on between them, Sarah's probably going to be very fired up to try and get a title back because they've been going back and forth back and forth for the last what, seven, eight years. >> Um, and uh, and also the thing is though, I know we I mean, just put the whole, you know, oil Olympia, whatever they called it. Let's put that aside for now because I didn't see anything on Coella's on Italy's physique that indicated to me. And like I said, like I said last episode, I'm very, very hot on that. Um, I personally haven't seen anything. I don't think it's uh and even if she has it hasn't it's not obvious to me which is kind of if you're going to do it then you're going to make sure do it so it's not obvious. Um so the judges aren't going to pull her up on that. Um regardless of um of what Sarah keeps campaigning against her for. Um but um for me as well what Natalyia brought to the Olympia I think she's I think she's pretty much as unbeatable as anyone can be. That's what I'll say. I think she's I think she's pretty much Yeah. I think that's that I mean that to me there is the perfect criteria for women's physique. I think she's brought up her arms. She's brought up any weaknesses she had and uh and I just think that um I think she's I think she's she's going to win probably like Andrea Shaw or Sydney Gillan for the next few years. >> And I am coordinating a power hour to go over that PMMA crap. So in case people wonder why why haven't you really addressed it, Ron, I wanted to get the right people on to speak with some authority on it. >> Okay. But is I heard like it's like what miniature like small plastic balls or something. That can't be good putting that in the body. >> No, it can't. [laughter] >> Like that sounds I mean I obviously like heard that Rich Piana put it in his arms or whatever. That's what the that's what people are saying. But and obviously he's no longer with us. Um and I've I saw Rich Piano up close and that guy when I when you see that guy up close, you know, God rest his soul. I mean he didn't look how can I put he just didn't look healthy, mate. It looked it looked like whoa. It looked very artificial and I just thought knowing what we know certain like flex lost his leg and you know like and all the people that were heavy on that they all seem to run into um you know organ problems at some point in their life or they it kills them >> or something seems to happen health-wise that kills them. And I just think like the whole the whole site injection thing, the whole um SEOs, I just I I always say to people, look, stay well away from it because it's uh you're going to you're going to you're going to destroy muscle tissue. We've seen people with like you looks like a bloody shark bit their tricep off or it looks um it it looks looks bad. We've seen like the you know calves like the looks like someone's like is it literally like a dog's bitten it um because it just deadens all the the the all that scar tissue and all the nerve endings and it's just constantly injected and putting stuff in it to swell it up. It it never ends well. >> Yeah, [snorts] that's how my right tricep looks even though I never injected it. Looks like a shark just bit the whole damn thing off. Anyway, let's move on. >> The miracle bear. We saw him go from a stage weight of 228 >> 28 >> 228 in 2024 at the Olympia to showing up at two shows this past summer and the Olympia around 260. Uh which was a huge huge bump up in size. Uh and I think with a little bit of an offseason over this over these next few months because I haven't heard about him doing any any uh spring shows. I think we're going to see Urs put another five to 10 quality pounds of muscle on beyond what we just saw at the Italy and Germany shows in the Olympia. So, I think he's going to be around 270 on stage next time we see him. >> Let's see. >> Wow. If he can make if he can put that on his back and arms, I mean like even like five, six pounds, it's going to look absolutely insane on him. And even with those, you know, those areas that you can see even at this video now, you can see that he needs to bring them up. Um, he did bloody well. Uh, and and and he's, you know, he's in a top he's in the top 15 as well of the Olympia. So, he's got his starting his fixed starting point for the Olympia, which I mean, let's be honest. I mean, he's he's going to place probably higher than 14th next year. I'd be very shocked if he doesn't. Um, so even in his uh his breakout, you know, season, you know, the um he didn't even have like a year off or anything. went straight into, you know, competing as an open guy. He did unbelievably well, looked fantastic, and um and and thing is he he did basically he's another guy like Andrew from the Olympia to the Romania that did something that I thought wasn't possible. Um, I mean, Matt, all the weeks on on Power Hour and talking about basically how, you know, he was claiming that he was 20 he lost so much muscle when he dieted and and next time he steps on stage and open and all his fans will say, "Oh, he's going to be 260, 27." And I was just laughing at them. I was just like, "This is not possible, guys. It just the body the body doesn't work like that." Or he's going to ruin the waistline. He's going to ruin his physique. Blah blah blah, etc., etc. Like I said, you've if you watch the power, you you'll have heard me bleeding on every single week. So he's um I mean and then also look at the look at the condition in his quads from the front there. I mean it's just they're so that's what I like about the guys that go um the first couple of years they leave classic and go into an open show. They still have a lot of the qualities of a classic guy, you know, the classic physique. And I like I really like that. Um you know, they they still pose like classic guys. They they still have a lot of their lines. Um because thing is when you're classic, you have to sort of look at your lines because because you can't rely on being bigger and and more impressed than the next guy because you're both kind of probably on the weight cap. So you have to sort of focus on your genetic structure and you have to focus on um things like conditioning and um and uh yeah, those kinds of things and balance and symmetry and stuff like that. And then when you get to the open, it's like right now I can get big as big as possible. And um so I'm really excited to see what Z is going to bring next year. Um and um yeah, I just I'm yeah, very very curious and very very excited to see because you know what he did this year, you know, blew my mind. So um I'm excited for him. >> And I think his frame can carry more muscle. I don't think he's maxed out at all yet. >> Yeah. No, no, no. He's Yeah, he can take a he can take some more size there. Definitely take a lot more size, >> which is crazy because, you know, we had no idea in those years when he was classic that he was capable of being as big as he is. You know, we look at these classic guys and often wonder what would happen if they decide to go open. What would they look like? >> And I honestly never envisioned Earth. I I didn't think Urs would look as good as he did. So, good on him. He He really shocked. He proved us both wrong. And this is the happiest >> the happiest we've both been in 2025 to be completely wrong was with Earth. So, >> I I I echo everything. I echo everything you just said there, >> right? Here's here's a controversial one. I believe at some point, it might even happen the next few days, so maybe this isn't a 2026 prediction. I think the NPC and the IPB Pro League are going to introduce the male equivalent of fit model, something that's uh more entry level than men's physique because men's physique has become so muscular and they carry so much more size than they did when that division was introduced back in I think it was 2013. Um, do you think they will? You think uh >> we have 11 divisions, 12 divisions now, or you think they're like, "Nah, even we can't do it. We we they I'm sure they want to do it. It's it's more entries. It's more It's more money. It's more participation." Um, but I don't know. I I think they'll do it. What's >> Hang on, Ron. You seem very very certain that soon they're going to announce something. Do you have any inside knowledge? Look me in the eye and be honest. No, the reason I say that is because typically new divisions for the NPC for that for the next year are announced around at some point in December of the previous year. Okay. >> Because you remember fit model was announced at the end of 2023 24. >> Was this the first year they had pro- qualifiers? Yeah. So a year ago, fit model was announced. It's only been about a year. >> Tyler went on and said, "Here's this new division we're going to have. This is the criteria. This is why we're doing it. So, yeah, it's either if it's not announced in the next few days, it's it's going to be about a year from now if it's going to happen. >> Kill me now. >> No, I just I just I bloody hope not for the sake of And thing is like, you know, I've had a bit of a few issues with the old live stream commentary and honestly stuff like that if that was announced it might tip me to just say, do you know what? I'm just going to I'm just going to jack it in because it's not worth sitting there for hour. Like literally when the ladies fit model, we normally have Lauren there and all, you know, we work with other people like Minipage or other, you know, and we we sort of hand over and let them take those certain classes. But the fit the ladies fit model. I said came back and I said, "Guys, just if it was I said, Lauren, if it just you and me now, I says like I honestly don't think I could have even if it was we [clears throat] had to be there. I honestly I honestly don't think I could have sat there and made commentary on this division because I think my lack of enthusiasm and my my truthful sound of my voice. I think it would have just shown that it would have been it wouldn't have been fun for people and family members or whatever to be watching back at home watching the live stream. I think they would have been like who's this guy? He's just he really like he sounds so his lack of enthusiasm is really really show and I don't and I wouldn't want to be disrespectful you know. So, I would have said, "Guys, I'm just going to respectfully step out of this one because I honestly don't I don't have anything to say." In fact, Lauren said she she struggles actually on a on a few, you know, she's on one of one of them she's like, I just it's difficult to to to watch. Oh, they got a pretty face. And it's like I just So, if they do this in the mail in the men's, then I just I think I just want to shoot myself, honestly. It's just um it's no, please no. Please no. I I don't even know. I don't even know what else to say really because >> well let me ask you this. Do you think there's a need for it? Because I don't think there was a need for fit model but the the argument was that bikini had become so much more muscular [laughter] >> than than it had when it debuted many years ago that there was a they were alienating a large part of women who wanted to compete but they were too intimidated. bikini girls were just too much years and years and drugs and everything. >> Hang on. You and you've seen like like bikini winners with literally in their arms and their legs. We've seen them win shows, win pro cards, and they have zero muscle on their legs. They're just literally glutes, implants, and a pretty face. That's honestly what I've seen. At least sometimes you go to something at least sometimes. Certainly in the pros like Donald UK last year there was like they were almost like mini figure they had like like separation in their quads they had nice cap delts and I was like and I remember I said to Laura I sat with her and Ronnie and stuff and I said this is I can get on board with this I can actually get into this because there's natural physique there to to assess >> right >> but like you know bikini at one point it was almost like amateur and pros it was like muscle or any conditioning wasn't being rewarded any sort of development was being penalized and then the girls are coming not top six or you know girls not like getting fourth or fifth great sort of athletic type physiques that look beautiful and I really kind of really promoted the idea of females weight training and and and looking like they you know they like like if they were out people would say she works out but the fit model the fit model ladies they it's almost like if you don't look like you work out that's an advantage. >> Yeah. >> And for me it goes against everything that the MPC in the pro league stands for you know it's like you don't There's girls I could pluck off the street and stick on stage and fit model and they would win. And to me, that is completely against the grain of what it's all about. Otherwise, it is literally purely it is like like Lauren did the beauty pageents a couple of years ago and um you know and obviously I went in couple and I mooched around it a couple and basically it's exactly the same thing as that. That's ex that's all it is. That's that's that's basically that's that's what it is. So like trying to dress it up and try and slot it into into a federation that is about bodybuilding and physiques I think is absolutely ridiculous. So if they do this with a men's then that's just going to be an absolute nightmare. [snorts] >> Yeah. I mean they they've joked like we're going to have a dad bod division pretty soon which >> this isn't that far away from that. It's >> that'd be sad. That'd be sad. That be just for the sake of purely trying to get people on stage and make money. It's like to me it's just exploiting people that cuz thing is like like say you're like a fit like I was talking to um I was talking to a female coach and she was and she was loving the fit model. I said and I said I bet you why I said because if they give you x amount of money I said what actually do you have to do to to get them ready to peak them. I mean I could I could literally drag somebody off the street, stick them in a bikini and put them on stage and then you know and say oh I prep this girl and you know she wins and it's like purely just what cuz she's got a pretty face. It's like that's that's not an issue. That's not what it should be about, mate. And I just the sake of just creating divisions just to purely, >> you know, get revenue and get people on stage, I think is just I think it's going down a really wrong path, mate. I really really do. And it just takes it further away from um you know what the whole what what would Joe Weider think? Seriously, what would Joe Weeder think when he started when he and Joe and Ben Weeder, what would they actually think now if they could see literally girls that are just judged purely upon their facial beauty? Um, it's go it's like going back to the old 1950s, 1960s Naba shows where you'd have the Mr. and Miss Britain and the Miss Britain would just have to she might be the wife of one of the competitors and she's just literally dragged on stage and she's it's literally it is actually judged like a Miss World contest where >> you no they I mean you don't even need to have muscle. It's just about looking [laughter] pretty. Basically, they want you in the overall picture with a muscular guy. And that's their that's their example of um you know, the the the shining example of of fitness and beauty and masculinity and femininity and and that's basically what we should uh we should all sort of uh admire and look up to. It's just um so try and take it back to that. I think it' be an absolute nightmare and disaster. >> Well, this is one prediction that I'm making that I very much hope does not come true. So, let's uh let's stop [\h__\h] on the the fit model girls and move on to let's go back to Sean Clarita for a minute. I believe I believe he will be allowed to do both 212 and open at next year's Olympia weekend. >> Why? >> Well, he's qualified. There's a huge demand for it. Uh it's going to create excitement and buzz. People want to see it. You know, this is a it is a sport, but it's also about entertainment and giving the fans what they want. Everybody wants it. Uh, you know, everyone that's a fan of the 212 division and of Shawn, they would love to see him do both shows next year. And, you know, it's it's not he earned his way there. It's not like a special invitation. Uh, they're not doing giving him a gift or doing him a favor. He earned his way there legitimately by winning that Japan Pro. And it's only one more guy on stage. It's not like he's tying up the evening with dragging it out another three hours. Uh, you you don't think they're going to let him do it, though? Uh, I completely agree, Ron. I think they should. I think [sighs] they hopefully will. I don't know whether they will. Um, but um, don't let him do other shows in different categories if you're not going to let him then go and do the show that he's actually qualified for. And he's won two open shows now. >> Yeah. >> So, um, and it's realistically he he's going to be the one pushing Keon in the 212. Um, I agree. I think it is a great talking point. Um it's not like he's requesting to go and do uh both categories. Um we've seen Derek Lunsford as a 212 Olympia champion get the invite to be open without having to qualify. Um I know he ended up doing one, but you but my point is there are certain special circumstances that um I don't I don't see who would complain. Um and if Shan feels that he can do it and he can get himself on stage and organize himself to do it, then why why stop him? Why stop him, Ron? I I just think get it let him get up there. Um, but also it might actually um the problem is uh it's it kind of lets you know where the 212s are in terms of how they compare to the open guys because if he goes and gets second push pushes Keon or say he gets second or first in the 212 and then he goes down does the open and he doesn't make top 15 or he gets 13th it kind of it kind of >> it kind of makes the 212 it because the 212 was brought in and the 202 210 or whatever. It was brought in so the shorter guys had a had a platform to shine. But if he if he it's almost like if he I don't want him to be too successful [laughter] because because otherwise it's um he's creating uh and also if he does really well um in the open, it's kind of creating a need for the 212 not to exist. So there's there's there's plus there's positives and minuses to every single outcome here. Um, so I'm really, yeah, if you look at it, really think about it, um, if he does well in one, is it going to be bad for the other division or But I think as a one-off, uh, I think it'd be a good talking point. And, um, I don't see the harm, mate. I don't see the harm. >> Well, I mean, Bob Chick, he said we can't have people competing in multiple Olympic divisions because it it sort of confuses people as to the distinct qualities, attributes of each division. But >> as as Lee Priest argued, 212 and open, they're both bodybuilding. >> Exactly. Exact. That's the difference. That's the difference. >> I don't want to see a women's bikini uh woman woman competing in figure or physique because those are very different. They're supposed to be very different looks. But >> yeah, >> 12 and open, it's all bodybuilding. They're just shorter. Let's >> exa Exactly, Ron. Exactly. It's the same division. It's like um like masters and and uh open bodybuilding. You know, you get Dorian Haywood. He did. I mean, what if the Mast's Olympia being on the same remember the Masters Olympia used to be held with the Was it It was, wasn't it, with the Mr. Olympia? Was it always separate, wasn't it? >> It was. It was always separate. >> Oh, yes. So, I'm saying imagine if they said, "Right, okay, then because of the um you know the for financial reasons, we're going to put the Masters Olympia with the Olympia then like Dorian Haywood was allowed to do both." So, what if they brought the two together? Would they say, "Sorry, you have to do one or the other." Um, I mean there'd be no qualification then for the uh I suppose if you had the Masters Olympia the same weekend as Olympia and they had the Masters guys on before the olymp the open Olympia. >> So would then the overall winner not get the invite to go compete in the open like it is now? >> It's hard to say. I mean >> yeah exactly. So I just I I think as a one-off um you know Sean Karita is a bodybuilder. They don't The only thing about 212 is basically it was tailored for the shorter guys. That was the that's the be all and end all of why this division was created. But like you said, it's um it's not like comparing bikini to to female bodybuilding. It's a completely different style of physique. So, um yeah, I I I honestly I think I think we should let I think they should let him do it as a one-off. I think it'd be I think it' be a good talking point, mate. >> Yeah, you remember this. The before right before the 202 division was created, the predecessor to 212 at the Olympia, they had a contest the night before the Olympia judging called the wildcard showdown. >> Yes. Uh, and it was a lastm minute qualifier for the Mr. Olympian. It was a quite quite a mix and it was won by David Henry. >> That's right. 2008 2008 >> was, you know, a 202 competitor. So, >> I don't think it confuses people to have these guys up there. >> So, [clears throat] so I mean, really, what what what disruption would it cause? Now, just say just say we got someone like Missy Truscott. Say Missy Truscott goes and wins a show as a figure through the year and then she jumps in a show right before the Olympia and wins a show as fitness. If she's qualified in both, should she then allowed to be do both? I mean, she could do both. I mean, there I mean thing is how how just say this is allowed um how many times would we see it even potentially occur? Because then it means then those those athletes through the year have to go and do multiple shows which is always a good thing, >> right? um to go and qualify in in in different categories. So like Missy, she's qualified for life for life as a fitness Olympia champion, but if she went and did a fitness show uh even though she stepped away, now she's doing figure. If she went and did a fitness show before the Olympia and qualified, then who's to say she can't go on stage and compete as a figure and and a fitness as an example? I mean, I'm sure there's other examples as well. Um, I don't I don't see I don't see the issue with Korea anyway. So, I I think we should let him do it. [snorts] >> All right, let's let him in, guys. Let us know in the comments. [laughter] >> What the heck? >> That's that decided then. >> Uh, there's one that you came up with. We've had so many complaints about a couple shows that will not be named, but there were some awfully lit shows this year. Not not many, but some of them were just so bad we couldn't even see the condition of competitors. Uh, I won't even talk about the c the the photographers standing up and blocking the lower bodies in the live stream of the of the competitor, but we had some shows where the lighting the the standards were so poor. Uh, it it it ruined the viewing experience and even for the commentators, we couldn't really comment accurately because the lighting was so piss poor, the condition wasn't wasn't uh able to be ascertained. And so you think maybe the IFBB Pro League is going to say, "All right, promoters, this is what you must have and a list of technical technical requirements that they're going to have to adhere to moving forward." >> Yeah. No, I totally think so. I think um I think because we've seen and especially with the introduction now of these LED screens, backdrops at um a lot of events. I mean, Romania was one of the first ones because I was going back back in 2021 and now you see it at all venues. Um, so and and it is causing problems. It's causing problems because I mean, like I said, I used to be a photographer. Um, and you know, it's it's distracting trying to get the right settings and trying to get the right foot to get get best quality photos. Um, and for the videographers, it must be hard. Also, um it's making it's a lot of these things are looking really bad on the live stream when you know you can be there in person like in Prague. We were getting complaints coming through about the the the live stream was really dark, but when we were there it was fine like there. Well, actually that's actually the official video, isn't it? No, that's the live stream. The live stream? >> Yeah, it's the live stream. >> No, it looks doesn't look too bad. Doesn't look too bad to me. Looks good. >> Um there's my pal Martin there. Was this where the >> the only only knock on it is maybe all that red and the skin tones it wasn't wasn't the best choice >> for the color. >> It looked fine there though, mate. It looked fine from where I was sat. It looked absolutely fine. >> So, um, yeah, looked good, I think. So, I think we're at the point now where we've seen such terrible lighting at some of the shows. And and thing is you don't the competitors don't know that the lighting is going to what it's going to be like until they get to the show. And you don't want to thing is you don't want to um you don't want to start putting competitors off going, "Oh, I did that show last year." Like, you know, and then and then promoters struggling to get good lineups because last year their lighting was so bad that it put the competitors off. Uh because the thing is, you know, with good lighting, you're not just having good images and good video to to kind of refer back to, but the athletes themselves want to be judged properly. And if someone's in the dark or someone like they they can they can walk away thinking, well, that promoter did such a terrible job with the lighting. Was I even judged right? Because and this is why it's important as well to move the competitors around because sometimes we do see dispar disparaging um disparity in in light quality. Like how many times do you see guys in the center and they're lit beautifully and you're like oh god he's winning and then they put them on the outside and you're like oh actually I think he looks about fifth place now sixth place um because the lighting was so bad. I mean look I mean that that Olympia that 24 Olympia when they all came out one by one like that that to me I remember watching the live stream in here that Olympia when Samson won and I couldn't tell whether he was the best on stage or not because it was so bloody dark. >> Yeah. Um it's not good mate and I think um I think sort of a bare minimum standard should be um should be adeared to now and I think it's like how do you gauge it though because the compet the promoter might just say well that's just on the live stream the judges said it was fine and who decides what's good lighting and what's not. So and how do you penalize them? I mean it's um it's it's tricky. I just think maybe they should I think they should just send like a memo out to all promoters and just say look please be mindful of of good competitive lighting. Please uh take into account LED screens. Uh maybe bringing in extra lighting rigging. Um here's how you do it. Here's how you go about it. Because a lot of new promoters, they might they might be starting out and um they might not have a couple of years to get it right because you know they've got to get it right from because the stand there's a certain standard with these guys because these guys travel all over the world doing the shows. So they don't want to go to one show and have great lighting that you with a show that's been around 10 years and go to another one and it's terrible. Um I just uh I it's a tricky one but I think um I think the dialogue should be started and maybe at some of these meetings they should say to like Robin Chang and say who basically takes care of all the you know he's the one who le him and Tyler leaz with all the promoters all over the world and just say guys you know if you need any help um you know with your lighting here's some pointers here's some here's some advice on how to get it right um you know maybe get a you know this is what you need to do contact this lighting technician and maybe get a a good photographer or videographer down there to um to assist, you know, but rather than penalizing them and punishing them, just say, "Look guys, we want to help you, you know, we're not going to we're not going to sort of cut you off or find you if your if your lighting is [\h__\h] because if your lighting is [\h__\h] those it's going to be bad on you from the from from the competitor's point of view because they just won't come back. So, we want to we want you to do well, so here's how we can help." I think that's the best way moving forward. >> Yeah. I [snorts] mean, this reminds me of >> I think it was 97 or 98. I went down to El Salvador [snorts] to cover the Caribbean [clears throat] and Central American Championships. And I was working for the ESPN American Muscle Show. And I went down with a guy, I can't Jim, I can't remember his name. He was a videographer and a photographer and he knew lighting very well. And the day before the event, he went over to the venue and he worked with the crew and the technicians for he was gone for a few hours to to get their lighting right so that our TV came so we would have good good footage. So just help out. We're not I don't think >> I told I told you when the the British Grand Prix Kevin Horton because I was involved the first year and then I stepped away. But Kevin Horton rang me and he said, "Look, Charles," he says, you know, he says, "If you want me to come down to the venue," this is when it was in uh the first was in London because he lives in London, you know, just out by by um Heathrow. And he said, "Look, Charles," he said, "If you want me to come over," he says, "I'll come over the night before." He says, "I'll help you with the lighting. Um so, he was actually offering because the end of the day, if he's there taking photos, >> right? >> He wants the best lighting for his own reasons because if he's been paid to be there, he doesn't want to get a load of shitty photos and, you know, because sometimes you can only work with what you're working with, you know? I mean, I've had some amazing photos and and I have to give credit to just the really really good lighting, you know. So, but sometimes when the lighting's bad and your photos, they come out, they look amateur-ish, they look really bad, but um so it's in it was probably in in a lot of these photographers interests to uh to be involved >> and just, you know, we bring it the older people bring it up all the time, but the the absolute best lit shows uh in the in the of the 90s were the pro Iron Man shows. Yeah. And it's because the co-owner of the magazine and their chief photographer, Mike Nephew, >> who was a master at lighting, he, you know, I he photographed me a few times. I looked at the picture like, "Wow, did I really look like that?" >> He would he would light the stage just the way he would light the studio shots. Just he knew exactly where to place the lights and different things that other other lighting technicians would not even have thought of, I'm sure. But photographers seem to be the ones with the best eye for >> lighting, >> I think. Um, I think maybe the Pro League should um maybe just maybe sort of um employ someone themselves to like you know even just like as a contract thing like every you know just as like um you know so many hours a year or something to say reach out reach out and maybe like put some sort of um press kit you know sort of or photographers lighting kit or something just to say look these are the pointers these are the things you need to look for you know if you want me to fly me out this is my this is my prices and you know very reasonably priced and stuff to try and to try and get Right. Because thing is that's another thing then that will sep se separate them from all the competition like the other promoters the other federations >> because if uh because if these LED screens are going to be everywhere which they pretty much are now um it's get this this is going to crop up more and more and more especially with um you know the the rivalry now between the Arnold and the Olympia because you know the the Arnold really what was it was it this year that it was really dark I couldn't see anything you >> know >> I'm sure we've had some bad lighting from the Arnold Classic you know So, uh, yeah, it looks okay there. Looks good, though. Maybe it's lightened up. >> This looks good. This looks good. >> Yeah, looks all right. But I'm sure we've had like when we've been watching the uh the we've been doing like sort of live stream reviews, we've been doing watch parties on your on your channel or or on MDs. And I remember like, you know, when somebody been moved to the right, it's like I can't tell. I can't tell because he's literally like, you know, get like a guy with really dark skin like Aken Williams and you can't tell because he's so dark anyway. And if you put them in bad lighting, you know, blessing on guys like that with really like the really dark dark black. You put them in bad lighting, then you're telling me that they're going to be judged properly? I don't think so. [snorts] >> Correct. Well, you just gave me a great transition. Segue. I believe the Olympia money will finally increase. I was really shocked that we [snorts] didn't see an increase this year because Samson won 600,000 uh at the 2024 Olympia and 2025. Derek also won $600,000. Meanwhile, the Arnold, they bumped up to $500,000 for 2025. And we know in 11 weeks, somebody's going to walk away with $750,000 from the Arnold Classic, Ohio. Uh I don't think the Olympia can they can't let the Arnold have bigger bigger prize money than they're going to have to at least match it is my belief. What say you? Um, do you know what I think would be a really interesting curveball is if like the Olympia because thing is like people seem to keep forgetting that the Arnold Classic only has about half the divisions, >> right? >> So, you know, if you could they could keep throwing money money more and more another 50 or 100 another 200 um and yet they still won't have even half the divisions. I pro I think it's roughly half. I mean, if you add them all up um say they got half the division Olympia like so what? So what if they make it a million? What difference does it make? Because the Olympia has every division. >> True. >> So I'd be more I'd be more happy I think if like because I don't think the sixth through 10th in the open Mr. Olympia get any prize money or I would like to see more prize money given to like say they said okay then you know Arnold you've got the open and got a couple of other classes in the men's. You've got like classic and men's physique and what that's about it isn't it really? >> Yeah. >> Um so what if uh we're going to you know you carry on. You just keep giving as much money as you want to the open to the the first open the first place open guy or and the second. But what we're going to do is we're going to give an extra 50,000 per category to every other category. Another 20 to the first place winner of the all the other divisions that the the Arnold Classic doesn't have. I think that would be because otherwise it's just it's going to get really unfair then for the other categories because you know that and you're really really sort of um if I was if I was competing in one of these other divisions I think I'd be very upset if this if this kind of um this uh what's it I can't even say it really. this uh this this this sort of uh this this this sort of rivalry going between this back and for going between the AR and the Olympia only seems to be about you know that uh just being the bragging rights for what they want to give away in the open. I think that's um I think it's got to I think they they should stop it now. uh let the Arnold do what they won. And uh I'd be more impressed if the Arnold Classic said instead of, you know, going back and forth in the open, why don't we just um bring back the 212? Let's bring back this division. Bring let's bring back figure. You know, I think I'd be happier to see that now because I think enough's enough. >> Okay, fair enough. All right, let's go to our final topic today. Uh it's not a prediction, but it's big news. So Samson Dada we now know did not renew his contract with Hostile Nutrition >> and we know Martin about it's been about a month or closer to two months maybe since Martin Fitzwwater >> his contract was also up with Hostile Nutrition did not renew. Um so those were the two huge athletes the two bigname athletes that Hostile had. Um, so I don't even know where to begin, but Samson, I believe you you have some insight because you you knew you were supporting Samson and following his career way back when. So, five years ago. Is that when he signed his contract? Is it was it a five-year deal that Samson signed? >> Well, well, think about it. He signed a five-year deal in 2020. Now, it was around the time remember when um he went to Korea, then he lost his job because they found out because he because he didn't tell anyone because of COVID. He he just basically announced that he was over in Korea competing, but he knew he'd known obviously for several weeks, but he didn't he couldn't let he didn't he couldn't tell anyone because he had a job. Um basically uh they the work found out as I understand it and they fired him. So he lost his job, he went to Korea, then he got locked in that hotel room for two weeks. Um given all this I mean he went through like that was just like some sort of short shank [\h__\h] you know? I mean that was that was the thing is like in some ways it was kind of one of the best things that ever happened to him because it really showed his grit. his determination he and I said to him like I said in the interview I said as Sam said you getting second here and this all happening to you has created more will generate more of a fan base than if you'd have won and we're going to the Olympia so because obviously it was like he was looking at as like a it was like a disastrous kind of like oh I've lost my job and I didn't get the qualification and but seeing I think seeing how he handled it got the attention of Fouad and also John Meadow sadly passed away his coach so kind of looked like everything was falling apart. He was trying to get that qualification to the Olympia, couldn't get it, and then literally just everything was kind of going wrong. All of a sudden, Foued obviously was watching him, seeing how he was handling it. Saw the the mindset he had, saw that, like I said, that grit and determination and um signed him to a 5-year deal. Now, that really would have saved the day, you know, and then Milos came along and the rest is history. So, uh, we talk about things like loyalty. And I think loyalty, I think Samson's been loyal enough now because, you know, he he was he rewarded that faith that Fu had in him really with an Olympia title and an Arnold Classic title. So, I don't uh and and from what I heard, I heard he's been agonizing over this for a few months. I did hear rumor I did hear rumors that this was going to happen. And I did look at the steam coming off him there. >> Yeah. And I I Alvin Small that used to happen to Alvin Small when he used to train like literally steam's coming off him in the gym because the gym was that cold and he was that hot. It was like it was crazy to see. It looks like he's on fire. Um so um so yeah, so I think Samson's more than rewarded that loyalty. Um now the thing is also Fouad had the accident. Now I mean the guy that's accident was very very serious that motorcycle accident and you think about you know if it's a small company not a small a small you know they haven't got a huge amount of staff who had is the main driving f him and his wife Som the main driving force behind that company if you're laid up you know with a a neck brace on you know there's there's things that the company's going to struggle you know do you know what I mean to kind of it's going to be struggle to even stay stay still so I'd imagine those few months know has caused you know a disruption of plans that you know to move to because I've worked this stuff on companies you know you got to constantly move it forward every single day you got to come up with new ideas all the time and if like your then your sort of priority is um walking or being able to sort of um lift something like lift a lift a cup up you know like um like we've seen in his recovery videos then you know you're going to kind of take your eye off the ball a little bit with a company that's understandable so yeah maybe when it came to renewing the contract, he didn't he couldn't meet the the figure that maybe that Samson wanted, which I totally get. And you know, people talk about loyalty and all that. And you know, he's repaid them by giving them the titles back, but um money's money and finances finances. And uh and [snorts] I mean, I've heard I heard rumors that he was being approached by other companies and being offered a lot more money >> a long time ago. So, you know, and if that money is just staying stagnant and then, you know, you're thinking, "Oh, well, I've kind of I've fulfilled my obligations to them. I've signed my five-year contract. I've rewarded the faith they had in me." >> Um, why should he stay? Why should he stay? Because if he The thing is, the other thing is he that the timing of that ending of that contract wasn't exactly putting him in a good position of strength because of the year he's just had. >> He lost the Arnold Classic. He lost um the Olympia, you know, he lost to Martin in Prague. So technically he's tumbled down to fifth place. So he's not exactly negotiating from a position of strength, >> right? >> So I can see I can see all sides. Uh and I bet it wasn't an easy easy decision for him to make because you know you know that him and Fu had a genuinely good friendship there and a very mutually respectful relationship. And you know that Samson would never have forgotten what Fou had did for him when he was kind of I wouldn't say a nobody. People knew who he was but he wasn't he hadn't even won a pro show by that point. His first pro show was in Prague in 2021. That was his first ever pro win. So for someone to come along and put and say, "Right, I'm going to put five years of faith into you." I mean, that is that's kind of huge. And it's kind of um you know, it's and I imagine that Samson always wanted to reward that faith that he had in him. So, um I I just think um I I I can't imagine it was an easy decision for him, but but I kind of understand it. Um but it's just a shame really that that Fuad couldn't say well I'd love to be able to give you what you want Samson but um you know we just because thing is like he's he's been in a bad position for the last what when did that accident happen? Six months ago. >> Yeah. It was it was maybe longer. >> Yeah. I mean, God, I mean, I was I had like I was on the sofa for like two and a half days the other week and I felt like there was things I need, you know, you feel after a couple of days, you feel like, you know, there you feel like there's things that you need to be doing and you feel guilty and you feel that life slipping you by. And I mean, imagine being laid up, you know, for six months and trying to just function and then, you know, and also try to just exist and kind of get yourself well, as well as trying to push a company forward and and do all the podcasting, everything else that he does. So, it's um it's unfortunate, but um you know, I'm I'm sure they parted as friends, mate. But um it's just a shame they couldn't continue to grow together. What's your take, Ron? >> Well, so here's what I'm wondering. So, they signed him five years ago, long before he had won a a pro show. I can't There he is as a young Sam. I can't imagine he was getting a ton of money. I can't imagine. I I don't know what the figures were, but >> I heard rumors. >> Okay, so I'm just gonna throw a number complete. I'm pulling this out of my ass. This has no basis in reality, but I'm just This is just for example, let's say they were going to give them 75,000 a year five years ago, >> but this is what you're going to get every year for the next five years. It's not going to change. >> Yeah. >> Would that It's safe to assume that the the salary would remain constant, right? >> I believe it did go up. >> Oh, it did go up. Okay. >> I believe it did go up. So, it was renegotiated performance-based. It's like, okay, this is what you're getting for the next five years. because I negotiate a contract for Rooney, don't forget for BSN. Well, help pass it on a pass it on to Cibil and and Kevin Horton to to negotiate, but I started the ball rolling. So, I kind of had an idea of what they offer, but it gets renegotiated based upon performance. So, they'll renegotiate it like every year, even though you're signed for five years based upon your performance because otherwise it's just not fair. Like say say by 2023, well 2024, he did win the Olympia so you know he did pretty quick. So that would obviously have to be renegotiated. And also um they do give they do offer bonuses based upon uh what they earn in prize money. So sometimes you might I I don't think I've ever heard of 100% bonuses. So if you win 400 grand in the Olympia, you get 400 grand bonus, but I have heard they give I've heard I have heard of 50% bonuses. So think about it. You win the Olympia, you know, 600 and then your company you got it in your contract uh you get, you know, you know you got another 300k coming. I mean that's a nice position to be in. But uh yeah, it does get I believe it does get renegotiated. Yeah. >> All right. So, but put it you you had said that other companies were offering him more money. They were coming to him with offers like let's say Watt was giving him I'm throwing I'm pulling more numbers on. Let's say Wide was giving him 200,000 a year and several companies came to him with offers of three or maybe 400,000. Uh, and you know, even though you're you're loyalist to Fouad, who helped you out when and believed in you all those years, if he can't match that, >> Yeah. >> this is, you know, he's 40 years old. >> He's he doesn't have a lot much longer. He's got he's got a couple more good years, but it's not it's not like he has another 10 or 15 years ahead of him as a competitor. You got to take you got to strike while the iron's hot. And this is when he's even though he's tumbled a little bit in the placings, he's still a Mr. Olympia. He's still an Arnold Classic champ. uh he still commands a pretty high salary. So I I don't blame him one bit. And I don't think he's being a jerk or or un disloyal. You know, this is professional bodybuilding. It's it's this is what he does for a living. >> So make the money while you can make the money. It's And especially he didn't say anything bad. He's he's very complimentary in his posts about Fouad and hostile. He's very grateful for the time that he had with him. So [snorts] I I I don't see this as any kind of a negative story at all. >> Yeah. I I see both sides. I see both sides. And thing is like just say you do just say you do get an offer and it is like and you know you could get like double because some of these companies can afford to pay him like double what he's getting. Say you're getting just say for example you're getting 20k a month and you got a company like a say a Brazilian company approaches you and says well look we can give you 40 plus this this this and this bonus. You'd be thinking like I'd be crazy to turn that down. I mean it is you can't tell me that you'd be like no definitely not I'm not doing this um you know I'm sticking to my guns you know and like you said there's only so many years where he could earn so much >> so like I can imagine it was I can't imagine it was an easy decision I can't imagine you know but the end of the day FA's a businessman you'll understand that like like Samson I can't you know and thing is not being funny like but why should Fouad you know when he's you know what I mean he has like you said Samson wasn't exactly If Sam just won the second Olympia and he just won Prague and he's kind of coming up to him and he's kind of he's kind of got all the leverage, >> he'd be like, "Well, you're going to pay me what I what I want because, you know, I'm I'm coming from a position of strength. You know, I've got the leverage. You don't." But you kind of both of them kind of have both got something here to So, yeah, it wasn't I mean, I said months ago I saw this coming, but purely because it's not it's not a shock. It's not a shock. But um I don't think there's anything negative or there's any like I don't think he's being disloyal or anything like that. I think it's just it's pure and simple business because you know I'd be interested to know though because he I would imagine he does have somewhere else to go because I he would have be he would have offers on the table. He's a Mr. Olympia like you said. So I'd be interested to like I thought I thought ESN or maybe a big Brazilian company like that one or something like that. I kind of I'd be interested to know maybe it's Raw um you know uh I don't know I don't know who could actually I don't know what companies I've got actually got the money to be able to afford you know like a like this kind of this level of athlete. So um but it's a shame it didn't happen when Samson was kind of like like the the contract didn't run out after the after he won the Olympia last year because otherwise Samson would be in a much stronger position right now. >> Yeah. [snorts] And as far as oh no, poor hostile, they don't have any great athletes. You know, you did mention before we started recording, of course, when you have athletes with huge social media followings, you get the benefit of them direct marketing to all their followers, talking about your products every day. But at the same time, I don't think consumers, supplement consumers are as I hate to put it this way, but naive and gullible as they were when I was >> I do. >> You do. I mean that they would buy buy a product just because >> their favorite bodybuilder is holding it up in a picture. >> Mate, honestly, some of these some of these like fans of bodybuilder, they're they're like spending their whole day checking these athletes stories again and again. Like literally, that's all they do. >> Um and and to be honest, look at most of the kinds look around in your gym neutral. My nose is getting really bunged up now. Um [snorts] look at the some of the lads that train in the gyms, you know, the ones with the these type of headphones, you know, when they're training. Yeah. you know, they've got all the Gym Shark tops on and they're, you know, and you look in their gym bag and they've got their pre-workout from their, you know, their favorite like from Bumstead or their favorite athlete. They do, it does make a difference, unfortunately. Otherwise, look at all um look at all the advertising revenue that magazines used to generate. I mean, you know, we know, you know, we work for magazines for like, you know, most of our adult lives and the revenue that some of these supplement companies would spend on uh on just advertising in magazines, you know, these these kind of a lot of them kind of like cheesy adverts, you know what I mean? It's like you just think, but it works. It's effective. It's effective, you know? So it does uh and and now obviously with social media um the uh the kinds of reach they've got um millions of people um you know it's this is this is how yeah it does work unfortunately I I can completely disagree with you though. >> Okay but that's good. We want to disagree sometimes. All right well >> [\h__\h] [laughter] dummy. You stupid [\h__\h] Yeah, that sounded like a Serbian guy. I know. >> Oh, I can't I can't think who. >> Have you Have you talked to Milos at all since then? >> No, I blocked him, mate. I blocked him. Yeah, I left it. Do you I kind of I was looking today and I saw um Chris Cormier's guy had shared a video of they were Milos was on their kind of felt a bit bad. I kind of I kind of missed him a little bit because I was actually I was just crossing the road going to get my haircut before and something for some reason and I a thing popped into my head. It was it was a thought about Milos and the conclusion I came to was that there's more of him to like than there is to dislike. >> Of course. Yeah. >> So that's that's I kind of felt a bit sad but I just thought do I really want to put myself in in a position where I could go through that again? And I just no I just you just I I'm I'm someone that likes to draw a line, walk away, wish people well and um you know like whether it be friends, relationships, I think I like to just completely just walk away and and you know and and leave it on a on a sort of a positive rather than allow it to get you know more entangled and more worse and get to a point where they're really you're really each other's throats because I don't I don't like that because I think it it undermines the good times and the good things that you've done for each other and the you know like reached out to me both my parents died and stuff like that and uh and it was there they were some of the most genuine heartfelt messages I had from anyone even my family so stuff like that I tried to sort of focus on so but wish him well he's he's a great guy >> he's a great guy I you know he's >> he's like us he has this this intense passion for the sport even though he's been around it forever he still has that that that fire and he gets he gets very emotional and fired up >> so I respect that and it's it's uh I' I wish I'd like to I'd like to be able to have him on again if if he would ever come on again because uh yeah, he's >> Yeah, but I've clashed with loads of people over the years and to be honest, you you what usually happens is you bump into each other at a show and and then you end up talking and 10 minutes later you're hugging and it's squashed, right? >> You know, but um I haven't been up to America for a while now, so it's uh it's maybe going to take some because I I can't imagine that he would we would both be still angry at each other if we saw each other at Olympia next year or an Arnold class and we'd be like throwing fists at each other. I can't imagine that. I can't imagine in any scenario that actually happening. I mean, it could, but I can't imagine I can't we probably just see each other and just burst out laughing. >> Yeah. >> But um because like I said, I've I've clashed with people over the over the years and you you at some point you end up squashing or it just gets forgotten about. So [snorts] >> yeah, I just had to throw that out there. Anyway, uh guys, uh if you disagree with any of our predictions, [laughter] I'm sure you do, but that's great. That's what the comment section is for. Drop a comment down there. Call us names. It's it's fine. Unless you're really mean, I won't delete them. I promise. Be nice to Tiger. [laughter] And uh yeah, let us know if you have any additional predictions that we might have missed. And you know, maybe we'll do a follow-up show. We got We got time for one more show. >> Are we doing any carol singing on this episode or >> No, no, no, no. You don't want to hear You don't want to hear me sing. I I've heard you sing. Yes, we can carry a tune because before we start recording, you're usually singing a little >> Oh, yeah. [laughter] Cuz sometimes I forget the mic's pick it up because when I'm in the house by myself, I'm singing and I'm singing and d do you know what? I actually get complimented on my singing and dancing in the gym. >> I believe you. >> Because when because when I'm in the gym, especially Friday night because I leave it right till the end of opening, I like to train arms at the gym at about half eight nine o'clock when no one's in there. Yeah. >> And some and sometimes when I take my headphones off, I'm changing the changing the music or something. I'll hear the girl at the desk laughing because she's watching the screens because I think no I think no one's watching me and I'm dancing doing all some weird [\h__\h] and then and I'll come up to the end of the day I'll take my headphones off and she'll just be looking at the floor like smirking. She's like I was I did you catch me on the screen again? She's like yeah I did. Yeah. I was like I'm sorry. [laughter] >> Like well just enjoying myself you know just in the moment training getting a pump. >> It's your happy place. Well I'll be driving with the music loud and singing along real loud. Once in a great while I'll turn it down like what do I really sound like? I'm like [laughter] >> but what did Arnold say? What's the pub like? >> It's like coming. I'm coming. >> Good old Arnold. >> That's it. That is it. We'll do one more. I think we got time for one more show. We'll see. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> The year is winding down fast. Wow. It's passing. But uh those are our predictions, guys. Drop a comment below agreeing, disagreeing, giving further predictions. It's all good for the algorithm, which is something that you want to have on YouTube. I'm not really sure, but it's a good thing. So, Giles, thank you so much. Uh, for those for you and everyone else who celebrates Christmas, merry merry Christmas to you and, uh, or Hanukkah, whatever you celebrate, uh, just just have a have a good time and enjoy yourself safely. That's it. So, thank you, Giles. Appreciate it as always and we'll see you on Power Hour next time. Thanks for watching.