What's up everybody? Happy Friday. Ron Harris here. Today I want to do a video that's sort of a response video. I watched one a couple days ago by a guy named Sean Nalawan. I don't know how to pronounce his name. It's N- AL WAN Y L called the steroid trap no one talks about Sean. Very smart guy, huge fitness influencer. Uh almost 600,000 followers on Instagram. Over a million subscribers on YouTube. That is huge. Anyway, he did list some things about steroids that people don't consider before start taking them. However, he did come at it from the point of an admittedly lifetime natural lifter. He has never used steroids. So everything he was talking about was in the manner of things he'd observed watching other people, hearing about things. He's never used steroids. He's never quit using steroids. I have a long history of steroid use and did quit using them in bodybuilding style a couple years ago. So, I felt I could really come at it from a point of view of someone who's really been through the ringer on all these things. So, I want to explain to you why steroids are so incredibly hard to quit. Um, when I started using them many, many years ago, the end of 1996, I I was 27 years old. I just turned 27 a couple months before. My plan was to do one cycle, one. And I figured I'm going to put on some muscle and I'll go back to being a natural bodybuilder, but I'll have all this extra muscle that I didn't have before, so I'll have this advantage. You know, I wasn't going to try to do lifetime organizations or anything. I would I would wait out the one-year period. But I still thought I was going to be at this massive advantage. However, it didn't work out that way. Clearly, I tried to come off them a few times. I I'll talk about that at the very end. But I kept going back. And it's incredibly hard to quit steroids. I say in the thumbnail, you'll never quit using steroids because most people don't unless they're forced to. Either they have a serious health issue, uh, or life happens and they can no longer afford steroids or something happens that forces them. Very few people voluntarily quit steroids. And unfortunately, a lot of people will cut their lives drastically short. They'll lose 10, 20, 30, 40 years off what, however long they would have lived because they just couldn't stop using steroids. and it affected their heart, their kidneys, uh their liver, blood pressure, things in ways that that cut their cut their lifespan down. So, I'm going to start off with number one reason it's so hard to quit steroids and why most people don't is you will lose size and strength. There is a myth, a very longstanding pervasive myth that all the size and strength you gain on steroids is permanent. You'll keep that. Not true. You will keep some of it. some of it. Now, here's the thing I talk about. When you're on steroids, part of that physique, part of that muscle mass, and part of your strength is rented. Meaning, as soon as you stop paying the rent, as soon as you stop using the drugs, you're going to lose that. Now, I should back that up in saying even though people will say natural gains are permanent gains, those are rented in a sense, too, because you still need to keep training and eating. If you're a natural bodybuilder and you build a big muscular physique for an atti, but then you stop training and you start eating like a normal person again, guess what? You're going to lose that muscle, too. However, with steroids, it's a short thing. You're going to lose a significant amount of the size and strength when you go off. How much? It varies from person to person. I think generally speaking, from what I've been through and what I've watched with other people, it's between 40 and 60%. There's that that that's a very very normal range of what you're going to lose, what was gained. So if you gained 10 pounds of muscle on a steroid cycle, assuming it was all lean tissue and not fat and water, you can expect to keep maybe four or five pounds of that. You know that that's typical strength too. You're going to watch your strength go down. So when you stop using steroids and you intended to stop, you say, "I'm only going to use do this cycle. I'm going to use them for x amount of time." You look in the mirror every day and you can see yourself getting smaller, softer. You don't have that hard veiny look anymore. Even if your body fat's lower, you still have a different look. The muscles aren't as full. They're not as hard looking. And the strength, these weights that you were squatting and benching and pressing and curling a few weeks ago when you were on steroids, you can't even budge them now. They're they're beyond your capabilities. They're beyond your means. And it's it's depressing. It's very depressing. You know, you built up this superhuman physique and now you're watching all that just melt away. It's why most people, they go off and they intend to stay off. They intend to quit, but they end up going right back on again. Number two, you will feel like crap when you come off. It's It's not a perfect analogy, but you know, when people are alcoholics and they stop drinking, they go through a detox period. Anytime someone's addicted to any drug, any drug at all, there's there's a period where you're going to feel physically weak, ill, nauseated, all kinds of things will happen. With steroids, what happens is because you shut down your own body's production of testosterone when you come off, it's going to take a long time. And if you're on them a very long time, your own production is never going to come back. But even in the old days, I remember I would I would come off between cycles. I always did. And there was always a few weeks because I would do equal amount of time on and off. Six like 12 to 16 weeks on, 12 to 16 weeks off. The first few weeks were the hardest after everything cleared your system because you had this raging sex drive. Now that's gone. You might even have erectile dysfunction. Um, you had this sense of energy and well-being when you're on the steroids. And now you're tired and you don't feel so good anymore. You actually feel so depressed. You feel bummed. And you're thinking, you keep thinking, man, I felt so much better in every way when I was on steroids. Geez, I was I had all this energy. I had a great outlook on life. I felt confident. You know, I was AI was a raging bull in the bedroom. And eventually, a lot of guys, they just can't take it. They can't wait long enough. And like I said, if you've been on enough steroids for long enough, your production is never going to come back anyway. But a lot of guys, they can't even wait long enough. If it's going to come back, they can't wait that long. They just can't take being feeling that way. So, they go back on, which, you know, can you blame them? Number three, you'll miss the attention from being an enhanced bodybuilder, even the negative attention. And that that sounds ridiculous cuz why would you want why would you think it's uh or enjoy people saying ah you juice it or looking at you like looking down their nose at you. You know I used to have people yell out car windows driving by like steroids juice it stuff like that. It did get me a little mad but at the same time they were paying attention to me. You know if you're someone who craves attention if you have that need if you're an attention [\h__\h] even negative attention is better than no attention at all. But of course there is a lot of positive attention. You walk in a room and people look at you and you can see they're impressed like, "Wow." Of course, a lot of them are going to think steroids, steroids, steroids. But still, you're like, "Wow, look at that dude. He's jacked. He's diesel. He's buffed." You know, you get a lot, you do get a lot more attention from women. It's funny how so many women say, "Those steroid bodies and big muscles are disgusting." They all say that, but never listen to what a woman says. They say things like, "I I want a nice guy. I want a guy who's Watch what they do. watch the guys that they actually go for. I used to get a lot of attention when I was juiced out of my skull, especially if I was really lean and veiny and tanned. Uh, every I wouldn't say every woman, but a lot of women in the gym. And everywhere I went, women would be looking, you could tell they were looking at you could feel when people are staring at you. You know, I'm not the I'm not the most handsome guy in the world. Never was. But I had a body that most men didn't have. And I think that was enough. It made me stand out from the pack. And, you know, I was married anyway. It didn't matter. But you still as a man, anybody likes that attention that knowing that people find you somewhat attractive or intriguing. So you miss that attention because once you go off the steroids and you shrink down to a more normal size, even if you're still training, there's a big difference between a big enhanced bodybuilder and a natural bodybuilder, you know, you miss that attention that you used to get. The way people used to look at you, you know, whether it was respect or revulsion or whatever it was, they were paying attention to you. Number four, you will be frustrated by your lack of progress. Uh I've heard people say things like, "I made more progress in my first six months on steroids than I had made in the the 10 years prior to that of training." Or, you know, I was able to make uh a year's worth of progress in in two months or six weeks or something like that. Steroids do drastically drastically increase the rate that you can get bigger and stronger. um bring you to your full potential and they'll take you past what your natural potential would have been. So this is particularly true in the case this this number four if you're already sort of tapped out naturally you're not going to be getting much bigger anyway. Obviously anybody in the first few years of training that's when they make their most gains and things sort of trickle down after that. You hit a plateau and the gains are very small after that and eventually you don't make any more gains at all. But when I say you'll be frustrated by your lack of progress, it's because you were used to seeing changes in your body almost on a daily basis. And now you're training and training. You're lifting so hard. You're eating so clean. You're getting all your rest. But now that you're not on drugs anymore, the gains are so small. If you have if you're making any gains, you can't even see them. So, it's very, very depressing. And a lot of people say, "F this. If I'm going to bust my ass in the gym, I want to get something back for it. I want to I want to be able to see progress." So they go back on the gear. Number five, you'll envy others on gear. This is a this is the hardest thing even for me right now is you I go to a gym, a pretty big gym, Baser Athletic Club, and there's a lot of enhanced guys, some enhanced girls, too. Most of them are just regular regular schmucks. They're not competitors or anything. They're just, you know, bluecollar guys who juice up just to be a little bigger. They lift after work with their work boots and their backwards hats, whatever. But I'm seeing these guys and I'm thinking, man, you know, I was so much bigger than that when I was on gear, but now they're bigger than me or they're more impressive than me. They have that full look to the muscles, all the veins. They're strong. And, you know, I do I envy it. It's It's ridiculous. And I I shouldn't. I'm, you know, I've lived I've lived my life. I'm 55 almost 56 years old. Been there, done that. Still, it's hard for me to look at those guys. And that was a big part of me failing to quit a few times is I was around so many other people who were on gear and I was like, man, you know, I just felt so out of place and I felt like I was missing out. FOMO, so I would go back on. Um, it's hard to quit anything. It's like alcoholics shouldn't alcoholics who are, you know, trying to go sober, they don't hang around bars. They don't hang around people that drink. It's too much temptation. you know, any drug users, people that are trying to quit like uh crack or heroin, they don't go they don't hang out with with their friends who use those drugs anymore because the temptation is always going to be there and they're always going to feel like I want to do that again. So, it's hard. Last one before I get to my true confession about trying to quit. You don't think you could have any health issues. So, like I said, most people will never quit unless they have a health issue and then unfortunately a lot of times it's too late. You know, I've lost so many friends, so many peers my age or people that were younger than me to steroids and a lot of people beyond that. I didn't even know them personally, but you know, these are guys in their 30s and 40s that died from heart attacks, from uh kidney failure, things like that. And you know, I never had a serious health issue, but seeing all these people around me finally finally couple years ago, I got to the point where you know what I I can't cycle anymore. I don't think it's even been a full two years, but I said, I just can't I can't I can't take this chance anymore. I have kids. My kids are grown. They're right now they're 25 and 31 years old, but I want to see them older and older. Like my dad passed when I was only 16. He never got to see me grow up. He never got to see any of his He would have four grandchildren now if he were still if he had lived long enough. I want to see my grandchildren. I wanna I want to be around. I don't want to miss any out on anything. I don't want to die. I'm gonna die. You're gonna die. We're all gonna die. But if there's something we can do to mitigate it and live a little bit longer, you know, obviously accidents happen, things like cancer, things happen that we have no control over. But I didn't want to have something happened that I knew I had caused or it's very very likely I had my steroid use had played a large role in what was happening. And my calcium score is over 400. I do have some calcification in my arteries. My heart function is a little less than optimal. It's not perfect. I do have some left ventricular hypertrophy. Uh so my heart function is not 100%. I think it's like 80% or something, 85. Um it it's not bad, but it's not optimal. And that was from all those years of steroids. So I I do have I do have a sense of my own mortality, but a lot of people don't, especially young guys, guys in their 20s and 30s. You're going to live forever. Nothing you're bulletproof. Nothing can hurt you. You're never going to get sick. Even though one in three people statistically will get cancer, I'm never going to get cancer. It's not going to happen to me. All these other bodybuilders having health problems, that sucks for them, but it's not going to happen to me. You know, we we all have this belief, you know, most of us, that bad things happen to other people. They don't happen to us until they do. So, I'm going to get to some of your comments, but here's confession time. Quit. So, how many times did I quit? The first time I quit was uh like I told you I had only I had only planned on doing one cycle. So I did that one cycle at the end of 96 1996 last century. 1997 I did a few cycles uh most of the year on and off. It was always very basic basic [\h__\h] like test and deca nothing exotic at all. Uh 1998 I took off I quit. I was off steroids for 1998 the entire year. 1999, first half of the year I was off and then somewhere around June, I think it was June, maybe July, uh, a guy I worked for, uh, he offered to give me a bunch. He he he had all kinds of steroids on hand, a guy I knew, let's just say that. And he gave me a bunch. He said, "You want these?" And I'm like, you know, I had quit. I should have just said, "No, no, no." But I was thinking, "My 30th birthday is coming up in September. I'd like to do another photo shoot with uh Mike Nephew for Iron Man, which I did do, and I know I would look a lot better on steroids. So, uh it was a mild cycle, but I did go back on uh somewhere around June or July of 98. And then the only time I ever quit again after that uh was after the 200 six Arnold Classic. Yes. So, I used them up until the 2006 Arnold Classic. And then my plan was to do the Team Universe in 2007. I didn't end up doing it until 2009. Um, and I I cleaned up for that. But anyway, long story short is I tried a couple more times and it was just it was so hard for all those reasons that I that I went through. It was incredibly hard to quit steroids. Um, I did quit, but it took me almost 25 years. So, I started using them at the end of 1996. Uh, I think I was cycling up until around summer of 2023. So, it's been about it's been almost two years. Um, by by 2024, early 2024, I had started with Frontline on TRT. So, I don't claim to be natural. I'm on 250 milligrams of test cipade a week, 100 milligrams of DECA. So, I don't claim to be natural, but I'm not cycling steroids. I'm not doing 700 gram milligrams of this, and I'm not doing trend. I'm not doing orals, debol, and I don't use any peptides. Uh, I don't have I'm not on growth hormone anymore. There wouldn't be anything wrong with a low dose of growth hormone, by the way. Not nothing against that. Uh, so let's get to some of your comments, guys. So, I'm just going to leave a picture of my juiced up self up while we're talking. Yeah. And now, let's go to the phones. All right. What have you guys got to say on this fine fine Friday? Good day, Ron. Good day. Good day, Ron. Ferdinand. Another Ron. Awesome. Good morning from Honolulu, Hawaii. So, they are eight hours behind me, I think. Yeah, I think so. I think you guys are eight hours behind me. Jerry's got some prayers. Six ways I never started. Yeah. Yeah. You're better off start. I I tell people don't start, you know, unless you're prepared to be on them forever. Because you're either going to be on them forever or you're going to be on them until something happens that forces you to quit. I really do not know many people who used them, got good results, and said, "Okay, well, those are awesome, but I'm not going to do those anymore." Usually, if something makes you look better, feel better, gets you more attention. Um, you know, these days there's coach, there's coaching. the better you look on Instagram, the more people want to hire you as a coach or maybe you're going to get more sponsors. There's a lot of pressure on people now. Social media has given us so many more opportunities to make money as bodybuilders, as trainers, coaches, whatever that there is a pressure to look really, really good. And of course, it's a lot easier to look really, really good on steroids than it is when you're not on steroids. What's up, Raymond? Good afternoon. NFBB brog gas boxing jazz creates a pill addiction too to mask it. Yeah, I mean addiction addiction in any form is a it's an ugly thing. It's a horrible thing. Uh I watched um both of my sisters as I was growing up deal with heroin addiction and one of them one of them passed away. Uh she lived until she was 49. She she lived a long time as an addict. Uh but still addiction is it's a it's a very very tough thing especially not only for the person going through it but for everybody around them that cares about them and loves them. Very hard to watch. The only people on test are powerlters. People compete on stage. People on test. People who compete on stage or need for HRT. I mean, there's tons and tons of people. I'm not here to say here's who should and shouldn't use steroids. You know, as adults, people you can make your own decisions. And I'm not trying to scare anybody away because I used them. And I'm not going to say I didn't enjoy. I I I enjoyed the effects quite a bit, guys. Trust me. I I uh I certainly had a great time on steroids. Trying to find some another picture that represents just how incredibly juiced up I was. Well, this is the old school album. So, let me go to the new school album that only went up to 2002, that particular uh album on my Facebook page, the bodybuilding one. I always go to the crab. I always try to find a good crab shot or something. Try to make myself look Ah, here's a good one. I mean, geez, look how juiced up I was there. Good lord, that was 2013. What's up, Ron? What's up, Flipflop? Flipflop, what's your real name? I'm calling you a shoe. You're not a you're not a a sandal. Big Mike Cox says, "It takes time to get used to being normal." See, Mike knows Mike was huge. And Mike's still You're still a big dude, Mike. You're never going to be a small guy. Um, big big arms, big shoulders, big back, big chest. You know, it's it's it's funny because if you didn't know how big Mike used to be, you'd be like, "Geez, you're huge." But, you know, like all of us, I'm sure he says, "Oh, you should have seen me." When people tell me, "Oh, you're big." I said, "Ah, you should have seen me when I was 240, 245." You know, bodybuilders can't take compliments. And they always want to revert back to let people know. If you're a real [\h__\h] you whip out your phone and go, "Look, look what I used to look like." Leonardo and Wolf of Wall Street sess being sober sucks. Great movie. Great movie. The Wolf of Wall Street. He's he's one of my favorite actors of all time. Back Cleveland and come off in the winter and cover up. Yeah. Yeah. See, but that's the thing, Mike, about social media now. It doesn't matter where you live. You could live in some You could live in Antarctica theoretically. Nobody really lives there full-time. You could live somewhere where it's cold, but people expect to see new content, new pictures, new videos all the time. So I think people are staying on peeds, steroids, and other peeds year round now because there is that pressure to always look the part, to always look big and jacked and shredded. So not only they're on the the things to stay big and muscular, they're they're they're staying on like cluterol and thyroid meds and god forbid DNP. Some of them are using like the you know the ompic and the retrudglide, all these things to to keep them lean all the time. And it's it's I really wonder what's going to happen in a few years when when all this hits the fan for these people. The only people who should be on test. I know what you meant. It's cool. Mike says, "I'm at a point where I'm glad I'm not that dude anymore. It's mental." Yeah, I'm very comfortable. Yeah, that that's the hardest thing, Mike. You know, I'm glad you got to that point. I'm just really starting getting there now and it it's taken a long time and I still struggle. I struggle every day, you know, looking Facebook pictures, memory come up from, you know, 10 years ago when I was all big and I'm like, h, you know, and like I said, I'm at the gym. I'm at a gym with a lot of big kids, a lot of juiced up kids, young guys, not so young guys. And it's hard to see these guys and think, man, I could look like that again. I, you know, my shoulder needs to be fixed and but assuming I could train properly, I'd be like, I' I'd be bigger than that, dude. But you know what? You got to get over it. It's hard to get over. It's hard to get over. GX be a pro. Never. Yeah. I mean, a lot of peop I I wouldn't say that because I don't want to be that holier than now guy who says, you know, you shouldn't use steroids unless you're going to be a pro bodybuilder. Well, they're like, well, f you, Ron. You used them. You were never going to be a pro. True. True. Someone actually said in the comments of uh one of my posts because I said there's like too many pro cards or whatever. They said, "Ron, you would struggle today to become a pro." And you know that that's true. I would have to get lucky, but I've seen a lot of guys my age or around my age who've gotten very lucky at master shows. I could have been one of those guys. I mean, these are guys that I would have beat and they're pros. Anyway, that's not the point. The point is, I'm not here to tell people if you want to look bigger and look big, get strong, have more confidence, all that, and you want to use steroids. If you want to do it in the most responsible way possible and safest way possible, moderate doses, taking time off, keeping up with your blood work, heart scans, all that stuff to do it as healthy as you can, I wouldn't I wouldn't stop you. It's your life. It's your body. I did it for years and years, so I'm not going to tell you. Like these freaking bothers me like these these porn stars come out when they, you know, they they find religion later and like, "Oh, you know, all that sex it was so empty." I'm like, "Shut up, dude. We We all wish we had that sex sex with 10,000 people like you did. People on junior high with diet makes you kill." Yeah. Yeah, man. I mean, I graduated, Mike, in a class of 540 kids, Walam High School, class of 1987. And the last reunion I went to was so sobering. It was 35th, 30th, whatever it was. It was a few years ago. And there was a table set up with a couple candles and it was pictures of all of all of the members of my class who were dead. And it was about two dozen people, men and women already. And this is at that point I think I was maybe 51 or 52. So they were all about that age. and to see that many of my peers and these weren't like juice heads or anything. It was they died of all types of things. Heart attacks, cancer, accidents, whatever the case may be, but to see because we think we're all going to live forever, but I'm looking at like, man, that could be I could be one of those freaking pictures up there now. And someone would just be like passing by and like, oh, that's too bad because the world moves on. The world goes on without you. Doesn't care. Yeah, you feel awesome and trend. Sus. Yeah. I mean, you feel super human. You really do feel, you know, as much as I [\h__\h] on these kids today for going straight to Tren, which is the most powerful, but also most one of the most toxic steroids you can possibly use, I get it because you do feel like King Kong on Trend. You feel like you could you could lift the world. You could f every girl in the world. You just feel like literally like kind of like a Homelander in in the boys series. If any of you guys watched that on that was pretty awesome. So yeah, I get it. I I did I did feel feel pretty pretty great on on trenin tests was uh something. Why the Deca? Uh really just to lubricate my joints. If you're asking why I use it now because I do have a lot of joint pain and issues and it just creates more synovial fluid in the joints. It's good for your joints. I'm using it at a very low dose. 100 milligrams a week. It's a therapeutic dose would be called. When I was using it as a bodybuilder, 500 to 800 milligrams a week would be a typical deca dose weekly for me back in the old days. In offseason, in the offseason, I would have done 6 750. I think I did 750 tests was a very very common amount of tests. I did go up to a gram a couple times, but 750 just because mathematically I would do 250 250 250 three times a week. It was just easier math-wise for my my brain to handle. Um and DECA would be anywhere from 5 to 800 milligrams a week. Yeah, because that was that was usually 200 milligrams per milliliters where the test I would usually get test that came in 250 milligrams per milliliter uh dosages. Ven Fuks, I hope I'm saying your name right. That might not even be your name. That might be where you're from. Been able to quit every time though it's difficult. Treatments always last about a year. Yeah. I mean, if you quit every time, you didn't really quit if you kept going back, right? I've been off for about a year now. The longer you're on, the harder it becomes to quit again. Absolutely. Because the longer you're on, um, if you're on long enough, and it's different for everybody, you're never going to you're never going to get your own testosterone production back ever. You're just going to be dependent on TRT for the rest of your life. Um, but you know, a lot of these young guys, if they get off soon enough, if they don't stay on too long, you know, maybe they used it from ages 20 to 25 or something and they took time off in there and, you know, there's a chance for them. Like, I kept getting my own production back for a long time. Like I said, I would take time off and for a few weeks I would feel like [\h__\h] but then I would start feeling better again. That was my own my own body getting getting its own production back and I would I would feel okay again, but it would take a while. It would take a couple It would take a good like three months after I'd stopped a cycle and then by the time I was feeling good again, I would usually go right back on using Jay Cutler's TRT company. Oh, does Jay own a company now? I think he does, doesn't he? Good for him. Looking a little like John Meadows. Yeah, God God rest his soul, John Meadows. That was one of the guys that made me stop and think. And I know people say, "Well, he had a pre-existing condition and did he take the the vaccine and whatever the case may be." I I met John. I wouldn't say I was like a good friend of his, but I was on, you know, I messaged him every now and then. I anytime we were at a show, I talked to him for a few minutes. Really liked John Meadows a lot. Such a cool guy. And when he died very suddenly, it was it was such a shock to all of us, but I was like, "Oh my god, John died. I could die." You know, I'm sure John didn't think he was ever going to die or that he would die like anytime soon. He was younger. I think he was only 48 or 49 uh when he passed a few years ago. So that was a very very sobering moment when John died. But there's been tons of others, tons of other guys. At your age, you look great. And that's when I pushed into my 20 massively changed my facial featur. Yeah. One thing you'll notice is that it ages people. You'll see guys in their late 20s on gear, mid to late 20s who look like they're 40. It's very, very common. I'm sure you've all noticed that. Um, and usually if they go off, they they do start looking younger again because I remember very vividly, if you guys know who Dennis Newman is, he was a very, very good bodybuilder. Turned pro uh 94 I think it was at the USA. He won that. Uh, I don't know if he would have been Mr. Olympia, but he would have been a top pro. He was just a He looked like Superman. He looked like a movie star in the face. The physique, he had these massive shoulders, beautiful shape, plenty of plenty of size. um he would have been a top pro, but he was just so marketable. He was on all these magazine covers. Um but he looked older. We were exact same age. He was a few months older. So, you know, I met him when we were both 21. But I remember when he went off the steroids or when he was on them, I thought he looked older than me by a few years at least. But when he got cancer, he got leukemia uh and he was in treatment. Obviously, he lost all the muscle at that point, but I was like, "Wow, he looks a lot younger now. He actually looks my age or younger." So, it's a strange thing how they do make you look older. Gear is so talked about now. Yeah. You know, there's a good and a bad side to that. I mean, was it was it good all those years when bodybuilders pretended that that steroids didn't exist and it was all creatine and weight gain shakes and you know, muscle muscle what was muscle texting? Gakic or whatever. You know, we had all these jokes. Bodybuilders used to deny steroid use. They never talked about it openly. We've come full circle with that now where everybody wants to be so transparent and talk about what they use, exact drugs, exact doses, lay out their cycles. Um, some of these podcasts, this there's one called Transparent. I don't have anything against Nye. Seems like a cool guy, but his whole podcast seems to center around getting getting the drug cycles out of all the pros and top amateurs and influencers because people eat that [\h__\h] up. They really do. They love to know, "Wow, what's this guy on?" You know, the the mentality is, well, if I could if I find out what this guy's on and I want to look like that guy, I'll take exactly what he takes and I'll look like that. But that's like saying if you follow uh who's a guy with really good arms now, I don't know. Let's just say I'm just have to go back in time. somebody who if you if you follow Roly Winkler's arm routine or shoulder routine, you really think you're going to have shoulders or arms like Rolley, it's like if you use the same drugs that Rolley used, you're not going to look like Rolley. Some of you guys are like, "Who the f is Roly Winkle?" Let me try to think of someone more. Hottie Chupon or something. Let's say Hottie's got awesome quads, right? You could do the same exact leg workout as hottie. You're probably not going to have quads that look like hotties because that's genetics, but I don't want to get too too uh off topic here. HRT seems pretty healthy. Yeah. So, true true HRT or test that's hormone replacement therapy which is a little more all-incclusive because that you can take small amounts of GH with that. Um, some of the companies offer peptides, but generally speaking, TRT is testosterone replacement therapy. It's become a a really misused phrase, a bastardized phrase because a lot of young guys will say, "I'm on TRT." And they what they really mean is they're on a cycle, but they don't know that there's a difference. They don't know the distinction between actual testosterone replacement therapy. So TRT generally speaking, you get it prescribed. I go to a place called Frontline Alternative out of Texas. Frontline Alternative, they they treat you really well. I get just enough to keep me in a high normal range, not a super physiological range. So the dose of test a week, it's going to vary. It's some guys will say 200. If they're on, if anybody's on a lower dose, they'll think anything higher than that isn't really TRT. What they don't understand is it's we don't all produce the same amount uh of testosterone numbers based on how much we take. So x amount of test injected doesn't necessarily guarantee your total and free test levels are going to be x amount. It's it's we all metabolize the drugs differently. It's not going to be the same. So some guys might need as little as 100 milligrams a week. I think I've even heard of 50 at the very lowest, but 100 is a pretty low dose of TRT. 200 is very average. I think most guys are on 200 milligrams of of testosterone a week for their TRT and the high range will be 250 sometimes 300. I was on 300 for a while. I backed it down to 250. I feel fine. Uh and it's working out pretty well. So yeah, it it puts you in a place where you're healthier. You're actually have better health markers in most in most values when you have a normal testosterone level than you would if you had low tea. Low tea puts you at risk for a lot of things. If you Google it, say, "What are the health risks of low testosterone?" And it's things like diabetes and metabolic syndrome and even uh heart disease. Things like that will come up because you're supposed to have optimal amounts of all the hormones. Not high, not super high like a bodybuilder juiced out of his skull, but they're not supposed to be low either. Everything's supposed to be in a certain range. That's why when you get your blood work, all those levels, they show you what the normal range is and you see where you fall in that range. Mike says, "I love the results, but hated taking shots." some bigger reach just side delts and glutes were awful. Yeah, I could only really reach my glutes and my shoulders after a while I couldn't because I lost mobility. Uh my TRT shots, I had my wife do them now in my lats just because I don't want to have any bruising on my shoulders. That looks stupid. Um my glutes are so full of scar tissue. Just knots and knots of scar tissue from probably thousands of shots. But yeah, it's hard. Muscle dysmorphia is very real. So it's like reverse anorexia. That's what it is. It's the reverse of anorexia. Anorexics, no matter how big, how how skinny they are, they look in the mirror and they see themselves as fat. Bodybuilders, no matter how big they get, they will look in the mirror and see, "Oh my gosh, I'm skinny. I'm I'm a twink. I need to put some size on." Or they'll also feel fat and they'll they'll feel the need to diet or start using Clen or T3 or DNP or something, god forbid. But yeah, we're we're we're we're head cases. Julian, what's up, Julian? Well, thank you. Cool name, dude. Cool name. That's uh John Lennon's son, Julian. Very cool name. I don't know why I keep calling you Flipflop. Uh let's see. Gosh, I'm way I'm way behind. Just recently tried B 11 years 3 dilated cardiammyopathy. I have a little myopathy myself, Anthony, which is why I when I met with the cardiologist uh last week, uh to to approve me for my shoulder replacement, I had to be approved. They had to do I had an EKG done and they wanted to really make sure I wasn't going to be at risk because, you know, hospitals are all about liability. They don't want you to die on the operating table. Then they can get sued even though you've signed all kinds of waiverss. So, yeah, luckily stopped just in time. See, you're if if you can do what Anthony did and, you know, get out when the when there's still time to get healthy again and before there's been irreparable damage, you know, a lot of these guys, they just they can't quit even when they know it's killing them. They're, you know, they're they're going into kidney failure. Their their heart function is getting lower and lower, but they can't let go of being that big freak. So, they keep juicing hard, and a lot of them are dead by the time they're 40, 45, 50. A lot of them. So many of them. 41 for health. Just want to look good. Yeah. So, I mean, Alina, I I would just get get your testosterone tested, your free and total levels, your total and free levels. And if you need it, if you're on the low end, get TRT just to put you in the high normal range. It's not a cycle. It's not being a juicehead. It's really just optimizing your health. And there's nothing wrong with that. Looks for 12 years on a CRT 12. Yeah. See, that's a very that's a very moderate dose. 12 milligrams a week. Yeah. So, you're on the low end. I mean, 120 milligrams, that's the low end. I have there's a lot of guys who are most guys, I think, are in that 200 200 milligram a week range. And I think there's a certain amount that are probably 250 to 300 as well. I was on gear from 22 to 30. Been off for years. Haven't looked back. Lavity matters more than something you'll benefit from realizing. Yeah. So, Cecil Sensil, sorry. When you're young, you know, you're not worried about mortality. you're not really that concerned about your health cuz you you feel great and all your friends are fine. You don't you know, but once you get older and friends start dying, people you know your age start dying. You start looking around and going, "Huh, I don't want that to be me." And that could be me because I just, you know, sometimes it's someone I just saw that guy yesterday. I just talked to him on the phone last week. I got AI got a voice message from him on my phone right here. He's he's dead. you know, it just freaks you out because you can't believe, you know, death is a very scary thing and it's it's it's hard for us to process. So, I think a lot of us are in denial. I mean, why wouldn't you be? It's it's it's the scariest thing that we face as human beings. It was a low back androl pumps. Anadrol never got into the and anadrol. I don't it wasn't a choice thing. It was just for whatever reason I was I was always able to get debal much easier and it was cheaper. So, I always just used debol. Growing up in a culture where my family especially drinking is really normal to smoke in general. Well, you're in Germany. Everybody smokes over there still, right? I'd say more people do than don't. So, I think I'd use Yeah. I mean, I've known guys who did not drink a drop of alcohol, would never touch a cigarette or any recreational drugs, but they would use plenty of steroids because they they didn't consider it in the same, you know, it's not a recreational, it's not a drug to make me feel good. It's it's a performance-enhancing drug. make me do better in the gym, lift harder fast, lift harder, be able to train for longer, get these results I couldn't get without them. Um, but yeah, good for you, man. Asian genetics are there. Oh, again, genetics are there. Well, you're only 17, so it's hard to say. Okay, Deca makes sense now. Thanks. Did you use HG and Clomid? I was a freaking mor. I used Clomid. The HCG. I was too stupid, Mike, to figure out how to mix it right with the water. And I I think I used like a whole bottle in one shot one time. It was supposed to last me like two or three weeks and I was so stupid and after that I never messed with it again. So I I would use Clomid between cycles uh cuz or Novadex, which was stupid because you're only supposed to use that, you know, if your nipples are getting itchy or puffy or something like that, you're starting to get gyno. But yeah, I would do Clomid usually for about AI think about two or three weeks after I was done with the cycle. trend dudes. Even though I know you don't like them, they have a age massively. The trend twins, do they aren't they only like 20 or 21 years old? They look like they're in their 30s. I mean, it happens. Usually on for a year and then off for a few months, so we stopped taking tmoxifen. Don't know if the constant withdrawal was healthy. I mean, folks, you were off the drug. So, in that sense, it was healthy because you were giving everything a break. Your organs were getting a break from being on the gear. So, I think being being off them was a good thing. Had the daily injections. Yeah. I don't know anybody that really loves the injections. Like, oh boy, I can't wait to stick a needle. You know, the first I remember cuz there were times when I had told my wife I was going to quit and I didn't quit. And I had to do my own shots because she used to do my shots for me. But now I would find myself I remember the first time I had to give myself a shot. It took me like an hour, hour and a half just stop and start like, "Okay, one, two, three. One, two, three." I was just terrified to stick that needle. And I was using I was getting these freaking long ass needles. They're like one and a half inch long, 23 gauge, very long needles. So, it's like sticking a harpoon into my ass. Uh, but yeah, and injections not fun for most people. Ron Johns, the Hugo Legacy, still a staple co Oh, John. Yeah, John Meadows will always he'll always be remembered. But that's that's one of the guys that it really it hurts that we lost him because he was he was good for the sport, good for the industry. He was just such a good person. Not only was he super super intelligent, um had a lot of great information about training, nutrition, supplementation, even gear that he's he shared freely with people and he charged as a coach, but he also gave away a lot of free information on his YouTube videos, Instagram posts, things like that. So losing him was a was a big blow to all to all of us. I think Dorian H I said turn to be his last close 45. Yeah. Yeah. So I remember when I saw Dorian a few years after he had retired from bodybuilding. Uh he looked younger than when he had been bodybuilding. Strangest thing. Yeah. Was he 36 when he retired? Yeah. Nico real Androme parabol test the best stack back in the 90s. J has a heart attack about a year before he died. Yeah, I knew that. Sorry fraction. Yeah, I knew he wasn't uh I knew there were pre-existing conditions with his heart. And I'm not saying steroids played any role in his death, but I I find it hard to believe that had he never used a steroid in his life that he would have died so young. Uh I really find that hard to believe. Which muscles did you inject? So for many, many years it was always just my glutes, always my glutes. After that, like I said, the scar tissue really started building up. I started rotating to my shoulders. Uh, and I just did shoulders and glutes rotating like one, two, three, four, one, two, three, four. And only about uh, a year ago did I start going year, year and a half. I can't do it. I have to have my wife do it. My TRT shots, which I do one I break up my dose uh, over four days. So, I do half of 250 on four. Anyway, long story short, she hits the outside of my lats for me just cuz it's AI got that from a local amateur bodybuilder. That's where he had started putting his gear because he was getting so much scar tissue in his shoulders that he didn't want to deal with that anymore. And my wife has to do it for me. But it's it's fairly easy, pretty quick. Very painless. I can't I I think I've only felt a twinge of pain once out of all those shots in my lats. Whereas the the shoulders uh sometimes that really hurt. We have Nibbido doesn't testate. We take shots every 10 weeks. It's free if you get prescription effect 12 weeks from use. Yeah, I know that that's uh that's the standard European Esther of testosterone to use for TRT. And it's it's because it's so convenient. It's so long lasting. You only need to shoot every 3 weeks. I still think I've talked to some doctors like Dr. Thomas Okconor uh and Dr. George Tulatos who I do that show with asked Dr. Testosterone. Both of them feel it's not ideal because you will have uh waves. it's it's going to hit a peak. It's going to go down. It doesn't really stay stable that whole time. So, your test levels are not going to be as stable as if as if you were injecting, you know, this the standard test cipionate or anantate or something once a week, which is, you know, that's what most people in the US do is test sipate once a week. Konabox come out recipe disaster. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so anabox, we know they're hard on your heart. um they do cause damage to the heart, growth in the heart the heart itself, growth in the left ventricle uh wall there makes it thicker. So, it makes it harder for the harder for your heart to pump the blood. Uh and if you're taking things like methamphetamine or cocaine, things that jack up your heart rate again, it could be just too much. We've had we've had bodybuilders and I'm not going to name names, but there's there's been more than a few bodybuilders who mixed cocaine and steroids. They you know they were addicted to both of them and most of those guys didn't didn't live very long. So 1.5 meg tren everybody is not TRT. No, it is not trend today is crap. We use real. Yeah, I wouldn't say that Nico because I've used I never did use the parabolon. wasn't using um I wasn't on gear back then when parabol was around, but I've had plenty of trend over the years and I can't say it's it's hasn't been very effective. I've I've never had a bottle of trend that I said this is crap. I don't feel anything because it's it's so cheap to make. People don't under they don't typically underdose it or fake it because it's what would be the point because then you lose that customer. They're not going to come back. Yes, that [\h__\h] was good. Fina. Yeah. I had a guy a training partner years over 10 years ago. His mom owned horses like a stable with horses and he would he was able to get trend through a veterinary company that she was a customer of and he would make it himself. Uh but I wouldn't and he offered he said, you know, I'll I'll give you the B, you know, just my cost. I'll give you a bottle of a bottle of Tren. He was going to give them to me for like 2030 bucks, whereas I was paying like 70 or 80 bucks on the on the black market at the time for him. I was like, "No, dude. I just wasn't fully confident of his ability to to make things in a sterile way that there'd be like no bacteria. I don't want to get an infection and die. Why do people not cruise all year round, though? People that used to go cold turkey." So, it it's the the reason people stay on all the time now, they blast and cruises again, is because they never want to be off. They can't deal with being off. And so if you're cruising, you might not be as big and strong as you were, but you're when you're on the blast, but you're still bigger and stronger than you would be if you went cold turkey. So, and again, there's that pressure that people feel now because you're posting on Facebook or Facebook, Instagram every day or YouTube or Tik Tok, whatever it is. They feel a need to look a certain way all the time. And they know that if they start looking smaller, smoother, the trolls are going to rip into them and say, "Ha, shrinking. Looks like you lost your gains or you're getting fat, whatever." So that's that's people who say they'd rather die if sport would be their best out there in their health. I mean, for some people, they would rather live a short life. And I don't think they really have a concept of of death or what that's like, but they'll say things like, "I'd rather live 30 years as a lion than than 80 years as a lamb." So they say, "I'd rather live fast, die young, leave a good-look corpse." Of course, I think at that moment of death, would they still feel that way if if someone came to them and said, "Uh, you know, you're about to die. You have you have five minutes to live. You know, do you regret? Was it was it worth it?" I wonder I don't think too many of them would say, "Yeah, it was worth it." You know, I'm 35. That was a great run. Or I'm 30. That's That's fine. No, it's like Boston Lloyd was only 29. I guarantee you Boston Lloyd would do would do things much differently if he would if he had known what was going to happen. And if he had a choice, uh he would not have left his young son behind. He wouldn't have left his wife behind. He wouldn't have left the earth at 29. That's just way too young. There's so much more living to do after the age of 29. You know, your 30s 30s and 40s are amazing decades, guys. For those of you who haven't entered them yet, 30s and 40s for me were great. I I loved I loved my life in the 30s and 40s. I'm not saying my life sucks now, but I'm saying 30s and 40s physically, you're still you're still healthy, you know, assuming you're taking care of yourself. You're still young. You're still very full of life and energy, and those are just, you know, you you've hopefully made some money. You've got a career going by this point. You're more confident. You're more comfortable in your own skin. It's just a it was it's a great phase of life and I would hate to see anybody miss out on that. Says sources test the way we buy do a kids test and it'll be in the prime point of reference and top levels. Yeah. Yeah. My son actually just got tested. We want to find out where he's at because I'm not sure his test is where it's supposed to be. I suspect it might be low. 23 year olds look like they're in their mid-30s all the time. If you can keep that level, Darren, the balls go anywhere other than glutes. Uh, I mean, if you started having a lot of scar tissue, you you'd change your mind because once you have a lot of scar tissue built up, Darren, you'll stick that needle in and and and the drug won't even inject. You push and push and it won't go through because the scar tissue is like rock hard and then you have to pull out and go to another spot and it gets frustrating because now you got to change pins. You got to change you're not supposed to stick the same needle in over and over and over again. It gets dull. So, you know, for various reasons, you wouldn't want to do that. so much info. Oh, absolutely. We were, what do we have? The anabolic reference guide. No, we didn't even have that. We had the Dan Duchain underground steroid handbook. Um, muscle media 2000 would have some articles in it, but there wasn't much, you know. Um, the internet was really just starting when I got on steroids. So, I would I would look for message boards and things like that and I would get some info, but there wasn't a ton of info. We had some guys back in there were taking crazy amounts. Oh, yeah. That is always there's always going to be someone that that takes things to extreme. Hate the shoulder but for my glutes. Haven't tried a lat yet. Glenn, if you can shoot your own lat, my god, that is some that would be some amazing flexibility. I would have to say, dude, you're awesome. I can't even imagine being able to hit my own lat. That was actually natty. Leave that one up. Yeah. What the heck? Keep talking. Wish I had known about lats earlier. Yeah, I I had never thought about that. Does it sound dangerous to me? Lat. Why am I going to hit put in my lat? Am I going to hit a nerve or something? Should do it there. Adults. Adults are full of scar tissue now. Yep. Wasn't Fouad's my San Cheese. Uh, you know, I don't know Fouad well, but um, you know, I feel I feel for him. He's he's severely injured and, uh, I feel I feel bad for the guy. He's he's got a long road of recovery ahead of him. Uh anyway, all right guys, I think I'm going to take off. Um so tomorrow I'm going to do some final updates on the guys competing. I'm going to look and see how they're looking the day before the Dubai Pro. Sunday morning I do plan on doing a watch party. Um so turn on notifications if you're subscribed, which I hope you are. Turn on that notification bell so you get notifications when I have a video coming. Uh, and you'll be be with me on the watch party because it's going to be a hell of a show. Great great competitors. Open Beirus Tfani, Nathan Asha, Tonio Burton, William Barnac, Rubiel, Nexilla, Moscara, Mo Foda looking awesome. Ali Edward Carbo 212's got Nihad Kaya, Angel Calderon, Fria, Rada Slavangelov, Jeppi Zagurella, guy from Iran who looks great named Medie Jabari. Classic, Michael Dool, tons and tons of great competitors. So, uh, turn notifications. They are eight hours ahead of where I am in Dubai. So, I'm going to be up pretty early Sunday to try to get a watch party going with you guys. So, that's it. Until I talk to you again, thank you all so much for watching. Have an awesome weekend. Later.