Hey everybody, welcome to the Ron Line Report. Today's guest, one of my favorite people in the world, talking about eight time Mr. Olympia, totally awesome Lee Haney. Thanks for joining me today, Lee. Appreciate it, >> Ron. As always, great seeing you, my man. And it's honor to be on your show. I really appreciate what you do and what you bring to the world of bodybuilding. >> Thank you, sir. And uh, of course, I had to get you close to the 2025 Olympia, the 61st edition of the Mr. Olympia. Hard to believe it's been going on for 61 years. Wow. Uh, so I'm going to I'm going to start right off the top. Uh, defending champion is Samson Da. Uh, he's clearly the favorite. Uh, he did that guest posing about I think it was about eight weeks ago. people people saw this and they were like, uh, some people said, well, he's in shape a lot sooner than than usual. He's ahead of schedule. Can that be a good thing or a bad thing? I think it was a great thing because I think we're going to see that extra bit of condition. Uh, I don't know. Were you following that whole that whole drama when he when this guest posing video came out? >> Yes, I sure was. And man, I was very impressed. And I feel just as you do because of Sam Samson being uh in condition a little bit earlier, this is giving him opportunity to be sharper, you know, because last year, although he was a winner, I still felt that Samson was probably about 15% off, >> you know, but now looking at him, man, he's done his homework. He looks great. He's nice and trim, more muscle separation, and he's, you know, his posing is is excellent. So, I mean, he's he's getting ready to defend his title, man. Nobody's going to take his cookie. >> So, he did something that most Mr. Olympia winners did never did, which was do the Arnold Classic while they were a reigning Mr. Olympia. I know Ronnie did it. I can't think of anyone else off top of my head that ever did that. Competed in the Arnold while they were still Mr. Olympia until Samson did it this year. took a chance and he came up short to to Derek Lunsford. Uh, you know, psychologically that must have been tough to be Mr. Olympia and now you get beat six months later at the Arnold Classic. But what was running through your head when that happened? >> Well, I I sort of suspected that could happen because it's hard to uh force the B to compete with such a short period of time between competitions. you know, your system has to have a break. It has to have a reset, you know, with all of your internal organs going through a good uh filtering and cleansing process. Uh so it takes time to do that, you know. So, uh being that the honor was the last time he competed and given him, you know, several months to prepare for Olympia, he's ready now. >> Yeah. So this is a a unique situation where in these days with the Olympia you know you were you were the first guy to have that era of you know a domination eight years in a row and then after you we had Dorian for six years then after that we had Ronnie for eight years uh there was a little break there with a couple couple changing of hands of the title but then we had Heath Phil Heath for seven years but since Phil we've had we've had a lot of different winners. In fact, since Phil won in 2017 for the last time, we have had seven different Mr. Olympia champions in eight years. So, you know, Samson in the old days, we have he probably could have expected to keep winning, but these days, I don't know. I I think I think this title is wide open. But who do you see as his biggest threat? If you could name one person that you feel that strongly about. Well, you know, you still have to consider hottie. You know, hottie is always in excellent condition. Uh, but when you look at Samson, his height and his proportion, everything sort of fits >> and he's very doineering. So, it's hard to fight that. You know, you got now Kabani, he's he, you know, I'm so glad that he was able to get his visa. So, he has an opportunity here to come in and do a lot of damage because guess what? He has height and he has proportion and he has very good muscle maturity going for him. So, this is going to be a clash of giants. Then you got Andrew Jack. If Andrew comes back this year, um, you know, a little tighter, peeking as he as we all hope that he will, then you're going to have three monsters up there at the same time, you know. So, this this height and proportion thing with symmetry and balance is is is is up in the air. And so now, and again, you got Hottage is always super rip. He's going to be ready. you know, you got Fistwater, you know, hopefully he can come in with a good package because I when I first saw him for the first time, me and Jay Culler were sitting together and I said, "Man," I said, "Jay, this this guy looks good. >> I like the way his physique flows. Nothing is overbearing. He don't have weird looking body parts that doesn't fit. So, I like what he looks. I love his look, you know. So, this gonna be a very interesting Mr. Olympia. >> Yeah. I mean, >> and uh they got to come with it though in order to beat Samson. You you're not just going to smack the champ on the chin. You got to knock him out. >> Yeah. So, I mean, we're looking uh this was the Arnold where Derek did did knock him out. Andrew was a strong contender there, too. But it it came down to condition. I think that's precisely where Derek beat Samson back back in March at the Arnold. Uh, but as we just talked about, Samson, I think I think he learned a lesson here that condition has to be 100%. He can't win at 90% anymore. So, where does that leave Derek? Because this the Derek we're looking at here at the Arnold, that's probably one of the better versions of maybe that along with when he won the Olympia in 2023. Uh, I don't know what his odds what his chances are, but he's still he's still a Mr. Olympia champ and he's he's going to try to get that title back just like Hottie is. Yeah, you know, I think um and again it's hard to beat hottest conditioning, but if Derek can bring that package like he brought it at the Arnold, then I think him and hottie is going to be fighting for places right there. I I have them, you know, placing ahead of Fistwwater because of their ability to have size and um good muscle maturity at the same time. Fist of water is coming along real well, but Derek and Heidi is sort of ahead of the pack when it comes to that. >> So, let's see what happen. And, you know, with Tobani, if he's able to bring a beautiful package with conditioning and he has the height, it's going to be, you know, it's going to be it's going to be a pretty good battle. >> But that remains to be seen. you know how I mean Tobani has never had to stand on the stage with with um with these guys on this side of the water >> right >> so it's going to be pretty interesting >> yeah were you uh I mean I was I almost fell off my chair I wasn't actually on a chair but when I heard that he got his visa I was so shocked because it's been three three times prior to this that he was qualified for the Olympia and did not gain get a visa he was not able to get here and I kept kept hearing, well, it's cuz he was in the army before and I didn't think we'd ever see this guy in the Olympic stage. To me, this was the the feel-good story of the Olympia, you know, until the Olympia happens. Were you ever expecting to see this guy get into the USA and on that Olympia stage? >> Man, I was hoping so. You know, I I fell in love with the bunny. you know, we were together uh with Panada in Italy a few months back and man, I was just just so taken with his personality, but but also with his incredible physique, with his height and everything. So, I mean, you know, giants like giants, you know, I was 5'11 and a half >> y >> height and that's something that's rare. So, when you can get height, you can get symmetry, you get good muscle separation, it's overpowering. I mean, like Franco could never overpower Arnold. I don't care what day of the week it was. It is what it is. >> And people tend to love those type of physiques. >> So, you can you stood next to him. How tall is he? Because I have never seen him next to anyone who I really knew their height. >> I mean, I'm 5'11. He's my height. >> Wow. Okay. >> Yeah. >> Wow. >> He got great height. Everything flows good. His legs is not over over um developed. You know, you you remember Big Ramy had huge legs. >> Too much time on the with on the squat rack. You end up throwing your physique off balance. And so there you go. But now I also want to, you know, we got Nick Walker in the show, too. So, a lot of people are talking about Nick. And listen, Nick got muscle all over the place. You know, he he's a monster. He trains his butt off. You know, he's he's hungry. I think he's a great athlete. Uh I you know if you're looking at balance symmetry and so forth then Nick is not your guy is not not my guy >> right ever you know it all depends on what the judges are looking for you know uh I tend to think because writing Mr. Olympia Samson. You got height, you got proportion, you got excellent presentation going on. Then you got people like Tobani that's this height, great proportions. You got, you know, Andrew, Jack, Andrew sort of missed his peak on different occasions. So, I just hope that the judges will still pay attention to his package cuz sometime when you're there too long, you can have a tendency to get overlooked >> if you don't move to the next phase, you know. >> And then, of course, you got Fist Ward. He's hungry. >> I know this guy's going to come in in the best shape of his life, I strongly feel. So, uh it's going to be it's going to be very interesting. >> Yeah. Yeah, I mean just there's so many I I I I could see the top five or six being shuffled so many different ways, which is why predictions are sort of silly at this point that it's all these guys have pretty much beaten each other at one point in time almost. You know, Nick's never beaten uh Hottie Samson or Derek, but Derek Samson and uh where am I? Derek Samson and Hottie have all beaten each other in the past. Yeah. >> So, it's one of those things on any given day we could see. >> That's right. This this this is gonna I think this is going to be one of the best Olympias in recent years, you know. It's going to be worth a ticket, worth a trip. Uh it's going to be very interesting. I mean, it's exciting. >> Yeah. And the the prize money has gone up substantially. What What was the your your first Olympia? Do you remember what you won back in that was 84? Oh man, it was $50,000. >> And so 1991, we fast forward eight years later. What was it? >> I think it was around 60 60 or 65 then. So >> Wow. >> It took me eight years just to get to $65,000. So, what is, you know, I I'm I'm sure you're happy for Samson and and these guys getting the big money, but is it shocking to you that the the prize money is, you know, the Arnold is doing is giving away 750 next year for the the winner? It's it's crazy how good the money's getting. >> Well, you know something, and these guys deserve every bit of it, you know, because your life as an athlete is not that long. you know, all the hard work, the sacrifice, you know, you have to make it while you can. You have to think about your health. I mean, once you reach about 35, getting close to 40, your natural growth hormone drops. Uh then of course your tea levels start to start to take a dip and your joints has already been dramatized over the years of playing you know placing 10th, fifth, fourth, third and you finally get the first place. How much more gas do you have in the tank you know? So I'm happy to see the money uh increase to what it has. I I I would hope that it would increase even more, you know, because it, you know, it it there's not a lot of money in these times, you know. >> True. >> Let me ask you, I know we we've talked about why you when you uh getting ready for your eighth Olympia, you knew that was going to be your last one, but say the money had been much much better. Say it had been like $500,000 back then, would you maybe have been enticed to give it another couple years? >> Maybe. Maybe. And and again that's a strong maybe. I didn't you know you never knew from one year to the next >> if it was going to increase. Monday was never a conversation during that time you know where you got Arnold Arnold pushing the Mr. Olympia and they they're going back and forth which is a good thing for the athletes. >> Sure. >> You know and now there are more companies that is that are involved. You have you know greater sponsorship dollars. I still wish we would had that TV money coming in, you know, because that would shoot it up to several million, which would be great. >> Yeah. Um I I I hate to put you on the spot, but can you give me what you think might be the top five at this Olympia for the Mr. Olympia? >> Oh, well, I tell you what, man. Samson is my number one. >> Okay. >> You know, I strongly feel it's going to be Samson. I think number two is going to be between Hottie and Tobani. >> Wow. >> One of the two of them, you know, >> if you're talking height and proportion, it's going to be Tobani. You know, if he can get it together because, you know, I know he's been stressed out trying to get over here, >> right? >> If everything levels out, he can get here on time. He can do his prep. I don't know if he's in the United States already, you know. I don't know. No, I think if he was here, I think we'd know because they would Milos would be posting all about it. >> Man, that's the deal. You got to get normally about a week, the week of the show, you should be sitting comfortable, chilling, you know, doing your last minute prep. And so with the rush that's being placed upon him, you know, that leaves room for error as far as his conditioning is concerned. >> You know, is already here. I think he's there with with Honey Rambog and Honey is putting the the finish touch. You know, when Honey touch athlete, man, that that's about it. You know, this cat knows how to get you from one one level to the next as far as peing. >> Yeah. >> So, hottie is already here chilling out with his last minute prep. Now, Andrew, if he can get it together this time as far as peing correctly, he'll be a force to reckon with. So, I look at Samson, I look at Honey, I look at the Bunny, I look at um between Andrew and Fishwater. Okay. >> You know, then I have Nick is maybe coming in maybe sixth place. >> Wow. Poor Nick. Look how far he dropped. >> Well, you know, and again, it's it's an eye to beholder. You know, it all depends on what the judges want to see. You know, Nick has a huge following and he's conditioning out of the kazoo. I mean, he's very conditioned, but proportion, you know, is just not what we see or what they say what I see as being a Mr. Olympia. Balance, symmetry is everything. I mean, you know, Sean, we look at like Lee Labrad. Lee wasn't a big guy, but man was he a masterpiece. Frank Zayn wasn't a big guy, but man, wasn't he a masterpiece? So, it all You know, I know what I want to see, and I want to see something that flows, something that's beautiful, something that the general public would say, "Hey, I want to look like that." >> Yeah, >> that's what I saw when I saw Honor for the first time when I was when I was 20 years old. I wanted to look like that. I wanted to look like Robbie. So it all depends on where the standard of bodybuilding is headed, you know, and I hope that the standard remain in such a way that it's pleasing to the eye, you know. You look at Chris Bumstead, Chris, man, a masterpiece. You look at Bion, the guys is there within those classic. I mean, these guys are beautiful to behold. >> So, um, that's my opinion. And everybody got one, guys. So, forgive me if I said something that offends some of you guys. >> But it's where it's where I'm from. >> You're never Lee, you're never going to make everybody happy because all the fans have their favorites. >> And if you don't agree with >> what they think is going to is the best physique, then you know, you're you're a hater or you're an idiot. But whatever. It's a subjective sport. It's like a beauty pageant. Yeah. >> You know, when I consider a very the most beautiful woman in the world, the guy next to me might say, "Oh, no way. This woman's way prettier than that." But whatever. >> Yeah, >> but I think everybody agrees on Keon Pearson. That is a beautiful physique, man. He's something to see, man. I >> There's not another physique out there that can rival rival heels. I mean, he is absolutely and I love his muscle maturity, his uh the way his physique flows from shoulder to waist, beautiful thighs, you know, everything is there. And he he's excellent at presenting. So you when you put all of that together, man, it's it's it's lights out. So I wish him all the best, you know. Uh he just need to continue working on quality, muscle maturity, that kind of deal. He don't need to add he don't need more muscle size. He he got it. >> So I mean, we were just looking that that white backdrop that was at the Olympia where he won. This was a couple months ago at guest posing. >> I saw that. >> He definitely looks bigger now for sure. Oh man, he looks good. I mean I mean that's his guest posing. He looked that great. >> Just think about we're just going to look at it Olympia. So I mean you know we got the different categories and and that's great. It's something for everybody at the Olympia. But uh if you're looking for the best of the best in the Xcalibur's physiques then of course you got to include him. No doubt about it. as you include Samson. So, it depends on, you know, what are the judges think, you know, Samson definitely don't look like Keon, >> right? >> You know, and Keon doesn't look like Sam as for his height in proportion, but for his height and his own personal proportion, he's incredible, untouchable. >> Now, what do you think about him moving up to open, leaving 212 behind? is do you think he should do that sooner rather than later or keep keep riding out these two 12 wins? >> Well, you know, hey man, the the the check is bigger in open, period. >> True. >> I mean, you know, so uh you know, it's all a matter of choice. I think he'll do great in open. I think he could actually win in open. >> Um but it all depends on what the judges are saying. you know, um they do have a category separated for a specific reason. If Derek moved up to open as he did and was successful, then of course Keon can because Keon bring a better package than Derek does, >> he bring a bet better package of symmetry than hottie does. >> So he don't have to be in fear of anybody. Period. >> True. If if they won the Olympia, then heck, who can stop who can stop Keon from winning it? Nobody. >> Yeah. I mean, it's it's he is doing open at the Prague show a couple weeks after the Olympia, but as far as the Olympia, he's one of the pe that division is one where I don't I don't hear anybody in doubt of him holding on to the title. Everyone's like, Keon's got it. No one's beating Keon. >> Nobody. Nobody >> got everything. It's just a beautiful physique with plenty of mass, tiny joints. >> I mean, it's hard to find. It's hard. You You can pick people apart, but what do you I'm trying to find a flaw in this guy's physique. Obviously, this is uh this is in prep. He's not in the final form here, but it's really hard to to find flaws with Keon. >> If you ask me, man, he is a genetic myth. >> Yes. >> He look like he he's a Sergio Olivier, period. >> Yeah. >> With more muscle maturity. Right. >> You can't you can't build a physique like that. It have to be born. >> But then the specific training engineering that was given to it was right on time. >> He did not create overpowering body parts like shoulders, weird shoulders that's too big by using 120 lb dumbbells. And that's the kind of stuff a lot of guys get in trouble with. You know, if you're going to build a beautiful aesthetic physique, you have to be careful with the amount of weight you use and the type of exercises you use. I see guys, you know, squatting like powerlters. Well, guess what? You develop thighs like a powerlifter. If you do a lot of powerful or heavy deadlifts, you you'll end up developing a huge thick waist as a powerlifter. So, you got to be specific in your training approach. >> Yeah. I thought you were going to say 120 cc's of oil in each shoulder. >> Well, I seen that, too. >> I seen that, too. Like, what? Come on now. What are you thinking? >> Train your shoulders. Do proper engineering. You know, one of the things I see run when I see some guys training, they have no idea what the various exercises are for. You You got to be specific when it comes to training. Well, what does a leg extension does? What does a leg press does? And what is the purpose? What what does a hack does? What's the purpose of it? You know, uh what what's what's a stiff leg deadlifts? What is a leg curl? Why do you do these different movements? You can't go to the gym and start grabbing stuff and doing things without no rhyme or reason as to why you're doing it. >> True. >> So, you have to you have to engineer the body properly. That was one of the things a lot of the old school uh classic bodies did. There was a rhyme and a reason behind each movement and they didn't just stay on one particular one. Well, I can squat 7 800 pound. Why do you want to do that? It makes no sense. >> Well, you'll be in a you might be in a wheelchair later in life or a >> or you are you'll look like a orc or a cyclops. the Cyclops, you know, I see a lot of that these days. >> All right, so we have uh one more division I want to touch on, classic physique. Uh we're going to have a new champion this year, and the guy in the middle here was Mike Somerfeld when winning the Arnold Classic earlier in the season. He was a very, very strong runner up to uh Bumps, Chris Bumpstead last year. Uh some people thought he beat him in some of the poses at least. Um, he is the favorite, but there are some strong contenders. Uh, first of all, uh, what do you think his chances are of getting the title? Because we always think the guy who was second the year before is next in line, which sometimes happens, but not all the time. >> Yeah, man. This guy this guy is pretty. I mean, I love that, man. He He is incredible. His showmanship is is out of the world by none, man. U, he's going to do great. It's be hard to dethrone him, you know, but you can never say never, >> you know, the art of peing is very special and that's always the determining factor. The art of peing. >> That's the deal right there. If he get that right, then guess what? He he'll be hard to stop. >> With that being said, who do you think has the best chance of stopping him? Well, you know, uh I it's hard it's hard to say. Uh was it >> Terrence? Terren is incredible. So, >> thank you. I was waiting I was waiting for you to say Terrence. >> Yeah, Terrence look great. I've been watching him and some of his various posts on Instagrams and man, he is absolutely on the money. beautiful, flows well, incredible stage presence. Uh, so anyway, and he knows how to pee. He He didn't get he don't get there by accident. That is science on a whole another level there. So, I see him as being the top competition. >> Yeah. I mean, there's there there are arguments about what is classic physique, you know, who's who's more classic, quote unquote. Is it Mike? Is it him? Is it Ramondino? I think it's kind of open to interpretation and you everyone has their own idea, but the posing if if you're someone, you know, you came from an era where posing was very important. You guys, your your your era, the men spent so much time and effort trying to look graceful and and aesthetic on stage like a moving sculpture. Uh like you mentioned Lee Labrada, we had guys like Lee, like yourself, uh Barry Demay, you know, going back further, guys Muhammad Mockaway, Ed Corny, Bob Paris, just posing was an art form and some guys still keep that alive. I'd say Terrence is the greatest representation of carrying on that tradition where posing was equally you put as much attention into that as you did the training and the diet. >> Oh yes, absolutely. And I mean this is poetry in motion and this what mesmerizes people and the audiences you know the judges. So I don't know if they're scoring it now. Is it being scored Ron? >> No. No. The only at the Arnold Classic it is. But that's the only >> Great. See Arnold love that >> because that's the school where Arnold came from >> right. >> And it should always be a priority. You know, the pose routine should always be up there with symmetry. You know, of course, muscularity is important, but your ability to display and to capture the minds and the curiosity of the audience is so important. It says a lot. When you can grab an audience with a a beautiful polling presentation, you demand the crowd. And so that's something that that uh should happen on every level, >> not just in the classic physiques, but uh physiques and also particularly in the open division. Now, I would love to see the guys in the classic physique division get more uh prize money. I think it's tragic that they have a huge a larger following, a huge following and then get less of the prize money. Doesn't make sense at all. >> Well, I mean, the Arnold has bumped up the prize money for Classic. It's still not anywhere near what the Open is, but the disparity isn't as great as as it is at the Olympia between Open and Classic. But I hear you. I mean, if you talk to a lot of the younger people, young boy, young guys in the 18 to 25 age group, most of them are far more interested in classic physique and follow more of the classic competitors than they do the open guys. >> Oh, no doubt about it. You know, when I'm out on the road, I just got back from Turkey. I was there on behalf of Bonado, myself, Bob Chick, and and Sean Ray. And uh you got these 15, 17, 20 year olds coming up to the booth saying, "Mr. Haney, I really admired your your era in bodybuilding." Yeah. I mean, the classic look, it look great. That's what I want to be like, you know? So, you got the kids saying that. So, so what is that saying? It's saying it's talking about a value system there. And so, I I think our organization need to take notes at that. and uh you know give these guys reward these guys for their effort and that's what the general public want to see. >> True. True. All right, let's turn our attention now to the Is this the 14th annual Lee Haney Games? How long you been doing this, Lee? >> Oh man. Uh I've really been doing it probably around 14 years now. >> Wow. But we brought the bodybuilding open the bodybuilding on uh in onto it probably around 12 years ago because prior to that time we had what was called the uh the team challenge, the obstacle racing, you know, the power lifting, the strong man. We had all of that during that time and we added the bodybuilding portion afterwards. And also during that early time, we also had the teenage bodybuilding division. >> And so uh so we've been going now about total of 15 years. >> Wow. So it's a one did you you managing to squeeze this all into one day this year? >> Well, we do have the one day with the uh we're expo this time. This is expo. >> Okay. >> On the 30th, we have a golf tournament. >> Wow. >> Which is which is unique. That's rare. So, we're trying to do things that also capture the the curiosity and the interest of the general public. So, we have the golf tournament that'll take place Thursday before. Then come Saturday, we have the uh Lee Haney Classic uh bodybuilding championship which is under the umbrella of the International Association of Fitness Science. Yeah, that's my training organization that was created more than 14 uh about 15 years ago. And uh matter of fact, it's the first one to be I don't know if any other uh maybe it's the first to be recognized with a Senate approval. So the Georgia State Senate approved my organization. Wow. >> As well as the anti-age organization. we have a a um a uh uh a recognition by way of a a college institution and so forth. So it's under the banner of that. So this year will include a calisthenic uh competition which some of the some of the uh students there at Georgia Tech will be in charge of that. Uh we have UPS as one of the sponsors of that particular event. Wow. Then of course we have the uh deadlift competition uh that we're going to be doing this year. And uh my friends from High-Tech Pharmaceuticals, Mr. uh Jared Wheat is the title sponsor of the entire event. So I I can't tell you how much we appreciate Jared being there with us these last 10 years or so. So it has made a huge difference on our event. And we'll also have the female figure uh bikini wellness. We'll have all of that. We'll have the uh the what what we calling classic bodybuilding is classic physique. That's that's really what it is. It's called classic bodybuilding. So that category is there. Uh we're looking for symmetry. We're looking for the ability to project and pose properly. Then we look for muscularity. Muscularity is not going to be ahead of symmetry and also the opposing presentation. It's important, but we want beautiful healthy showmanship at the event. Then we'll also have the uh the physique categories just as we have in all the other shows. So, we're excited. And then we have it set up where you can come from anywhere anywhere in the world to compete in the Lee Haney Games. You don't have to be over any particular type of federation >> come here. It's going to be great. Everybody is welcome. We have teenagers signing up from all over the United States. We have noviceses. We have the open event. So nothing changes. So we're excited about what we're doing. Then of course we have the the coin toss challenge too. >> We got the dance going on. We got something for everybody. Seriously. Lehinygames.com is the website. Yeah. Interesting that you have classic uh classic bodybuilding because before there was classic physique, I distinctly remember going to the Arnold Classic, this is probably around 2010 and they had a division called Classic Bodybuilding back then. >> Yes. Yes. And see, that's really what classic physique is. >> True. I I recall when the category came about said classic physique said wait a minute uh that's classic bodybuilding you know but I guess they want to put a spin on the name I don't know but I like I like to sort of retro back to what it was originally meant to be it is classic bodybuilding that's where I'm from that's where from Frank Zayn from there Robbie Roy Calendarer boy you co name it that's where we're from and we want to I want to make sure that that is also honored and protected in our organization. >> So, you have men's physique. You added the side tricep pose. >> Oh, yeah. That listen, Ron, that's that's old school. >> Yeah, >> that's tradition. So, we're going to be doing all our mandatory poses. We have the symmetry round. We have all of that just as it was intended to be. And we want to see I want to see some great posing routine. So, we got a list of great judges. Uh we got Jan Tanner be there with us and uh making sure the athletes are ready to hit the stage. And uh we also have Bayon Associates that's our law firm that's been with us for the last eight years or so. Then of course we have uh benefits resource planning. My dear friend the press, he's going to be there. So they've supported us all through the years. We have the Hima racing team. They won the Ny500 a few years ago. They're gonna be there along with Super Fitness and uh man, we're we're just so excited. So, we're we're we're rocking and rolling making it happen. >> Yeah. Wow. I mean, this is this has been a tradition. I mean, anybody in the Atlanta area, I'm sure they've they've known about this for many many years. But you're you're attracting people from all around the world now. >> Yes. Yes. That's what's exciting because in the world of bodybuilding, we're a family. You know, I've gone over 30 different countries around the world. I have relationships with people from all over the world. Just made some new friends there in in Turkey and and it's all exciting, man. We have Panata that's uh that's also part of helping us with our event this year. So, we're excited about what's happening and and again, new relationships, you know, High-Tech Pharmaceuticals, uh UPS, and you know, they're always known for being in great condition. So they're going to bring a team, too. So this is going to be very exciting. >> Amazing. Wow. Well, congratulations. This is a looks like it's a labor of love. You've always been someone who gave back. Even when you were Mr. Olympia, you had the Lee Haney Harvest House, right? Way back then. >> Yes, we still got it run. A matter of fact, this is the fundraiser >> to help raise funds for our mentoring program, Hanees Harvest House. >> Wow. So I want to press upon those who are listening when you come to Lee Haney games you're helping you know you're helping to grow our event but more importantly you're helping to impact the life of some young man you >> know matter of fact one of our young men is now a commander there at NATO so we put out some great seeds over the years so thank each and every one of you that's been a part of the Lee Haney Gains over the years we appreciate it. We're also looking up, we want to thank our vendors for being a part of it. So, we're looking forward to you guys joining us and making the same success as you have in past times. >> Yeah, this is it's really cool that you're still you're still doing this. I mean, you've been retired for many, many years now, but you're still a vital part of the industry. uh still traveling the world as an ambassador, you know, spreading the word of fitness and and bodybuilding and and health and all that good stuff. And you've always been about health, not just about big showy muscles. You've always want stress being looking good on the outside and feeling good and healthy on the inside as well, which not everyone not everyone emphasizes that aspect of it. So really really proud to be able to still speak to you after all these years about all this stuff. >> Thank you, Ron. You know, Ron, one of my passions, too, is to see the guys in in our world, the world of bodybuilding, one day grow up and be a grandpa just like me. You know, I'm 65. I got six grandkids and I and I'm happy that I thought about that during my competitive years. I wanted to make sure I took care of my body because my ultimate health is my wealth. And that's the that's the end of that's the name of the game at the end of the day. You want to have your wealth, but more importantly, have your health because you need health to get wealth. >> True. All right, guys. Well, I want you to check out the Leehaney Games coming up uh November 1st right there in Atlanta. All the info is at lehaneyames.com. Also has that Lee_haney_game Instagram. Of course, you can check out the eighttime Mr. Olympia's official Instagram, lee_haney_official. A lot of good stuff on there. Uh thank you, Lee. I I wish you the much much success with the event as always. Appreciate you taking the time to talk to me today. Uh are you going to be at the Mr. Olympia this year, >> Ron? I just got in from Turkey. I think I'm going to watch it live. Just >> me too. Yeah, me too. >> While I got grandkids running all over the place. >> That's true. >> But I haven't tuned in. That's for sure. >> Right on. Well, again, thank you for taking the time, Lee. And guys, check out check out those Instagram pages and that website leehaneygames.com for more info. And if you're anywhere in within distance of Atlanta, Georgia, make it a make a trip out of that. It's going to be a good time. So that's it. Thank you so much, Lee. Appreciate you as always. And that's it, guys. Thanks for watching Ron L report with the eighttime Mr. Olympia, the totally awesome one, Lee Haney. See you next time. Thanks for