What's up everybody? It is past 10 o'clock over there in Germany and Fibo is over. Andrew Jack pulled off the win over Cissan Herate. Some of you are going to agree with that. Some of you are going to be pretty damn upset. Let's look at some of the newer footage and photos that have come around and see if we can figure out why it was justified. I mean, I I shared my feelings on this earlier that his shape, structure, and just overpowering size made up for the fact that Andrew was not spectacularly shredded. Uh, you know, he's never been We've never seen Andrew really shredded, to be honest. If you think about it, make sure I'm showing that. Yeah, we've seen Andrew in pretty good shape a few times. He seems to always look better at the Texas show. There's Cassan, second place, looking fantastic. Look at those quads. Look at the quality of those striations, the deep, deep cuts there. Love seeing that. Uh, so AJ, what did AJ write about this onepoint decision as it was pushed hard? was no robbery and Andrew was not fat. Exactly. This was a close call, one decision win. Could have gone the other way probably as it was a one-point win. But this ain't no robbery. Today, Saserati stock has skyrocketed to levels few dreamed he could before this show. I agree. He is now proven a top star. Sergio Leva had a great return. I bet he's next. Wow, look at that. Does that not look like his dad, especially with the mustache that he grew and he had the mustache in the movie Bigger where he played his father competing against Arnold Sergio. And this was the first test with him and new coach. That is Bosal he's working with. They will definitely improve together. Made me really happy seeing Sergio Lea back. And what epic leg improvements. Justin Muzle in fourth place. Wow. Wow. He pushed Sergio hard for third place. 26 year old. Yeah, I knew he had to be young. 26. German mass monster is the real deal. Especially proud of his posing performance today. Changed his posing around since Detroit. His waist was crazy improved. I predict the future as Olympian. Joseph Ket in fifth from Czech Republic. Tremendous size, especially upper body, round in crazy condition. Thanks to German crew for all the professional video shared so we the fans could enjoy the show. Where is that? Where is all the German where the German crew for the professional video? Let's see if he put some up. I know he did put something up. All right, so this is Andrew's uh finals routine here. Let's take a look. Yeah, you know it's true. This is not the best Andrew, but gez, come on, guys. Do you really have a problem with this guy losing? Look at that. Just the shape that that crazy Vtapers. He's so wide across the shoulders and the back. Yeah. Could his glutes have been sharper? His ham sharper? Sure, they will be at the Olympia or else he's screwed. Obviously, he's got to you got to be in top shape at the Olympia. I don't think he intentionally came in, you know, off. I I don't think he was trying to be 100% if I was a gambling man and his coach Chris Aceto because they knew, you know, who was he up against at this show? Nobody that's at the top five Olympia level, even top 10 Olympia level that he's that he's had to deal with on on previous occasions. Uh, and you know, I don't think that's arrogance or anything. I think that's being wise. Why would you peak 100% for a show where you knew getting from 90% to 100% was, you know, risky, dangerous, and you won't need it. It's it's absolutely unnecessary. So, I don't know if it was a conscious decision on the part of Andrew and his coach Chris Cedto or not to come in not so I don't like the word off, but let's say like 90% of his best and save the best for when it's really really needed at the Olympia level. So, oh, he's going to do the split. I mean, come on, guys. How impressive is that? It's also good to see that he got to do his entire routine because at the Olympia he had obscenities swear words in his in his posing music and they cut the music off and he did not get to pose to his own music which is unfortunate. So here is uh the fourth place Justin Muzle the 26-year-old young man from Germany someone to keep an eye on. A lot of comments in German there I can't read German. I don't think I'm going to insult the German speakers out there by attempting it and slaughtering slaughtering your language, mutilating it. Won't do that to you. So, this kid kid, he's a young man. Look at the hamrop. The legs from the side. Fantastic. Really not missing anything. Condition really good. Could be a touch better. You know, a touch uh you know, there's always that room for extra crazy condition. I'd say just keep doing what he's doing. He's got really Look at the hamzo. Look at the nice carved out canyons in those hamstrings. This guy has Justin Muzle. Keep an eye on Justin. Justin Muz Oil. Mah Muz Muz Oil. Justin, he's going places. Showing a lot of promise here. The diamond in the rough. He's a work in progress. Give him a give this young man a couple more years and I could see him pushing for top spots. You know, I say that all the time because potential is one thing. Fulfilling that potential is a whole other thing. Okay, here was a look. Here was someone's footage. Not sure where this came from. From Ganakus. I think that's uh that's who you were telling me to look at, Zionic. That's who you were telling me to look at before was Ganakus. I should go to their their page after this, huh? So, yeah, you could just see Sassan looks fantastic. Of course he does. Don't get me wrong. Andrew is just so much wider. I agree. from the the legs from the side. Sassan has him dead to rights. Andrew needs a lot more hamstrings to balance his physique out. That that's why I'm not going to have him in the conversation as a Mr. Olympia winner, Andrew Jack, until he gets those hamstrings up a lot. Not just a little. They need to come up a lot. But look at that back. Look how wide, how thick it is, how dense compared to Sassan. Yeah. And you know, again, I agree with what AJ posted. Sassan's stock has risen because second place to Bonak in Detroit, second place here to Andrew. Of course, Sassan wants a win. He wants to get to Olympia. He's going to have to do another show or maybe another couple couple shows. Depends on who's there and who shows up and how they look on that given day. But, uh, I think this was an excellent top two. I think they were very close. The fact that it was a one-point decision shows you that the judges were not they were not overlooking Cissan's condition. They were not simply going to hand it over to Andrew. If it was a one-point decision, that means that several of the judges did have Sassan winning. And it was just a matter of tallying up the points. And you want the fewest points, that's how you win. And Andrew had one point less in the overall standings than Sassan. I don't know if the scorecard is available anywhere yet to look at. I actually like Sassan's most muscular better than Andrews. The crab looks pretty good on Andrew, though. I mean, just he's so massive. So massive. And you know, it's funny. Sassan's arms look really good here. It's only in the front double bicep that they kind of look weak in comparison to, you know, compared to Andrew. Andrew's got these monstrous arms. Andrew was a specimen. There's another angle. Some more footage. Yeah. Try to make that a little bigger for you. Andrew is just too big and dominant, especially from the back sass. Looks incredible though. Andrew looks more conditioned on this video. Lighting looks a lot better, too, from the phone than the live stream. There w There was no live stream, Rob. There was no live stream. How did you get a live stream? What is he talking about? There was no live stream. All the all the channels I've seen, the YouTube channels, they're taking footage from from YouTube and from uh I'm sorry, from Instagram, from people's feeds, from their stories, their posts. I there was no live stream. If there was, it must have been announced at the very last minute and nobody knew about it. But I do not believe I think he's incorrect. There was no live stream. There was no live stream. That's a good angle. See from the Son there when you're at the angle his back looks pretty good. It's when they're straight up and down or I should say facing facing us. Great shot there. Great comparison. See, they're they're both the fact that it was a onepoint decision, guys. I mean, you got to give the judges credit. They could have very easily said, "Well, Andrew is so much bigger, better shape, structure. We'll just, you know, first place, everybody first place." And it didn't go that way. Sassan got some first place votes. He was looked at as a as a winner. Uh he gives up that pose to Andrew. That is Andrew beating him all day in that one pose. I know it's only one shot. Uh see, Sass is peeled. Andrew could have been more tight for this show, but Andrew did enough just to get the win. Agreed. Side shots. Yeah, I like Andrew's side shots from the waist up. Uh the quad looks good. The hams, they're just they're really lacking. Those hams need to come up. They really need to be built if we're going to talk about Andrew winning the big one, the Olympia, which I believe he has the tools to do it. I mean, if Samson did it, why can't Andrew do it? Andrew just needs to Yeah. Okay. So, he looks a little soggy there. The glutes look pretty soft there. I'll I'll I'll grant you that guys. If it's a glute contest, Andrew loses, Cissan wins. But, you know, even Cissan, they're you see the striations, but they're not totally dialed in, totally dry and strided and splintered like we see sometimes. And I'm betting if we looked down the line down the lineup of guys who didn't place as highly, I bet we're going to see better condition, especially from the back from some of them. But they just didn't have the size, the shape, structure, combination that these two had. Why they did two lat spread pictures in a row? The side tricep. Yeah, good stuff. What are you guys saying so far? Okay. See, I want to make that a little bigger while we take some of your comments and then we'll go to some some we'll look for some more footage. I'm sure sure you guys will give me some some tips on where the best footage. Dang twe Andrew did enough. Let me put this up first. So, I should have this the placings up all the time. That should be up all the time. Although, it's going to get covered by your comments in a second, but those are the placings, guys. Andrew, Sassan, Sergio, Justin, Ysef. Okay. So he says, "Andrew did enough on broken record, but he'll be unbeatable if when he brings up those hams." Yep, I just said the same. So great minds think alike tweet and Jack walked in and walked out with the win. Nailed it. Let's break it all down. Yep. See, there's your comment. Great to see guest posing condition. That is not guest posing the last of my kind. That is not guest posing condition. Guest posing condition would be way off. Would be far blurrier and softer than that. But I understand what you're saying. from the back. His glutes and hams were pretty buttery. I don't agree with this win. You don't have to. It's a subjective sport training. Who do you think should have won then? Obviously, he's gonna say Cassan who beats him. Can't get in. You can't pose if his name is Joseph Smith. He plays fourth. No, it's it's it's not a name thing. It's the physique. It's the things he has going for him physique-wise. He has all that size. He's got the the width, those wide shoulders, the narrow waist. It's a very very gifted bone structure that he has and then he built all that muscle on top of it. Yeah, he had sass winning. Okay, call it what it is. Guest post. Nope, I refuse to agree with you on that. Derek was in better shape at the expo. [\h__\h] sake. Well, Derek is Derek was shredded to the bone at the Arnold a few weeks ago and he is four weeks out today from the Pittsburgh Pro. So Derek Derek is still in contest condition, the same condition he was in when he won the Arnold. I don't think he's gained any fat or anything. He's holding his condition. Make a cast for SAS beating Bonak, but come on, man. So, I assume Black Patron, Black Patron, you're agreeing with me that Andrew was the the rightful winner here. Definitely came in better at night. I really want SAS to punch his ticket. He's going to have to do more shows. I could have won the show easily. So, you could have beaten Andrew Jack. Amazing. You must be pretty damn great. Andrew is in guest posing shape. You won because Fibo is struggling to have pros with names show up. is a business sport. I I mean I I honestly the fact that they didn't have a live stream for this shows me that they don't they don't value the pro show component of this FIBO I'm talking about as they do the expo which is obviously their big money maker. There was over a thousand booths thousand exhibitors. Some of them had many many booth spaces so they made millions and millions of dollars off the the expo. There was no way they were going to make millions and millions of dollars from this from the from the bodybuilding show. Andrew really needs to work on side pose though. Agreed. Sass is definitely the one to watch. Yeah. I mean like who was talking about Cissan last year when he was he came in did fourth at that MRO show in Spain. Everyone's like eh he looked pretty good. Now everybody's talking about Cassan. I I always say sometimes winning the show is great, but sometimes taking second, especially if it's close, when it's close, it's going to be controversial because there's always going to be people that prefer that physique that didn't win. And then you're going to get a lot of buzz, a lot of hype behind you based on the fact that they thought you should have won. That is your opinion, man. Yeah, we can agree to disagree. Exactly. It's not like Andrew was in terrible condition. I mean, to call it guest frozen condition, that's that's just not accurate, guys. Come on. because Giles looked him up. Trust me, neither Giles nor I have any influence over the judges. In fact, it might be the opposite. No, the way they're not going to place anyone poorly because of us, but they're not going to. We have no influence. Trust me, zero influence over the judges. Join Le trunks. Well, that that's awesome. You said it yourself. Weak from the side, weak from the back, not in shape. Can't post me in size. He's in fourth place. Uh, I I can answer for you last time I kind, but maybe Black Patron did. It's It's basically size, shape, structure. He has better size, more size, better structure, better shape. Cassan doesn't have much of a Vtaper. You can see right there, shoulders aren't much, much wider than his waist. They are wider. Andrew's shoulders and upper back are way wider than his waist. So, he has a much better just overall shape and it makes him look like teens. disposable teens. Ah, good question. Reformed Todds, do his hamstrings lacking because that's the one area he's not generally gifted because he didn't train them hard. I mean, I find it hard to believe because people have been talking about his hamstrings as a as a weak point since he turned pro in March of 2022 at the Arnold Amateur. So, he's had, you know, five three five years. Three years, I'm sorry. It's only been three years. Three years since then to work on them. And I'm sure he's been hammering them. I don't know if he's doing something wrong in his training. I mean, I can't I can't imagine that genetically they can't get any bigger, but you know what? Some you see it all the time where guys have awesome genetics everywhere except for maybe their calves suck. They have no calves. So, it is possible to be genetically gifted over your whole physique except for one area. I I've seen so many guys that were lacking just like one thing. It was usually like back thickness, upper chest, and I don't know if it was genetics. Calves definitely is genetic. Forarms is genetic. If you have really skinny forearms and calves because the insertions are really high. There's not much you can do about that. Simpson the fat miss. Wow. You're calling him fat, dude. Boy. Oh boy. Andrew hasn't been close to the O yet. Yeah. Fifth place is not too far away, but it's not that close. Easy win by show. Andrew is like Paul Dlet, but better overall. Yeah, Paul Dlet was pretty damn good in this day. Andrew could look way better by just fixing his posing. Add better condition most shows. Nobody would touch him. Yeah. Lee, I mean, aside from the Olympian, the Arnold. Um, he's never lost anything. You know, he's only he's only ever done he's only ever done Texas Pro and the Arnold UK, but he won all those shows. The only shows he didn't win were was it the 23 Arnold? Did he do the He didn't do the 24 Arnold. 23 Arnold Classic. He was third place. Uh, obviously the Olympias. He hasn't he hasn't won those. He's been seventh and fifth. Andrew's posing was Barrett at the Arnold. He definitely did enough to win here. Obviously, Aceto was not going to peak any for this show. Yeah, I agree. I mean, if I'm Chris Aceto, and I'm not, I would not peak him 100% for this. I mean, what would be the point? What would be the point? Why would you dial in somebody 100% when, like I said, going from 85, whatever you want to call him here, 80, 85, something like that. 85%. Getting him from there to 100% is going to take a lot more effort. Yeah, he he looks pretty bad from the back. Condition-wise, he's very soft from the back. I agree. From the back, Andrew is not impressing me that condition. It's it's pretty embarrassing. Uh but from the front, man, he's just he's dominant. He's just dominant. That's why he looks a little wide in that pose. I mean, he does he doesn't have a narrow waist. He's he's uh I guess he's 5'9. I I thought he was a little shorter, but he's not. He's 5'9, which is actually average height in the USA for men. Uh Andrew is 6'2, so he's got five inches height on him and he's much much wider. His his structure, his shoulder bones, the clavicles, your your structure is the one thing that you cannot change at all. Really, you can't change your muscle bellies either, your insertions, but your bone structure, it is what it is. If you've got naturally wide clavicles, and I mean naturally, if you were born to have wide clavicles and narrow hips, you've already you're already way ahead of a lot of people because you have that natural vtaper. Once you start adding muscle to the shoulders and to the upper back, as long as you don't get a big thick gut waist doing whatever, you know, I don't know, deadlifting and insulin and GH, I don't know, as long as you don't do that, you're you're going to be ahead of the curve. put it that way. Just on structure alone. Dorian, the quality of what I saw was trash and it doesn't look that bad. Yeah, like I said there, someone had claimed in one of these posts that there was a live stream. There was no live stream. How much was the prize money? I did not listen to it. I know it was 115,000 overall and that was for all the pros, I think. So, I don't know how much he won for this. I don't know. Now that Andrew punches Olympic ticket, how do you think he stacks up for the top dogs here? Can he crack that top three? It's going to be a crowded crowded top three. You got I I don't think he's going to crack top three now. I I really think the top three is going to remain uh what it's been the past couple years. Samson Samson, Hottie Chupan, and Derk Lensford. In no particular order, that's your top three at the Olympia. I'm I would bet you good money on that. Then you're going to have Martin Martin Fitzwwater, Nick Walker, uh you know, a few other a few other guys are going to try to crack in there. Andrew will Andrew has a chance uh fourth or fifth. He's he's definitely fighting for the fourth and fifth spots again. It's just top three. We have three three Mr. Olympias competing. Well, Curry will be there too. He's four, but uh it's going to be a very very tough show to crack the top five, but I do have him in the top five again. Shape Anderson wouldn't be top eight. Well, he won't be he won't be in that shape, Dorian. I promise you he won't be in that shape for the Olympia. Who's that in your Is that uh is that David Bowie in your avatar? No problemmo. What's up, son? Mickey's workshop. Andrew's abs are his best body part. They don't look good in this pose. Uh let's see how they look in the ab and thigh. Let me go back. Someone was saying they thought SAS Sassan had was winning the abandon thigh shot. So now Okay, so here's the ab and thigh. Yeah, I've seen Andrew's abs look a little crisper than that. Yeah. Yeah, I agree with you. His condition was not not his best luck, but it was enough. It was enough to win. Barely win. He only won by one point. Batty had a theory. Who's By when it comes to hamstring drop? When you have longer glutes, you'll have less hamstring drop. Ronnie is a good example of this. Well, that makes sense. Black patron patron patron because if your glutes go all the way halfway down your leg like the back of your leg like Ronny's did, you don't have long hamstrings. So, you don't have as much muscle tissue to work with as many muscle cells. It's, you know, it's going back to things like uh biceps and and calves, forearms. The longer the muscle is, the less of a gap you have uh between the muscle and where it inserts, the more muscle you have to work with. That's why guys guys who have forearm insertions down to their wrist, like Lee Priest, like the like late Mike Mener, Casey Vader, uh yeah, we've seen a bunch of them. They didn't have to do anything to train their forearms to to be that big. When you have forearms that are that long that they go all the way down your wrist, they're going to just be massive just from holding on to weights. It's like calves. People with super long calves, very long calf muscles, a lot of them don't even train calves. Like Mike the Lake Mike Morazzo, who was known for his calves, famously did not train his calves. And I've I've talked to plenty of other guys with massive calves that they might do a set here and there when they think of it, but they they're certainly not beating the crap out of them or anything like that. Should not have been this close into his way off. Well, so you say Andrew should have lost. Other people will say it should have been this close. It should have been a clean sweep for Andrew even with that condition. But looking at those back shots, I I'm totally in agreement with you guys as far as his condition from the back was very lackluster. Very lackluster. Not impressed with that condition. Buttery. Yeah. Not Not his best. Not his best. So Dave Palumbo calling Boston Jerry Ward rats. That wasn't I don't think that was Palumbo doing that. Uh no problemmo. That was somebody else. I think I think Palumbo reported on it but uh uh I do want to say this that they're not alive to defend themselves. Um, and that's, you know, it's just not cool to speak ill of the dead when, especially in a matter like this, cuz calling someone a rat, a federal informant, um, you know, and maybe they were, maybe they weren't, I don't know, but they're not here to to defend themselves. So, I don't like to see people people's names being trashed after they're dead like that. two years in a row since placing fifth two years in a row since when is that not placing IPO exactly top five in the Olympia guys so most pros never get to the Olympia I don't know if you realize that most pro bodybuilders go their entire careers and never set fit foot on the Olympia stage of those that do most of them never crack top 10 cracking top five that's another elite level and winning we've only had 17 winners 18 winners of the Mr. Olympia in 60 years. So, it's a tough tough show. Do you reckon Andrew got a couple years left in the sport? He's 40. Oh, yeah. I mean, he's young in the sport. This is only 22, 23, 24. So, he turned pro three years ago. March of 2022. He's only been a pro for three years and and a month basically. Um 2022, his first pro year, first year as a pro. He won the Arnold Class. He won the Arnold amateur in March. In August, he went to Texas and he won his first his his pro debut, which is very rare. And then he went to Olympia and he was sick. He had I don't know if it was COVID or the flu. He had he was sick because I actually tried to interview him the night before at the meet the Olympians and he was he sounded awful. He was definitely sick. He was all stuffed up and everything. He sounded Anyway, he got seventh place that year and then fifth fifth. So two fifth places, two top fives in a row. Yeah. Age 40. So, he's not a young man, but in terms of competitive age, he's fairly young. When I say that, I mean there are guys who are 40 who've been competing since they were 17, 18 years old, maybe 20 years old. They've been they put their body through a couple dozen preps, many, many hundreds of cycles of contest prep, offseason cycles, drugs. The their bodies are pretty trash by the time they're 40. Andrew is still a youthful 40, meaning he hasn't been competing long. I don't think he's been on gear very long, just a few years. Um, and he certainly hasn't been on a lot of gear. I I remember seeing him a few years ago just in like the Larry Wheels videos where they were shooting uh in Dubai and thinking, "Wow, this guy." I had no idea how old he was or anything, but I was like, "Geez, look at the arms on this freaking guy. This tall guy is he'd be great if he ever competed." Dave Plumb slaring both Boston called him informs publicly. What a slime ball Dave is. Uh yeah, I didn't see it, but I agree with you. Andrew has long limbs. He may never get great or good hamstring. Takes a lot to fill up. Yeah, I mean, but his his quads are pretty good. I mean, look at his quads. Give me a front shot. That's not the best the best angle. Maybe the front lat spread would be a better better way to look at his quads. He does have really good quads. It could probably be a little better. Yeah, I mean that's Come on. Ah, that's those are pretty good quads for a guy with very long legs. 6'2, he does have long limbs. It's actually amazing to me that his his arms are as impressive as they are cuz those arms are as long as most of guys legs when you think about it. If he's 6'2 and left doubt in people's minds here, he should be watching these shows and no question asked me preferred to ask today. Yeah, it's and it's because Lee, it's because he he he phoned in the condition. He didn't come in anywhere near 100%. It's not guest posing condition, but yeah, I agree. From the back from the back, he was he was beatable. If there had been any any bigger names in the show, like if Martin had jumped in or Nick Walker, you know, some any of them in their best condition, probably might have beaten him today just just based on the condition that he showed up in. How dare he compete in bodybuilding? Yeah, that's what I say. Don Pump. I mean, there's not many guys out there. They're a rare breed. the the guys over six foot and pro bodybuilding. There's a few of them, but there's not that many. Most guys, I'd say most pro bodybuilders are male pro open pros are between open. I'm talking I'd say 5'7 to 510 is the sweet spot where probably 90% of the guys are in that height range for open. You have some shorter and some taller, but not many. I find bodybuilding guys love to exaggerate. When people say you soften the back, they're talking about lower posterior and ignore the upper with Andrew. Yeah, I mean, let's look at the No, I mean, the back wasn't great either. The upper body from the back wasn't fantastic. You know, I I have to I have to be real. I have to be as as objective as possible. And yeah, you could see there's a little bit of loose skin here. He could have been leaner. His back his back's not as lean as it could be. I I've seen it better than that. I've seen it better. In fact, do I have it? I think I can show you guys just to just to compare it to how he looked in Texas. So, this is Andrew at This is probably the best condition we've ever seen him. That was Texas. Uh, was that 20 that 2023 or 24? I think this is 2024. He always seemed to peak better for that Texas Pro show they did for the Olympia. But you can see the difference. This is Andrew in much, much better condition, especially when he faces the rear. You'll see they also had better lighting. This show is is better lit than Fibo. Uh what's his name? Freddy. Freddy and Sheila. They put a fantastic job on. See there. And again, we've never seen Andrew shredded. This is this is about as lean as we've ever seen him. I think it's still about 10% off condition wise from where I'd like to see him. He does need more hams, but the condition could always be better. This is not, you know, Derek Derek Lunsford is so much harder from back. Hottie is harder, way harder from the back. He's about Samson's about the same. Samson's never been shredded either. So, I don't want to show that. Hide that. Okay, back to the comments section. Should Andrew do Dubai? Well, he will not. Why would he do Dubai? I It's It's more It's It's a bigger prize money show, but from what I understand, correct me if I'm wrong. This is what I've heard. Dubai is the Dubai Pro show is promoted not by anyone in Dubai but it's promoted by Bad Dub Bad Buddhai who owns the oxygen gyms in Kuwait and I think he opened up one in Dubai. Andrew goes to Binu's gym in Dubai and he's been there. That's where he's been training I think for the past few years. The whole time he's been a bodybuilder. He's very loyal to them and I think those two BU and Bair have a rivalry and that is why Andrew would not compete in Badair's show, the Dubai Pro. Also, time-wise, it it makes no sense for him to he would have to hold on to his prep. Dubai isn't until Gez, it's not till June, guys. It's weeks and weeks away. So, geez. Yeah, that is so FIBOS is one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, nine. That's 10 weeks away, Dubai. So, no, it'd be foolish of him to to peak again for that. Good show to do, but if you're already qualified for Olympia, he would have to he would have to stay on prep. And no, it makes no sense. Makes no sense. Never heard of longer boots before. Yeah. Don Pump. I mean, if you look at Ronnie Coleman, the goat, the eight time Mr. Olympia, he had very long glutes. That's why he was able to get such great striations in him because he had so much muscle mass to work with. You see guys with smaller glutes that have a have a tough time. Beyond Stage TV has good picks. Okay, let's go there. Let's Oh [\h__\h] Stop sharing. I want to go to Beyond the Stage TV. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thought I exited out of the freaking whole video there for a second. All right, Beyond the Stage TV. See what they got. These are videos. Uh, actually the same. These are the same picss we've seen, guys. I don't really see anything. Yeah, I don't see anything we haven't seen before. Need to measure my glutes. Uh, I couldn't even tell you how to do that properly. Could Derk pull off victory at Pittsburgh? Of course, Derek won't show up at 80 85%. Uh, Kion, he won't do that. He won't. If he was going to do that, he would have done it for the Arnold and he didn't. No, Derek will not. Derek will be like 95%. Maybe 100. He's not going to do that. RX says picks up two. Let's see if they have anything better. fish muscle. Let's take a look. Okay, that's a good shot. It's a good shot of Sergio, the comeback kid. Yeah, that's a good shot. I've seen Sergio bigger. This is not his normal size. Legs look big. I've seen the upper body look thicker and fuller than this. Definitely. Uh, he looks great, but I've seen him better. And, you know, at his best, I still think Andrew probably would would have beat him anyway. That's what I used for a thumbnail. That front double. This is uh Sergio at the finals. Okay. Cyclical routine. Color looks really light. I don't know why he didn't use I mean, almost looks like he doesn't have any oil on. He needs a chest and back. chest and back are just not matching the rest of his physique. I mean, based on this, I'm not I'm not impressed with the condition. Again, this is the light, but yeah, looks like he needs tan. He needs to be darker. You're saying, "What are you saying, guy? What are you saying? He's a He's a black man." Doesn't mean he doesn't need Doesn't mean his color. He's very light-skinned. And um I think some more stage color would have would have helped him out here cuz that brings out the condition better. I'm sure that the condition looks worse than it should because of this skin tone here being too light. My sparkly trunks. I had a pair just like that. Blew it and everything. Good job, Sergio. Good job. But yeah, I I mean I remember in gez what year was it? 2018 I think it was. So he won the New York Pros pro debut and then I think it was 2018 he took second at both Chicago Pro and the Tampa Pro and those were like such close decisions. The head judge Steve Weinberger worked him super hard in Chicago against Michael Lockett and then again in Tampa against uh Roland Alex what's his name? Alex Roland from Puerto Rico. And it could have gone either way, but unfortunately for Sergio didn't go. He looks pretty soft there from the back. Not loving that condition from the back with Sergio. Yeah, there's the myth pose. He does look great in that pose. He looks just like his dad. I mean, he's got his dad's dad's genetic. He hit it again. I mean, if I look good in that pose, I'd hit that all the damn time. Of course, I put my arms up overhead. They look like noodles. So, no bueno. Sergio, what else we got there? What else we got? Andrew. Yeah, we already saw that. We already saw that before. Justin, we saw that. Let's take a look at SAS. What the heck? Sass at finals. Okay, Mark. I did have Andy was struggling against fourth call out caliber guys. Olympia like SAS. I wouldn't call Sass a fourth call out guy at the Olympia. Well, he was only struggling, uh, Mark, because he didn't bring he didn't bring the condition. He didn't show up at 100%. Not even close. Had Andrew Ben looking the way he looked at that Texas Pro, it would have been a clean sweep, perfect score win, no complaints, no controversy in anyone's mind. I'm sure Ollie was close to winning. Uh, thank you very much for the videos. Thank you, Steppon. Steon was the village in Ukraine where my grandmother came from. It's a true story. Dr. Tu Andrew knew it was a weak lineup. Knew he had to do a lot of work to get Mr. Olympia. So, chill up. He'll be fine. Yeah, exactly. I mean, why would he why would he bring 100% condition with getting into going from the way he looked today to 100% condition? It's a lot of work. It's a lot easier to get I don't want to say easy, but it's a lot easier to get from offseason condition to pretty good condition. Going that extra getting that extra extreme level is so difficult. It's why you don't see a lot of guys ever getting into that extreme condition because it takes a lot more work beyond where they already were. It's it's your body fights you. It doesn't want to get any leaner. The leaner you get, the harder it is to get any leaner than that. Just said he has loose skin. That's guesting shape. No, I mean loose skin is loose skin. It's not guest posing. You can you can feel he's in guest posing shape. We can agree to disagree, man. I'm not going to agree with you. So, stop trying to make me agree with you. It's not going to happen. Yeah. But I mean, look at his back compared to Sassan's back. Look how much wider and thicker it is. It's massive. Son has a pretty good back. It's It's mostly traps. Most of the thickness is right there in the middle in in his upper upper middle area of the traps. The lats aren't really that thick. Andrew has much thicker, wider lats than he does. That is AI don't know if Andrew was really all the way in the pose because that is that looks pretty wonky. Very asymmetrical lat spread right there on on Andrew's part. Yeah, there it is again. Side try. I mean, look at his triceps compared to Sassan's there. They're They look like they're twice his arms are twice the size of Sassan's. I know it's not an arm contest. I mean, that's still a thigh. Yeah, Sassan much much sharper in the midsection. Quads are quads are a little more feathered. I don't know why Andrew hits that shot. I don't I don't like the hands on hips. Most muscles for him. I like either hands clashed in front or the crab. But he'll do he can do whatever he wants. He's He's Andrew Jack and I'm not. And ring that bell. Thank you, Don Pump. Donald Pump, our president president of the United States. Donald Trump Pump. This was a smart move by AJ. He knew he wouldn't need top location. Yeah, you know, there there is strategy involved at this at this level with these guys. Um, you know, they you got to be careful with the shows you pick. like if you want to if you need an Olympic qualification uh and you know to minimize things like traveling and and staying in prep for much longer, your smart strategic thing strategically wise thing to do is to find a show that you have a very very strong chance of winning even if you're not at your best. That way you can do just enough to win but you're not putting your body through that really brutal process of getting into that 100% condition. Then you can sort of take a little break, let your body rest, have a little bit of offseason, couple months of offseason, and then get into your Olympia prep. And you know, that's that's what Andrew did. Michael Kiso is a wild card for Pittsburgh. He's not going to win Black Patron, but he's going to look phenomenal. I'm a big creo fan. I think he's going to do pretty well. He's not beating Derek. Um I don't think he's beating Nick Walker. He's not beating Martin Fitzwwater. U beyond that, yeah, he could be as high as fourth. I don't see him beating any of those three guys though. He was trying to qualify early so forth. Yeah, I mean that's a smart thing to do. I'd say either you know the smartest thing to do but it's risky would be to qualify late at one of the later shows so that way you're you're you've only had to prep once. All these guys who are who are qualifying earlier in the season now they had to peak twice in the same year. Whereas the people who are going to qualify later in the year, they only had a peak for the for that later show and then the Olympia might be two, three, four weeks later. Actually, I think you have to I think the final Olympia qualifier is like four three or four weeks before the Olympia, maybe four weeks. But you know what I'm saying. The risk there is that say you pick one of those the last few shows before the Olympia, last maybe there's only two or three left and you don't win. Now you have to go do another one. What if you don't win that one? We've seen guys who they hit those last those last couple shows and they didn't get they didn't make it to the Olympia because you know other people had the same idea as they did and those people beat one of those guys won and that's the way it goes. Serge downsize lower body. Yeah, I agree. And that's weird, you know, because he's 40 and a lot of times we say the legs are the first to go and we see older guys lose their legs. We don't see we typically don't see the upper body going away until few years after the legs. Something is up with Sergio where he does seem to be losing losing it. Is there any good any more good pictures here? Let me see. Ah, there's a good shot. There's a good shot. The top four. That's a that's a nice shot. Got Justin, Andrew, Sass, and Sergio there. Okay. Can I make that even bigger? I think I can. How's that? Okay, that's about as big as I can get. Blocky Sergio. I wouldn't say blocky. I mean, compared to Andrew, everyone's waist looks blocky. Look how little his waist is. That's his genetics. He didn't he didn't do anything special to get that little waist. I don't think he like avoided any exercises or insulin or anything like that. I think he's that's his bone structure. He's very fortunate. He's blessed. Sergio's got a little wider waist. It's not a wide waist though. Bayou muscle which I assume you're from Louisiana in his size and overall muscle shape is hard to deny. Sass looked phenomenal but when compared he looks a little small. Agree. I mean next to so Sass is about he's 5'9. What do you think he's about? 240 250 maybe. So Andrew is 6'2 and he's he's somewhere around 290. He's a big big guy with great shape and structure and a little waist. I mean that that's just tough to beat even even if he's not that lean which he wasn't. Let's see. Sass phenomenal. Justin looked great. Could have been third. Sergios compete more. I agree. I hope Sergio keeps going. Um I think there's a one of the next shows coming up. I mean, he's I don't know about Pittsburgh. He might be a little might be a little bit intimidated by that lineup, but I mean, there's he should do New York Pro, even though Nick might win that. He should do Cali Pro. He's done that before, especially because the last time he did the Cal State Pro, Sergio was way off. He had just come back from Dubai where he had been, you know, incarcerated over a a motor vehicle accident where where uh somebody died, a guy on a scooter, I think it was. So, he wasn't at his best for that show. I'd like to see him come back to that and maybe win or at least come back looking way better than he did. And then you have Legion Sports the end of the month where I believe he was second to Shan Clarita the last time he did the Legion Sports. Was Rean second? I know Sergio and Regan were behind Shawn. I can't remember what the order was, but either of those shows would be a if he could win those, that'd be a nice a nice statement from Sergio. Joe Biden. What the Ashley? I don't know. I don't know what you're talking about. How danger is he that big care about? Well, Aryan, um proud member of the Aryan race. Aryan invade. Um or is it Aron? I'm saying Aryan. It's probably Aron. My bad guy. Um, it's it's a combination of size, shape, structure, and his condition was good enough. Uh, like I said, we're seeing the top four here. That guy on the left, Justin, I think he was probably leaner than any of the top three guys, but that wasn't enough. They had a little better sight. Look at the legs on Justin. They look phenomenal. Those quads. Um, but you know, size and shape, structure, they all factor in. It's total package. They're not looking at any one factor. It's it's the comb combination of all the factors. Derek win pit. He'll win Olympia. Samson gonna start fade. Needs to lose at least 10 pounds. Come as hard. Samson's always soft. I agree. I would love to see Samson come in lighter and just shredded. Shredded, dry, grainy fibers, muscle fibers. I would love to see that because Samson's got the best physique in the world. I I think best combination of size, shape, structure of anybody is Samson Da, the current Mr. Olympia. And we've never seen Samson shredded. I would love to see how that physique would look totally shredded to the bone. Even if he has to come in 10, maybe even 15 pounds lighter, I think it would be worth it. I think he would look so great that it would be worth giving up just a tiny bit of size and fullness. And he wouldn't have to give up much. The color is the awful overly bright lighting. They're all washed out. The lighting doesn't look bad in this picture, huh? I'd say in this picture doesn't look bad. There's more. There's another one. Okay. Doesn't look bad. Good glutes and amazing games while you were a competitor. Yeah, I did. Thank you. Andrew looked so smooth from the back that would not have shocked me if they were obsessed with the win. Well, it was one point and needs to start dealing it in dialing it in. As time will pass, he will keep getting passed over. I mean, he's only been to the Olympia three times by you. The first time was the year he turned pro and he got seventh place while he was sick and then he took fifth place two successive years after that. So, three times at the Olympia in three years as a pro. He's been the Olympia every year. He's been top 10 every every time. He's been seventh, fifth, and fifth. Third place at the Arnold Classic. He won the Arnold Classic UK. He's won the Texas Pro three times. 22 23. Yeah. Three times. So, uh I don't think Andrew is doing that that poorly. Stefan Keins and Chris are the busiest afterman. Trump and Miller Putin. H Stefan Kings is all hype as a coach. He got lucky with a couple guys. Now all their athletes are sinking. I mean, if he has if there's another show on Stefan's people all win, everyone's going to say he's the best coach ever. Jack once again looking like a novice. Wow. Wow. A novice. Good lord. You guys are being rough. Rough. You're being very rough. Do you see the scorecard? SAS was one prejudging. Oh, wow. Let's see. Where can I find the scorecard? Is it already up in the results? Oh yeah. Okay. Let's take a look. Let's take a look. Okay. You ready? Let's do that. Uh stop sharing and go to the scorecard, guys. I have not seen the scorecard. Let's take a look. Okay, so judging. Yes, Sassan won the judging. Can you see that? Wow. I want to make sure I'm sharing it cuz I've got a bad habit of not doing that. Okay. So, yeah. So, Sassan had four points and then Andrew apparently the judges thought he looked better at the finals. So, he won he won the finals with a perfect score. Uh, and in the end it was a two-point decision, not one point as previously reported. Andrew had eight points, the lowest score wins. 10 points right behind him was Sasa and Sergio. Looks like they had Sergio. A solid third the whole time. Uh 14 14. Let's see. Uh Justin was ahead in judging of Joseph and he was further ahead. Further ahead. Wow. They actually had uh this guy from Hungary sixth place. They hit they had him ahead of he ended up in sixth, but they had him placed higher than fifth place Ysef Kavan. Yeah. So, this is on IFBBRO.com, guys. If you go to the results tab, Jordan Gomez, Dion Nunes, and last place was Dennis Friedrich. Classic physique went to Valentine Petra from Bulgaria. I don't recognize too many of these names, unfortunately. Figure went to Jennifer Ziner from Germany. Look at all the Germans in Figure. My goodness. Bikini went to Ivana Escandar from USA. Okay. Yeah, I don't recognize any of those names. I confess I don't follow uh I don't follow bikini that closely. Leave up the back shot. Yeah. So, there's a good good comparison. You can see there that Justin was actually leaner. Fourth place guy. Gee, Sergio looks looks better in these shots. I think it's the lighting. Doesn't he look a lot leaner than when we just looked at that posing footage and it was the same same time frame because that was his finals routine. So the lighting in these shots, whatever they did here differently was worked very well. Can't wait to hear Tyler Mann's explanation. It's coming up on Monday morning, guys. Sass looked better tonight 100%. Well, I mean they the judges must have thought Andrew because based on the judging, if the show had been over after the judging or if the scoring had been over, then Susan would have won. We know that now. He was ahead of Andrew. He was ahead of Andrew. So, those of you when I did the video a couple hours ago who said Sassan had him winning, you were right. I was wrong. The judges saw it as Sassan beating Andrew this morning. They did feel and I don't see any improvement in condition. I'm looking, this is the finals. I don't think Andrew looks any better, any leaner necessarily. So, I'm not really sure what led them to do that. Yeah, Justin, the Justin Muzal from Germany on the left. He's in better condition than all of them. Absolutely is. Yeah. I mean, Andrew looks a little tighter from the front, but the back looks just as just as blurry as it did earlier in the day. I don't see any I don't see any improvement in the condition from the back at all. S four Andrew fiveing s3 finals 8 to 10. Andrew. Yeah. Yeah, that's what the scorecard said. So, it was a two-point decision. For all the structure, he has little to no symmetry. He does a splits in every routine. Well, if I could, if you could do a split, wouldn't you do one in your routine? I would. It's impressive to see a 6'2, 290 lb muscular guy doing splits. I mean, we used to see Flex Wheeler do it, and Flex was Flex was a big dude, too. He wasn't as as big and heavy as uh Andrew. It was like 70%. Now, it's down to 70%. Boy, oh boy. Angeles in Los Angeles they used that no one else used saying there words that the Mexican the Mexicans Americans in Los Angeles they had slang terms like chonies for underwear that I never heard anywhere else. Andrew is nowhere near 290. 278. Okay, my bad. I mean, 12 pounds away, but yeah, I hear what you're saying. I was just totally guessing. That was jacked at 85%. Bro, what are you smoking, dude? Are you arguing with the guy that said he was 70%. I don't know who you're arguing with cuz I keep putting him around 80 85%. I I think 85%'s fair. You do better condition that in the prejudging. They have a tend to marinate. That size is undeniable. He's huge. I mean, he's just a big big dude with great shape. I don't I don't like these hand on hit most musculars, though. I don't know why he insists on that. I think he's trying to play even in the most muscular shots. I think he's trying to show you the Vtaper and the small waist, but I would hit the crab like Sergio or or the the clasp like Sassan. I call that the clasp. I don't know why he insists on doing that. Those hand on hip versions is the most muscular. Sasa's best condition so far will be in the Mr. O. Well, he has to win something. He has to win something. Kyel Gustaf, he's got to win a show. And there's It's going to be rough. He's not going to win Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh's spoken for New York Pro. He's not going to win that. I mean, I don't think he's beating Nick Walker or Martin if Martin decides to do that. I mean, Dirk Derk might even decide to jump into New York. It's only a week later. I would not be I would not be shocked if Derrick Lensford does New York Pro. I'll say it right now. It's only a week after it's, you know, if he stays in Pittsburgh, it's it's like a 30 minute flight. You know, he could just hang out in New York for a couple days, train at Beon Steve's gym, you know, schmoo, win that show fairly easily, and he's never won the New York Pro. I mean, why not collect all these wins? He's got he's got a Mr. Olympia. He's got a 212 Olympia title now. Um, and he's got an Arnold Classic win. Why not just pick up the New York Pro while you're while you're at it? Sergio actually winning the front double. No. No. Let's go back. Sergio. Andrew's winning the front double. And I like Sergio. If I thought he was winning the front double, it's a great shot for him. It's a great shot for him. Uh, you can see the chest is really flat though. The waist is a little wider. If you look at Andrew, fuller chest, smaller waist. Uh, yeah, I like Sergio a lot, but Andrew's winning that pose. Justin looks really good there. Look at those quads on this Justin guy from Germany. Phenomenal quad development on him. Very impressed. Best quads up there. Better than Andrews. Better than better than uh Sass Sergio. He's got them all beat. Andrew needs better glutes, hamstrings, lower back. His friend Bonak at the formula for for one the best legs and glutes ever. Big thanks Ron probably talk by the crew. Yeah, appreciate you joining man. We're going to wrap it up pretty soon because we have a whole lot more to say. Sergio actually winning. Well, you might be able to argue he wins that one pose. Really had sass beating Andrew in the ab thigh. Come on, fam. Just on condition. Yeah. I mean, Andrew looks so good because he's got that taper. He's got those wide lats from the front. He's got the small waist. I don't know. But it was blurry that the abs were not looking great. Sass was ahead of Andrew by one point in prejudging. Yeah, I know. I don't like Sans physique. You don't have to. Andrew had the worst conditioning. Andrew's great physique is quite tedious poses. Posing sees a passable. Yeah, he doesn't put much effort into his posing. He looks kind of looks kind of lazy. Sergio living his best life. Scorecard is shady as [\h__\h] German. I don't think the Germans had anything to do with the scorecard. The judges are probably I don't even know if they had a single German judge. I'm sure it was mostly American judges. It flew over late. What did I miss? Well, you'd have to go way back. Your mom's flipflop. Watch the replay. Uh Andrew was smart knows. Who knows what's going to happen with Hottie and I now that Honey retired? Yeah. Was continue getting visa. Uh well, Hani retired from coaching, but Hadti is still Hadti Chupan is still an evagen athlete, meaning he's still an employee of the company, which is a US-based company. Um, so he might be able to get back here on like a work visa type of situation. Obviously, the whole visa situation right now is is uh questionable at best with Trump really cracking down on certain countries he's not fond of that he feels are, you know, terrorist uh abetting terrorists and things like that. But who knows what's going to happen. Andrew beat these guys so bad it was even close to be honest. Well, your mom's flip-flop. What actually happened was Sassan, we finally saw the scorecard. Sassan was beating Andrew in the judging. He had him beat by a point and then somehow Andrew got ahead of him at the finals and he ended up winning by two points. But Cassan was beating him earlier in the day. Street smart. Okay. Thank god he didn't resort to late Mike M's tongue sticking out. Yeah, I think a lot of people told him, "Don't stick out the tongue anymore, man. It's not It's not It's not a good look." Super this turkey you got coming up for dinner. What? What turkey? Talk about my the ground turkey I have at at 6:30 every day. Yeah, it's all right. Assassin Crow choose the right show. I'll give him the O. Yeah, there's not many there's not many I shouldn't say there's not many chances left. There are plenty of shows left, but he wants to do something soon. Jack gifted the show. Yeah, I thought he won. He did enough. It was close. And Cassan had him beat in the judging. It was close. I wouldn't have cried if Cissan had won. Show you right there. He definitely wins. They didn't see the whole show, but I mean there's no stream. We've seen some All the videos we're seeing are just from guy from people's phones that were up close. We haven't seen a really good quality video. I don't know if we will. I'm talking like a Gilco Productions quality. I don't think we're going to see anything like that. Uh, I do hope there was professional there were professional photographers there uh, who are going to be posting much better high resolution images than what we've been seeing. These pictures are actually pretty good. The ones we're looking at, these are the best ones I've seen so far. Actually, I think they give you a really good perspective of the top four and how they compare. These were taken at finals. The lighting looks a little better at finals than than what I saw earlier for the the judging. So, these pictures are pretty decent, but they're not professional pictures. And I say that because pro pictures, you wouldn't see anybody's heads. The photographers are usually set up right up front so they don't Nobody's heads are in their pictures. They're just uh great shots. Okay, couple more and we're going to go. Serge is very tall in this picture. He is about 6 foot. Sas 5'9, Andrew 6'2. Justin looks like he's close to six foot. Maybe he is six foot. Uh the Feebo has plenty of money. I don't know why they didn't they didn't stream it. They have plenty of money. Bree D from Desperado a while ago. I met Danny Tjo at a a horror convention a few years ago. Cool guy. He's actually much shorter than you think he is. I was still 5'8 at that time, I think. Maybe I was a touch under. Danny's about 57 at the at best. Danny Tjo. He's He's definitely not taller than that. Feels like judge trying to send here a message with the scorecard. No, I mean I think they're It shows you that they don't they didn't care. At least they're judging. They didn't care that he was Andrew Jack and he was this big superstar. They they put Cassan ahead of him. They had Cassan beating him. So if it was politics and they're going to just go with the big name and let's get Andrew to the Olympia, I think they would have just from the start they would have had him unanimous first place votes and they didn't. Too bad, Mr. Stream. Well, thanks. We're gonna I actually got to walk my dog Branch first so we get some time next time. All right, guys. I'm going to take off. Go walk my beautiful pitbull branch, the Bubbas. And I appreciate you guys all hanging out with me today. Great show over there in Germany. Cologne, Germany at the Fibo. And that is it. So, congratulations to Andrew. Let me get rid of that. Put up the Yeah, there are your results one last time, guys. We had Andrew Jack whose real name is Chenedu Obea first place and Olympia qualified. Sasan Harat Persian living in the United Kingdom. Sergio Oliva Jr. Justin Muzal from Germany fourth place looked fantastic. Czech Republic's Joseph big dude in fifth place. Solid solid show. And that's it. Appreciate you guys watching and we'll see you next time. Later.