Welcome, welcome, welcome to Power Hour with me, Ron Harris and Giles Tiger Thomas. We had quite a show over the weekend over in Cologne, Germany at the Fibo show. Surprise, last minute entry. Guy named Andrew Jacked spoiled the plans of several other competitors. Excellent competitors. Walked away with the win. Little bit of controversy. Little bit of controversy that we'll talk about. Uh, in the thumbnail, I just to let you guys know, it says Andrew didn't diet, question mark. That's not me saying Andrew didn't diet. That's addressing some ridiculous comments I was getting when I was doing the my reports yesterday on the show saying Andrew didn't diet because from and they said he looked like lasagna which is that's a new one on me lasagna. But uh Giles, you were following the show and you follow Andrew you know we we were both sort of shocked that he jumped into the show you more than me because he had told you he was doing something a pro show in China that was coming up later. Correct. Sorry. See how the game broke up there, mate? Oh, I said you he had told you he was doing a show in China to qualify. Yeah. Yeah, cuz we're trying to organize something um afterwards in Asia. And he told me um I I think I might have I think that might have been secret what he told me. I think I kind of blurted out and told you. He said I like I said, I didn't know whether it was kind of public news or not. He kind of told me uh June 21st he was going to do a show in China and she showed me the the screenshot from the pro league calendar and I was like oh I wasn't even aware there was an open show in China. said, "Oh, it's a new one." and all that. And um yeah, so that was that as far as I'm concerned, that was um that was his plan. Yeah. And what he told me and um and I was shocked than more shocked than anyone to see that um he jumped into this that one coming at all. Yeah. So I I listened a little bit to Chris Aceto on Dave Palumbo's show talking about what happened and I guess Andrew had planned on this but he was having visa issues. He was having difficulty arranging a visa to travel to Germany and that's why he kept it quiet because he wasn't sure and he didn't get the visa approved until Sunday before the Saturday show. So you know he literally entered at the last minute. He was prepping, but he wasn't certain by any means that he was going to be able to get to the show. Uh, you know, unfortunately for the other guys who entered, he did get to the show. Um, but, you know, condition from the front, I thought it was very comparable to the condition that we've seen at the last few shows. Uh, Arnold Olympia from the back. I agree. Not his best. I mean, give me a here's this is this is probably where we see the the condition lagging is from the back. Would you agree? Well, to be honest, um, at the pre-judging, uh, when he first came out, I was like, "Okay." Because he, because, um, I saw some pictures of him right a few days before the Arnold. I think it was two days before the Arnold. He sent me some hotel room shots because I was saying, I said, "Mate, you need to go to war on your legs in this next six months and because their legs look kind of, you know, a bit downsized at the the Arnold." And he says, "Oh, no, look at these pictures." And this was obviously before, you know, obviously whatever they do in the last couple of days. And his legs look nice and full. the sweep was nice and you know surround and he's just like yeah I didn't kind of peak properly again because I thought he looked a bit um I didn't peak properly at the Arnold Classic. He looked he didn't look as full in the upper body looked a bit not stringy but he didn't look how kind of I know like like this you know that kind of full round bubbly because the legs look nice and full there. The legs don't look as much of a weakness there. They look okay to me there but um yeah so but the pre but at the finals um I really liked his look from the front. I mean, look at the fullness and the roundness and the thickness. I mean, that when I when I see that, I mean, that's more like what I would love to see him at the Olympia. But, um, you know, obviously, you know, I'm I'm a conditioning snob. From the back, you know, the glutes, the hams. I mean, actually, that I mean, actually, at the finals there, he does look a lot better, but at the pre-judging, his conditioning from the back was very, very poor. I was like, [\h__\h] he's really left the door open for somebody arguably not as good as him as a bodybuilder, as a physique, to beat him. So he I mean as you know you Sassan beat him at the prejudging and I think that was absolutely 100% fair but thank god he was able to kind of pull it round for the for the finals because I think he looked absolutely fantastic at the final. I mean obviously that's not the kind of condition we'd want to see him at the Olympia but um because I like this big look but only from the front and the side from the like if he could get that fullness in the front and the side shots with better conditioning from the back I'd love to see him take that Olympia. Um but uh cuz I because I yeah I think he he won this by the skin of his teeth and I think he it was a bit of a gamble but he paid off because the end of the day he just wants to get his qualification now and he just basically wants to get to the Olympia. So um but I had no inkling whatsoever that he was going to do this show. So that was a huge shock to me. Um because thing is after the Arnold Classic he kind of he's going to carry on prepping anyway. He's not going to come off his prep. So he's probably just going to be still doing the same things same things. Um, so he probably he probably just it was a last minute decision. Um, probably thought, "Oh, well, you know, I've not really smoothed out from since the Arnold Classic." And, you know, maybe he could maybe just did like a sort of super cut, you know, with that last week or two weeks. Um, but look at the legs there. I mean, his legs weren't that full at the Arnold Classic. But, um, I like that. I kind of like this look from the front of the but not the prejudging. The pre-judging I was just like, "Oh, no, no, no, no." But, um, the look he brought at the finals, I I really like that. I like this kind of size and fullness because, you know, imagine that dried out. I mean, if he gets that combo right, then he's c I think he'll be I think he'll be uh really moving up at the Olympia because uh yeah, I yeah, see just that fullness is just that's a lot better than he brought to the Arnold Classic, but obviously the condition is not as good. So, if he can get that balance right, then I would absolutely love to see what he could bring to the Olympia because this this fullness and size is uh I'm really digging this. Yeah. And I think I think we should address the fact that you know there were people upset because not everyone not everyone understands how these things are judged and it's a it's a a matter of the total package. Size, shape, structure, conditioning. Conditioning is important but it's not everything. Sassan was in better condition. There's no argument about that. But said I don't think I think even Sign would probably concede Andrew's the better bodybuilder. He's it's the better physique. um you know he's just got more things going on that the width that structure those super round full muscle bellies and he if it was politics as as a lot of people seem to be crying crying foul the judges just gave it to him because his name is Andrew Jacked and they wanted to make sure he got the Olympia that wouldn't if if that were the case it would have been a perfect score all day long they would have given him first place straight across the boards and they did not do that sassan was actually ahead which is you know to his credit. Uh the hard work paid off. And they have the same coach, Chris Aceto. I'm not sure everybody realizes that. Um so yeah, it's it it's it was a it was a close win, but it was a justified win. I had no problem with him him taking this title. Can you imagine how confident now Sassan feels? I mean, I know, you know, Andrew was what 85%. But um like you said, the best man won on the day. It's like at the Olympia last year, Samson wasn't the most conditioned guy, even at the finals when he looked better, but he was the best man on stage. Overall, top toe, you know, when you take all elements of what constitutes a winning physique into account, you know, you can argue and say, well, so and so's harder, so and so's harder, but it's overall. It's the overall if you, you know, if you add it up, it's basically whatever the judges think. Okay, well, you know, obviously say Hadtie's harder, slight 2% harder, 5%, 10% harder or whatever. But, you know, overall package, um, Samson was the guy to win there. And exactly the same here as well. I mean, I'm just I'm just happy that he managed to tighten up quite a bit for the finals because it wouldn't have been a good look for s for sorry, Andrew to get beaten here because if he'd have come up to the pre if he had come to the finals looking like he did at the prejudging, you know, it would have been it would have been a complete waste of time for him. It wouldn't have been good for his, you know, his uh his sort of stock value. Do you know what I mean? In terms of that. But uh yeah, but I like I said, I love the full look. Um and now he's got his qualification done out the way. So um but he won this by the absolute skin of his teeth and like you said, it was judged properly because Sassan did win the prejudging and rightly so. Yeah. You know, people get mad if someone comes into a qual one of these a top level Olympian because that's what he is. He's he's been fifth place in the world two years in a row. They get angry if they come into an what they consider an easier show, which you know, most shows compared to the Arnold Olympia are easy. There's a few that are of higher caliber obviously, but for him to come in at what do you Let's call this 85%. Is that is that fair? That's fair. So for him to come in 85% and and win and get his qualification. I just see that as strategy. Why would you bother to take your body to get from that 85% to 100% that's a lot. It takes a lot a toll on the human body mentally, physically. Uh there's a lot to get involved in getting to that super dry shredded look. Why would he do that for a show at 85% he could almost certainly win and he did? Uh I I don't I don't see the problem with that. I think it's smart. Well, yeah. Plus plus he shows that his like this is this is a fuller bigger look for him. And you just think I mean I keep thinking looking at this now I'm thinking imagine him if imagine that drier from the slightly drier from the front and much much drier from the back but with that fullness and pop. I mean that to me is that can stand next to Samson and Hadi and and Derek and obviously really really challenging. This is no, this is a guy that will be moving up from fifth place and we'll be, you know, because the top three we've got Hadi, Derek, and Samson in our heads as being the top three and he's kind of like a fourth to sixth place guy, but with this size and fullness with better conditioning and getting that ratio right of the conditioning and size. I mean, that to me is I mean that I mean I can imagine that as a that would make an amazing Mr. Olympia. Um, but not like not what he brought at the Arnold Classic because he kind of looked a bit stringy. He kind of he was like his delts and stuff were lean and there was areas of his physique that were lean but the legs looked kind of like the life had been sucked out of him, you know, because obviously when you um when you when you drop down and you know the water and you know the cut and everything um it usually comes off those body parts that are you know like the legs and stuff obviously which s which um which Andrew you know his legs aren't small but they're they're obviously that's a that's a body part he really has to sort of it comes off there first basically. Yeah. Um, so, um, but, um, I I I just I love this big look, but like I said, from the back, I was kind of like looking the other way because you know me, I'm AI'm a total conditioning snob. But at the finals, it was good enough. It was good enough to just squeak past and win it by two points. So, um, yeah, I mean, that is um, imagine that just ripped to the bone with that kind of force. I mean, that to me is a that'd be a perfect Mr. Olympia. I mean, if Samson shows up super dry and shredded like we've never seen before and Andrew does, too, I would not bet against both of them beating Derek and Hottie in, you know, strange stranger things have happened, guys, in this sport. Don't don't think we're we're insane for saying that I'm I'm nuts for saying that. Um, no, I totally agree. No, I totally totally agree. I mean, I personally, just for my like style of physiques, I would love to see Derek and Andrew, sorry, Andrew and Samson as the top two. you because um they're both I mean I've always said that you know um when Andrew came up I said Andrew is nipping right at Samson's heels and if Samson could just do enough to just slightly stay ahead of enough constantly because Andrew was always going to get better and better because he only started in 2021. So for him to keep moving forward um he's going to you know to try and stay ahead of someone like a like an Andrew you know then he's he's he's golden. Yeah. Here's a here's a good side by side. I mean, from the front legs, he's significantly fuller in the legs than he than he was at the Arnold a few weeks ago. Correct. Yeah. Yeah. I in many ways, like I said, from the front, I actually preferred this look to the Arnold classic look, but like I said, just from the back, you know, that's where it kind of like fell down a bit because we we all we all want to see better conditioning from the back. I mean, especially around the glutes and the hams and um and also there there's something something going on in those calves which I don't really like. Yeah. Yeah, I mean he's getting he's getting some comments about SEO, whatever some substances. They're saying triceps, shoulders, calves. The calves are kind of kind of oddly shaped. I have to I have to admit, but you know, this shot right here shows you he wasn't that hard from the back at the Arnold either. It really isn't that much. Yeah. Yeah, true. That I mean I I have to ask him what his different because he'll always tell me. I I'd love to know the difference in body weight from the Arnold Classic to the um to the to this show, the the Fibo show, because I I think it would be quite significant because he seemed like a lot I like he just completely size-wise I mean he absolutely dwarfed everyone. Um, so but also also Sassan's still not got all the size back in his upper body since if you look back at 2017 and 2018 when he was sixth in New York Pro and then he was second in Cali and stuff like that. 2018 all those shows he did like his legs his legs are back and his legs and his upper body is just slightly fuller than it was last year when he did the Empro and he took was it fourth or fifth over there but yeah a fourth but upper body wise he's still not got all that thickness back that he had a few years ago. So there's a guy that um and the condition was fantastic, but I still think we haven't seen um anywhere near the best of Sasan. I think we're going to see it in the next year or so though because he's getting confident now. He's got Dubai on the cards. He's doing the Empro um and uh I yeah I um I still think um another six months, another year, I think we'll maybe see a much much fuller version in the upper body because he's he's he's a big guy, Sasan. But uh I remember exactly how much thickness he had in his upper body, right? Especially around the chest and the shoulders and stuff like that. He was a lot thicker and fuller um a few years ago, but um like I said, he's still on he's still on his road back really. So yeah. Yeah. I mean um it would have been great had he won. He would have got his Olympic qualification. And the fact that he if he had beaten Andrew Jack, that would have been a tremendous feather in his cap, as we say. People would be like, "Wow, he just beat the guy who's fifth place in the world. He's uh he's one of the best out there." there. But I I think it also helps because there's a little bit of controversy where a lot of fans were upset that Sassan didn't win. And I think that gave him a lot of hype and buzz that he can carry that moving forward. People weren't really talking about Sassan that much. I mean, second place to Bonak at Detroit was great, but second place to Andrew Jack. Andrew is a little higher level at this point than William. So, I think it was a was probably a winning would have been great, but second taking second place I think was probably just as good for for his uh for his hype and everything and moving forward as the year goes on. One thing I don't understand is why do why do people say that Sassan has no back? Because I'm just looking at his radible bicep there and his rear lat spread and his his back looks pretty bloody decent to me. What do you think? Uh, I'm gonna look again because uh I I think his back the issue with his back is it's not that it's lacking development or condition. Let me find a back shot. He just doesn't have the widest clavicles. Um yeah, when he hit when he hit the back shots next to next to is a there's a different angle or different lighting. Andrew Andrew's back wasn't as clearly delineated. He didn't have the definition in the back, but it was so much wider and thicker because Andrew's got those clavicles that are four feet across and Sass doesn't have that. He's he's got more of that Phil Heath structure with. He doesn't have narrow clavicles. None of these guys have narrow clavicles, but they're probably average or a little above average where Andrew has exceptional clavicle width. And you know, when you're talking about your back, uh, the wider those clavicles are, you have that frame, it just looks so much more impressive with a wide wide frame than it does with a a more narrow frame. Here we go. I was I was also just happy to see that um his conditioning was better than Detroit as well because, you know, he brought good conditions and he's always he's always been well conditioned. I remember when I used to see him back at the um the British back in 2015 and he always had good conditioning and um yes, he's back. That's a good real break. I think look at the everything everything the lower back the you know the romboids everything it's all nice and thick and and thick and chunky I think it looks absolutely fantastic then yeah absolutely I mean they're already talk they're already trying to speculate he hasn't qualified yet so it's it's moot point but I think he will qualify at one of these shows coming up um and you know they're saying top 10 I think top 10 is very realistic I don't see him doing you know top five or six is pretty much locked up he's not cracking that But I could see him squeezing into the top 10 this year possibly. Olympia. Yes. Yes. No. No. Not yet. Okay. I mean, it's crowded. I don't think so. I don't think he's a top 10 guy yet. No, I don't think I I don't think he's a top 10 guy yet. I think he's um I I think he would Yeah, he'd get exposed at Olympic because you think actually if you actually think about who will be in that top 10 this year, um I I think he'd struggle to make top 10. I really do. I think he's not quite there yet. Um I think he's like an 11th to 15th place guy which there's no shame in that. I mean it's the Olympia it means you're like in the top 15 best physiques in the world. You the guy that people have completely forgotten about a couple of months ago. I mean obviously not Brits but um you know people are saying who's this guy Detroit people are saying who's that guy? That guy on the left's good. I'm like don't you know who Sassanderati is? You know they were really like so I was like thinking now obviously there's a lot of new fans that come on who probably had no idea because like the last time he compete was 2018. obviously took took that time off to have a family and everything, but um yeah, he's uh I just um I mean the legs are just sensational. You know, I mean, the conditioning and everything, but um he's still not regained all that thickness back in, like I said, the chest, the shoulders, the arms, you know, there's this the best is very much still yet to come from Sasa. Right on. I mean, that that's a great place to be when you we have more more to give. Uh and he's not beating let's let's be honest, he's not beating Barus in Dubai. Oh. Oh, probably not. Probably not. No. You know, like I said, come on, guys. There's levels to this. Don't get I know we all get excited when we see someone and they look great and the condition's great, but um you know, Sassan's doing really really well. Um and hopefully he can try and get a qualification, but um you know, Beu like you've got Beerus, you got Rubial, we've got Kriso who's doing Spain, you know, so realistically is he gonna is he going to beat guys like Kriso? Is he gonna beat guys like Rubial? Um I don't know. I mean, let's see when he stands next to him. Yeah, it's going to be tough. It's going to be very very tough. So, third place, Sergio Leo Jr. in his first show since June of 2023. Also, his first show with Stefon Keynel, the boss of Outlaw. Uh, it was a good comeback. I I honestly didn't have him as high as third. Really? I had that Justin guy ahead of him. Justin Muzo. He was good. He was really good. He's really coming on strong, that guy. Yeah. And the reason the only reason I say that, I mean, I thought Sergio had pretty good condition. Uh, upper body, I've seen his upper body bigger and fuller than this. This was not It's like you said, you know how good how much Yeah. You like you said with Sassan, you've seen bigger Cassan in the past. You know what he's supposed to look like. Sergio's not quite there yet. He's still impressive. Uh that chest needs to come up. When he puts his arms up, it goes very flat. More chest and definitely more back, but you know, the limbs are the limbs have always been good. Arms and legs on Sergio. What What did you think of his comeback comeback show? Yeah, he looked good. He looked good. Looked really good. Um I thought you look good. Legs look great. But um to me he always looks flat. That last show was it Legion he did a couple of years ago when he took third was it a couple years ago and it was um and he just always looks really he never looks full and dense. He always looks kind of like looks always looks a bit flat. I don't know what's what's wrong with the peing process but um I you know I think I think he just needs to do more shows this season. I think because he's got lovely structure, he's got great legs. He's got some great body parts. Um, and um, but I think I think he'll get better as the shows go on. I reckon another I reckon because I think he should do the Masters Olympia now. He's 40. I think he'd be absolutely thrown to not do that one. Um, so I think um, I think we need to do I think I want to see another, you know, maybe go do Legion or Toronto or whatever whatever the shows are coming up. Um, maybe do Spain as well. I don't know where he's living now because he seems to move around a lot, but I'd like to see him California. I believe he's back in California. Okay, we could do the Cali Pro then. I mean, he's um maybe if he's back home as well, he's not traveling and he's not, you know, it's um it's not as not as stressful for him. So, we maybe compete better for that. But I think I think he'll I think he needs a couple a couple of shows to get warmed up. I think uh another one or two shows and I think he'll see I I think he'll just get better and better as the season goes on. Yeah. And and also first prep with with uh Stefon, I mean, coaches need time to figure out bodies. It's very rare that they can strike strike it perfectly on that first first prep together. Uh so this was was backstage. True. Yeah. But yeah, this is this is a good a good starting point for a comeback. I agree with you. He should just keep going. I don't want to see him disappear again for a year. He's he's 40 years old now. The clock's ticking. There's there's not a whole lot of time to make this happen. Yeah. And you know, this is a guy we were talking about when he turned pro is possibly a future Olympia winner. And so far, he hasn't gotten anywhere near that, but it's not to say that it can't happen with improvements. So, you know, wishing me the best of luck. Wishing you the best of luck. Let's see who else we got here. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think um Yeah, I think um I'd love to see him peak at the Masters Olympia. I think that would be really cool. Yeah. Now, did they they haven't nailed down the the list yet. I know people had to had to submit entry or submit applications for it. I you know, but I don't think they're going to say no to Sergio if he really really wants to jump into the Masters Olympia. Yeah, I don't think. No, I think he should. I think I think he'd be um Do you know what? Actually, I see what you mean by this guy because this guy's really good, isn't he? I mean, this guy looks thick and dense and I'd love to see that level of density on on Sergio with his structure, you know, that beautiful shape and symmetry that he's got because um this guy's coming up. I think this is um he didn't really because he did Detroit, didn't he? Yeah, he was sixth place in Detroit. Um yeah, he didn't stand out as much in Detroit as he did here. I think he stands out quite a bit here. I mean, look at the legs on the side. Nice sharp delineation. He's got nice thickness, nice fullness, nice condition. He's uh he's impressive. He's really impressive this guy. Like he's definitely one to watch. He was in better condition than the top three. Look at that. Definitely was was sharper even than Cassan. Um he's only 26 years old. 26. So he's got time on his side. Yeah. I think we're going to be one to watch. So thick, so dense, and he's still growing. He's not done yet. And I think that's all he really needs because a little bit more size, maybe a little bit, you know, arm arms look fantastic in the front double, maybe some more tries for those side shots. But yeah, this kid is he's got the condition nailed down. Yeah, those legs. Legs. Yeah, legs are just they're just they're just they're really like they're compact, aren't they? Really stacked full of muscle. They're really like fighting for space. Yeah, absolutely. And I want to go to look at that. Look at that bicep is enormous in that shot. Looks great. I want to see if they have I think But you know what? You know, I know I keep I know I Ron Ron Ron, you know, I'm going to keep saying it, but I'm seeing so many shiny side delts, mate. Are on this guy. I'm seeing it on Hang on. Yeah, look, you can just see when they're moving around. I can see it on Sassan. I can see it on this guy. Um, you know, well, you know my feelings on that. I just absolutely hate it. I hate it. I wish they would stop, you know, doing that to their side shoulders. It's really, it's not cool. It's too bad there's just like nowhere on the body you could put all the gear and it would never uh never hurt the physique in any way, the appearance. Wouldn't that be something? In the in the glute. In the glute. I mean, most of the glute is showing unfortunately with these trunks we have these days. So, I want to see if we can find anything. Yeah. Well, this was uh Joseph. I want to see if we have anything on fifth place because we had we had mentioned Joseph. Uh is this is this RX? Yeah, the fifth place guy was Oh yeah, Kavitan. I want to find his He's got some stuff on his own. I want to see if he's I hope he's got video on his own page. Yseph, because I want to give him some credit. I like I like I like Joseph. Joseph looks good. Let's see. Okay, here we go. Here we go. Yeah, look at that condition. Definitely a tall guy. You can tell he's tall looking at that. But yeah, shredded shredded beef. He's kind of like AI think he's even better conditioned than um he's even better conditioned than the other guy. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. Look at that. Grainy, dry. Look at the the glutes from the side there. Those notches. Yeah. It's just, you know, didn't he rip his pec right before? Didn't he rip his pec right before the knee pro? Was it right before was it? I heard it's probably true. I mean that was uh three three four years ago. Four years ago at this point. Yeah. Yeah. It was literally like I heard some story. I can't I'm trying to recall the exact story, but someone said he ripped his pec or something right before the show or he went into the show with a rip pec or something. But uh yeah, I mean look at the condition. The condition is fantastic. I mean imagine Andrew in that conditioning with that fullness that he had. I mean that's a Mr. Olympia. Oh I mean I'm imagining Andrew. I'm imagining Samson with that kind of condition. you know, just skinless. I was actually having I was having this debate on another podcast about are are some people, you know, they it was with Phil Clayhar and and Matt Sinkering on Muscle Discord and they were saying that a lot of the the uh guys of African ancestry, they have thicker skin and they can't get that really fibrous look. Uh, and I don't know if that's true or not, but it's it's too bad. That's sounds like it sounds like an excuse to me, mate. I mean, we all have the same metabolisms and everything. We can all get lean, but I I don't know if the skin is Yeah. Sounds kind of It's always It's always a con It's always It's always nice to have a convenient excuse, isn't it? When uh you can't achieve something, it's Oh, well, it's a it's a it's a heredit. It's a like a genetic thing. It's my, you know, my my body type or, you know, my sort of ancestry or something. I just think I don't know. Um I don't know about that. I don't know. I think you just got to maybe some people do have to work harder than others. But um you know and maybe and sometimes maybe I just don't think people know what real conditioning is because we can all look in the gym and you know we've had people look at you in the gym and you're shredding. You're like no I'm not I'm kind of a good few weeks out here. But uh it's um and it's and it is it is some it just it is harder for some people. I mean like you know and to be honest someone like Andrew he said to me he says I never I I'm never like really out of condition. He says, "I just if anything I just my body weight kind of comes down and I I kind of like plateau. I don't kind of go off on up really highs and lows on his body weight." You know, he's just a naturally because he's naturally quite an athletic guy as well. Even at like 280, 290, he's um he's quite, you know, he's he's very flexible. He's very athletic. You know, you could imagine him running super fast in in 100 meters or something. Even when he's, you know, like like in in this this kind of, you know, he's uh he said to me, he said he can he can run up a 20 foot wall. What? He said, "I've got Yeah. No, he said he said no. He said he said to me, he said, he said, "Give me a 20 foot wall." He says, "I can scale it." He said, "I can I can actually run up a wall." Like he's like he's that agile. No, because he did because the reason he got into bodybuilding is because he wanted to be in films. So, he did like a lot of like stunt training and all fight training and stuff like that. So, he's like he's he could go into a Marvel movie now because he said that's why he that's why he started bodybuilding because he wanted to be into be in like action movies. So, he's done he said I can do all this. He's like he can do that um you know the press ups when they clap. Yeah. Yeah. Like and they go up they go up in the air like he was telling me on the tour he was telling me about all the things he can do. He said Charles I could do it literally. I could pull over the side of the road now. I could do it on the road here now. Like it's like you was honestly like you know and obviously you know he does all the the he um he's not naturally flexible. He actually has to work at it. So you know he can do the splits. I mean this is this is this guy. I mean he's the he's like Kevin of Rome. Remember Kevin Aone ran that 200 100 or 200 meters or whatever like and he's no it was like 240 250 shredded like some of these guys are just they're just they're just they're just a different breed you know they're just just a different breed. I mean he's you know I mean Andrew is like um he's a he's strong but he's also like super fit and you know agile and you know he's not like a big lumbering oaf. Do you know what I mean? He's not sort of uh muscle bound. I mean, and he does all this this kind of like Yeah. this like kind ofthenic and kind of uh um this sort of core like he does all this. He was telling me all about all the different types of he does all these different types types of stuff in the gym and because he said I don't want to just be big. I want to be I want I want to be functional as well. Um because one day he might just get the call. He might just get somebody who says, "Oh, look, you know, um, you know, I've been looking for someone like you in a film and, you know, we're making a new type of, you know, whatever." And, you know, the next thing you know, he's a massive superstar. You know, like Jamie the Giant when he went into the Gladiators and he's doing TV work and, you know, there's like Martin Ford, you know, there's a specific there's not there's not many if you're looking for someone like like a 300 pound 6'2 6 foot three guy. There's not many of them about that are, you know, got like a 34 inch waist, 32 inch waist, you know, there's it's very it's a very very niche, you know. So when you when you get people like that and they get involved in the film industry, they can get mold they can get part like Martin Ford is constantly working. He's constantly doing stuff because he's 6'7 and he's absolutely gigantic. So um there's not there's not a big pool of those types of um those body types basically is what I'm trying to say. Yeah. And I, you know, I do know that he used to do before bodybuilding, he was into CrossFit, which it's incredibly difficult. There's, they have to do such a wide wide variety of things in CrossFit, you know, it's it's it's weights. It's doing things like ring dips and uh, dude, handstand, push-ups, and walking on your hands, and jumping up onto these high boxes, and it's all it's super athletic. I mean, it's bodybuilders like to like to make fun of CrossFit, but the vast majority of them would be hardressed to get through a single CrossFit workout. Trust me. But it's it's what you go to the gym to do. Like he like he was only he only became a bodybuilder like four years ago. But he said, "I've been training for years and decades." Do you know what I mean? I've been training for a long long time. You know, like you had someone like Dorian that wanted to be something. He so he went he wanted to get as big and as strong as possible. Ronnie, I wanted to get as big as strong as possible. There's certain things they didn't really care about. you know, they do cardio for their training and stuff like that because they had to, but they they their goals were, "Okay, I just want to get as big and freaky as possible, as dry as possible." Someone like Andrew before he decided to start bodybuilding, you know, and somebody talked him into doing a show in, you know, like four or five years ago, he was um he was training for for for different reasons, you know. Oh, he looks See, I didn't I didn't really like that Arnold Classic. Look, he was hard, but he lost a lot of um he lost a lot of thorns. Mind you, when I watched the live stream on the big screen in that gym the other week, he he impressed me more than actually when I saw like videos like this on small screens, you know. Yeah. Yeah. That was it was a tribute to Cedric McMillan. I didn't figure that out till later because Cedric did. Yeah. He told me that. He told me that. Yeah. And he said the mask the first mask he came out was a tribute to Arnold for the Terminator. And this was a this was a tribute to Cedric. Yeah. So, moving forward, he's got time now. Yeah. I'm glad he's not jumping in the You know, Pittsburgh would be a better show with Andrew in it, obviously. Stop it. Stop it, Ron. Stop. He's not doing Pittsburgh. Come on. Get Get that idea out of your head. There is absolutely even if even if he hadn't have won this, there's no way he's doing Pittsburgh. And I But then again, you know, I've been wrong before. You know, there was once 13 years ago I was wrong. So, um you know, and uh you know, I never forgave myself, but um yeah, I I think he's he's shutting it down now. He's just going to get ready for the Olympia now because thing is, don't forget, he works as well. he's got his engineer business and uh you know he's um he's a he's a busy guy you know so um like for him now to be able to you know shut it down this is this is a really this was a gamble that really did pay off I mean like I said it nearly didn't so it would have been um it would have been and it wouldn't have been good for him to get beaten by a guy who's you know never won a pro show never done the Olympia it wouldn't you know and he's a top five Olympia you know uh guy two-time it wouldn't have been good for him to get beat so he won this and he won it by the skin of his teeth but a win's a So, um, yeah, I'm just I'm really really happy and I just I would love to see the fullness from Fibo in the front and the side, but with, you know, a condition like we've never seen before from the rear. And I'm telling you what, that would be that would be one of my I'd be that would be one of my the greatest things I could see this year if he managed to get that combo right with him and Aito. I mean, that would be that's a Mr. Olympia. I mean, I think I think Samson, I think Derek, I think Haddie, I think they'd all be in trouble if they if he stripped off backstage and he looked like that then. Um, I just um I I think they'd [\h__\h] their pants. I honestly do. I don't think they [\h__\h] their pants. You know, we're talking about Samson and him both maintaining their size and fullness. You know, that remains to be seen if it's possible to keep that size and that really full look. Yeah, it's tough. That's it's it's something all these pros struggle with every single time they compete. Yeah. I mean, you know that we all like we all ribb on Samson for the condition even though he's current Mr. Olympia. Let's not forget that. You know, sometimes, you know, we we we say, "Oh, it's, you know, he's not suffering hard enough. He's not working hard enough." Like, these guys are actually working hard enough. It's just that the higher up in when you're hitting like sort of plus 260, 250, even 250 plus, it is difficult to get that ratio right of fullness, conditioning, it gets harder and harder and harder. So, you know, so like a Keon, I can say, oh, you know, Keon would be a great open guy, but you know, he's 200 pounds, you know, Samsung's 300, Andrew's 280. So, um, it's easier for these these kind of smaller and the classic guys, you know, it's easier for them to get in condition. It is it's it's more tricky to get that combo right. So I can imagine the it must be very stressful as well especially when people keep going on and on and on about conditioning you know um even when they win people say oh yeah we still you know had you was so much better conditioned so and so was better conditioned but um you know but one day you know I mean obviously sometimes you just got to be able to pull something together that is good enough to be the best guy on stage like Samson was at the finals last year at the Olympia he was the best man on stage and he right rightly won and I think Andrew at the finals here at Fibo was the better man because he was just like twice the size of Sassan. I mean he I don't want somebody said he made Sassan look like a 212. I mean don't get me wrong that's no disrespect because Sassan looks fantastic and Sasan won the prejudging and I think that was good judging but um he kind of you know you kind of do see the difference even in I mean this is in the open and you got a guy that's making you know a guy like a top five Olympia next to a really really good pro that's up just really really coming back strong but he kind of made him look you know um like small. Yeah. And you know, I I I forgot to mention earlier that uh Chris Aceto said he had no idea what Andrew Wade at this show or at the Arnold. He says, "I haven't got a weight from Andrew in six months. We don't focus on weight. We purely go on uh how how he's looking." So, I'm sure Andrew might know what he weighs. I I like every other meatthead, I'm sure he steps on a scale at least once or 10 times a day. But yeah, I'll ask him. I'll ask him. I want to watch because I got to speak to him about something. Yeah. So, yeah. I mean it what he looked to me about the same same size as I don't know maybe Texas last year a little bigger and fuller. So, yeah. I mean like I said Texas was a nice look last year. I mean I was very we were all very excited when we saw him come out of Texas. He looked absolutely incredible. But I mean that it's just I love his structure. I love his wide shoulders, his small waist, small joints. I mean, it's um it's like he's just he's got he's just he's he's bringing different looks and there's different qualities and but I think um see even there like I'd still like to see his legs dry up, you know. But overall, I think that was probably one of his best looks we've ever seen. But um you know the Olympia is really like you know any any sort of any weakness in any area of your body is going to be exposed when you're next to guys like Derek Hadtie Samson you know like Martin Nick you know all these even guys like Kriso you know these guys are sort of of a certain level so Hunter you know you've got to Bonak you've got to bring Brandon you've got to bring you've got to bring all those qualities together um because for him to move up he's going to have to step over bodybuilders that have been, you know, handily beaten him like Haddie, like Samson, you know, like Derek. So, we'd have to see that combo of conditioning and fullness absolutely bang on. And I know that's not easy, but unfortunately, that's the reality of it. So, otherwise, he's he's he's probably not going to climb higher than fourth or fifth. Let's be honest. No, absolutely. I mean, like I said, it's crowded at the top. You got you got four Mr. Olympia champions competing this year at the Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, okay, just just to take your point about Sasan being top 10, like think of all the guys I've just mentioned there and then maybe add in um Tonio Burton, um John Dwick, guys. I mean, like Sassan would have to the obviously he would have to beat guys like that. Regan to get into the top 10. I mean, you can reel off I could probably reel off 12 names that would realistically beat Sasa. So, and if they all turn up to the Olympia and they all look good and not one of them messes up, then he's he's he's not where he's what what he's brought so far is good, but it's not, you know, it's it's not realistically going to beat guys like that. You know, Ake, Brandon Curry, you know, Brandon Curry's coming back strong, you know, Bonak, um I mean, we off some other names. I mean, it's um Veto, you know, guys like that. You don't know. I mean, Sasan would have to beat guys like that, you know. So, you know, there's um if you actually look at the list, if we actually went down the list of qualified and who's likely to qualify, you'd have to be like, "Oh [\h__\h] there's like 12, 13 guys. I'm not sure with what we sans brought so far, he can get past." So, um so like I said, sometimes people just forget who's actually in the show and who actually is out there. Like like someone like Ton Burton, I've completely forgotten about him because I haven't seen him compete in a while. Right. Right. You know, it's like it's like it's like I'll be honest, Terrence Ruffin now. People are um people have kind of forgotten about him, but because he took that year off, but I'm seeing the updates and I'm saying, do you know what? I think the Olympia is going to come down between between him and Solfield. I really really do. And most people are probably like, "No, what about Raone? What about um what about what about um uh Logan Franklin and stuff like that?" Because that's what happens. We see so many good guys coming up. Um if someone doesn't compete for a while, they completely pop out of our heads. Let's be honest. We have such short memories in the sport. Like, you know, someone does poorly at a show, they suck. They're washed up. They need to give up. Give it up. But soon as they look good again at one other show, everyone's right back on their fan base. And I mean I mean, can you believe that I'm I'm now sticking up for Nick Walker on the comments? Do you know what I mean? Like last year we I I you know, I didn't exactly like him that much and now we've kind of made up and everything. Now I'm kind of sticking up for him because people are like, "Oh, he's washed up. He should retire. He's not going to win this. he's not going to do that. I'm like, look, you know, he's still the current New York Pro champion. He's been fifth and third in the Olympia. And of course, they all might come back to smart comments. Oh, no. That was years ago. And it's like, oh, look, you know, you know, as soon as he gets he wins New York Pro or maybe say just just put it out, just say somehow he beats Derek at Pittsburgh and he beats Martin, you know, which which is conceivable could happen. I'm not saying it will, but it wouldn't be the biggest shock in the world if he came up and we're like, "Holy shit." But the thing is when he gets to when he gets to the Olympia everyone all those people now I hope they feel really really stupid because sometimes [\h__\h] happens but you know you know how fickle bodybuild fans are and thing is Instagram gives access for all the casual fans who don't really know what they're talking about. gives them all a voice. And sometimes I kind of wish they didn't have the opportunity to have a voice because some people obviously you don't you almost don't want to like when somebody makes a comment like um you know like somebody like Sassan top six Olympia. I'm like no he's not going to be top six he's got to qualify yet. He hasn't even won a pro show and now you're saying he's going to you almost want to reel off like sort of seven eight names and say do you think he's going to beat these guys? What about these guys who probably are going to struggle to make top 10? Do you think he's going to beat those guys? So, um, yeah, sometimes you just, um, you just got to kind of let it go. But, uh, yeah, the like like I said, like people people like really ribbon on Nick Walker and I'm like, you know, like I wasn't I'm not the biggest fan of his even of his physique, but like let's not let's not forget he won the Arnold Classic. He's, you know, he's third in the Olympia, fifth in the Olympics, won the New York Pro twice. I mean, that is no and he's only been around like what, four or five years. That's not he's not he's not a dud and he's not washed up, you know. I mean, what was he 31 or something? 31. He only turned pro in 2020. 20 2020 I think it was 2021. Was he still in his 20s? Um he might be he might be only about 30. Ron Ron how how many people said Derek Lunswood was washed up after looking third at the the Olympia. Like the guy he I know he's 30 31 and people were saying he's washed up and I'm like he's just won the Olympia. He's won you know he's just won the Arnold Classic and now people have changed their minds again. It's like he's 30 30 years old. 30. I mean, come on. I mean, you know, he had that he was he was unlucky, but I mean, you know, he's he's not and he's not gonna he's probably not gonna be as low as eight like Bob Chick said. I know it was a flippant comment. It was like a kind of off the cuff. I mean, he's probably going to be up in that top six again. So, and he said to Al He also said to me, he said, "I'm going to win I said uh you I said you Nick will read it here first. I said Nick will win the New York Pro and be top six Olympia." And then he says, "No, Pitts," like basically saying, "No, I'm going to win Pittsburgh and I'm going to beat Derek." Basically, by virtue of that, he's going to beat Martin. He's going to beat Derek. So, it's going to be exciting. Well, you have to believe you can win. If you don't believe you can beat everyone going in, why are you doing this? How many How many people are Derek fourth place coming into the Arnold Classic this year? And now we're all thinking I'm thinking actually there's a possibility that Derek could win bloody everything this year. Of course. And if he does, let me tell you because I said it's the Pittsburgh is him doing all these shows spaced out so far. Is it a terrible idea or is it a great a great plan? If he wins Pittsburgh and wins the Olympia, it was the greatest idea ever. If he doesn't win either or both, it was the worst mistake ever. So, it's it's it's time is going to tell. Exactly. Exactly. And we never like I didn't I I wouldn't have even conceived that he could have beat Samson at the Arnold Classic before the Arnold Classic, but when you saw him on stage, you're like, "Holy [\h__\h] this is this is this is happening. This is happening." You know, and uh and the more I the more footage I see from the Arnold Classic, the more I actually think he won it quite clearly. So, how can you now not say and now so but you know, two months ago, people were saying, you know, what is he even doing it for? He's washed up. He should retire. And now he's like, "Oh, he there's a potential he might win the Olympia for the second time." So, you know, that'll be his third Olympia title potentially. Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, uh I think that's that covers the Fibo Show. Congratulations to Andrew Jack. You got your ticket to Olympia. We knew you'd get it somewhere. We were a little surprised at how you popped up there at the sneak attack and uh kind of shattered the dreams of a few guys, but that's it's the way the cookie crumbles, man. Tough titty, as we say. Everyone's everyone's trying to win. So, uh, congrats to him and all the other competitors. And, uh, Giles, thanks for doing this, man. Uh, you have a great insight, especially with Andrew, knowing Andrew from, uh, your tour. Have you you've done one or Yeah, you've done one tour with him. I'm sure there's going to be another one coming up, right? One tour. Yeah. And I'm I'm looking to plan another one. We We're in discussions. I'm trying to pull it together because this is a bit this one's a bit of a level up, this one, you know. So, but I'll always try to make it happen, you know, because sometimes there we can pull tours together and sometimes we can't pull tours together. But also, there's an announcement this week as well for another tour pretty much. Um, yeah, and I'm just working on extending that now. So, that'll be announced this week. Okay. Well, next time we'll talk about that. So, that's it, guys. What did you think about the show? Let me know in the comments. Did Andrew deserve the win? Did you think Cissan had it? Do you agree with these knuckleheads? And I call them knuckleheads who say Andrew didn't even diet it because I think as we showed the condition wasn't that different from the Arnold Classic. But it's your opinion. Everyone's got one. Let me know what you think in the comments. Also, how do you think Andrew is going to do with the Olympia? Let me know. Just fire away, guys. That's it. Giles, thank you so much for doing this. It was last minute request and Giles had to get a haircut, but then he was ready. So, hair looks great, bro. All right, guys. Thanks everybody for watching Power Hour with me, Ron Harrison. Giles, Tiger, Thomas.