Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour with me, your host Ron Harris, and all the way from the United Kingdom, the one, the only Tiger Thomas, actual name Giles. Good afternoon for you, Giles. How are you, sir? >> I'm jolly good, Ron. Uh temperature starting to drop a bit now, but um yes, I'm feeling good and uh yeah, good get to get this one going, mate. >> So, uh big big news uh Romania Muscle Fest. It wasn't a big news in the fact that oh my gosh, who's going to win? It was a it was a slam dunk, but it was an opportunity for Andrew Jack to show the greatest physique package ever. It's four weeks post Olympia. He said he wanted to do this contest to try to push the conditioning. Not only was he in better condition the Olympia, he looked a little bigger to me. Um, man, what were your first impressions? Because you you know Andrew very well. You've had him on tour. You know that physique better than most people. What' you think? >> In 30 years, I've never seen anyone at a, you know, like a post Olympia show actually get bigger. I've seen bodybuilders come in fuller, but how on earth in I've been messaging him back and forth for the last two or three days. Um, I'll tell you why in a minute. Um, and I just couldn't believe because like his shoulders, I was like, "What's happened to his shoulders? His shoulders look not just fuller, but bigger and denser. His front lap spread is like it's giving me serious like Ronnie and Dorian vibes now. I mean, I not just, like I said, not just in terms of fullness, like it looked like he actually gained muscle. So, I just honestly I was losing my mind yesterday. Um, I was messaging him and every was chatting, you know, and on the comments and and I was thinking, is it the it can't be just the lighting? It can't be that. So anyway, um so I messaging Kamal as well and doesn't it go to show that um heavy basic training because I spoke to I spoke to Andre and he said well this is you know working with Chris Aito and Kamal and I mean I've trained with Kamal. I've I've photographed him and filmed him you know several times. I've known him since 1997 and he is basically he's old school. It's, you know, a Jay Cutler type, you know, sort of, um, free weights, you know, bench press, squatting, uh, high volume, uh, just, you know, short rest. It's just like proper graph, very little machines or, um, centered around like any like cables and stuff like that. It's just good old basic training. And look how Andrew's body has responded. I mean to think that he's done that in four weeks. I think now everyone's just kind of accepting that, you know, he is really an extremely strong contender for for winning the Olympia and possibly the Arnold and the Arnold UK next year. So because I think I think six to8 pound on top of what he had at the Olympia for me I think would be a very hard given what he's done with his conditioning and all those areas that he's you know from the back and everything he's kind of filled in. Um I just I've seen what he's done here in four weeks. It just there is so much excitement around him now. Uh I just I mean I'll ask you Ron. Um where would this package have placed at this Olympia? >> I I would have had this winning the Olympia. I mean >> people were saying a lot of people felt he was going to win. He should have won that Olympia anyway. But this is better than he looked four weeks ago. >> Incredible. >> Did he did he tell you it was 6 to8 pounds or what? Is that my imagination? No, he didn't he didn't mention any body weights and I've not asked to be honest. Um but um it just I mean just everywhere like and also did you notice he's fixed he's I mean it's still not perfect. It's still room for improvement but you noticed he started to fix those side shots the side chest and the side tricep. I feel like like there was a few I mean there was another thing is he's not the only thing I think now is he's not um he's not holding his poses long enough. That's the only criticism I can think of right now. But, you know, the things that he was he was critiqued for, which was is the way he was hitting those side shots. Um, I feel like he's really started to nail those notes. So, it's good like it's like Kriso, you know, you guys like him, they take the critique, they take it on board and they fix it. So, when they do hear, you know, these um this feedback from, you know, fans, judges, or whatever, it's good to know that they do take it on board because this package here was, I mean, that's what I want to see from a Mr. Olympia. I mean, I'm no disrespect to anybody else, but personally with what I like, you know, that that is basically kind of what I want to see from Mr. Olympia. And I I really I think this I I mean, there was no real benefit of doing this show because he was already qualified for the Olympia, but um I now see why he did this one. And he kind of kept quite Look at the midsection. I It's like a men's physique midsection, you know, and it's just I mean I just honestly mate, it was because I wasn't I'll be honest, I wasn't overly excited about this Romania show. See, as much as I was at Prague, probably because I was at Prague. Um but um like I didn't I didn't expect to be this this kind of amped up from, you know, like a a post Olympia show that um you know, was obviously it was I mean it was obvious he was going to win. I mean, there was no one really in his league to challenge him, you know, no disrespect to the other guys, but there are levels to this. So, um I mean, look, I just I mean, to me, he he literally looks like a superhero. >> Yeah. You know, the the thing that I'm really pleasantly surprised about is he's 40 years old. Correct. >> Correct. >> So, a lot of people have been talking smack over the past couple years. Even when he was like 38, they were saying he was 40. They say, you know, guy men typically do not bodybuilders typically don't improve at that stage in life. And I didn't see much improvement in Andrew over the past couple seasons from the time he turned pro to the to the two years after that. I didn't see much improvement at all. But I am seeing it now, which is, you know, it has to be I mean, Kamal, I have to talk to Kamala. He has to take some of the credit because he's training in a totally different style now. that has to have had something to do with it cuz what else could have possibly changed? Um, no disrespect to the other guys, but how often do you see the kind of the the the the Dorian, the Ronnie, the Arnold, the Lee Haney, the the the style of training that has given us, you know, all these incredible legends of bodybuilding nowadays because a lot of these athletes, they'll be they'll be, you know, uh, contracted to equipment companies and and they're all, you know, like like say Terrence Ruffin, he's actually got um he's actually a partner in that new is it Bolt? I think he's with Bolt. >> Yeah. Mhm. >> Like he's actually got like you know like and then you got Öz you know they not they're not just contracted to these companies they actually have a share of the company. So they um you know they'll like see Terren he's actually involved in the R&D of of of um of sort of machines. So um so but now you know you've got Kamal who's just basically taken Andrew I mean I've trained with Kamal. He trains hard. He trains fast. It's a lot of free weights and also the form and the technique is perfect. And when I posted um I posted a bit of an obscure post yesterday which had me and Kamal on. I said this is a bit of a weird congratul congratulatory post for for Andrew. I said but you know go through it and and read what I'm read what I'm sort of writing here because that style of um that style of training you know it's it's it's built some incredible physiques. Um but look at the just the proofs in the pudding. Look at the improvements he's made in just such a short space of time. His thing is Andrew, yes, he's new to bodybuilding competition, but he's been training for years. Um, and this is a guy that was basically like playing at it, you know, just going to the gym. He had his job. It wasn't something he ever took seriously. And I mean, when he was here, we did the tour last year. It was sat out here. I mean, the amount of food that he was eating to be a competitive bodybuilder. He said like in the offseason, he said his food drops right down. um you know it's like when Ronnie first walked into the gym and you know and just doing a few sort of um just you know a few multi- gym machines and stuff like that and they already look like they're competitive bodybuilders. They jump into a show and they win every show you know. So when these guys like Andrew start doing everything and I mean everything right you know to the level of training diet uh I mean you got Kamal there look you know watching him every single rep every single set. uh the difference, you know, for that the extra couple of percent is basically what we've seen in this last two shows because the proof's in the pudding. It works, you know. So, and uh I mean, even when Andrew was on the tour and I said you he said, "I'm just maintaining now. I'm just training because as I said, we did a collab with um Nathan Dasha and um like I said, they were they were literally chatting in between reps and he was incline pressing on the Smith machine four plates aside and I said to him afterwards, I said, "Mate, I thought you said you weren't train." He says, "No, no, this is this is basically like cruising training. This is kind of like, you know, like I did that tour with um with Brandon Curry and then Derek trained with him and he absolutely buried Derek and I said, "I thought you weren't training hard." He says, "No, this is me training at 60%." So these guys, you know, the the level the the level they're at with their training and um you know, the the the strength and the volume and the kind of the endurance and stuff is is on another level because at the end of the day, these guys are on another level. >> So the the thing that uh I I wish they could train together all the time, but Kamal's in Tampa, Florida, isn't he? >> Yeah. I believe Andrew went what I've heard is he was there for two months before the Olympia, so they had two months to train together. I mean, eight weeks is actually quite a long time. Um, I remember I had a training partner, a 70 kilo guy, and he was he made top six of the British finals and he was pretty good, but his form was terrible and there's a few things he needs to tidy up and I remember just training with him for that year and all I did was just watch his reps, slow his reps down, you know, and just basically more control and just these tiny little differences. He jumped up to second place at the British finals. So, if you've got somebody there that is watching you and making sure that you're not just coasting by on your genetics and you're actually training effectively and not just, you know, hard, but like every rep is watched and the, you know, and um like when I bench press, like my shoulder sometimes rotates and sometimes I have to have somebody to watch me to say, "Keep your shoulder down." Little stuff like that which can make all the difference. >> Yeah. I I want to note that he is using machines and cables here, but this is right before the show in Romania. >> Yeah. So offseason was definitely more you you spoke to Kamal a lot more free weights. Uh in case people are going to call you on that and say I don't see him using any heavy barbells or dumbbells but it's um like Lee Priest like Lee said he said when I was a pro bodybuilder he said I I took pro bodybuilding and training as my job. He said so I would I would go to the gym and train for two hours then go back later on and do calves or abs or do an hour of cardio. It's uh like some of these guys, you know, they they they you know, they um like cuz I said Camala, I mean, I remember photographing him before the 2018 Olympia. I went down to his gym in Northampton and it was six weeks out from the the 212 Olympia, which he won the following year. And like I mean I was I was like my arms were aching like from filming him because it was set after set after set after set and and some of it wasn't necessarily heavy weight, but the form was immaculate. And I mean, how often do you see people doing like like proper like easy bar skull crushes now? It's all everyone's on their cables and then they're messing around on their phones and, you know, it's just nice to see, you know, sort of old school basics that um that work. It's like that's why I don't like a lot of these kind of new shiny gyms because I just if I do, I'm searching for the old basic butt benches and the old Smith machines and the the stuff that's been around for decades, the pull down. I don't need the fancy. And to be honest, it just goes to show that if it worked for Dorian, I mean, Dorian and Temple gym, Ronnie and Metroflex, you know, and you know, Arnold in the old Gold's gym, I mean, you know, they built incredible physiques with just just the absolute basics. >> Yeah, this front lad spread on Andrew is just ridiculous. It's about four feet wide. You know, >> crazy, isn't it? Another thing that I'm really happy to see with Andrew, the stage presence. He did look I don't know if lacadasical is the right word, but for a while it didn't look to me like he was that interested in being up on stage when he was up there. He's more comfortable up there now. He's more confident. He seems to be enjoying himself. And I I you know when it's when it comes down to little tiny details and people are very close once you get to the top three four of the Olympia it's very very close between each guy. Little things like that can make a difference. So I'm so happy to see that that change in Andrew. >> But I've I've been speaking to him and since the Olympia his confidence is rising mate and I think he knows now that he's like like like I mean I had him third at the Olympia. I had him a solid third. I didn't, you know, um and um I spoke to some people and they're like, "Oh, I had him winning and stuff." I'm like, "Yeah, okay." But maybe if you break it down pose by pose and you know, um but um he's he's hearing this a lot now. And I think that kind of positive feedback is uh it's it's got into his head now and I think he knows now that this is his time. this is his time now to because I mean he's he's doing the Arnold, he's doing the Arnold UK, he's doing the Olympia and honestly and like I've been saying it since the Olympia before I'd even seen this package which I didn't think would be possible in four weeks. It's like Samson two weeks after the Olympia in Prague, he did what I didn't think was possible. I think it like actually regained some muscle, not just fullness. So it just shows you that um you know when the when the when the body and the mind is is willing you you know the body can do incredible things because this is this is almost like a year's difference. What I'm seeing in Romania it's almost like the kind of progress I'd expected to see at next year's Olympia not bloody four weeks after. >> Yeah. >> Look at the lats. Look at that's Dorian Ronny like um vibes, isn't it? >> So we're now he's doing the Arnold. my my concern like he has to worry about what I'm concerned about but there's not much time I guess all these guys that are that are going from the Olympic to the Arnold they have very little downtime him even less because he just competed yesterday >> but Arnold is early March the very first weekend in March assuming that's all he does he doesn't decide to keep going and do Pittsburgh and New York and Dubai and all these things then he could have another five months I would love to see him come out to Tampa and spend a whole offseason with Kamal or at least like three months. Imagine what they could do together. >> Great idea. No, that's a really good idea cuz cuz like remember what I said about Derek doing Pittsburgh? I thought that it was before the Olympia. I felt like that extended prep after the Olympia, after the Arnold, after I felt like it would cost him the Olympia. I was completely wrong, I'm pleased to say. Yeah. >> So, um I'm Yeah, I just I think that would be a really good idea because thing is I know he's an electrical engineer and he's got his business, but he's kind of at that stage like Ronnie was when he was a cop, you know, it's like he's getting to the point now where the bodybuilding demands and the finances are kind of out stripping, you know, uh his what the return he's getting on his on his full-time job, which the end of the day is is always going to be there in 10, 20, 30 years when bodybuilding is all said and done. Uh well, maybe not that long because he's 40, you know, but um but uh like look at his shoulders. I don't I don't understand how he gained muscle. >> It's um it look it's just I mean I've never honestly 30 years mate, I don't think I've ever seen that level of improvement. And thing is, I mean, yeah, the legs I think were a little bit the quads were a tiny bit drier at the Olympia, but like the tradeoff with what he's done with the fullness is um it's it's just I mean I just I'm I've been in complete shock for the last 24 hours basically. >> And uh also when I did the coverage yesterday after the judging, way after the judging, it was like 2 a.m. my time, but people were a couple a couple haters were talking about oil, oil in his arms, oil in his shoulders. I don't see it. And if if I saw it, I would call it out. I would at least say suspicious. I don't see that. >> He's just got those crazy muscle bellies, mate. And I've seen those arms up close and he's flexed them, you know, cuz I remember um I said it to Zack Kahn once and I remember I said this was I mean this was bloody must be 20 years ago or so. And then we were driving and he literally screeched and he he did like a real hard turn and he because he was annoyed and I said, "What do you think about people saying you're putting [\h__\h] in your arms?" Anyway, so he pulled over the car. the pitch black and he he put the light on in the car and he basically rolled his sleeve up and he said, "Look at that. Would you be able to see the fibrous detail?" Um and um it's the same with Andrew. It's the same with Andrew. Um but um I mean I don't see any, you know me, I'm always looking for that. Um I've got to be fair to everyone. It's something I am looking for. But you can see all the different heads of the of the of the of the delts. And I mean there look at the outer see the arrow the outer the striations on the outer triceps. if he was pinning that with loads of uh whatever, you wouldn't be able to see that. So, um he's just got those crazy muscle bellies that um unfortunately it kind of does look like, you know, to some with an untrained eye perhaps that uh he's uh he's he's pinning those areas excessively with, you know, a sight enhancement. The thing is, I mean, he probably is put probably putting a little bit of gear in there as well. So, I don't know. >> Yeah. I mean, well, look at the biceps there. I mean, these are the splits and the peaks that we wanted to see from some Derek uh champion. >> I I wonder if you got to go there then, Rob, but you did. >> I'm not saying Derek does anything to his arms. Maybe that's just their genetic shape. I don't know. But, you know, these are Mr. Olympia arm. We We talk about Mr. Olympia. That's what a lot of people were knocking on Derek is. How can he be Mr. Olympia and his biceps are awful? You know, these are this is the front double bicep shot I want to see in my Mr. Olympia champion right here. But but Ron, imagine imagine say he puts on another six to8 pound and he comes in even sharper than that next year because now he's on a roll, now he's got the formula right and he's and obviously he's training for the most effective uh maximizing way for his physique because you can see what it's done for him. I mean uh and also he's managed to keep the waistline nice and tight as well. Well, I mean, he's literally achieved the holy grail of what all pro bodybuilders are trying to do, as in getting bigger, getting more detailed, and also one the first one of the first things I saw, it was like one of those most musculars, the hands class one, like the separation between the brachiialis and and the delts and the chest. It was all new and I was like, "Wow." And I said, "He's done that in four weeks and he looks bigger." So, I mean, this the win was no shock. Um, I mean, I think we all we all saw that one coming, but it's just what he presented that I think really has created so much so much hype and excitement. And of course, I think it was now he's got a nice early I mean, I was qualified anyway, but he's got a nice early win to take him into, you know, to because he's on the he's on everyone's lips now, you know, in bodybuilding. Everyone's talking about Andrew and uh, you know, it's um it's a slam dunk for next year because like I said, I said it before the Olympia, I think he can win everything next year. I think he can pull a Derek, mate. And I and this this what I'm seeing here now um just further reinforces that mate. >> I mean well I I don't want to see him win everything because I don't want him to compete all throughout the season because I don't want him taking any chances. I I would love to see him win the Arnold and then go train. This is the ideal dream scenario. Go to Tampa, stay with Kamal for three or four months, make some more progress and come into the Olympia guns blazing and and become Mr. Olympia, >> but if he's going for the Arnold, he may as well go for the Aruk because what's the prize money at the RUK? >> I I don't know. It's less. >> I think it's I think it's quarter. So, if he wins the Arnold, that's 750. He's got to have to do the RGK. That's another 250. That's a million dollars in prize money because unfortunately, that is the downside now of Arnold bumping up the prize money is that the guys are sort of almost obliged to to jump in, you know. So, I I get why I I'd love to see Samson take a year off and just come back to the Olympia like Ronnie did in 2003. I would love to see, you know, the Martins and Knicks, you know, and maybe just say like a handful of good guys show up to the Arnold, but like I I think pretty much apart from Derek, I think pretty much everyone and Hadi hasn't said anything, but I think we're pretty much going to see the Olympia lineup again in in March. And who can blame them, mate? >> I agree because they were so close to Olympia. I mean, would you how would you feel if the if somebody wins the Arnold and you had skipped it and you're like, "Oh, I could have beat I could have beat that. I looked better than that at my last show." >> Yeah. >> And I just lost three quarter million dollars. It could have been in my pocket or my bank account. >> Yeah. You can't I mean, the thing is like, you know, if you've got a shelf life, I mean, Samson said he wants to be done by the time he's 45. He's what, 40, 41 now? >> So, you know, and he's and he likes to compete. So, and and andrew now is um just took third. He's just won Romanian now. Everyone's, you know, myself, people like myself are saying he could win everything next year. Why would he pass up that opportunity? >> Yeah. I I ask you to reconsider with what you said about the quads being drier at the Olympia, and they look pretty dry to me, but maybe they were a touch drier. >> Just a tin. The only thing I could look at the lats. >> I mean, I'm pointing at the screen now. I know you can't see it, but I'm pointing at I mean, like it honestly, I know I know I'm sounding very excitable at the moment, but um like this was this was unexpected, mate. This was unexpected. >> Oh, 100%. And I mean, if people thought he was capable of winning the Olympia before, I think this just drove it further home because >> yeah, >> who gets better after the Olympia? Who >> it never happens? I mean, the end of the day, I thought sometimes you can see guys that come in sharper. We see that all the time. We see that every single year in any post Arnold or post Olympia show. You know, a show that comes after it's like an afterthought at one of the bigger shows, which is which is fair enough because there there are tiers and levels to this. But when somebody comes in and it looks like they've actually gained muscle, like it just and also improved his posing and he's more confident on stage. It's like it reminds me actually of how Derek was in the leadup to when he won the Olympia the first time. Like he I remember point I remember uh discussing on here with you and I said, "Do you not think that Derek is like acting and like embodying what it is to be a Mr. Olympia?" It's almost like he was It's like if you want to turn pro, you have to believe that you're good enough to turn pro and step on a pro stage. >> And it's almost like Derek was acting as Mr. Olympia before he won it. And I think that's part of like the whole psychological what gets you up in the day and you know in the day when when it's hard and in the morning and stuff. And I think that's um I think there's something to be said for that kind of mental attitude. Um and it looks to me like Andrew knows he's potentially on a huge role here. Um, and I love to see it because we don't want to see him all, you know, with a physique like this and he knew he was winning it. I mean, let's be honest. But to come in and actually like properly like step things up and you think, "Okay, this guy really is starting to believe it now." It's very exciting for us fans, man. >> Yeah. Because we we talked a couple months ago when Jay Cutler had Rean Grimes on his Cutler cast. There was a a part where they did talk about Jay impressed upon you have to believe you're going to be Mr. Olympia. If you don't believe it, honestly, genuinely believe it in your heart, it's never going to happen. >> But then again, Ronnie never thought he was going to be Mr. Olympia. Remember? >> Well, Ronnie's an anomaly for about a million reasons. So, I was chatting to him today, >> actually. >> So, you've done a tour with Andrew. What do you think about another tour with Andrew? Well, by the time this goes out today, the um the the the poster for the next tour announcing that we are taking bookings and I've already got a few and I don't even know how the word got out. >> I mean, that's how that's how much demand there is for Andrew right now. Um yes, I am doing another tour and it's right after the Arnold UK. Like when you said there you wanted to see him do the Arnold and then shut it down. It's like no, I wanted to do the Arnold UK because he's flying in and then that's where I meet him like I did with Ronnie last year when Ronnie was attending the Arnold UK. this is um yeah so we are doing a tour and um I mean I've got the message on my phone he said I said how many do you want to do mate I said because you know the demand in you has gone up you know tenfold since the Olympia and especially now it's going to be you know with this now um and he said 5 10 15 I don't know whether he meant bookings or countries but he said bro let's do it let's do a mega tour he said I definitely want Asia in there I want this country I want that and then he was mentioning gyms that had already spen spoke to and they had already said yes we will have him and I was like god this guy and to hear that level of to hear him that keen you know that enthusiasm you know when some guys they like you know Nick Walker won't even reply to me you know it's like so you and you're offering them the opportunity to represent you know the uh the Olympia the you know make money and you know basically talk about themselves and meet their fans and travel and connect and and thing is also we do have a lot of fun on these tours as well you know and I mean Andrew rang me back in the summer. He just rang me out of the blue. All right, mate. And he says, "Um, yeah." He says, "I'll do another tour." He says, "Cuz that um the one we did was amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing." Um he actually sent it again on on a voice note and I was like um cuz he said, "I really enjoyed it." And he said, and he said, you know, it's it's it's a win-win for me. He says, plus I think he knows because when he's back in Dubai, he's uh he's like he doesn't really show a lot of himself on, you know, nothing of his you never see his house, you never see his personal life. It's always just training content. We very rarely even hear him speak if you've noticed. >> He very rarely speaks like it's just because he goes to work, he comes home, he goes to the gym, he does his content, he probably has somebody do it for him and then he goes home and then he's, you know, so he's um so when, you know, now he's got this opportunity to do, you know, things like tours and stuff. It's an opportunity for him to get out there and actually kind of, you know, because I want to promote him as the I believe he's going to win the Olympia next year. I want to really promote this superstar and connecting with the fans and and really because that's the whole point of the tours at the end of the day. It's about, you know, presenting these and bringing the fans to to the superstars of the industry. So, um, for me, it's it's a no-brainer. And, you know, to hear him so enthusiastic is uh, you know, makes my job just that much more fun. >> Well, I don't think you're going to get too much credit for being Mystic Tiger by predicting he's going to be Mr. Olympia next year because >> Damn it. It's it's it's not a foregone conclusion by any means. You know, Samson could come roaring back looking great. Derek could repeat. Hottie could get it back. We have these guys that are all fantastic in their own right and could have a legit chance of winning. But Andrew, he's I, you know, I I talked to I I remember talking about him a few years ago when he first turned pro. Someday he might be in the conversation to win the Olympia, but did I think he really was going to? Not really. I mean, but now I'm I'm I'm on the I'm on the bandwagon. He could definitely definitely win the Olympia. >> Well, I I said to Samson in the last time I interviewed him, I think in 2023, and I said, Samson, I said, "Look," because this is when Samson I think he just won the Arnold or he's about to and then obviously Andrew was and I said, "If you can just do ahead, just do enough. Sorry, if you can do enough to just stay ahead of Andrew." I says, "You'll win the Olympia and you'll stay there." Um, and now look what's happened. It's like looks like Andrew now has legitimately um surpassed him. like basically like uh Samson did with Nathan Dasher when Samson had gone up against Nathan and Nathan was always beating him and then all of a sudden you know it kind of switch roles but uh it does make it interestingly I would like to see Samson skip the honor because I'd love to see him go quiet go to ground and then obviously if he goes quiet then that's going to really create so much speculation because um you know that Gregory guy that messages you and me. >> Yeah. Yeah. Mhm. >> Yeah. Yeah. you've done some stuff for him before and he said he calls him and Samson the Nigerian Twin Towers and he said and I I've said it many times on this show I said like who would not want to see those two as the last two two six foot plus you know guys that look like living embodiment of superheroes. Um because I mean I mean Samson, this is a blip for Samson because you know people wrote Derek off. I mean, people stupidly wrote Derek off last year after he got third at the the Olympia last year and look what happened this year. Um, so for me, I would love to see Samson really keep us all guessing and just try and try and do his best to try and pull like a you know, at least come close to it like do what Ronnie did in 2003. Imagine if imagine if they both walked on stage next year at the Olympia and it's like holy [\h__\h] that is the top two because um I'll be honest, I think the top three next year I think it'll be Sam Samson, Andrew, and Martin. I think that I can see that visually clear clearly as the top three. >> Yeah, I wouldn't be surprised at all. >> Martin's moving up, man. Martin's moving up. >> All right. Well, we need to talk a little bit about Martin now. It's that time. So, let me set this up. Uh Giles did the pay-per-view commentary. No. >> Can I Can I because I I'm actually not going to listen to this because it actually I it makes me that uncomfortable. No, seriously. I'm not I'm not I'm not actually joking. I can't actually listen to this because it's actually too uncomfortable to watch. >> Okay. Well, >> let me set it up. I'll set it up and then I'll tell you take the headphones off. Okay. So, >> Charles did the pay-per-view commentary for Prague just as he did last year, the EVLS Prague show, uh, which Martin repeated. He won both times. Uh, in the commentary last year, um, Chris Bumpstead had made his open debut and he was looking fantastic on the first day. It was a two-day show. Martin was not looking fantastic. He was He had torn his hamstring on stage while posing, holding a ton of water. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> I didn't know that. I didn't know that. >> Yeah. Yeah. It wasn't a full tear, but it was Yeah. He was He was posing in a little pop. He He had a partial tear of his hamstring. So, cortisol, water, he he got flooded with water. His tan looked awful. >> Uh I mean, I'll show it to you guys right here. This is this was it. So, based on this commentary, this is what Giles saw on the first day. And Dallas has no skin in the game. When when Martin looks fantastic, he gives him all the praise in the world. As as he does for anybody, as as do I. When he doesn't look fantastic and somebody else looks like they might be beating him, we're going to say it. I mean, this is what we do. We're we're journalists. We're analyzing physiques. We're talking about what we're seeing right in front of us. So, on that day, Giles, uh, you felt that you felt that Martin was losing to Bumpstead. Correct. >> Correct. >> Okay. And you, that's all you said. You didn't say, uh, I hate Martin. Martin's mom is so and so. It was, you didn't insult him. You didn't say anything, you know, unprofessional or or personal. Just talking about his physique. Um, here, one more look. Again, this was on I think I think this might have been the second day. I'm not really sure. No, that's still the first day because you can see Martin did tighten up. I know I'm not showing the second day. He did look better, >> Ron. He did look a lot better on the second day, but the first day his midsection was watery and and I and to be honest, even way that um uh the the judge didn't Steve Weinberger didn't move Chris Bumstead from the center, that indicated to me as well that they had Bumstead winning, but obviously it turned out that uh it wasn't to be. I mean, Martin tightened up a lot. Do you know what? Look how improved Martin is over last year because this is a net the Martin of today is a completely different bodybuilder. But Martin, I saw it. This this uh Prague is uh night and day. He's improved so much. >> Yeah. I mean, this is we give we give due credit. He looked fantastic >> uh this couple weeks ago. It was two weeks ago in Prague. >> It was a much better package. >> Yeah. >> Uh full full bursting full crazy strided. Yeah. This is the this is the last show, right? And uh he was he was an easy winner. He beat Mr. Olympi. He beat Samson Dada. So, we give him proper credit, of course. Uh, you did. You were right there. And you said nothing but good things about him during this during this pay-per-view that I from the bits and pieces I was hearing because, you know, he brought it. This was uh the best Martin we've ever seen. He's leveled up. He's now in the conversation to become Mr. Olympia. He's that good now. >> So, all that being said, get rid of that. >> All right. So, uh I'll tell you when. So to set this up, this was during the pose down, right before the awards two weeks ago. So it was just before they were going to go back on stage and just get their awards. The show's pretty much over. I think Martin knew he won at this point. Um, you think he just, you know, the crowd, they go out in the crowd and they they flex and take p people take pictures and it's usually a fun time. And Martin went up to uh where Jiles was sitting with was AJ next to you for the for this part? I don't know who was sitting next to you. >> Anyway, I said I think it was just you and AJ at the sitting at sitting at the booth at this point, right? Anyway, I'm going to play it, Jo. So, take off your headphones. >> Take off your headphones because you he froze on me. >> All right. Take off your headphones. >> We're actually stood up. We were actually stood up and then we're basically filming. So, all right. >> Okay. Ready? Here we go. All right. Take them off and going. Here we go. >> Hey, next time you want to talk [\h__\h] about me, do it twice. Okay, we're it's over, Josh. So, come back. Put your headphones on. So, I also want to say that never want never >> Not only that, Giles sent it to me. I showed it to my wife on my phone. I showed it to my son on my phone. I didn't send it to anybody, but you did send it to a couple people, I guess, unfortunately. And even though they were told not to share it. >> Yep. >> I saw it Sunday morning on Muscle on Matt from Muscle Discord's Instagram. and then Louis Marco got a hold of it. So had that not happened, we would never have shown this or addressed it. We were just Giles had no intentions of ever posting this. U but now that it's out there, it's it's only it's only right that you address it. And um yeah, so I guess I guess the subject to talk about is why would he feel the need to be so angry? He hit your phone when all you ever did was critique his physique and then the next day you gave him full credit for looking better. You know, this is what we do. This is what you you've been doing for over 30 years. I've been doing it for 35. We critique physiques. It's not personal. Like you said, even these past couple power hours, you said nothing but nice things about Martin, how great he looked at the show. You know, if you were taking it personal and holding a grudge because he was out of line there. That that was out of line. You'd think in the in the in the midst of about to win a pro show and you're beating Mr. Olympia, you'd have more more to worry about than going up to a journalist and uh berating him, you know, and luckily people couldn't hear. It was so loud and everything, but people were asking I know someone else sent you a video that they took from a different angle and said, "What was he saying?" >> No, no, no. Um who is the best BB, you know, who is the best bodybuilder of the Instagram page. Yeah. Um he sent me a different angle um from somebody else had filmed it was somebody who probably would have been in the audience next to AJ cuz AJ was stood up. This was like a low down. Um I've got it on my phone. I mean I'm happy to show it. And he said um he said was this who was this said to or something. I said it was me. And he said what did he say? And I said um I don't know. And I said I don't care. And then afterwards he said you know haha. And then I posted and I said please don't post this. And he went I won't. So that was like several weeks ago because I was on the Ronny tour and I'll be honest the reason one of the I mean the end of the day some of these in you know some of these these you know people in the media whatever they would have been like their hands would have been shaking they'd have wanted to post that so quickly and blow it up and collab with everyone >> but um I wanted to deal with it kind of because the end of the day I felt embarrassed for them >> for Martin and Samson I felt really really embarrassed for them because I just thought oh my god did that just happen because when it happened I didn't hear what he said so I thought he was just like you put getting pumped up for the camera like somebody people fle I thought he was doing it like in a positive way and it was like yeah and I was like and I looked over and AJ was just like like shaking his head and then everyone started looking at me and I was just like hang on what just happened then and I saw obviously Samson was like like [\h__\h] him sort of thing. I don't know whether he said that but that's what that's how it came across you know I was like so anyway um I didn't listen to the video because it was so noisy at the end of the day I was doing commentary. >> Well you had the headphones on too right? You had the big headphones. >> Yeah. Yeah the headphones. had the bloody headset on and everyone kind of looking at me and like to say what just happened there and I just kind of just I just kind of um I just kind of started out and just kind of just you know pretended like it didn't happen. So afterwards off the show um I went backstage and Lauren came with me and I said Lauren don't do this. I said because I want to make myself visible because if Samson and Martin see me I want them to basically speak to me face to face you know whether you know let's just do it if there's because obviously there's clearly an issue and I want to hear what they've got to say. So, I said, "Lawren, go wait over there. I'll be there in a second." So, uh, I made myself visible. I looked for Samson. I didn't see him anywhere. So, I'm assuming that when he came off stage cuz he was not happy when he got second. I'm assuming he just got out of there because he he didn't walk past this. There's the the um I think he must have gone out the back doors maybe because I didn't see either of them. I looked actually for him. Um, I looked for and I kind of stood in this area with my hands like that and I was like, "Okay, Martin, you know, if you got something to say, come and say it, mate." But he was obviously so happy he'd won and stuff like that. I was like, "Okay." >> Yeah. So anyway, um, as I was walking off, I forget who said to me, um, because somebody saw it and they said, "Oh, I take it you won't be going to the afterparty now at the owner's house." Because every year we go back to the EVLs owner's house. >> Yeah. >> Uh, and I went, "No, I'm going." I said, "I'm going." I said, "Because I want to hear what he's got to say because this could get dragged out for years online. You know how people, oh, reaction video, he does a reaction video." I was like, "No, let's I would rather risk having a full-on confrontation." Or maybe thing is, I didn't know what to expect. I didn't know what this was about. Is this just going to be like a come on JS you shouldn't have said that or because thing is I know because everything I say is out there on a you know is in a magazine it's on a on online it's in a you know and the thing is I'm visible I'm not someone who hides behind my keyboard and then you know just just loves the backlash and all the threats and everything else and whatever comes along with it like I'm actually at these shows. I'm actually at these shows. So I thought okay so because ironically he said in the video then he said um if you want to talk [\h__\h] to my face say it to my face. Well, I kind of gave him that opportunity to talk [\h__\h] to me because I wanted to hear. So anyway, he didn't say anything to me backstage. So I thought, okay, fair enough. He's busy. And in the after party, I was stood there. I was chat with stood with Terrence Ruffin, Lauren, and Hyerson, you know, Terrence's coach. And we were just basically I was on a glass of wine and stuff. And then in walks Martin and I just thought, okay, I'm going to sit stand here and I'm going to say nothing, do nothing because he knows I'm here and if he wants to go and have a talk outside privately or he wants to do it in front of people, um, he's more than welcome because I'd rather get it done here now and he because I was genuinely curious to hear what he had to say. >> Yeah. >> So he must have walked in maybe three, four times. He walked right past me three or four times and because at one point he must have he must have almost brushed past me and I was just like I kind of I stood there and I said, "Lawrence, just give you a minute and then Terrence went off and it was just basically me at like this this table thing and I was just drinking and I thought and then he came in by himself and he was pouring drinks and I think he came in about three times." So maybe there was like 30 40 minutes where we were literally within 5T of each other >> and uh and he said nothing. He said nothing. He basically blanked me. Um, so I just thought, so in so and Samson didn't show up. He was there. He was there in 23 when I when I was there, >> but he didn't show up. So I was thinking, well, what is this about? Because they're obviously quite angry, >> you know, enough to do that whilst they literally stood in there posing drugs covered in like fake tan and all these thousands of people buying tickets and they chose that time to do something as public a display as that. So I was just like what is going on? It's like >> you know cuz like you know all the magazines are gone now and stuff like you know you and me probably had one of the only the last two paid you know journalist bodybuilding jobs left in the bloody industry and we held it for how many years. >> So I was like I'm I've never experienced this in 30 years. I've never had that >> because end of the day all I ever say is critique of their physiques and stuff like that. I never say anything personal or nasty because I'm just not wired that way. I mean, anything I I say is out there. >> Yeah. >> So, so that was it. So, that was that was it. So, anyway, so after that, and of course, the next day after the show, I had to fly back and rejoin the Ronnie tour and I showed Ronnie and he was just he was just like in disbelief, you know, but so I just kind of sat on it. I didn't do anything. And I thought, you know what, it's probably going to be a couple of weeks before I get back and, you know, kind of get resettled like I am now. And I was kind of hope I was I'll be >> naively I was I was honestly hoping for an apology >> because to me that is not cool because and that's why I sent it. The only reason I sent it to different people in the industry like you know like judges, officials, people I knew that I could trust to not say anything or leak it is because I wanted their advice and I said guys what does this mean? What does this mean now that we you know I'm doing commentary I'm giving my take. I'm giving my opinion. What does this mean now? If we say something an athlete doesn't like, does this mean now it's a free-for-all? That because like Samson and Martin both coming like both kind of coming at me. It was it was kind of intimidating. >> And you know, another thing is it sparked off my heart rhythmia as well. M >> like I've got to pay I've got to pay £200 now for for an appointment with a bloody cardiologist because it can u it's getting my breathing going now just talking about it because it was so when I realized kind of what was going on it was it was it was stressful because I thought what like where did where does this go? Is this going to escalate? Is this is this gonna is this gonna is this going to happen with other athletes or like because obviously what happened to me in 22 m I kind of need to be a little bit conscious of of what's going on like you know when the whole Ronnie thing happened in the summer I had really bad breathing problems for about four or five weeks. I mean for some reason when I was training back I couldn't it was like I couldn't get my breath. It's because it's stress related, you know, it's kind of even though you might not feel stressed at that moment in time, it's like it kind of manifests itself in, you know, these physical things which obviously with with my heart situation in 22, I've got to be really really mindful of. So, >> I just have to interrupt because not everyone watching has been a longtime viewer. Giles had a heart attack in 2022 >> on stage >> on stage while he was uh announcing a show, not doing the commentary from a booth. He was on stage at the podium. had a heart attack and he's got he had a triple bypass surgery which that's major open heart surgery. So I just want to make sure I I put that info out there. So I'm sorry I can >> Yeah, but like like the the implications of that like like a because I thought okay fair enough. He's being a bit of a hotthead. He's pumped up. He's amped up because like when you saw when he won he was like yeah he was like you know it's it was an exciting show. Everyone was kind of there was there was so much excitement and you know the energy was high and the tension was high because it was close between him and Samson and we didn't know which way it was going to go and I just thought due all that all that work that he puts in for that those few minutes on stage he chooses to take a moment in front of everyone not even privately to come at me and then for Samson to get involved as well. I was just like, "What?" It was like, "Did that?" And I said to Agent, and AJ was going, "That was lame, man. That was He was really like," and I was like, "Okay, let's just carry on. Let's just just pretend this didn't happen and we'll deal with this afterwards." But like, I've sat on that video. I've not I didn't I wasn't I had no intentions of posting it. And then when I saw the other day, I was like, "Oh." And then people started sending it to me and saying, "Is this you?" Because it's not it's not clear that it's me holding the phone. But it was me. It's my phone, >> you know. And then um somebody said to me from America, he said, "Oh, you know, it's technically assault and all this sort of stuff." And I was like, well, I'm just glad he didn't smash my phone cuz I I'd have been screwed on the runny tour without my phone. Do you know what I mean? You know, it was so yeah, it's just uh now I've got to go to bloody cardiologist cuz my heart arhythmia won't calm down cuz once that once that gets triggered, that's it for two or three weeks. I'm waking up in the middle of the night, my heart's jumping all over the place and and then I get anxious because I'm stressed about that. But, uh, mate, that wasn't that wasn't a nice thing to experience. Um, and I just think I think somebody needs to have a quiet word with him and say, you know, look, this is, you know, you're a professional athlete, you know, you I mean, I've heard it like in other sports like in, you know, football and, you know, I've heard like the commentators are savage, you know. >> Oh, yeah. >> I mean, like I'm not being so I'm like, you know, if I point something out on somebody's physique, it's so they can be better. I mean, the amateurs like they want to be critiqued. They appreciate it. Like when Sweden and these Austria and these other shows, they'll come up to you and say, "Oh, thank God I've got some actual feedback." And most of the pros in fairness do do appreciate it and they like it. But some of them um like this, I mean that he's been holding on to that for a year because I had in a close contest with, you know, one of the the the greatest classic bodybuilder of all time, you know, and this huge superstar who looked amazing. Like he's got a problem with me saying that he should have won a year ago. And I'm like, like if you actually sit back and really think hard about it, it's just it's ridiculous. What do you think, Ron? >> Oh, I agree. And I, you know, I could almost see it if he was in a position in that pose down where he was losing the show and he knew it, but he knew he was winning. It was very, it was a very solid win. He should have been happy, confident. There should have been no room for any type of negativity in his mind there. And especially to to say, "Hold on. I'm gonna go right over to Giles over there specifically. He walked directly up to you, yelled in your face, and smacked your phone." I mean, I I just don't get it. Why wouldn't you be? Because clearly that speech I just showed, he was very happy. See, there he is. >> He's got his coach girl. He's got >> the thing is wrong. How is that How is that not talking [\h__\h] to his face? That's saying like, you know, you want to say it, say it to my face. Well, I kind of gave that opportunity afterwards when I made I literally stood in the middle where there was this clear area right in his line of sight backstage and he chose to say nothing, do nothing. I went I even went to the afterparty so we could at least sort it out. I mean, you know me. I mean, I've had a couple of confrontations with people, three I can think of actually when I've been with you, you know, at the Olympias and the Arnolds and I don't want to reel the names off because I don't want to dig it up because it was dealt with, you know, but um like I've I've I've had face to face. I mean, remember one of the Olympian year was it when everyone stepped back cuz they thought it was going to be a fight and I was like and 10 minutes later we're like hugging each other and we sorted it, you know, we're shaking hands, you know, because I'd rather sometimes have these I know we're in an era where, you know, um, you know, they'll somebody [\h__\h] about somebody online and then someone says there's a reaction video and then two weeks later they're at a show and they basically blank each other and I don't understand that mentality, >> you know, because it's like just sort it out, talk, you know? I mean, because there was a bit of tension last year at the afterparty when um when I went out the room and and Lauren comes back in and she's like, she was upset. She goes, "They're talking [\h__\h] about you." And I went, "What?" She says, "They're upset that they said you called your commentary arrogant." I'm like, "Why?" And I said, and then AJ kind of said, "Look, why don't we talk about it?" And I I kind of got where he was coming from. I said, "No, AJ, I've got bloody Ronny here, Ronnie Coleman at the owner's house. I've got Lauren here." I said if there's any opportunity that this is going to kick off because I said in the end of the day I stand by what I say. It's an opinion on a man's physique which basically is what I'm here to do. This is my profession. >> So, you know, because you can't block me in real life, you know, when I'm there and I said if they want to come and speak to me, I'm sat right here and I stayed there for about another hour, two hours, was an hour or something. I said, if they got something to say, I'm more than happy to discuss it here. if they want to go outside privately, I'm more than happy to do so because I know how things escalate, you know. So, I just I I tried my best to handle this. But when you're involved in something you do do not see coming because there's no beef between me and Martin before. I mean, I I've talked to last year about doing a tour with him. >> Yeah. >> You know, and I and he's given me some fantastic interviews. I think he's And thing is like, okay, let's talk about him as a bodybuilder. Where did I have him at the Olympia last year? >> Derek, you had him beating Derek. >> Where did I have him this year? Um, fourth, beating Samson. And yeah, you've you've always been very complimentary toward his physique. You've when you had when you had uh global muscle uh video series, you had him on a few times. >> I I I went I went backstage and I was chatting to Stefan and I said, "Stephan, what did I said, how did he take one of his weakest Well, his only real weak pose was real bicep." I said, "How did he turn that into one of his best poses?" I said, "It's incredible." And I really I said, "Good, good work, guys. Good work. you know, it was me, Stefan, and who was it? Oh, Hassinian, I think the the the uh Ruffins coach. So, but I and I don't know why I don't know why Samson got involved as well because that was >> that was like really like in that was really disrespectful. It was really like like I don't know what he said, but I I can't imagine it was very complimentary. But what is why would Samson get involved with that with someone that is like and when you're when you're literally supposed to be doing your because these guys get paid a lot of money to stand up on stage for a few minutes a year and they choose like I think it's disrespectful to the promoter. I think it's disrespectful to the fans. I think it's I think it's it's to be honest I felt embarrassed but not for me for them. >> Yeah. Well, I mean in to to be fair to Samson he didn't he didn't instigate it. He's not the one that came up to you. He just it was I think he asked >> I think he asked Martin, "What do you say?" And Martin yelled something into his ear. >> But but why get involved? It's like you're doing a pose. Go and hit some poses like do what you're bloody here to do. Don't get involved in drama cuz like I say, I saw him backstage because I saw Samson backstage through the day and I thought and you know looked over and we kind of looked over and I give him a nod and you know it's like if there's an issue and the thing is they've got my number like if they've got an issue, they've got a genuine grievance bloody pick up the phone. >> Yeah. and ring me and say, "Jars, I'm not happy with what you said." Because thing is, they know they don't have a leg to stand on because it's just just basic physique critique. And you know, if you can't take it, then I think you're in the wrong sport, mate. >> Yeah. So, I mean, we're again, we're looking at Martin here. He looked fantastic. Best Martin ever. >> Better better than he was at Olympia, actually. >> Better than Exactly. So, we were just talking about how Andrew was better. He wasn't bigger, but he was definitely >> definitely tighter. Definitely fuller. It was a better look. Um >> Yeah. Yeah. And also, sorry to sorry to interrupt. So sorry, but like when I spoke to Ilico, the head judge, and I said to her and she said, we were talking about Samson and Martin, I said, because I was so close because on the first day I couldn't decide between who was better, I said, "You got Samson better structure and you know, it's taller, wider, and you know, two different types of physiques like it was with Chris and Bumstead and Martin last year." I said, "Then you got Martin and and anyway, so she said she said she said she said Samson kind of um he was better than he was at the Olympia, but the back is still not back to how it was last year when he won the Olympia, but everything else was looking good. It was looking like almost back to, you know, the usual Samson, you know, the the Olympia winning Samson. It was like really much much closer. But um but Martin um she said she said I don't know how. She said that's very unusual. I said this in last week's power hour. She said it's very unusual, very rare to see someone that can hold their peak like that for two days. She says it was incredible. She says and whereas kind of Samson kind of faded just at the last just the last round of posing. he just you could see he was just starting to flatten out and you know because like like I said many times the bigger guys they tend to their bodies can change for the better or worse very very quickly. So, um, so anyway, like I've I mean, my heart's racing now just talking about it because it's it was so uncomfortable and I wanted to keep it offline, Ron. I did. I I'm not one of these people that, you know, some of these YouTubers and Instagram be like, if they if that happened to them, >> I remember when Louis Marco um got his friend to film because he went over to Bonac. >> Do you remember years ago at the expo? Bonac was just I thought Bonac was going to rip his head off. I mean because you know cuz like you know these these they are annoying these some of these these you know they do stuff and then he did it like oh yeah we'll trigger him we'll get this on camera like stuff like that >> right >> like that makes me I I I find it really embarrassing and and I think um because we look up to these guys as like heroes and a lot of people in the industry do you know and thing is like I've just done a tour there with Ronnie Coleman I've got I've got the respect and trust of people like that in fact I want to finish off actually when we're right right at the end I want to the message Ronnie put on the group chat which I want read out just so we end on a more of a positive because you know me, I like to keep everything kind of positive and about bodybuilding. I don't like it to be personal. Um but um yeah, it was it was very unpleasant. Ron, it was not cool. And in 30 years because you got off that me loss thing a few months ago. >> It was a couple of months when I didn't even want to do this podcast. I was done. >> I just thought, okay, the magazines are gone now. This is how people are conducting themselves. This is what's pulling views. maybe this is the sign for me to go off and just do something else and you know and and eventually my my enthusiasm and my love came back and I feel like I've got my mojo back and then [\h__\h] like this happens and you just think really >> yeah I mean I would never have done anything with that video if it hadn't been leaked and I'm I'm it it's a bad look for Martin. It's I I don't know if he would even consider apologizing or if he thinks >> I want an apology. I want an apology. I think that's fair and I think that's the decent thing to do. Um I mean yeah so sorry man I just the more I think more actually the more I think about it the more it pisses me off actually. >> So I mean speaking to Martin I mean if I could I don't know if he's ever going to hear this but you know Giles Jiles was talking about your physique last year in Prague. That's what he's paid to do. They fly him over to these shows. They could have anybody do the pay-per-view commentary, but they appreciate what he brings to the pi to the uh podcast, to the pay-per-views, the live streams. That's why they bring him. They want to hear his analysis, his critique, his commentary. It it's interesting. It's informative. He's been doing this a very, very long time. And you know, when he sees great things in the physique, he tell he talks about it. When he sees things that could be better or aren't so great, he talks about it. So, it was never personal. We've been very complimentary, both of us, about you, Martin, because you look fantastic. >> I thought you should have placed higher at the Olympia. I think you can be a Mr. Olympia now. Uh, I'm very impressed with the improvements you've been making, your physique. You and Stefan have an amazing partnership. You work very well together and I think you're going nowhere but up in the in the standings of the sport. But I would love to see you, Martin, just apologize even a little brief post. uh I was out of line or emotions were running high, whatever the case may be. I'm sure there was things going roing through your head in that moment of time that that compelled you to do that. But I think I think Giles deserves better. I think he does you do deserve an apology, Giles. That's all. >> Thank you. And thing is, Ron, like I I was really excited about doing a tour with him. And the thing is, like he said, "Oh, you'll be great. I'll um I'll I'll um I'll have a few days where I go and see Stefan." and you know and you're getting them out and like all the positivity and also all the work and the stress that kind of goes into pulling these like hugely positive I can't think of a different word you know these these these joyous kind of tours that we do and everyone like people come up to you and they're like oh this means so much to me I've met you know Martin and Ronnie and whoever like it really I get a lot of satisfaction I get a real kick out of it do you know what I mean because like otherwise all we get to you know I mean I remember growing you remember growing up as a you know teenager meeting like you know the the superstars at the It's huge. Like Kevin Nevron that that that 1994 like spending those few hours with Kevin None has got me right here right now because he was the one who encouraged me to start doing the media work like so like they can they can be life-changing some of these interactions you know >> um and um like people come like four five hours drive or some two people the Ronnie like they driven four hours and you know driven through the night to come see Ronnie and stuff. So stuff like so we could have been doing a tour and thing is mate they make bloody good money as well and it's just you know it's it's it's like you see some of the prize mates some of the shows you just think oh man you just like why did you have to go there why did you have to do it there and then if you had a genuine grievance you you could have DM'd me you could have spoke to me and say Josh I'm not happy about that and you know could have been dealt with away offline and now it's kind of all public and it's it's embarrassing for for the sport for everyone I feel embarrassed you know um and It's just it's just not necessary, mate. And it's um I could imagine like um Dorian going for Pete McGoff at the Olympia or something for something he said, you know. It's like thing is that's that's the equivalent because it just it is it's ridiculous. You got to choose your moments, you know, >> and there's a way to conduct yourself as a professional because that is what you are. You are a professional. I mean, in some sports, I can't imagine the backlash if they, you know, if that was um in some other like if you're a footballer and you do stuff like that, you can get fined like hundreds of thousands of dollars and suspended and >> it's like I don't know. I don't know. I just like I said, I did my best to keep it offline and I swear on Lauren's life, I didn't I didn't, you know, leak that to anyone because I don't those two guys we mentioned that posted, I don't even speak to them. They're not I've never spoken to them once, you know, like in DMs or anything. I don't have their numbers. I'm not in contact with them. And I I mean I'm I'm not that upset about the fact that somebody because I know what happened. Somebody would have got it and said I'm going to send this to three people I trust and those three people are going to send it to three people they trust and it only takes one person to go you didn't get this from me mate and then that's it. Boom. But I don't know. It's um it is what it is. But it's uh and I tried I tried thing is like um and what got me thinking I was in the gym the other night. I was chatting to one of the lads Billy that works in the gym and I told him about it. I showed him the video and he says, "Well, why haven't you posted it?" And I says, "Well," and he said, "Are you protecting him?" And I went, "I guess I am." And he says, "Well, would they protect you, mate, if it was the other way around?" I said, "Probably not." And he went, "Well, there you go." So, like, I'm trying to help these guys. I'm actually trying to help these It's like when I'm giving him critique, you know, like um like say Hattie shoulders in 2021. Imagine if no one had actually said to him, you know, and then he turns up at the 22 Olympia and then the the head judge says, "Oh, well, the reason we put you down in third and you didn't win is because of that." And it's like you do you see do you see what I'm getting at because I'm everything I do is I take my profession seriously and I've done it for many many years and there's a reason why I've been around as long as I have and like you have you know that's the reason why you and me work together because >> you know we're the last of the Makans mate you know and there's so and thing is the way that the whole I mean I despair daily about the way that um the whole media thing has gone and there are some good ones you know there's plenty there's a few out there that fighting the good fight and keeping it positive. and you know and it's I see some horrible things said you know personal things about people and you know and it's and athletes and I just think to be honest it would it would drive me nuts but um I don't know the whole thing was just it was just >> the last thing I want to say is my dream scenario here dream scenario Martin reaches out apologizes you guys get on good terms you put a tour together across the the UK and make a boatload of money together meet a ton of fans have a great time, get some content, and uh everybody wins. That >> I'd love I'd love that, mate. I'd love that. I mean, I remember um I shouldn't say his name, but there was someone that came at me, remember, at the superstar seminar at the Olympia a few years ago. >> Yes. >> Do you remember? Yeah. And in fairness, he reached out to me because I didn't say anything. I didn't say anything on the forums, nothing. And then a few weeks later, he said send me these long messages, but there was no apology. So, I just ignored him. I just ignored him. And then he sent another message a couple of weeks later, and then right in the middle of it was, "I apologize." >> Oh. And then I and I I responded straight away and I said, "Mate, I won't say his name." I said, "Mate, we're good. You've apologized. We're good." And we've been fine ever since, you know, because I just thought, you know, um, even Milos, me and Milos have clashed, you know what I mean? But he actually he actually has reached out to me and apologized and you know and and and came across with genuine intent as well you know but um cuz the end of the day was a small sport mate and I don't want to be going to shows feeling tense and you know and feeling sort of stressed and you know looking over my shoulder and thinking oh [\h__\h] if I go to the toilet am I going to bump into him and they get head smashed into a wall and you know because all these things run through your mind you know and um I mean also not just apologies why I might send the invoice for this bloody cardiologist appointment cuz seriously see like my heart has been like it's been fluttering really badly and I do worry about it and even though it might be the cardiologist might say no no problem everything's fine we've done a check you know because you have to pay extra as well then for the bloody scans and the >> you know like I've got to be careful mate so um I don't know whatever it is but I mean let me let me let me let me finish that um the the Ronny thing because I want to I want to end on somewhat of a positive you know so >> and also the Andrew Jack tour that's like I said we've spoke about that so that's going to be by the time you're watching this it'll probably be out on Instagram stagram on the Olympia Instagram and Andrews because we're going to collab. Uh, okay. We have, this is, this is from, this is from Ronnie. It's on the group chat, so I'm okay to repeat it. We've landed about an hour early. Woohoo. Thanks for all the help on this very successful tour. I would really like to thank you, Lauren. You went above and beyond, and you really didn't have to do that. Thank you, Chris, for all your help with the wheelchair and luggage every time we traveled. Thanks for your help with the fans. Charles, you did an amazing job of organizing this amazing tour. Had it not been for you, none of it would have been possible. Amazing job, my friend. I know all the back and forth with Shan wasn't easy, but you guys pulled it off despite the setback when I was hospitalized. Until next time, crew. I can't wait to do this again, but for real, no time soon. No time soon. That was very taxing for us all, but we did it. Yeah. YBLWB. What does that mean? >> Yeah, buddy. Lightweight baby. >> It still ain't nothing but a peanut. And then he said, "Oh, and I forgot like Charles always say, dream work, make the team work." Thank you to the entire team. I didn't mention Susan because she already knows I have something very special for her and she's my better half. Can't do nothing without her as she knows. And then she said, "Ronnie is what you have for me big and sparkly." >> It is. >> It's funny. It's It's funny, you know, because he was talking about she had these um these special rings and and and tiny um things. She had uh Mr. Eight or something. She had some to represent the how many daughters they've got and also how many Olympia titles. And uh and she and she had a little dig. She says, "Well," she goes because of course I had to pay for it myself. And then Ronnie looks up and he says, "I bought you a MercedesBenz eight daughters and eight Mr. Olympia titles. That's pretty crazy." Wow. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean, it's he's the best. We all love Ronnie. And you know, this was your third third tour with Ronnie. >> Fourth. >> Fourth. Wow. >> Fourth. Yeah. And I think um because I think Susan said he's going to because he was in can that's why I messaged him today. I said, "How was Canada?" because as soon as he got back two days home and he was off to Canada and I think he's off to Mexico now. Um but I said to her, she said um I said, "Look, Ronnie, you you only you only need to give me a couple of months notice. I can always I'm sure I can always pull something together for you, whether it be in the UK, Europe, or anywhere, you know, because I get inquiries all the time like Argentina the other day and all these different countries of, you know, that want to because obviously they just they know Ronny's team knows that they can hand this to me and they know, you know, and obviously I mean Susan had a Ronniey's wife had a fantastic time. She's like, I thought this was going to be a bit of a drag and it was going to be a slog, she says. But like she genuinely like we we've got three different group chats now. One for the cats, one one for one one for Ronnie and she's got another one called the UK family and she she included um the guys that Ronnie did the two the seek guys and tech did the 2012 >> tour. So we're all, you know, constantly and constant. She said she goes honestly she says I just um I really if if Ronnie does another one, she says guaranteed I'm coming. She said, "Cuz I had such a good time." So >> nice. >> You know, cuz like these tours are just so much fun, you know, like I said. I mean, it's me having the nervous breakdowns beforehand and the back and forth, but you know, I kind of I'm the one, you know, sort of benefiting as well. But, um, it's uh it's it's something that, you know, it's like I said, I don't like I don't like negativity. I don't like and you got to work out what actual negativity is and what's actually positive constructive. Do you know what I mean? It's like you can't you can't say like Ron I preferred your hair a different way. That's not being negative. That might be just me my opinion. And there's something about an opinionated subjective sport. We should be allowed to give our opinion. I mean I'm not I hope I'm not dropping. But I spoke to Jay Cutler about it the other week as well and he said he said you're just giving your opinion. says, you know, like Terrence Ruffin, me and Terrence um um we spoke about because there was a bit of online stuff about me saying his his midsection water at the prejudging and then me and me and um Terrence were talking about it. He says, "Well, I disagree with you, Charles." He says, "But it's your opinion." He just laughed about it and then we just clinkedked glasses and and had a drink. Great. So, that's how it should be, you know. >> Uh here's another tour you got coming up just for just to put it out there. >> Yep. Dennis Wolf, a big bad wolf, looking like an action hero there for sure. >> Well, I was I was stressing about this one because we had promised him like the start of November. And then when the Ronnie tour got rescheduled, like some were biting. We got some bookings and then others were like, "Well, we'd love to, but we've just had Ronnie and it's, you know, it's we need time to promote." So, so I said to Dennis, I said, "Look, Dennis, can we put this back to January, February, because we do have those months free because March is going to be Andrew Jacked and then and then so on." and plus nothing's going on in December. I said, "Can we can we um move it back?" I said, "Because uh you know, we'll it'll be a bigger, better tour." And and he I was so relieved because he said, "Yeah, Charles, absolutely no problem, mate. No problem." He says, "You know, if it's if it makes the tour bigger and better," he says, "Then I'm all for it." So, yeah. So, I'm I'm excited to tour with with Dennis. I know he's a cool guy. I mean, you and I have interviewed him many, many times and um you know, that was he was the first winner of the the Prague show in 2012. >> That's right. He's been around. >> He he was he was good in his time when he when he was at his best. I mean, he was he was incredible. >> Yeah. He's he's looking very athletic now, but he was a beast. He was huge. I'm actually happy to see him downsize because, you know, that gives me confidence he's going to live a lot longer. >> I'm not even joking. That's that's just a fact. Look how big he was. He had these crazy wide shoulders. He was such a tall, wide guy, flaring thighs, >> and and thing is like, you see the new picture of him, how he looks now. >> Yeah. >> Like, you know, yeah, he looks like a a men's physique, but you get close to him and in real life, and he's going to look huge. Like, he's going to be he's still physically like if you saw him like a guy that size in like a nightclub or something on the doors or something, you'd be like, "God, that guy is jacked." >> Yeah. But like compared to obviously how we remember him there like 2008 that was >> I mean he was um he was phenomenal. I remember when um when he hit the when he really cuz 2006 he didn't make top 15 in the Olympia and then he came back in 2007 and I think he should have beat Ronnie. I think he I I think he deserved fourth. I mean that the fresh the the wide the wide shoulders the crazy upper back. And in fact, I um I pissed Branch off actually because I said I said to him in Sweden, I've actually said to him twice in Sweden, I said I in fact, do you remember when um Branch won it in 2011? The cause because you and me were covering it for MD. >> Yeah. Yeah. He won it and then 12 >> and then remember right before the Olympia, the um Branch Quad and they had to pull out the Olympia then he came back to the Arnold um and won the Arnold. I mean it's um but I actually had I we were there. We were there. I actually had Dennis winning that one. Um because Branch was awesome, but Dennis was just I thought he just I thought he deserved that one. >> But um what was I going to say about Dennis as well? Something else I want to say about him. >> I can't remember. I can't remember. Um yeah, what was it? No, can't remember. >> It's all right. Yeah, he was fantastic. Fantastic in his time. >> Nice guy as well. >> Yeah, great sense of humor. Speaks fluent English, Russian, and German. >> So, he's got a huge fan base. Sorry, that's enough. >> I wonder if like it might be worth pushing to get some seminars in Germany, and he just does it in German. I mean, I don't I don't need to understand the seminar. I just need to get him there. >> I I think there I mean, I see the the popularity of bodybuilding in Germany. Any German there's a few channels in in German from Germany on YouTube, the bodybuilding, they get huge views because the people there are very very passionate and they love to see the content in German. And guys like Dennis and Marcus Rule are still revered as in the pantheon of the greatest German bodybuilders of all time. Do you know apparently Marcus Rule at Fibo had like like the kind of security I had for Ronnie in Amsterdam like literally like a team of security like like some of these influencers get which is >> which is I think it's bollocks to be honest but like apparently he needed like actual like in Germany the expert like his popularity and apparently his stand was was because he's got like a supplement thing going but like in Germany like he's he's still really really really popular and I think I'm starting to think now maybe that's popularity comes from like say Ramen Inino does in Brazil like the the support and the majority of the the fan frenzy comes from their own country, >> you know, which is um which is kind of kind of cool to see really. >> But um yeah, >> let's wrap it up because we we got the positivity in there at the end. >> Thank god. No, I Yeah, I just I Yeah, it's um the whole thing I to be honest, I didn't I I really wanted to try and keep all that I know. >> Completely buried and dealt with offline, but unfortunately, you know, it takes one little and then that's it. Boom. It's out there. >> I think people will will realize it wasn't me that sent it to Matt Muscle Discord. I wouldn't have sent that to him. >> You sure? Ron. >> Uh, no. It wasn't me. >> Look me in the eye. Tell me. >> Christian. I showed it to Christian's like, "Who's that?" That's my wife. They They don't even know who he is. Of course, they don't follow the sport. But, uh, yeah, I'm glad we got it out there. And again, we're not >> Yeah. Go ahead. >> Can I one final thing? I got to give a special mention to that Damian the guy third >> oh >> Sen you know on his Instagram my god that guy is because he's ex because AJ told me when we're doing the Prague uh live stream he was saying that um he's exclassic and this guy is like I can only liken him to like a new he's like a cross between Gunter and Marcus Rule with the conditioning of like a 70 kilo guy. I mean he he blew my mind actually. There was two guys in Prague that really really impressed me was that 23 year old, you know, with the the the mas or something. But this guy, I mean, I see that photo doesn't really highlight how impressive because he's like he's look at I mean, look at him next to Andrew there. >> Yes. >> Do you see what I mean? You think about how big Andrew is, how much space he takes up. I mean, this guy is one to watch because he's actually when he poses, he's actually, you know, he tilts the hips. He can actually look quite aesthetic. like that shot there that looks like a that's a kind of the I mean look at it got the delts but thing is there I mean we got loads of big guys out there you know the guys that don't make top 10 it just big but no condition no separation look at the quality look at the quality of his detail separation you know the dryness and I mean he is he I swore him backstage I was like holy [\h__\h] I mean this guy is a beast but I really I'm glad he got a good placing because now he can shut it down uh and say that he made top three in a good show against, you know, good good quality competition. But, um, he is a guy that I think we really he really was a for for me, him with Joe Palasios, I think, are the two I would say Yeah, I'd say yeah, I'd say they're the two biggest breakout stars of the of the season. But he's awesome. Honestly, you got to see him in the flesh. He's incredible. >> Yeah, it's great. So, that is >> Saiyan Fitness Freak. >> Honestly, guys, check him out because he's I mean, he must have been 120 125 kilo plus. I mean, he was I mean, to be that cuz I saw him backstage and like just the conditioning in that, the skin quality. I mean, I can't imagine how big he is in the offseason. He was an absolute monster, but quality, you know. >> Do you know what Saiyan is? Do you know what that word means? >> Not a Scooby. >> It's from uh Dragon Ball Z cartoon. >> Oh, okay. Okay. Okay. Is into all that bollocks, isn't he? >> Yes. A lot of them are. My son's hugely into >> There's Martin with his punch Charles energy. Look at him though. I mean, he's just amazing. And also Joe Sema as well. I mean, you know, what can you say about Joe Se? He's incredible. >> Jose was shredded out of his skull >> as usual. >> If he ever I I said this online, I said on Instagram, I said if he ever drops out of the top 10 Olympia, I said that guy can just go back into open and make an immediate impact because he's he's and he's what he 23 24 >> 24 incredible. I mean, if you were if you were a Spanish supplement company, I mean, this guy this guy you you he must have his door being beaten down to to because he's good-looking guy, you know, I spoke to him and he's he's marketable. He's you could imagine him in some sort of like, you know, some ad that would appeal to any demographic because I look at him. He's just he's another one. He legit looks like a superhero. >> Yeah, that's his best shot right there. I would just frame that if I were him. I saw that in the flesh as well at MRO last year and it is it's as impressive as it is in the on Instagram. >> He's with uh is he with ESM? He's got their >> uh I don't know. I don't know for sure. Possibly. Everyone else is. >> Yeah. I mean it says collabs. I don't know if he's sponsored by them or not, but >> Oh, also Lauren's going to do some because obviously we're going to we do different Olympia All-Star tours. Lauren's going to do some a UK gym tour with um Shel who won the fitness Olympia. >> Oh, wow. Okay. >> So, yeah. So, we're going to because I said to her, look, I said there's a way that you can do these workshops and and Shel because we took Shel to the the Fitex. We took um Ryan, Terry, uh Shelly, and Ronny, which is three, you know, that was huge for them to have there. I mean, Ryan was only there a few hours on the bloody he got mobbed. Um but um so I said to Lauren I said Lauren I said you know because we we've worked with Ashley before and we've worked with you know classic and all these different C because ideally I'd like to work with every single division that we can because it's not just about the Andrew Jacks and the Ronnies and the you know we want to kind of give because Olympia Allstar Tour and we want to really want to give that same opportunity and support to all the divisions. So because like Shelley now she's got an opportunity now to promote her division because fitness kind of needs it. I think like fitness figure I think they kind of need to because otherwise if you know like like the two when 212 got dropped at the Arnold Classic you know you've gota you got to kind of show up for your own division otherwise how can you expect other people to and you know sponsors fans competitors so I think she's uh because she had a great time she would literally run her every time I I lost Laura I'd look over and then they'd be over there you know with like a a queue of fans in the middle of the expo with her Olympia medal around her neck having photos you know put putting her leg up and stuff like that. So it was and then we had Ronnie and obviously the huge queues there. So it was uh and then Ryan obviously with all the the chicks queuing up to meet him. >> Of course he's a good looking dude. So all right there's a few of us about mate. >> That's true. Let's wrap it up guys. So if you have any comments about uh Andrew Jack's new improved look, his chances for winning the Arnold, the Olympia, anything you want to say about him, anything you want to say about the Martin Fitzwwater incident. Uh you can be on his side or Gile's side. It's all all the comments are good. Doesn't matter. It helps the algorithm. I still don't know what an algorithm is, but I know you're supposed to help algorithm. Sounds like a math thing. That's why I probably draw blank. Giles, thank you once again. Um, especially for, you know, talking about this. I know you had no intentions, no desire to talk about this, but we got it out there and I think we did it in a responsible and respectable way. We didn't throw him under the bus. Um, >> I hope so. I'm not trying to get into anyone into any trouble. I'm not trying to get him. Do you know what I mean? But it's like I I have to I think like I said to I said to you on the group chat and I said I think there's almost like a responsibility to kind of address this because like what next you know you me Miguel or whoever or these people at the the shows it's like you kind of got to let let people know that it's not it's not acceptable and it's not good for anyone like it didn't benefit anyone >> that happening you know so you need to kind of deal with things you know um so we can all kind of help everyone to grow because it's like we're all we're all we all our roles. We all have a contribution that we make and we all kind of and things we all kind of need I think we do need to get along and stuff like that. So I think things do need to be resolved in a respectful and and classy way because that sort of thing can't really happen. I'm sorry. >> I agree. And on that note, we'll we'll call it another power hour. So guys, thank you so much for watching. Again, drop some comments, like, sh like, share, subscribe. Come on, Ron. You can do this. And uh that's it. Thank you, J. We'll see you next week on the next episode of the