Good morning, guys. Good morning, guys. Uh, the Poland Pro is over. They're way ahead of me. They're seven hours ahead of me, so it's wrapped up a few minutes ago. And Andrea Prey is the winner. Not as I predicted yesterday. Yoan Gradier from Spain. And I want to thank all the people who chimed in and told me the correct pronunciation because I was not familiar with that name. J O N. It's Yan. Yan. So, it had to be close. The scores are not out yet. I think this is a case where it did come down to condition because each guy had flaws. Each guy had something the other guy didn't have. I'm sure that's Prey right there telling Yan, "Your time is coming." Something like that. So, Yuan had the better overall shape and balance. He had a better upper to lower body balance because his legs are bigger, got better triceps for sure. However, Prey Prey had a much better back and his condition was far superior. So, even though his legs were far worse than Yan's, it came down to who had, you know, who had the least flaws and what the judges decide to do about that because it was not an easy decision. I'm sure [snorts] when you have two guys who one's got a great back, one's got an awful back, one's got great legs, one's got awful legs. You know, it it's tough for these judges. Don't think it's easy. And it gets even harder when you have guys at the Olympia level when we're talking like top five, top top five at the Olympia, my goodness. But top 10 at the Olympia, that's when it's tough because you're not you don't see too many weak points on those guys. Those guys are usually very complete. Very complete. So congratulations to Andrea. And um I guess an apology is an oral. I didn't I didn't say he wasn't going to win. I just thought I was pretty certain was going to win. Praos from Spain was going to be the winner. He was not. So, one more look at the judging from yesterday. Let's take a look at that. See if we can see if we can figure it out. [clears throat] So, as you can see, this was the top four. I don't know who placed fourth. Third place was Pablo Lopez Munoz. Yopez. every every time I try to pronounce things correctly or as I think they're correctly, someone from Spain corrects me because pronunciation in Spain is pretty different from how it is in a lot of these other Latin American countries. Obviously, I'm familiar with Spanish as spoken in Cuba. Uh, in Puerto Rico, I have a Cuban wife and her family's Cuban, but they've married into Colombians and and Puerto Ricans. So, I've heard those accents as well and those uh pronunciations, but Spain, not very familiar with. So once again, Prey wins. Um, I won't say it was an easy win. I I'm really anxious to see the scores. I would guarantee, no, I guess I can't guarantee, but I would bet you that Pradell's got some first place votes. And Prey got some first place votes. And in the end, Prey got more first place votes. I I I can't imagine it was a blowout. I have I have to think this was a very close call because like I said, you can see from the back, Prey has much better back development and thickness than Predell's does. His condition is better from the back. Predell's has better overall balance between upper and lower body. He's definitely got better triceps and better quads. U but in the end, the judges had to do what they had to do. Comments. Boom. Yeah. So, congratulations in order to Mr. presti, right? I know my I don't speak any Italian at all, but I I try I like to pretend sometimes. So, take a look and see if we have any better better uh clips from Instagram. So, that was we're looking at Beyond the Stage TV. That's the win. That's the announcement. Uh so, Prey was first place. We know this. Yan Prael second place, Pablo Yopis third place. Akim Williams fourth place. Now you're gonna say it's time for Akim to retire because fourth place. Oh no. But what we were talking about in some of the comments was that Akim has made a living off this sport for years. He's had sponsors. He can afford to be a full-time bodybuilder. Not many bodybuilders can say that. And Damen Kufel from Poland right there in fifth place. Great job. And that's some whey protein. So again, your top five. Damen Kufel in fifth, Akim Williams in fourth, Pablo Yopis in third, Yan Bradio in second, and Andrea Prei in first. Great job. Great job. There's a shot of the post down. Is that Roman Fritz there? Was he in the show? I didn't even know he was in the show. That is Roman, isn't it? Yeah. See, I wasn't even paying attention to anyone who wasn't in that first call out. Yeah, Akim doesn't need to retire yet, guys. He's He's not His body isn't falling apart on or anything like that. Yeah, that's Fritz right there. Huh. Interesting. Couple more comments. [snorts] I such a grinder. Yeah, I give the guy credit. I mean, he's been going hard for 15 years. 14 or 15 years as a pro. But Akimhead of Prey, I mean, Prey's got some issues with the physique. His triceps are pretty weak. His quads are pretty weak. He's [snorts] got a great back, great shoulders, great chest. You know, his upper body, aside from the triceps, is really, really sensational. Prey. And again, nobody looked awesome. There was nobody. There was nobody who was like a top 10 Olympia guy in this show. Had there been, well, we would have seen a different outcome. One of those would have won. Smell the tan and protein farts from here. Someone says, "Uh, oh, Natalya, I didn't know she was Is she out there?" Geez. No, that's somewhere else. All right, that's a different show in a different country. That was East Coast Pro. So, Prey wins Olympia Bound. Some more shots of Prey with his giant medal. He's got a nice trophy there. And can we see how much he got paid? I can't see from that. I can't see the check. See, his legs from the side don't look bad. His quads from the front, they're weak. From the side, his legs don't look they don't look awful. They really don't. [snorts] Um, but you know, once you get to the Olympia, you can't have any weak points. You have weak points at the Olympia, you're in like the third, fourth call out. That's that's how it goes. Pressy winning. Beautiful moment. Yeah, I have to imagine Prey was telling him something like, you know, you're a young guy. Your time is coming. You gave me a good fight. Something like that. But congratulations, man. Uh Prey, I've met him a few times. I've interviewed him. Really cool guy. Um you know, there can only be one winner. I I was leaning toward Predell's yesterday. Praels, but you know, I I knew each one of them had something the other didn't. I I would have gone with Predell's just for the overall balance, but you do have to reward condition sometimes if it's close. And this time I think it was close. Oh, you got a nice ring, too. When it's close like that and one guy is in much better condition as Preie was, you got to go with the condition. So, I I don't disagree with that at all. It's at the same post over and over again. Yeah, they're giving him the ring. No idea how much he won. That was the uh announcement there for the winner. He has weak legs and arms. So far so much mismatched body parts, particularly weak back. The only weak body part uh Aim has is his back. Everything else is really good. If you look shoulders, arms, chest, quads, hams, everything except Akim's back is great. So when you say mismatched body parts, I I I can't agree with that. He was sixth place at the Olympia a few years ago. You don't get top six at the Olympia with a with a bad Prey beat Joe one Yoan Yoan. I'm saying it right now. Black Patron, everyone's been correcting me. So yes, Prey beat him. The title of the video is Andre Prey wins Poland Pro. Much to Ron's surprise, you know, I'm happy for him. I'm happy for him. How did Prey's back looked this show? Back looked really good. Uh no detail whatsoever in his back. See [snorts] if there's any individual posing. I know he had it on his channel. I don't see it here immediately. I'm gonna go to I'm gonna go to his pull and pose down. Yeah, I'm going to go to Prey. He had his routine on his uh it was from someone's phone, but still look at the winning routine. All right, so there it was. Can get a good look here. Here's the winning routine. Yoan, yes. Y is AI know the Y sound. Yeah. So, biceps are good. Shoulders, the condition, I think, is what put him over. Just so much more conditioned. Hands and glutes are all dug out. Let's see the back. Yeah, I mean that it's a it's a really good back and it's said it lacked detail. I don't say that. I mean this is just somebody's iPhone and I could see plenty of detail in that and this doesn't have great resolution. It's just iPhone footage. So it came down to condition. I'm still anxious to see the scores cuz I still think Yan probably got some first place votes. He had to have the low back. There's nothing going on. Yeah. You know, how is this even possible to talk about being robbed? Well, like I said, um Yan has work to do on his back. Uh and his condition was pretty subpar. I mean, it was nowhere near the level of Prey. So, I'm not arguing. I don't think anybody got robbed. I would have been perfectly happy with Yoan winning. That's I did the video all about Yoan yesterday because I had him in the lead. I had him in the lead. So, get a couple more comparison shots of the two and then I'm going to shut it down because I gotta go. I gotta go. I have a personal training client that's an hour away. So, there's some some good comparison shots. Yeah. I mean, this these aren't the greatest quality photos, but still you can see you can see the superior condition. Yan's back looks pretty smooth and watery. his glutes. They're not flabby or anything, but they're not anywhere near as dug out as Pres. Yeah, you could see that big gap there in in Yan's back. You see that big hollow? That needs to be filled in. There shouldn't be a big hole in your back. That's not good. Um, Prestige just giving us individual shots of himself there. Yeah. Not complaining too much. Good for Prestige of War. I mean, you did tear both quads. Oh, I didn't realize that. Judging been weird lately, Ron. H. I mean, this was a this was a case where neither guy was awesome. Each one had flaws, and the judges just had to decide which flaws are we going to consider worse than the others today. [snorts] Pray to the bone. Yeah. The spine issue with Yan. Well, that's that's awful because you can't really do much about your spine, can you? Yeah. H interesting, guys. Cool. Well, I told you this is going to be a quick one yet his back looks like that. Yeah. So, no Christmas tree. Yeah. I mean, he wasn't It's He's not He doesn't have the greatest physique or else, you know, he'd be top 10 at the Olympia by now. But, uh hope Jordan can qualify 2026 Olympia. Oh, he's got plenty more chances. I mean, there's a few more shows even even now. We still have Romania next week, but Andrew Jack is doing that. He's not winning. There's Big Man Pro Show right there in Spain in Alakante, Spain on the 30th. Yan could do that and win. Is that the last one for the year? Yeah. So, the very last chance this year. Obviously, next year there's gonna be plenty more chances to qualify for the 2026 Olympia, but even at the end of this month, if Yan can hang on to his diet another month, um there's a show right there in Alakante, Spain, his home country. So, he could do that. Get the whole shredded glutes ham, lower back. Yeah. I mean, it could be a lack of development. We certainly hold water in different places, which we're No, I agree. Anyway, guys, yeah, I do have to run. Uh, this had to be a quick one, but appreciate you all jumping on here. So, congratulations to I should go back to the placings one last time. Congratulations to Andre Andrea Prey, but who had the uh scores here, right? So, one last time, share the screen so you could see your final placings right there in Poland were Andrea Prey, your winner, Yoan Bradell's runner up in second place, also from Spain, Pablo Yopis in third place, the USA's Akim Williams in fourth place, and Poland's own Damen Kufoul. in third place. So that is it guys for show. Yeah, Jones very new. So thank you guys for watching. Uh that is your breaking news for this morning. Next Sunday is going to be the judging and finals for Romania Muscle Fest. The list comes out tomorrow. Uh not sure who's in it, but we know Andrew Jack is in it. So that is your heavy favorite. He was your third place at this recent Mr. Olympia. He's definitely the heavy favorite for that. So, uh, looking forward to the list coming out probably late tomorrow afternoon, Eastern Standard Time. And I'll be doing a preview of it, uh, both on the Meatthead podcast Wednesday and at some point during the week with Giles Prey, Giles Prey. Giles Thomas for Power Hour. Giles is wrapping up his tour with Ronnie Coleman today and tomorrow. They've been going all over the UK. Tons and tons of appearances. So, thank you guys so much for watching. See you next time.