Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour with me, Ron Harris, and Giles Tiger Thomas. Today we're going to be talking about the Fibo Power Show coming up this Saturday in Cologne, Germany. Giles, I don't know if you were surprised. Maybe Andrew Jack told you, but I was very very surprised when that list came out and it said Chenado Oba on there. Um, you have a little inside scoop on Andrew. You you did the tour with them and I know you guys talk here and there. So, did you know that Andrew was doing FIBO? No, I did not. So, I actually messaged him today. Um, and he was very brief because normally sends like two or three minute voice notes back, but he was very brief obviously because I think he's busy and he's traveling or whatever. Um, and yeah, I was really shocked because he told me his plans and they didn't include Fibo. Um, and the plans, the original plans he had made sense to sort of um, you know, sort of get AI hate to say easy qualification, but get a qualification, get it done out the way so we could then, you know, focus on the Olympia because he's top five. So, um, you know, you don't want to be going through five, six shows to try and get a qualification. So, yeah, I was um, yeah, I was shocked. I was really surprised because the show he said he was doing originally um is um is in a couple of months. So I he must have I mean and I saw some of the pictures and videos on his Instagram and he didn't you know it looked like he'd obviously lost a bit of conditioning from the Arnold. So I thought okay he's going to go into like a mini offseason and then he'll be getting ready for the show that he said he was going to do. So yeah I was um I was bit I was bit shocked. I'm just wondering why um maybe he just thought maybe he just thought, "Okay, I'm in condition." And um and obviously maybe saw the lineup and thought, "Do you know what?" Um because the other show might have been a a relatively easy qualification for a top five Olympia guy. But um yeah, so when he said that, I was when I saw that I thought, okay, he's he's obviously changed his plans. Um you know, he's he's he's obviously in good nick and probably thought, "Oh, well, may as well, you know, maybe just I think it was a spur-of-the- moment thing, personally." What do you think? Yeah. Well, I tell you my, you know, I love conspiracy theories. So, I I I think he saw all these people going into Pittsburgh and I bet he wants to do Pittsburgh and so this is a great way to set the stage and get a go into Pittsburgh with a win. He's already qualified for the Olympia and then he can go up against Derek and Nick Walker and Martin and Ko. So, that's what I think he's up to. I think he's going to do Pittsburgh now. No, I don't. I No, I don't think so. I'd be very very shocked because you'd have to go up against Derek, Nick, um you know, Martin. These are three guys that have all kind of placed ahead of him. So, I I think he just wants to get AI think he just wants to get his qualification done out the way. And then maybe he's got um maybe he's changed his plans where he wants to take a vacation or he wants to have a bit of time off, you know, before he starts getting ready for the Olympia because the show he told me he was doing actually no, I wouldn't. It would have been okay. I think I I Sorry, China. Didn't you didn't you say he was thinking about doing that show in China? Yeah, in June. Yeah. So, I was a bit um so I just thought that was in like that was in late end of June. So, um I think sometimes, um if you stay on prep, you know, and you maybe don't back off on, you know, you you do sort of carry on with the dieting and stuff and maybe because I think he's in because he said he's in condition all year round, not like contest condition, but he doesn't go far out. Um I remember once I was getting ready for the the British finals and I was it was a 12week prep and then five just under five weeks out I decided to do a show five and a half weeks into my prep and I because I just I was looking down I was thinking I'm shredded. So, you know, so I think I think maybe he's just thought, okay, well, why why do I need to, you know, sort of maybe I can just bring my plans forward and I'll just jump in this show. Um, realistically, he's going to win, isn't he? Yeah. And I mean, it's we'll get into the lineup and I was kind of disappointed for Sergio because I really was hoping this could be a win for Sergio. But, uh, before we stop talking about Andrew, I I want to show you that that the Olympia. Did you ever get the story? Because I've heard several versions of what happened with his music. Did they cut off his music? Did they give him the wrong music? Because it was pretty awkward. Yeah. Well, it was um they said they heard curse words. Yes. Okay. Yes. Okay. No, they they picked they No, they picked up on they picked up on they picked up on some uh curse words and and that's why they pulled it. So, that was it. I mean, he told the story several times on the tour because I think that was one of the first things that people were asking, you know. Yeah. Okay, fair enough. Yeah. I mean, that was that was a really uh shocking thing when it happened. But so Andrew is the favorite to win. I mean, fifth in the world. He's won the Arnold UK. He's topseated guy. Um, I'm a little upset because, you know, I like Andrew, but I was really hoping Sergio Oliva Jr. could come back and get a win because he's uh correct me if I'm wrong, he's only had one pro win, his first pro show, 2017 New York Pro, and he hasn't done many pro shows. Um, we haven't seen him since it's been almost two years, spring of 23 at the Cali Pro. So, this was supposed to be a really good comeback for Sergio. And then when I saw Andrew, and I hate to say, well, Sergio can't beat Andrew, but on paper, it would be very, very difficult for Sergio Lea to beat Andrew Jack. Agree or disagree. Giles, can can you hear me, Giles? Yeah. Yeah. Sorry, you're breaking up there really bad. Yeah, you're really bad. This fiber optic is shite. Um, yeah. Yeah. No, I to be honest, I had him kind of winning before uh before Andrew jumped in. So, yeah, I think he's um I mean he said he did apparently said on Dennis James' podcast that he wanted some real competition. So, be careful what you wish for because now he's got a top five Olympia guy that realistically I mean Andrew's never really come in off off. Um so, I think um and Andrew wouldn't come into this unless he was ready. So, um, yeah, I think I think he'll be I think he'll be second, but I I kind of see Andrew winning it being the clear winner here. Okay, fair enough. Yeah, I mean, I want to show you the last update for uh just let me let me show you what he's looking like and you tell me what you think his condition was like. I mean, he's still going to be a very very good competitor. So, this was uh this was yesterday or the day before right here. his front double. He doesn't he hasn't posted a back shot. He looks really good. He I think he Go ahead. I think he looks really good. He looks really really good. Um because I saw one update a few weeks ago and I was thinking [\h__\h] he needs to put put his foot down now. Um but this one this update, you know, I was like, okay, he's really brought it in. He's really kind of ready now. So, and I was kind of seeing him as the because I think I think he would beat Sassan. I mean, Sassan's, you know, coming back and he's looking fantastic and he had a great result in Detroit, but um I, you know, someone like Sergio with the size and structure, the nice wide shoulders, the small waist, I thought, um, okay, yeah, he's a he's a shoeing to win this, you know, but obviously then then along came Mr. Jacked. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, again, I'm I'm I'm buming because I like Sergio a lot and he's had his difficulties. He's bounced all over the world. He's been in Australia, US, Dubai, Spain. Uh, so I was hoping this was going to sort of be the beginning because he's he's 40 years old now, which isn't ancient at all, but it's time to make if you're going to make something happen, this is the time to do it. Yeah, I totally agree. I wonder if he um I mean, now you say 40, I mean, I wouldn't mind to see if he jumps into the Masters Olympia. How cool would that be? Well, they came out with the list, but the list had uh So, the list for the Masters only had people that had applied. Uh, yes, I saw that. So, it was missing like, you know, Brandon Curry was not on that list. Bonak was on that list. Kamal was not on that list. Max Charles, Phil Clayhar, and I several of those people I'm sure doing the show. So, the real the full list is not out, but yeah, I agree. Masters Olympia would be a great great venue for Sergio. Yeah. I mean, it's um if he's on prep and he's kind of it's kind of like a few extra weeks to what he's doing because I mean, I'm assuming he was thinking of doing I think maybe originally he might have just been doing this one show. Maybe when he heard the kind of who was doing it, what names maybe thought okay I'm going to target that show because you know until Andrew Jack came in. I mean he was kind of like the front runner really. He was kind of like the and he's looking great in these updates. So, um I'd imagine now unless something um you know, unless he really has improved and Andrew comes in off say and um you know he's gonna he's gonna have to keep on prepping, isn't he? If he wants to try and qualify for the Olympia or at least get a win. So maybe something like the Masters Olympia would be a good show for him to do. But um yeah, that's interesting. Um yeah. Yeah, I'd uh and um correct me if I'm wrong. The Masters Olympia, if you win that, I think doesn't that qualify you for the Mr. Olympia? It's a win. It's a show. I believe so. I believe so. Yeah. Yeah. And you know what? I'm I'm I need to message Kamal because he's not he's not he's he's not commenting on he's not replying to comments when they say about him doing the Masters Olympia, but he is I can see in his videos he is back training because he kind of he kind of comes off completely. He told me in the offseason and he's obviously works on other things and grows a big beard and you know and he's one of these people that really like a Kevin Nevron. he really start to once he turns it on and really bumps up the training and you know um starts using a bit of whatever he's he kind of really responds and I noticed he is starting to change a little bit. I mean I'm seeing like there's a lot more going on than there was a couple of months ago. Yeah. So that tells me because he told me uh well a couple of years ago I know they changed their mind. He told me that he was going to do three Masters Olympiads which are obviously every two years and then he was going to retire which would have took him up to his late 50s. So, and he's obviously the current he's the current defending champion of the Masters Olympia. So, I do expect him to see I do expect to see him in this show. All right. Well, let's back to Fibo. So, we were just mentioning Sassan. Sassan looked really good in Detroit as a runner up to William Bonak. Condition was there. I mean, this is the best I remember him ever being. You you've known him for the whole 10 years he's been a pro. Um, you know, and Sergio Sergio does have a superior structure. He's got those wide wide clavicles and narrow waist. just that natural Vtape or X frame where Cassan is a little more compact, doesn't really have that type of structure. But conditionwise, that's where I think Cissan might be able to get Sergio. It's going to come down to that. So, what do you think about the Cassan versus Sergio matchup since we're already sort of under the assumption Andrew Jack is probably winning? Yeah, I I to be honest, I kind of had Sergio um you know, ahead of SAS, but uh I'm just trying to analyze his videos now. I'm just I just in my head I just thought okay structurally wise he is a lot better but then you know Sergio can be a little bit hit and miss with his conditioning his fullness. So whereas Sassan here like his conditioning and fullness even though he hasn't got the same sort of crazy gifted structure that Sergio has um I've kind of got it in my head that Sergio is just a just a just a couple of feet ahead of him. So um as obviously if both guys are on um I mean I wouldn't be absolutely shocked beyond belief if Sassan did beat Sergio but I think um I think Sergio if he turns up looking anything like these updates and that translates to the stage then personally I um I think I think I've got Sergio just just just pipping Sasan. Yeah, I mean it's it's going to come down to condition as as it often does. You know when you get to this level these guys are all so good. They're all so close to each other. Just curious if Sas has any recent updates. No, all these are from the from Detroit. So, we've seen I guess I'm just so h I'm happy so happy to see Sasan back because I saw him, like I said, Spain last year and you could see that was his he was like halfway to coming back to kind of full full Sassan. The Sassan that I know he's capable of being, which he basically brought to Detroit because I thought, okay, he's got that he's got pretty much nearly all his size and conditioning back now because like last year like it was like a runup. It was like a warm-up, you know? Yeah. So, um but now he's looking um I wouldn't feel I think he could look even better than Detroit as well because I'll be honest, I've seen him drier than this, you know, and I think um maybe those plus the confidence of getting a second and you know getting your mojo back and you know and obviously coming back and I think and obviously with it being Germany it's only a short flight so it's not like it's um you know he's not flying to America to go do the Cali Pro or the New York Pro. It's going to be a lot easier for him as an athlete. So another two or three was it two weeks between Detroit? Three weeks. Detroit, Detroit, and Fibo. How many weeks? Two weeks, I believe. Two weeks. Two weeks. I mean, you know what? You know what you can do in two weeks. And um and if he's a buzzing from his second place and he's got home, then he's I think he's going to be better than he was in Detroit. So, yeah, maybe he will beat Sergio. Yeah, we never know. So, let's take a look at the uh some other guys in the lineup because I'm focusing on open men's bodybuilding and Fibo guys, just so you know, so you're not getting upset with me later. Uh this is a guy that I saw. He is from uh where is Joseph Vet from? Czech Republic. So he was uh third place at New York Pro. Oh, this is three hours ago. Wow. Look at the shoulders, Ron. Look at the shoulders. They're ridiculous. Those are not jimmied up. Not at all. Yeah. And they're stripey. Wow. Yeah. Look at that. So quality muscle. He's a big guy. He's he's over six foot. I believe this is a guy that's a farmer, too. Am I right? Yes. That's why he chooses certain shows to compete in because he's he's on the farm working the rest of the year. So he's uh that's why you don't see him in competing in that many shows. I think maybe this is why he does the April May kind of season like he did the New York Pro and apparently he chooses those shows specifically because of the the seasonal uh nature of his work. But um yeah, I just, you know, me, I just I just love seeing delts that have got actually detail and not just filled with, you know, that the horrible shine on the side, you know, and the big lumps and stuff, which uh as you know, I've been uh I've been I like to call out. Well, I don't like to call it out, but I it's something I do spot because if I can spot it, so can the judges. Well, it's it's an eyesore. Put it that way. That's a good word way to put it. It's just something I don't I don't like to see. You know, I I supposedly almost all the guys use some sort of sight enhancement oil. supposedly. But I don't want to see it. I don't Yeah, that's what But they'll also hear that they're all on, you know, 10 grams of gear a week, too, and 20. But don't believe everything you read on the internet, guys. It's It's just like if they are using it, I don't want to see it. If they're using it in a clever way, whatever, that's I guess that's fine. But I don't I don't want it I don't think I think with something like that with that level of size and detail. I don't think there is a clever way to use it because anything you unless it's going, you know, I don't know. I I I I've never used Well, I I don't know whether to me his delts look 100% real to me. He's not to me he's not there's no scar tissue. There's no pinning. there's no there's no weird sort of um like you know uh oddlooking lumps or you know so that's what happens when you don't pin things you keep the detail you keep the straight because thing is you you spend all that time dieting and prepping and and and training and then you just kind of like blow it all like like kind of you know like Fax Wheeler did in 98 when he thought he started 98 99 he started using it and remember all those beautiful striations he had in his shoulders and his arms and you know then they kind of lose it all and I just um and I just think they think oh it's bigger But it's bigger. You you're trading off, you know, detail and and and so like like like this guy, you you're trading that off to look to make something look basically look swollen. It doesn't even look bigger. It doesn't there's a difference between swelling a muscle and making it bigger. It's like with like with insulin like they say insulin is great for very anabolic for bodybuild. Yeah. But it fills the muscle, but does it really build it? Does it build develop muscle or does it just basically fill it out, you know, with with glycogen and carbs or whatever? So, but like you know to see so see to see something like this um you know that's that's that's that's absolutely awesome. So I really applaud him for that. Cool. All right. Well, that was Czech Republic's Joseph Ket who was third place at the 2021 New York Pro. Let's go to uh where was it 21? Was it Was it 21? Four years ago. Yeah. Well, that's what he's got in his uh bio. I can't I think I think of him I think of him as more recent than that, you know. Me, too. But I mean time's flying, dude. We're not getting any younger. Yeah. Yeah. So, this is Jordan Gomez from the United Kingdom. Yes. So, I don't know. He looks like a shorter, compact guy. I don't I don't I've never seen him in person. He's a 212, isn't he? Well, he's open in this show. Yes. Well, obviously there's no is obviously there's no 212 in this show, so we thought, oh, well, did a short clarita. What if there's no 212 at the yard? I may as well go do the open, you know, because some guys like to be in these shows. So um yeah and thing is you know as we've seen in the last kind of what how many four five years we've seen how well the 212s have done when they have jumped into open and we've seen how well guys do when they go 212 to open I mean I think I can't think of a single failure really when you think about it I mean the um you know um when these guys start hopping over categories you know Bumstead in the classic and the open last year um you know a good physique is a good physique so you know why not um why not sort of try your hand and jump into these shows. Why not? Nothing to lose. It looks like Did he turn I think he might have turned pro at this show two years ago from the looks. Looks like it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, obviously he's got a bit of an affinity. So, maybe thinking, "Oh, well, I I got I turned pro there. I know what to expect. I know where it is. I know where all the food places and the hotel. Maybe maybe that suits, you know, to rather than not compete, he'd rather go back to a show he's familiar with, he's got good good um good memories of and um go do an open show." Yeah. Yes, that was that was before his prep. Yeah, you you actually brought up AI know it sounds silly to some people, but I always like to go to places where I know where all the food is and the bathroom. Yeah. So, Jordan looking really good. Uh let's go to I like saying is there like is what an hour flight, you know, to Germany. So, why not? I mean, everything in Western Europe must be within an hour flight roughly of of Tell me, am I being an ugly American or is that true? Uh, no, no, no. To be honest, yeah, within a couple of hours. Yeah, you can pretty much um pretty much go everywhere. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, fair enough. So, from United Arab Emirates, this is Edward Carbo. I thought he Ali Ali Edward Carbo. I thought he had some weird nickname, but I could be wrong. So, big big guy. Obviously, look at those arms. Doesn't do a lot of uh the updates are usually with gym clothes on, so I'm not really sure what to expect. Don't know if he's comp show or something last year. I'm trying to remember. He did. And he got Yeah, he did. He looked he looked really good and he did well. I think he got top five there, didn't he? Last year. Yeah, that's where I remember. Yeah, he's he's good, man. He's really good. I like his physique, actually. And I think he's one to watch because he's someone that kind of at one point, you know, like you look at pictures and videos, you think, "Oh, he's good. looks good and then all of a sudden, you know, they they really put their foot on the gas and then you're like and then you're really sitting up and taking notice of them. So, I like I like those guys, you know, because they're the ones that you and thing is he's he's probably, you know, when when a a bodybuilder goes into a contest and they get a good placing it it's what it does for their psyche, what it does for their kind of their confidence, you know? That's why I think Derek Luna could potentially win everything this year because think about the confidence he's going to be building now in his head, you know, of like [\h__\h] the momentum they're building. And I think there's something for um there's something for the old endorphins and the old old internal test release. I think when you uh when you get a win or you get a good result, it's very reassuring and that's usually when the guys really then really step up their game. So, um, here's a guy I think, um, because I I just I think one of the most exciting things is not just about how they place or where you think they'll place or, you know, analyzing the show afterwards. It's where it's where you see someone who walks on stage and they're like, "Wow, you're bringing something different and they you basically you can instantly that in the first couple of seconds you see the results of all that hard work and you see those improvements." I think that's the one thing that I think really, you know, gets us bodybuilding fans excited. like when Lunford walked out in the 22 22 Olympia and we'd seen him do the guest posing and he got the special invite and he walked out and it went, you know, or Samson at the uh Samson at the um the 23 Olympia when he took third, you know, and it's just all of a sudden just looked completely different and you're like, "Okay, this is not the guy that we this is not the the version in my head that we had last year or two years ago. This is something new." So, um yeah, here's a guy. just keep a keep a close eye on this guy because I think he's um it looks like he's doing everything right and um he's kind of under the radar a little bit. So, he's kind of got very little pressure on him to do, you know, to really sort of perform here. So, those are the guys that sometimes are the ones that we overlook. Super strong, too. I mean, this the I know it doesn't matter, but it's it's still impressive to see because what's that? One, two, three, four, five, six plates on a hammer strength incline. Yeah, but I just I don't I don't count. It's like saying, "How much can you leg press?" Well, get on the barbell squat. Let's see what you can barbell squat. Because some of these machines, you know, they they're greedy with the plates. Some of them, you know, you're like, "Oh, these shrug machines, you can put six plates aside and you're repping away, but then you put on a barbell and it's two plates." I'm not demeaning the guy, like I said, because I I can't stand all these hammer strength machines. I just think they're I just I don't I don't gauge someone's strength by what they can put on a hammer strength chest press or stuff like that. So, uh, you know, like that like you remember when back in the day everyone was doing those power squats and putting 10 plates aside. Yes. And you're thinking, I wonder what you could actually squat maybe four plates tops. It's true though. It's true. Because like it's the ego lift, you know the one it's like uh like at my gym they've got these um they've got these 5 kilo plates like I'm doing line extensions and I put a tenniside on there I put another five or I'm doing barbell rows and it looks like I'm barbell rowing like four plates but each one of the the five kilo because they're not the the small 5 kilos they're the the lengthwise they're the same size as the 20s and I will literally go hunting around the gym to get these fives. I do. I'm totally and I do it and I know and I know because it just because they're thinner so you can put more on so they they're not like the short fat 5 kilos. So, um yeah. So, I'm totally guilty of that and I know a lot of other people are as well, especially when it comes to machinery, you know, like when they're doing push downs on the cable crossover because it makes because then they can do the full stack. So, uh yeah, anyway, don't get don't get me started on a rant about geometric because I'm banging to my training at the moment. So, I'm kind of very hot on this now. Not just not just injecting shoulders and stripey delts. I'm kind of I've got a got a few more uh things to add to my Tiger Rants. Tiger Rants. I love him. So this this is our next entry. He is from Poland. His name is Matas Lewend Lewendowski. He turned pro in classic it looks like from that post like about a year and a half ago. And this is a recent update. So again looks like a shorter thicker guy. I can always sort of gauge height by the the proportions of the head to the body, you know. Um, go ahead. He looks he looks really good. But, uh, just just on a side, just just question popped into my head. Are you not surprised that there's a few more Americans not doing this this Fibo? Because you think about Pittsburgh and New York, they're going to be stacked. It's pretty much going to be Derek, Nick, or Martin winning those two shows, you know, let's be realistic. And then you've got guys like like Kris and these other guys who probably, you know, they're not going to get their qualification there. Are you not surprised that someone like Kriso or one of these other or or maybe one of these American athletes that thought [\h__\h] I've really got to get my qualification out the way here like Veto doing um the Arnold South America last week. He he can go to Pittsburgh now with the pressure off, right? Because he doesn't have to go and win Pittsburgh to get his qualification because he's got it in the bag. So, but you're not you're not surprised that we had some maybe Well, this is basically this is the argument for why Andrew Jack jumped in, isn't it? Yeah. You know, Andrew would have ruined it for anybody who had that bright idea, unfortunately. pretty much. And I think so, sorry to interrupt, but things with Andrew, you know, full well he's not going to come in off. So, it's not like he's just going to make a a whimsical decision, jump in and, you know, look like he's six weeks out from China. Do you know what I mean? How many weeks it is or eight weeks or whatever. So, we know he's not going to come in looking off. So, um I think that's why that took us by surprise because in some of these updates, he looks like he'd come off the diet a little bit, you know? Yeah. you. So, Kiso, if KiOo had done this show instead of uh Pittsburgh, this could have been not an easy win, but Creo versus Sergio, you know, I think that he could have he could have possibly beat Sergio or him, depending on a given day and condition, each one of them could beat the other one, but Kiso Ko's been competing more recently than Sergio. He's a little more battle tested. He's done more pro shows. Uh I probably probably would have given him the edge in that in that showdown. But yeah, it's it's going to be tough. A lot of these guys are going to have to keep going and going and going to get that Olympic qualification now. Well, I mean I I bet Kriso I wonder if Kriso regrets doing Pittsburgh now. Well, he hasn't done because because I he's he's probably going to do he's probably well, let's be honest. Kris is not going to win a York Pittsburgh. I mean, I it's it's just pointless even trying to speculate that he will. So, he's probably going to have to go to Portugal or um Legion maybe. I can't see him going back and forth, back and forth because apparently I spoke to um like his team and they said he doesn't like traveling. Oh, okay. Yeah, they said he doesn't like traveling. So, this is going to be a big imposition for him going back to America and obviously probably thinks it's a good two high-profile shows, New York Pro and Pittsburgh. But look, it's looking like now with the names that are in it, he's probably not going to beat them. So, he's now going to have to do two shows over there, come all the way back, keep prepping and try and have he's going to have to get it because we've got to get we've got to see Kriso at Olympia. I mean, there's no way we can, you know, Chriso needs to be at the Olympia. He was like 12th, then he was seventh, you know, and obviously he's he's had the shoulder surgery. So, he really is, I mean, he's at the year, you know, he's at those whatever not nearly a year out, you know, he did Spain last year, but he need he wants to come back and really redeem himself now. So, he really needs to get he needs to do what Andrew's done and get a qualification out of the way. So, I reckon it'll be Portugal or maybe the Emperor or something like that. He'll come in um and get his qualification. So, um, but I'm excited to see him back again. Yeah. So, here is, uh, Germany's Justin Muzil. I don't know how to pronounce it, guys. So, you can roast me in the comments. Mus I O L. M. Muzil. I don't know. Um, very impressed with him at the Detroit show. He looked good. He's clearly is a young guy, very, very massive. Um, you know, and the German fans in the comments when when we were doing the Detroit Pro were saying, "Look out for look out for Justin." I was like, "Yeah, whatever. He's good. He's tell you what, he's Ronny's impressive from the back, mate. That rear leg spray and that rear biceps good. He's got good thickness, good roundness, fantastic legs. I mean, the color looks good. The he looks he looks quite polished. And if he's a young guy, he looks quite heavy as well because he looks quite I don't know. Does he look his legs from the side? Fantastic. Yeah, he's thick as hell. I'm trying to find where he placed in Detroit. Trying to remember if he was top five. How old is he? Uh, I'm gonna take a wild guess. He looks like he's mid He's like mid to late 20s. I'm just totally guessing here. I have no idea. Keep an eye out for that. Definitely. Says right there, morning weight was 252 in Detroit. Yeah, he's not. No, he's a big dude. So, I wish wish him the best. Uh, like I said, FIBO, it's a smaller show. There's there's only what 10 guys in the show roughly. So, I think Justin's got a really good chance. He looks good. Give him a couple of years. He could be he could be a force. I mean, the legs are fantastic. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. He's impressive, you know. Look at that thick thick guy. Ian Valier says, "Awesome." All right, so we got just one more. And I think we've we've seen Diego before. Diego Nunez, not Diego, Dio. Um I don't want to say whose coaches Oh, it says here. Okay. I was going to say Milos, but people hop coaches all the time. I don't like to I don't like say, "Well, this was a No, never. Never. I've never seen that happen in the industry. Was all the time. So, this was this was a long this was a couple years ago, this shot here. But Dio's been around. He is from Portugal. And look at those shoulders. Lot of good. Looks good. Delts check for stripiness and uh and odd lumps, which you know I'm hot on. Yeah, the those are all older shots. This was four weeks four weeks ago. Yeah. Looks like he's uh looks like he'll be ready. Big guy. Looks good. Looks really good. You've probably seen him a couple times over. Yeah, I to be honest, I don't recognize him. I recognize the name, but I don't recognize the physique. So, um but um because the thing is his physique looks really good and I feel like if he if I'd seen this guy on stage, I would have remembered him. So, that tells me that he's improved. That tells me he's put on a lot of size because now this is a physique that I think I would remember. But um that right shoulder looks a bit suspect though. Uh oh. It does. I saw I spotted it when the rear If you look in the rear relaxed, have a look at the way the side delts sticking out, you know. I mean, it's like back in the 90 back in the um like 99 it was when everyone started sticking synthol in their biceps and their shoulders and everything. I just wish this is a trend like you know and then in the the early 2000s all the guys were starting to get the guys were starting to get big guts but now I just wish that's the one thing I wish they would stop is the jab in the delts. Yeah. To me that looks I see what you're saying. To me it looks like Yeah, I saw it. So that because you know I used to pin the delts before I ran out of filled it up with scar tissue and the gear wouldn't go in anymore. It looks to me like just naughty naughty. That's what I mean. I do my I do my one shot a week now and it goes green all the way in my glute. Literally up to the hilt because I don't want to be a hypocrite. Yeah, but I mean my my glutes uh MRI shows my glutes are actually 94% scar tissue now. 6% muscle. That's all that's left. Yeah. I remember the uh the first time I did Yeah. I remember my first show and there was a shot somebody took on stage. It was like AI was doing a side chest and it was the angle and literally it looked like I was I had a third glute and that was from all the windstrol I was injecting in my ass. I remember I can I can beat that one. Third glute sounds bad but I my glutes were so the up it was always the same that upper outer quadrant right the where you can reach you could actually see my glutes from the front when I I never do that. I do the sides. Oh the side. No, you're not supposed to do that. Yeah, there's too many nerve endings in there. No, I know. I was doing I literally I I sit on the toilet. I sit on the toilet or a chair and I literally do it in the side. And to be honest, I don't even I don't even feel the pin prick now because it's got that much scar tissue from all the decades of my own system. I never do that because I've seen people do that. I can't I couldn't I can't reach. And you know, if I was obviously the big guys, they can't reach. So, you know, well, you know, full disclosure, uh my wife does my TRT shots now and they everything goes in my lats because I have uh plenty of room for scar tissue formation. Yeah, a local a local bodybuilder told me to he said that's where he was pinning at. I go, "Oh, I never thought of that." And I, you know, I looked into it. I said, "I don't want to I don't want to risk nerve damage or something horrific happening, but apparently that's a if you go right on the outer edge of the lats, that's fine. If you're, you know, you're going in at the from the side, it's okay." Uh, so that is the fe pulling the lungs. We call it we call that pulling a lungs. Well, I still don't have lats like Derek. I don't know why. You'd think by now. Yeah. Well, yeah. even a hundred shots. I'm glad he I'm glad he stopped I'm glad he stopped doing that because that that Yuri won the Olympia. It did look um it it was the one thing that was kind of distracting in a bad way, you know. You talk about those lump the lumps that he had in his lats from the front. Yeah, that was good. That was that's basically was pinning the lats on him. Fair enough. I mean Yeah, probably. I mean, we know we know what's used in this industry. So, uh like you said, uh over this past weekend over in S. Paulo Brazil. We had Vitali Ogulnikov aka Good Vido pick up his first pro win uh at the show Arnold Brazil Arnold South America where he was third last year behind Raphael Brandeo Antonio Burton. Uh let's show you his posing and you tell me I don't know if you recall what he looked like last year but what what improvements do you see or not see? I saw improvements all over to be honest. Um I thought he looked absolutely fantastic. I think right now he has probably the best lower body in the Pro League because it's not just size, he's got separation, he's got condition, he's got detail, and it's not just ham like a matter of having good quads and then his hamstrings or he's got no adductors or, you know, his his calves. He's his whole lower body is is I mean it's it's incredible. Absolutely incredible. He's blown my mind to be honest. The upper body definitely definitely improved. Um, I think this was a smart show for him to do because it was um it was there was obviously no big names really anyone to really give him any hassle. But um yeah, I think he's I think he's he's I heard he's 27, so he's really really he's doing the job that he needs to do. He's improving. He's bringing something new every year. Um uh I I should he do Pittsburgh, though? Because I don't see him getting any higher than sixth in Pittsburgh. Well, let's think about it. Obviously, we know Derek. Derek's probably going to win. Uh, then you got Nick Walker and M. Nick and Martin are probably going to be two and three or, you know, correct. Correct. Yeah. 100%. Bonak. He'll be up there somewhere in the top five. You got Creo. He can't be I spoke to I spoke to someone kind of in the in the program and we're just chatting just friends and stuff and he said and he said um he said well I think um potentially he could beat Kriso but I I mean I I still think Kriso will beat him. Um but uh I mean I mean thing is it's what have you got to lose? You know when you've got a qualification you're already committed to a show that really is a new show that and it's important to support these new shows as well. It's not just because it's the Manion show and it's got big prize money and it's it's kind of um you know it annoys me sometimes when you see guys dropping out of shows because oh well I've got my qualification now but you know then they've already committed to they've already committed which obviously you know is um it's not good for the promoters for that to happen. It must be very stressful and I get really that would really annoy me. So it's good that he's probably still going to do it unless we get some mysterious injury or something like that you know popping out of nowhere. But um I I yeah I think he's I think he's good. Um, I think he's still one or two years away from being able to even like even compare to someone like Nick or Derek or Martin or even Bonak. Do you know what I mean? I think he's I think obviously we know there's levels to this sport. And I think he's um I think he's had a fantastic show and he's got his qualification. He's golden. He's good to go. and anything he gets now at Pittsburgh, even if it's just exposure and and Chay comes in like a little bit fuller and looks even better, even if he doesn't get the placing, you know, obviously he wants, which I mean, imagine him not making top five will be disappointing for him. It'll be a win if he comes in with like if he comes in even because I to be honest his legs are really really hard and dry but if you look at his back not that picture that when I remember was there was a picture on um on the Arnold South America page and and there was somebody was tanning his back and the skin was really like kind of not there that there was there was body fat. There was body fat. There was he wasn't rock hard like you'd expect. You know what I mean? So he can still get he can still get harder. So maybe I'd like to just see him just do Pittsburgh and come in a little bit drier and uh you know, but um what a sensation. But I think upper body wise is still below his lower body. But I think but I think honestly I do think another couple of years I think he's going to be I think he could be up there battling out with the likes of Martin, Nick, and Derek. Look at this. This was only seven years ago. Wow. Wow. He has definitely put on some. So, this is 2019, 2022. Awesome. 2024. My god. Yes, he's really improved. Good lord. Okay. Seriously improved. We were uh I was on another podcast a couple nights ago and the one thing that we obviously he needs a little more back thickness, but um his posing is something that really could could stand to improve. Like look at look at how he's hitting this crab and you barely see his chest. Yeah. But yeah, that's like a trap over, isn't it? That's like a that's like the old school trap overs because the thing is he doesn't have the thickest chest. True. He's like like if you actually look at him, his structure is incredible. Like I think like if you in a frontal bicep, he's got a better structure than Nick Walker, but he doesn't have the thickness and size. That's where he'll get exposed when you st when he stands next to a Martin, a Derek, or a Nick or even a Bonak. So, but if you look at him, he's got nice wide shoulders. His chest is kind of full and wide. Um, but he needs just more development, more maturity, more thickness in the certainly in the And look at him when he turn like his arms look great there, but look at it when he turns to the side. You can see like his triceps lack a bit of development. His arms look great there when he hits the pose, but when he's transitioning and also like you can see he's lacking a bit of like size in the arms and and also um he's got a bit of like lacking a bit of detail, but like Derek did like at the um even when he wanted the limp, he was lacking a bit of detail in the chest and the shoulders. And I just think, okay, more time served in the gym. I mean, imagine if he got his upper body to match those legs. I mean, he's that's going to be a top six Olympia guy. Yeah. Do do you think he was trying to be 100% for this show? Uh, I don't think he would think about not coming 100%. I mean, he's to be honest, like his like his midsection when he hits the ab shot, his legs, I mean, he's he's in good condition, but he could definitely he could definitely be better. He could definitely be harder. But for this, this was um this was this was a clear win. I thought I don't think the other guy even came came close to him. Yeah. Yeah, I mean I I I suspect that they brought him in. You know, Chris Ced's as coach. I suspect that because they know he's doing Pittsburgh, he's already committed to that that uh you know, this is no disrespect. These guys are good. They're just uh they're not at the level of the people he's going to be standing on stage with at Pittsburgh. Yeah. I think they knew 90% could win this fairly easily and it did. Um, other guys look good. But Ron, again, why didn't we see any other major names doing this show as a way to qualify? In fact, there was only one person in that show who wasn't from Brazil and he was from another South American country. I can't recall what it was. So, it was all local guys. I don't exactly why didn't you know there there could have gone to that. He could have won that. I mean, on my mind because he's in such great shape right now. Yeah. I mean like say like Rean had got ready earlier like this would have been a good show for him to do because he probably I mean would do you think he'd have beaten Veto. Regan in top condition probably. Probably. Yeah. Yeah. I mean there's you know I mean think if we just I mean you'd have to look at the list and look at who's really looking to compete and qualify this year. Um but um I'm telling you it's going to be a m after I think after the New York Pro in Pittsburgh I think it's going to be a real battle for these guys to get qualifications. The thing is you got guys like Nathan Dasher that aren't just looking to qualify, they're looking to win shows to make prize money. Um, you're going to have Dubai that's going to have all the top, you're going to have Biruse, the current, you know, and then you're going to have all the other names who are looking to pick up who aren't even worried about winning it. They're worried about picking up some decent prize money, you know, because a lot of these guys as well, they'll have um contracts that maybe have got 50% or 100% bonus for everything they make. you know, um, with Broly back in the back in the day when I got that contract for BSN, um, they were giving him bonuses for every show he did. So, I think it was I don't I can't remember. I don't I was privy to the actual amount, but sometimes they'll say, "Right, okay, whatever you win prize money, we'll give you 50%." So, if you go and do if you go and do three or four shows, you go win 20k or 30k or you get second at Dubai and you win 50, then, you know, you got another 25 and then that basically pays for all the, you know, the tax that they would take off you. So, it's it's a good it's a good payday. I I do know in some cases with some companies, they would match the prize money. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You win 50,000, they'll give you another 50,000. That's awesome. I'm looking at the calendar for May. It's going to be rough because Pittsburgh is May 10th. We know probably Derek Dick and Nick. Derrick and Nick. Derek, Ron, Ron, sorry to interrupt, Ron. Derek, we know that Derek's winning Pittsburgh. We know that Nick's probably going to win New York. So, that's that's those two guys. Um I know that um you know Derek's qualified for life and everything but uh you know that no one's getting past those two guys unless they mess up and I don't think that would happen. So then it's going to become you know it's two more shows two weekends at Cal State is the weekend after that. Oh [\h__\h] Yeah, I forgot about Cal. Yeah, I forgot about Cal. Cal State that's and then you have Reno or the Legion Legion sports in Reno the weekend after that. So I don't necessarily think Martin's going to keep going after Pittsburgh. Martin's qualified. That's what I'm saying. But he didn't need to do Pittsburgh either. Oh, so yeah, I see what you mean. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I could see him going to New York to get a rematch against Nick and, you know, because it was close last year. Yeah. Because I for me, the real contest is between Nick and Martin because I don't see I think Derek's I just I don't think he'd be stupid enough to come in less than 100%. Plus, he's riding high. He's He's really I mean, I can't imagine how good Derek feels. Do you know what it I I love seeing these these rise and falls, you know, because like when Derek got third at the Olympia last year and people saying many of us, we thought he should have been fourth because the way Martin looked at the finals, right? You know, can you imagine how [\h__\h] he felt? He's Mr. Olympia one minute and the next minute people are saying he shouldn't even be top three and he knows he's and he knew probably full well he wasn't at his best because you can see you could see what you see in the mirror. I don't know when it went wrong, whether it was the last week or the last month or whatever, you know. Um, and then to bounce back and then beat the current Mr. Olympia. I mean, and also half a million dollars. Could you imagine like how how like how much self-belief that guy has right now? I mean, like, you know, hearing rumors that he was even maybe thinking of doing New York Pro. Maybe he's just like like don't piss this guy off. Like, you know, when Ronnie got beat by Gunter and they just come back like just something else. Like the fact that Derek is coming back now. I mean, you know, theoretically he could win Pittsburgh, New York, the Olympia. I mean, it's it would really be something for the bodybuilding history books if he if he really goes all out, but um because I I mean, 100% I think he's the he's the lock. I think he's going to be the best in in um because I was watching I was a trainer at a gym in Leeds the other week and um in between sets on the leg press I was looking up and they had the the Arnold on and it was on a huge screen and it was the live stream and seeing him on that big screen I didn't I I fully appreciate appreciated how good he was at that Arnold Classic and how good he is now. I was absolutely blown away. I I was like oh [\h__\h] I mean I it was a clear win. I thought it was closer when I watched it on the on the screens and stuff, but honestly, when I saw it on the big screen, I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] this guy is this guy has really taken everything to a whole new level." So, um I just think um I just think Yeah, I think it's uh Yeah. So, so basically, when it comes to qualifying, it's gonna it's going to be a bit of a scramble, I think. I mean, it's it's great for the fans because so many guys want to qualify and they're not they don't want to keep prepping all damn year to do it. So, we're going to get those all those shows are going to have great lineups. They're just going to drop the only people that'll be missing were whoever just won the weekend before. Yeah. And so, you have four in a row and then Dubai is second weekend in June. So, all those shows are going to have great lineups. I think China June 21st as well that's got open. Oh, yeah. Okay. you know. So, um well, actually maybe maybe actually with the amount of shows there is um maybe we um I just it's a shame we like the Bear Roos and Nathan Dasher thing, you know, it looks like they won't get to the Olympia, but I think um I mean there there's always the possibility that some you know uh somebody who's been top 10 in the Olympia say who's looking to qualify and then doesn't qualify. There's always the chance that that can happen. Um because you know there's those guys out there that leave it to the last minute thinking they're gonna swoop into a show, get a qualification and do another four weeks prep and go do the Olympia. Yeah. You know that basically one prep instead of two preps or one extended prep, a break, then getting back on another prep for the Olympia and then risk being burnt out by the time they get to the Olympia. M so um so yeah well I I think actually when when we actually really you know you said Legion and all these other shows in Dubai I think there's I think there's an opportunity for everyone to qualify and we've got like I said we've got we've got Empro so I think um yeah I think everyone will get to qualify um and um and obviously Bonak's qualified now as well and uh yeah it's going to be good it's going to be good the the one great thing about Andrew Jack getting his qualification probably this Saturday in Germany at Fibo is that Hunter Labrada might finally get a chance to win the Texas Pro. Do you know I asked I asked um Andrew I was chatting back and forth because we sent voice notes back to each other and I said to him I said why are you going to go do the Texas Pro again and win it for the fourth time and he just laughed. He didn't he didn't give me an answer. He just laughed. He went, "No, no, no, no, bro." is to say like I kind of interpret that as like yeah maybe maybe we should give somebody else a chance to win that because like to go and win it a fourth year that means every single Texas Pro there's been it's all been won by Andrew. Well so far he has won all of them right? Yeah. Yeah. But also also oh no hang on um Texas Pro. No one um who won the one in was Valier. Was it Ian? Did Ian win that year? Ian Valier remember the all Steve Klo and Ian Valier. I remember that year all three of them looked absolutely incredible. Yeah it was. And Clayhar was there. So I think Yeah. Yeah, that was the best. So Ian was the first winner I think. Right. Yeah. Okay. But um also it shows you just when a competitor has a good experience at a show, not just because they've won, but you know and also when they're asked back or whatever or you know they've had a good experience and also you know you you're familiar with the venue, you're familiar with everyone there. It shows if the promoters really really look after the athletes, they will come back. Even the big names like Andrew. Yeah, true. I mean, I again, getting back to Hunter, I mean, I I always felt bad because that's the show he I'm sure he wants to win because they never had a Texas Pro until fairly recently. And that's that's his home state. He's been there his whole life. That's it's to be competing in your home state and keep getting beaten over over and o repeatedly by someone who came over from Dubai. It's got to sting. I think he'll probably he probably will do it this year and he probably will win in fairness. Yeah. I mean, he's he's certainly damn good. Uh, what he he won the where did he qualify last year at the show in Italy, right? The Flex Pro, I think it was. Oh, that's right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of course it was. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. See, there there's always one or two Sometimes there's two pro shows in Italy in like a month, right? So, you're probably going to get Nathan or James Hollins Head or one of those guys, some European pros, you know. Um, but um Spain has at least two or three pro shows a year, don't they? It's all Aios. Yeah, they have Big Man Weekend, M Pro, um they used to have the MPC Europe European Pro as well. Um but um and I've been to all of them. They're fantastic. They're fantastic shows. But um yeah, because last year, the Empro last year, that was when I did the commentary with uh Lauren and AJ. And um I mean that had that was Bonak's kind of come back. He beat Baruse. Um you had Kriso, you had Sassan. I mean the show was the lineup was incredible. Absolutely incredible. I mean it was just pandemonium backstage. Wow. really really good. Yeah, it's really good. Yeah. So, the only downside to this Fibo show is uh so as as of we're speaking now, there's no live stream. Come on, guys. Which is odd because ESN is a major sponsor and they the Arnold Classic live stream. Yeah. So, I I don't know what the deal is, but you know, it's unfortunate because we want to we want to be able to watch these pro shows, but I guarantee you guys keep your phone on Instagram and I promise you there's going to be tons of people streaming the show. Yeah. But, but the thing is, it's like I mean, it's not like the FIBO is short of money because I've heard before like, you know, if you go into some of these certain venues around Europe or in America, sometimes they've got really strict rules and they'll try and fleece you. Yeah, I remember once um one one place they wanted just per hall they wanted 15,000 euro just to have the live stream just to be able to do that put on that facility. Wow. They wanted they said it would cost 15,000. So 15,000 I mean that could add another pro class. Sure. So they you know that's that's that's extortionate because they know that you know it's like it's like if you um you know you don't like the food on airplane what are you going to do? Get out you know. So yeah, with um with um with FIBO, I mean, they've still got time to sort this out. And I think, you know, if they really thing is they brought the pro show back, so it's they want people they want eyes on it. They want to keep the sponsors happy. They want to keep the exhibitors happy. So just spend the freaking money because I imagine they're not relying on the money on from the pro show to make money because of the size of FIMO. It's a it's the biggest expo in the world. I mean, I to be honest, I don't like going to FIO. I went years ago and my god, it's absolutely enormous. I can't even imagine the Arnold Classic times five. No, it's No, it's colossal, mate. It's huge. It's like it's there's these halls. I mean, you need walking shoe. You need like you need like sneakers, trainers on. Wow. You know, get get your Nikes on because if you have like like my POS shoes I like to wear. I mean, my you you end up with blisters on your feet because it's that big. I mean, it's like you think about all those equipment companies that are there. An equipment company wants to exhibit. They ain't going to have a small stand because they're going to want 30 pieces of their equipment on. So, it's going to have to be several thousand square feet per stand because, you know, could you imagine like Panata and all these other companies that really want to, you know, to exhibit? They need space. They need a lot of space, a lot of gym equipment, you know, because that's basically what Feeble is. It's not as much. There is a lot of supplement stuff there, but like it's a lot of gym European and international gym um you know, gym equipment companies that kind of want to exhibit and they have really really big stands. Well, let me ask you this then. The five times size of the Arnold, but is there more walking room because the Arnold a lot of times on Saturday can get Okay. I I that's why I always like the Olympia Expo over the Arnold Expo because I mean the years when we were trying to get through to get to the amateur show and sometimes if we weren't taken by that through that corridor between the trade stands by the security, we'd have to go through the crowd sometimes with our equipment or you know a videographer with his equipment trying to get interviews. I mean to be honest I don't I I get really claustrophobic. I don't like that. It makes me really I it stresses me out. I'd rather just, you know, I'll be there when I have to be there, but the idea of like, you know, when sometimes you'd be like, "Okay, I'm going to go around look on the on the expo for an hour or so." I'd be like, "Oh, get me out of here. I just want to go back to the hotel room. We'll get some food." Because that's not my idea of fun. So, um, but because it's so busy, I like expose, but the Arnold Expo, way too many people. Yeah. I mean, I don't like when I have to go to the bathroom and I can see the bathroom, but it takes me 40 minutes to get from here to there because it's just, you know, you're sneezing and you're smelling everybody's gas and it's horrible. So, Oh, yeah. You're bumping into people. Everyone's got the big bags of [\h__\h] and you just like you just The thing is we we're there, we're working, do you know what I mean? We wanted to we want to get from place to place and it's sometimes you got to get there quickly because you got to get the content because there's only so many hours you can get it. Yeah. So, um, but usually I used to use that, um, rather than sort of after our work was done, rather than kind of go around and buy [\h__\h] I don't need. I would just usually just go back to the hotel and get out and then go get outside and start breathing. So, because it's so like it feels so claustrophobic, you know? Yeah. Well, speaking of expose, uh, before we leave, I do want to mention this Euro Muscle Show, which has been sponsoring sponsoring my channel for the past couple weeks. And Charles, you will be there. And, uh, Matthew the promoter says bringing me out there. So, I'm really looking forward to uh checking out the number one expo in the Netherlands and uh you know, I've never been there. Uh there's going to be a lot of pros. Ronnie's going to be there. You're going to be there with Ronnie Lee Priest, Wesley Bisser, Samson Dada, William Bonak. Uh it's going to be a lot of great great people there. Every pro division except for Open is going to be featured. So, big big deal. I'm looking forward to it. It's happening July. It says on the bottom there, July 12th and 13th at the RAI uh expo center in Amsterdam. So, it's a nice expo hall that as well and it's about I think it's 42% bigger than it was last year because last year I'll be honest I wasn't because it was their first year. wasn't expecting much and then I kind of rolled in with Ronnie and we were going into the and he turned me and like he said he turned me he says this the first year I went yeah and he went wow because to me I said I said this to Matthew I said Matthew I said it reminded me of how big body power uh the the UK won at the NEC by year three because they they grew fast I mean I remember going to the first year in 2009 and then the next year it was completely different and I said to be honest I said I think you're already at the stage where like I said the um uh body power was by year three so he took that as a huge compliment because you know obviously a first year and first one and and he's looking to take them all over the world because it was it was really really good just the way they did the branding the advertising the the names they got in um me and Ronnie like I said I took Ronny there and we had a fantastic experience was really really really good and I can't wait to go back so um I've just trying I think is I think I need to clone myself because I've got so much I need to be doing there with Ronnie and and uh and Lee and obviously doing the because if they're doing live stream I'll be need to be doing commentary and of course you doing this because I was doing the stage interviews. I interviewed Mitchell Hooper, the strongman. I interviewed James Hollins, Stefan, um Wesley Visters. I did two of them with Ronnie, two hour sessions with Ronnie. Um I mean that was easy obviously because it's like like um and I was I missed the one with um because I was supposed to do the one in the morning with Bonac and Kevin Nevron. Oh, okay. And I was I was busy I was busy with Ronnie so I couldn't make it and I said, "Guys, I can't I'm not being able to make it. I've got to prioritize Ronnie." I said, "Because I've we've got to get there, you know." So So um I missed that one. But um yeah, because obviously Kevin's one of my heroes and I love William. So um but I forgot Kevin's gonna be there. Kevin Levone will be there. Kevin. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of course. Yeah. I mean Yeah. It's fantastic. It was really honestly really good. I think they're gonna I think that's going to absolutely it's already exploded, but I tell you over the next couple of years that's really really going to grow and I wouldn't be surprised if you see the format they've used. They're going to see that all over the world because I think Matthew's looking to push this fast. Not only that, but when was the last time that we actually were face to face in real life instead of on a computer screen? Was it 22 Olympia? Yeah. Wow. So, it's been just um and I wasn't Do you know what I I kind of I'm gutted that that was my last Olympia with MD because I was not well. I obviously had my heart surgery in June. Yeah. And I was over there and I was struggling. The medications they had all the beta blockers given the light headness. I was so I I wasn't my confident normal self. I I felt in I felt self-conscious. I felt weak, you know, and I didn't feel confident with what I was saying. And I probably reflected in the videos. I did. I know I did. I I did, but that was um that was hard for me actually. That was hard for me to and hard for that to be my last Olympia covering it with MD because I knew I didn't like remember in 2017 and 181 19 when we just absolutely smashed the coverage, you know. I went home feeling like I felt 100 foot tall when I came home, you know, but uh yeah, that one I was like Lauren was like, "Don't be too hard on yourself, you know. You literally just nearly died a few months ago, so don't be too hard on yourself." So yeah, the Olympia. So, my last Olympia was 23 Olympia and it was it was six weeks after my quadricep reattachment surgery. Yeah. So, I was still in a leg brace and I was very slow getting around. But the good thing was my daughter came up from uh Miami to Orlando and she spent the first day with me, worked the press, she was there for the press conference. So, it was good to have at least I see my last Olympia one of my kids was actually with me and got to be part of the experience. So, that was cool. Good. Good. That was good. Well, that is it guys. Uh, drop some comments below. Tell me what you think's going to happen at the uh, Fibo show. What's your top three, your top five? If you want to speculate, is Veto doing Pittsburgh? Whatever. Questions, comments. If you want to insult us, that's fine. I usually keep most of them up there regardless because uh, it's all it's all good. It's all feedback. That's it. Giles, thank you so much. This was your first experience with the new fiber optic. Looks like it's working very very well. Nice and crystal clear. So, that's it, guys. That is this week's episode of Power Hour. We will see you right here next time.