Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour. Starring me and of course the one and only in inimitable Charles Siger Thomas. That's a hard word. All the way from the UK. Jo, we're going to be talking today about the Romania Muscle Fest happening in a few days with Andrew Jack making one last appearance for 2025 on stage. Gonna get your impressions on the Prague Pro where you were the live stream commentator up close and personal. Saw all the action. And we're going to wrap it up talking about the amazing Ronnie Coleman tour that you just wrapped up a couple days ago. But let's start with Andrew. Um, when I heard he was doing another show this year, I was I couldn't understand what would be the benefit. I love using that word, the benefit of doing another show because he's already qualified for the Olympia. Top three automatically qualify. Um I don't happen to know the money for Romania, the first prize. Do you have any idea? >> No, that's a good question because um Prague was 30. Uh but I think Romania has more. Does it have more pro categories? Am I being am I just going usually has all the pro categories including female bodybuilding. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, I'd imagine it'd be well, I'm guessing probably 2030, something like that. But, um, yeah, Andrew doing this one. Uh, I didn't know that as well because I wanted him to do Prague. Uh, and I thought maybe he might do both because he said he's got no problems with visas now because I'm obviously I'm in constant communication with Andrew. I speak to him quite frequently. Uh, because I'm working on another tour for the after the UK next year. Um, but um I I'm guessing because maybe Jake Corina reached out to him in the end of the day. Um, it's uh why not, you know? So, and it's not too far for him to fly from Dubai to Romania. So, he probably his confidence is probably skyhigh after the Olympia and probably just thought, do you know what? Why not go pick up some extra money up and uh go get an extra win. >> Yeah, apparently he did a video with Ryan Terry. People let me know in the comments from the Meatthead podcast that I did last night that he wants to use this sort of an experiment to push the conditioning to see if he can be get even more conditioned than he was at the Olympia. And even if he's he didn't say this, but this is my guess. Even if he is maybe a little flat in doing so, it's going to be a good trial run that he can apply next year for the Arnold, for the Olympia, whatever shows he decides to do, he's got nothing to lose. I mean, looking at the lineup there, there's nobody that stands a chance of beating him. He beat a better lineup back at Fibo in, you know, what was that? 80 80% condition, 85. So, uh, you know, I mean, good on him. But what do you think as far as as far as that that idea? >> What What idea? Sorry. >> Oh, conditioning. The conditioning. Um, yeah, why not? Mhm. Sorry, say that again. >> Yeah, just what do you think of doing this as a as a trial run this show? >> Why not? Because the end of the day, the one thing that we kind of all criticized him for, critiqued him for was the the conditioning mostly from the back. Um, and also when he tends to get very conditioned like he did the Olympia last year, he he tends to lose it off his legs because he sent me some uh videos and pictures like a few days out and his leg he says, "No, look at my legs were full." And I was like, "Oh, here we go." you know, oh, you should have seen me yesterday. And it was his legs were really really nice and full. So, um I think finally they've really started to get the the the formula right of getting that conditioning because the big guys, you know what it's like, they can go flat within literally minutes. Um it tends to happen to the big the the bigger, taller, heavier guys a lot lot more. So, um the the balance of getting conditioning and fullness is um it's it's it's he's getting there. He's making improvements. I mean, look at that. I mean, last year it was always like, "Look at that red bicep, but if only his glutes and his hams and his back had, you know, everything was crisp and separated." But he's done it now. So, he's getting he's getting that he's getting that balance right. And so, he's probably just thinking, do you know what? I'm going to see if I can because the end of the day, I mean, I would I I don't like to say easy win, but it is going to be a pretty clear win for him, I think, this one. Uh, and if he's coming in more conditioned, it doesn't matter if, like you said, if he is a little bit flat, and even if he is, he can always try and fill out for the night show anyway. So, um it's good that he's trying different things. Um and to be honest, I mean, I'll say it here now. I think he can pull a Derek next year and just just go on a win like like when Ronnie won the the night champions in 98 and then that was it. He wasn't Well, I know he got beat in 2002, but you know, I I honestly I'm putting it out there now. I think Andrew has what it takes to win Romania, Arnold, Arnold, UK, and the Olympia next year. >> You heard it here first, guys. I mean, I won't say you're smoking crack because that's that's a very likely that's a very likely scenario. There was a there were a lot of people who genuinely felt he could have been should have been Mr. Olympia this year. He was that good. >> So, yeah, Arnold is going to be uh basically the Olympia Redux. Re-Ux on how you pronounce it. >> Gonna be the Olympia all over again. I I foresee pretty much everybody from the Olympia, the top 10 guys in that show. >> Who's who's missing? Because I know Derek Derek said at the uh the the the press conference he said, "Look, I'm I need to be a father." Because you can imagine he was prepping and competing all year like, you know, for the Arnold, the the uh the Pittsburgh and then the Olympia. It's like so he probably he's probably um also I heard that um Ronnie told me last week he said that he spoke to Derek and um he said that Derek said at the finals he's got no memory of it. >> Wow. Yeah, he has no memory of it because I heard that there I think he had um people said he was fainting backstage, but somebody did say was it Chris said he did have a panic attack, >> right? >> And I mean I've I've had a panic attack and I thought because I thought it was my heart. I rushed myself to hospital. It was only a few months after my incident and uh at the time you don't know what's going on. It's very distressing. Um but he said he's like the finals he said he's he he struggles to remember anything about it. Isn't that isn't that crazy? >> Well, I I I don't know much about panic attacks. I'm sure I probably had a couple in my lifetime, but I didn't. The the memory loss uh the black I guess we call it a blackout when you when you have a time missing that you have no recollection of. But you were you were conscious at that time. Yeah, that that's scary. That's so he has no memory of even winning the Olympia. It sounds >> that's what Ronnie said because I was when I picked Ronnie up at the airport we go because his luggage went to a different terminal. So me, him, and Susan and Ronnie had to go get the and as um Susan went to get the luggage, he says he says, you know, I spoke to Derek. He said he's the finals. He said he was really he says he has no memory of it. I was like, "Wow, that's crazy." Cuz you know the I mean think imagine the pressure and the stress and then there's the on the body the mind you know because I think sometimes you know people say people people who don't compete or never have competed or I mean let alone like the Olympia level I don't think people realize what really goes into it you know imagine you know there's so much riding on it. So, um the pressure these athletes put on them like is um is is is immense. And I think sometimes I wish that's I wish that's I wish that was why people would be sometimes a little bit kinder, you know, to um to to to the athletes, especially people like Derek, you know, because you don't know what's going on backstage because the end of the day, they get on stage and they have to act like everything's fine and, you know, they have to present themselves and they can't be showing any any sort of distress, you know, but a lot of these guys, they go through they go, especially with, you know, diuretics and cutting water and all these different things, they you know, they go through a lot. So, um, yeah, but what was I talking about with Andrew? How was that related to Andrew? [laughter] >> So, and, uh, Aceto also said, I guess on Palumbo's Heavy Muscle Radio, he also wants to go, uh, go out take the season out on a very high note with another win, >> which, you know, I think that's a good idea, too. But, it's not like he was lacking confidence from third place at the Olympia. That was a big step up for him, especially. >> Yeah, he's level he's leveled up. And thing is um uh and thing is when he did Fibo I know it was a lastm minute thing with him jumping in Fibo but we saw like a fuller look there which obviously wasn't I mean it was 80% conditioning but it was still good enough to to beat the likes of Sasan you know who arguably aren't in at that level you know Sassan's like a you know he's Andrew is like a top five top three guy now so even at 80% but you know it just shows you if he can hold on to that fullness and a little bit harder for next year. Maybe puts on a little bit more size in the offseason as well. I think you see where we're all seeing where this could be going now. >> And look, he trains with Hay Chupan. I mean, Camlo Kamal. [laughter] >> So, I don't Is Kamala in Dubai? I don't I don't understand how that's working. >> Uh, that must be Florida. >> Oh, so Andrew was there. Okay. >> Yeah. I I'm guessing I'm guessing. I mean, I could ask Kamal, but um I think it's when he was because he comes over a couple of weeks before Andrew and um I why would he be in Florida? Unless unless uh Kamal was over in Vegas, you know, before the Olympia, I don't know. But um Kamal was doing quite a bit of training with him. And the thing is Kamal's like old school high volume, you know, he trains hard. It's a lot of free weight, a lot of freebait movements. He's kind of um he's kind of uh kind of reintroducing the kind of training that I think is actually lacking in the guys of today. >> H true. Well, I don't want to make I I I even though he is the heavy heavy favorite and he's >> unless some awful thing happens between now and Sunday, he's got that show in the bag. But he is up against a really good youngster who you got uh you got to see up close in Prague. We're talking about >> let's try the name Joan because somebody in his town, a woman reached out to me who knows him and says, "These people telling you it's Yoan and all that, they're full of [\h__\h] It's pronounced Joan." Yoan. So, you were uh you had a great look at this up upand cominging rising star. Uh I [snorts] call him a diamond in the rough. He'll he's doing this will be his fourth show in a row because he did British Grand Prix, Prague, Poland Pro, and now Romania. So, he's racking up a lot of stage experience in a very short time. But tell me what your impressions were of uh Joan. He's getting better as well because if you saw in Poland he was better than he was at the um at Prague because from the front and the side I mean I was blown away when he came out because I thought he was going to be another one of these guys who's uh I won't mention names. One of those guys who's good bodybuilder but their popularity and following on social media is kind of bigger than their success if that makes sense if you know what I mean. >> Yeah. you know, the guys that are like real like um like I mean I don't think it's unfair to say like Rean who's very popular on YouTube and Instagram and he's still a very good pro but he's not like top three Olympia. I think that's fair to say. But when he walked out in Prague I was absolutely blown away because he's he's he's young. I've been following him for the last few years because obviously obviously he's a European guy as well so I get to see a lot of updates and I hear a lot about him. Um, but I was thinking uh and there was a couple of years ago it looked like he was putting on a lot of size very quickly and you know full well what what that means. Sometimes you know their physiques can kind of they can they can kind of fall apart when they chase the size too much too soon. >> Yeah. >> Um but um I was super impressed mate. I think his front door bicep is up there with um who would you say he's got the best front door or bicep? Because I like that Zagarella in the classic. I like uh Keon Keon's front double bicep, but his frontal bicep because obviously that's the first pose, the first compulsory pose. I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] this kid leveled up." And I love the top line across his shoulders. He's got the beautiful wide clavicles. He's got a narrow waist. His waistline's good. His quads are nice and thick and separated. The only thing is he needs to he just needs more from the back. He needs more conditioning, separation, detail, and just a little bit more size and further improvements. But I tell you what, this kid, um, I know we're all going about being like a top five, top three Olympia guy in a couple of years, but I think he's, uh, some of these new guys like him and, uh, Veto, you know, these these young young guys that are coming up. I mean, two, three years, this could be like, you know, that 91 nationals when we had Levrone, Wheeler, Ronnie, Paul Deo, and like two, three years later, they're the ones taking up the top six in the Olympia. I am super enthusiastic about this guy and uh if he keeps move if he keeps improving and just keeps steadily doing what he's doing, I think I think we're going to have a major superstar on our hands in a couple of years. >> Did Fouad say he thinks he or he predicted Joan will be Mr. Olympia within five years? >> He did. Yeah, >> it's a bold statement. You know, not really. I mean, he has the potential because >> again, the back the back is something that needs a lot of work, but he's he's young. He's got plenty of time to make that happen. >> I I wouldn't say I wouldn't say he needs a lot of work. It's just that from the front and the side he is because thing is he's got thickness. He's got he's got a good amount of size. He's got a nice shape. Like when he walks out it's like Samson when he walks out like you see all the best attributes of their physique literally as they walk out. And some physiques don't do that. Some physiques you have to see in actual poses before things start to happen. But when he walked out, the first impression for Joan Joan was um was very very impressive. And I like I said, I thought a couple of years ago he was he was going to be good, but he's really he's really really jumping up now. And uh I think I think he's going to live up to the hype in this next couple of years, mate. >> I mean, we'll talk about Prague later, but he stood his he held his own up there with Samson Da >> and Martin Fitzwwater, who are a Mr. Olympia champion and a fourth place Mr. Olympia >> finalist. I mean, that's That's pretty damn impressive, I think. >> And did you did you see um that I was trying to um give a bit of love to Keon because he wasn't moved in Prague. >> He wasn't moved in Prague. And actually Steve Weinberg bit of a telling off. We had a bit of a discussion >> cuz uh I went back to the table and um and then AJ said, "Jee's looking for you." And I like, "Oh shit." >> So he said, "Steve," to turn around and he saw me and he says and he looked at me and he looked he looked kind of like disappointed and he says, "You don't like the way I judge Giles." >> And I went, "Oh." And he went like that. come here like that. So I went up to him and I said, "Look," and I I basically laid it out and I said, "No." I said, "It's not that, Steve." I said, "It's just the fact that you he was kind of left there and I felt like he deserved to be compared against Joanne and Kriso." And he was like, "Oh, okay. I get it. Okay." He said, "Yeah, it's fair enough." He says, "But um from the prejudging, he just wasn't really he just he didn't feel that Keon was good enough to even do to be compared right directly to Joanne." Um and then I said and I said, "Yeah, but I said, "Is there any way that he could move up?" because it looked like Joan was in in fourth place. >> Yeah. >> Um Yeah. And I said um but I was kind of hoping that Keon would would get the fourth and then Steve said he says well as you know Charles he says from today and tomorrow anything can happen >> and it did. >> That's what did happen. He moved up. He got past. >> It did. Yeah. Yeah. Did so. Yeah. Good. It was exciting show over the two days as well. But that's apparent that's the last time they're going to do that. >> Oh good. Good. Yeah. The two-day format. H come on. It's just it's it's wearing on everybody. and and also I spoke to um I spoke to one of the judges the next morning after the show at breakfast and she was really really impressed with how Martin managed to hold his peak over the two days. She said that is very very rare. I see I judge shows amateur and pro all over the world. She said the fact that Martin managed to hold that peak as beautifully on day two as he did on day one. She says that hardly ever happens. H I just want to talk about a couple more guys doing Romania before we move on because I do want to talk more about Prague because like I said you you went right from that into the uh tour with Ronnie. So I didn't we really haven't had a chance to speak at all. So uh Fabricio Morera from Brazil is the front runner for this 212 division in Romania. Uh he was a Tampa pro winner this year. I know he's been top five in the Olympia on at least one occasion. And you you Fabricio fans can correct me in the comments and tell me exactly how well he's placed. I know he's a very very top 212 guy. He's one of the top Olympians, but look at that. I mean, just, you know, Mike Mike Cox says he's 5'2 on a good day, but built like a tank, which you know, kind of like that angel called to run for us. >> He's one of those guys that for many many years, like you just see him and he's absolutely huge. I mean, I remember I think he's done some American shows like Tampa or Chicago. You know, when you're doing the photos, they're like coming into the group chat and um he's one of those guys that I thought, is this guy ever going to get it together? Because he's abs how he even made 212 because he's got that much muscle. And then um I forget I have to really think hard about which show it was. It was a couple of years ago. And then finally, he started to nail the condition. remember Miguel saying on the the group chat once he says he says yeah he says he really struggles to get conditioned but um and then it happened and I think he's he's managed to nail it a few times now which is impressive because it's really I hate it when you see these guys that have got amazing physiques tons of muscle and they just seem to keep missing the mark but um he's really started to nail it now um I really really rate this guy >> yeah you know we've we've said this before but condition is the one thing that's I don't must I don't want to downplay and say it's It's so easy. It's It's not easy to get your your glutes shredded and so forth. But if you're missing a whole body part or you need like another 20 pounds of size, those are things that might never happen. You know, maybe you have genetic limitation. But I I do believe anybody >> anybody if they find the right formula, maybe they need a different coach to work with them. Anybody can finally get that conditioning. And and I'm with you. When I see someone that that's all they're missing is conditioning because they have everything else, that's not easy. BKI Samir Trudy you know and the thing is it frustrates me because when and especially when those short guys have that much muscle if they're not in condition and even if they're only a couple of percent off they just look like they just like a big block you know uh and thing is he's got so much muscle in his legs if they don't you know if they don't look if they haven't got if they're not separated they just look like blobs so he is um like look at him there I mean that is he is bloody impressive man >> so impressive I like that Zagarella as well I think he's I I really rate him the Italian. >> Absolutely. I mean, that that's why I'm not that impressed with Neczilla, his giant quads. If they were deeply separated, strided, and feathered, I'd be [applause] I'd be the first one saying, "Wow." I But when they're just kind of blobs with very little detail and separation, I'm like, >> and the thing is another thing is that um Neczilla when he's in his side shots looks in good condition. So, cuz I think he's got the best side tricep in bodybuilding right now, even better than Hunter's. >> So, but from the side, his conditioning, some of the photos you see, he looks amazing, but when he turns the front and the side, it's so disappointing. So, you need to drop 15 pound off, mate, at least. >> All right. Well, I'm only going to go to one other guy, so I apologize if you feel I misled you guys thinking it was a full Romania preview. Uh, I'm only going to touch on a few of the top because we got another amazing Olympian in this. We're talking about Jose Manuel Munoz. I can pronounce Jose that no problem. I've seen that name many times before. Um again, why what's the benefit of jumping in? Well, here he qualifies for the for the 2026 Olympia. Um there's another guy, Richard Nai from Hungary, who's very good, too, but >> very we'll look at him in a second to see if you think he's got a chance. But Josema is he's world class. I mean, the only people that beat him this year were the top three. It was uh come on Ron Ramon Dino Mike some parents and then it was him. So he's still only 24 years old making and the conditioning. Talk about someone who figured out conditioning. Um every picture I've ever seen of him, he's shredded beyond belief once once he's on stage. Even his offseason is is better than most people's stage condition. >> You just beat me to it. I'm wondering if I'd love to see like a like a random sort of offseason because I bet even in the offse I bet in the offseason he just goes bigger because the thing is with with him he's an ex cl open guy. I mean I know he did that one open show it was the emperor or whatever or the big man and he got fourth. Um so he's one of those guys that probably just puts on muscle in the offseason. He probably just looks like a like he could step on stage as an open in the offseason. So, I mean, I imagine that guy is checking the scale a lot because you can see that. I mean, I'd love to see him I'd love to I think is if you're doing well top five in the Olympia, what's the benefit to even going doing an open show in the offseason? I mean, he could do one like six to eight weeks out and still probably be 105 pound I guess than he would be if he was um competing in >> Yeah. I mean, who was uh Fabian Mayer head? >> There's a guy that could successfully do both through the season and uh and and like I said, do both do well in both. [clears throat] >> Yeah. I mean, this this is a good comparison he put up from last year's Olympia to this year. And he he definitely put some tissue on, as we say, which it must be getting harder and harder him for him to make that weight for Classic because geez, look at that. He's a big dude. >> Yeah. So, as a condition snob, >> I mean, that that that 2025, I mean, he looks I mean, he looks like he doesn't even look like a guy that's squeezed down into the classic. He looks like a legit open guy there with the kind of size that could do well in an open show. >> Yeah, >> especially with that condition, mate. >> Yeah, he's got really nice shape. So, uh take a real a real quick look at Nai because he's no slouch. I don't know if he has the the capability of beating Josema. It's not going to be it's not going to be easy. The odds are stacked against him in a way on paper anyway. But he looks looks really good. So actually he's defending the title. He is he is last year's winner of Romania Muscle Fest Classic Physique. Richard Ngi. And look at he's another one who gets in condition. Look at that. Very impressive. >> I I really rate Richard Nai. I like his physique. I think he's um he's one of the guys that's never talked about in the Olympia in the runup, but he always makes like top 15, top 10. I've got I'm sure he's been eighth or ninth in my head. I might be incorrect there, but he's always always up there. And like I said, he's one of these guys that and he he's won lots and lots of pro shows. I mean, I think he won was it three or four in one season? uh because he won in Hungary last year when I was doing the live stream uh the commentary and um very very pleasing physique very very classic conditioning balance symmetry and when you see him in the flesh he's he is super super impressive >> cool so that is uh that's it let's talk a little bit about Prague because you had the best seat in the house I would say or one of the best seats in the house um first of all we didn't even get to talk about um Samson and his you know his bid to reclaim all the size that he had he had lost for the Olympia. So in your estimation if 2024 Olympia was 100% Samson and 2025 Olympia was 80% Samson what percentage Samson doubted did we see in Prague next to Martin here? >> 92. >> Okay. Okay. Honestly, Ron, Ron, Ron, I I wasn't expecting him to make those kinds of improvements in only two weeks. I knew that we we weren't going to see the magically see the 2024 version because to go from 305 that he was the Olympia reportedly last year to 280 this year um on stage I knew that he could probably claim reclaim sort of I don't know maybe six to8 pounds which on a guy that size is nothing but um he looked he looked pretty much um 90 I would say 90% of what which I think in two weeks was bloody impressive. Um I spoke to one of the judges on the on the on the the day after the show and she says uh Ilico from Hungary she says Samson was so much better than the Olympia so much improved. The only thing that didn't come back like it almost was when he won last year was the back. She says that was the only thing that kind of didn't return which I kind of expected but um mate he looked really really good. And on day one um I mean if you obviously if you watch the live stream you can hear my commentary live so you can go and check. I I literally couldn't decide between Martin and Samson. Um but um day two, it's weird because on day two, he came out for his posing routine full as a house. I mean, I he must have timed his food and his pump up perfectly because he came out and his routine was beautiful. Uh almost to the level of when he won the Olympia last year because that routine for me was one of the best routines I've seen in the last 20 years. I mean, it was amazing. It was like how everyone posed in the 80s and 90s. It was just that that uh you know, the lion routine that was beautiful. Um but um and then when he came out probably just a matter of 20 30 minutes later Martin just managed to hold his peak because like from Saturday and the Sunday he was rock hard. I mean Martin was rock hard. He was full. He was separated and Samson right at the last hurdle kind of just flattened out and he was sweating and um and then Martin just kind of just you know just managed to just pull ahead just at the last minute. You know when you see these sprint, you know, these um these 400 meter runners and they like go from sixth to, you know, they just they just the last sort of 5000 yards they just managed to pull ahead and that's exactly what he did. But um Samson looked bloody good, mind. He looked really really good. He didn't um and I was worried that he was going to try and overcompensate and eat too much and then get a bloated stomach, but he didn't. He looked really really good, mate. Um he looked um he looked fantastic. The only thing was just the back shots. In fact, if you actually see watch the live stream, I went I kind of went, "Holy [\h__\h] I can't believe that Martin's rear double bicep is really quite quite handily beating Samson's because that's a the back shots are normally like two very strong shots for Samson. And Martin, even though he has he's got a really good rear lat spread, his rear double bicep for me was the only weak shot that I felt he had. But when he actually went I went to age, I said, "Holy shit." I said, "Martin's rear double bicep." I actually said to Stefan backstage, I said, "How did you manage that?" I said, "Because you've taken his only not the weak shot, but the only shot I personally didn't like. I felt like it lacks separation and detail." And I said, "You've taken it and it's actually one of his strongest shots now." So Martin doesn't actually have a weak compulsory pose anymore. He was he was separated, detailed, full. I mean, to be honest, I said to Stephan, I shook his hand. I said, "Mate," I said, "You peaked that guy absolutely perfectly." I said, "Fair play to you." And like I said, Iltico, the judge said, she goes, "That is such a rarity that we see bodybuilders hold their peak over two days that well because he just it just he just maintained it." You know, I know he's like a Mr. Saturday night, but I was thinking when I saw him on the the pre-judging on the was it the Friday night >> or the sat Saturday night? I was like, he's not is he going to be able to maintain it? Whereas I know that Samson can get better on the second day. Um, but Martin came out on the second day and he looked every bit as good. So, um, look at this real wice. He never had he never had that before. The separation and the the shoulders, the the back. I mean, it is I mean, he took his conditioning to a whole new level. And in fact, I think this was an even better version that we saw at the Olympia this year. >> I agree. And that that also begs the question. Samson beat him at the Olympia fourth versus fifth. And Martin was better here. >> I had I had that the other way. I had that the other way around the Olympics. >> Yeah. Yeah, after this show, I think a lot of people were were of the of the mind that Martin should have beat Samson at the Olympia for sure because he beat a much better version of Samson here. So, if Samson was much worse at the Olympia, wouldn't you think it just makes logical sense that he should have beat him back at the Olympia? Well, >> but when when you see Jay Cut Jay Cutler in 2013 when he came back and got like sixth, sometimes they like I know they did it to Ramy uh when they knocked him down to fifth in 22, but if that had been Ramy's first Olympia, would he have got fifth? I don't think so. I think he'd have been like eighth to 10th. Sometimes they will knock a champ down, but they won't knock him down maybe as far as really is really fair. So, I mean thing is I don't know whether Nick would have beaten even an off Samson, you know, like a smaller Samson that he did saw at the Olympia. Um, I don't know, but it just I I think this was kind of like a double victory for Martin because he managed to kind of beat Samson, you know, because he deserved to at the Olympia but kind of obviously got the win as well. But the fact that he managed to do that and um and and really convincingly because it was close. I honestly on the f on the prejudging I just kept saying to AJ I don't know. I said like you've got the taller wider you know more sort of imposing structure of Samson the beautiful aesthetics. Um he is better in the Olympia but you got Martin who's shorter and not really missing anything. Doesn't really have a weak pose. I mean there my eyes are just drawn to Martin straight away. But um fair play because the conditioning on Martin was just and it wasn't just the condition, it was the fullness like the muscle [snorts] hard and deep and separated. It looked effortless, you know. So I think um I think this was a really really uh a really big big um big win for Martin here because it's um he beat he beat probably the Samson that we all hoped and wanted to see at the Olympia. So his confidence is going to be going to another level now. So I'm really really happy for him. Yeah. I mean, even two years ago, if you had suggested to me, well, Martin Fitzwwater could be a future Mr. Olympia, I'd be like, "Come on. Come on, guys. Don't don't be ridiculous. He's good, but a future Mr. Olympia." And now I could see him I could see him as one of the people who has that capability. He has that potential. This is I was very impressed by the fullness even just standing here >> two years ago, he didn't [laughter] Go ahead. >> Yeah. Ron Ron, last year he didn't even get the invite to be Arnold. >> You're right. [laughter] That was last year. So that shows you how much he's improved. I mean, I'll be honest, I had him third place at the Olympia last year over Derek, 100%. >> Um, Pittsburgh, I actually had Bonak beating him, so he was off there. And, you know, but he came to the Olympia, I had him solid fourth over Samson. And here he got the win and it was welld deserved. Um, but like I said, this was this was a neck andneck race uh until and I I would say it was really decided in that final round of posing when they brought them out at the finals together and Samson just literally in that last sort of hour or whatever it was, he kind of just flattened out as the big guys can and Martin just Martin just like I said he managed to maintain that peak beautifully. thing is, do you think it makes a difference having like your coach physically there? Because Stefan is Stefan's with these guys 247. He's like Neil Hill. Like he he wants his guys remember I told you had Zack Khan in his room on a mattress. He didn't want to take his eyes off him literally. He's like, I want to make sure I'm watching your physique change, you know, every minute of every day. I don't want you out of my sight. And I I think Do you think that makes a difference? Because Stefan was Stefan really wanted this one as, you know, as much as he as much as he wanted it for Martin. And I think um I think maybe it makes a difference. I know obviously Samson had Marina there who obviously coaches him, but um like look at I mean every every picture and video I've see of Martin he was just he just held it mate. I mean like I said Elder Co said that hardly ever ever happens. >> Well you know you know how Bob Chick has that famous cliche you had to be there. Contests look different up close. I think a physique looks different when you're standing two or three feet away from it. And a coach can see things in person that maybe even with the greatest iPhone and face facetiming uh capabilities, you just you're not going to be able to catch. And I think just the the reassurance of having the coach physically there with you has a calming effect. Gives you that confidence. And uh Martin's confidence was through the roof. He was just bursting with confidence at this show. every time you see him on stage, he it was clear that he knew he was the winner and he had he was carrying that that winner's aura and attitude the whole time. So yeah, I think Stephan being there did did help. And and also unless m unless Nick does something drastic with that waistline which can be done as we saw with Ruly in 2016 I don't see Nick ever beating Martin unless he makes some drastic changes because I think Martin now and not it's not just um how his physique's improvement it's how his confidence and self-belief is going to be it's going to be more reinforced because he's like I said he's not just won a post Olympia show but he beat an improved Samson that you know was Mr. Olympia and um you know was like I said [laughter] it's like it shows you there's very little separating these guys now as well. There's no really dominating champion that it's like okay then who's getting second. >> Yeah. I mean the the fact that he sticks with the with boss you know even there are there are other people not necessarily Nick but other people who jump every time they don't place as well at a show as they want to they they hop to another coach >> outlaw. he's a great coach. But I think staying with that one coach, letting that coach learn and maybe making a couple mistakes along the way, so you learn, okay, this this doesn't work. We'll never do that again. And you know, things that do work, you try to replicate that again. But you need time. You need a few shows in a row to really do that. Martin and uh Stefan seems to be a really good really good partnership. >> He didn't drop Martin. Martin didn't drop Stefan after Pittsburgh because Pittsburgh was not I mean I think he was lucky to get where he got to be honest because he was off but um it just shows you that um like you said like exactly what you've said there Ron you know just you get one bad result and then you blame everything on the coach you know it shows you that um because like Martin really really dusted like Derek did last year when he lost the Olympia he really dusted himself off and just got to work. So, um I mean because like I said it was um it was this was a this was a pretty clear win I think you know and to do that whilst beating a you know a Samson that was better than when he did the Olympia and who also beat Martin at the Olympia a couple of weeks before was um was a huge feather in his cap. So he's now I can't imagine how Martin's going to be feeling right now. He must be absolutely buzzing. Um but um I wonder if he'll did he say he's doing the Arnold or >> I've heard that he's doing >> Okay. I never I never know if anyone's actually saying these things unless I hear it out of their mouth, but I do hear he's doing it. But let's talk about Kristo for a second because he plays he plays third. I mean, his major flaw to me is that that waist from the front. It's just thick. But good lord, the conditioning, the ma the overall mass. Uh this is probably the best Kristo I think I've ever seen. You've seen him in person a few times now. What do you think? >> Oh, he looks amazing. I'll be honest. on the on day one he was rock hard but he was very very very flat. So after the I mean everyone was like you know going crazy cuz he's he's a home favorite and you know everyone loves Chris. I love Krisel so I was going nuts and then after when uh when the prejudging finished George Farah's coach obviously was there um he came over and he was all happy and I kind of put I didn't want to put a downer on it but I said he said oh yeah Chris looks best he's ever been and I said yeah but mate he's really flat you got to try and fill him out. He kind of like he went he he looked a bit like pissed off and then he was like, "Yeah, I think you're right. You're right." So, um so the next day Kriso came in bursting full. Um and I saw I spoke to Kriso at the afterparty back at the owner's house um the EBS owner's house and I spoke to him and I said, "Mate," I says, "Fantastic." I said, "That's the best package I've ever seen." I said, "You filled out beautifully." I said, "Because I'll be honest, I was worried day one, you know, on the Saturday night." I said, "Because you were very, very flat." And he said, "Apparently because they were late on stage." Do you remember about two or three hours late on stage because the amateur the amateur show was that big it ran over and he said I only had enough food he said and um I was I was basically timing it so I'd be on stage at this time but I ended up going on stage two or three hours later he said I just flattened out because we spoke about this before you know Ramy in 22 um you know obviously when they're on stage I was late it seems to affect the taller heavier bigger guys more whereas that was the year that Haddie and Derek came top do and it seems to affect the shorter guys less. So when if if shows are running late and running over, you can guarantee that the tall big heavy guys are the ones that going to suffer the most. And to be honest, like when he was doing his front relaxed on the on the Saturday night, I was like, "Oh, I couldn't look." Cuz he looked so flat. >> And then he came out at the final on the sorry I'm getting days mixed up on the Sunday and it was like soon as he walked out, I went, "Holy [\h__\h] George filled him out beautifully." And he looked absolutely This was by far the best cruis I've ever seen. Um, and as you know, I'm a huge huge Kriso fan, but um, and also not just the the the size of him, but the separation, the detail. Um, and he he's he is getting better, mate. He's getting a lot lot better. Um, but um, yeah, he was he was brilliant, mate. And um, I mean, some people had him beating Samson, which I don't personally. Um because maybe you're just because obviously Kriso's conditioning was superior to Samson's, but Samson, you know, you're going to have a hard time, you know, even if Samson's only at 90% and Kristo's 100%. Samson's shape and symmetry is um is a lot lot better than than Samson. Although in that shot there, that real bicep, I mean, my eyes are kind of drawn to Kriso there. What what do you think? >> Yeah, when you can't see because from the back, his his waist width doesn't seem to be as much of a factor. It's really only the front to me his front relaxed his front double bicep to a lesser extent his front lat spreads is where the the the wide waist is evident but in other shot I mean most muscular shot he beats like he beats everybody in that shot his >> also and also a quizzer like he's like I remember when he did that um when he won the won the frog show in 22 in his pro debut and uh like his his posing was clunky his his conditioning was was okay his posing was um sorry the tan and everything the color and he he really does listen to critique because he manages to listen take it on board and he does really really improve he really fixes things so it shows you that he pays a lot of attention to to feedback which is smart which is which shows you that there's a guy that can listen can take it on board and can actually do what he needs to do and improve because like like his I think because obviously shoulder's fixed now he's had the surgery like his riddle bicep didn't look it was a one or two times he hit it and it looked still looked a bit awkward But most of the times he hit it, he he hit it beautifully bang on. So every a lot of people at the show were commenting on how much his pro his posing had improved. Um so but now we just need to get Andrew's side poses sorted because uh a lot of people are commenting on that as well. >> All right, let's talk about Keon. >> So Keon, this was a very highly anticipated open debut. You know, going to show I was I was thinking maybe he could win this thing because he does have an incredible physique, the shape, the structure. He's got plenty of size. Um, things didn't go that way. So, you know, you were you and everyone else, we were all eager to see how he would look with a few extra pounds of fullness. How did you rate Keon Pearson's first open show? >> Well, apparently he said it himself that he was bang on 212 like he was at the Olympia. So, there wasn't like a fuller different version. I think maybe I I mean I don't know what you think but um I think the general consensus was that he was even better than he was at the Olympia here >> because the the waistline because I know there was something happening with his stomach at the Olympia that people didn't really say they didn't really mention it as much at this show and I might and I think if my eyes are drawn to the imperfections not the perfections like the judges you know they're looking for they're looking for the flaws because they all these guys are great they've all got great body parts and great poses but they're looking for reasons to basically place somebody else ahead of him. I thought he looked absolutely fantastic and I hope he appreciates the fact that I got a telling off from [laughter] Steve. Yeah, cuz like Steve was pissed off, man. And I was like, "Come on, you sure that he's not capable of placing higher than fifth?" Because like he because you could see in the in the compulsories they're doing the rounds of judging and he's like his confidence just went it just deflated the more that he was just left in that same spot and I felt really bad for him. And I was going hashtag justice for keyon and then of course people are online causing [\h__\h] because that's what's that's what's basically me and Steve sort of like settled it on. He I said you've been reading the comments. He said yeah I have. And I said well you know what people can be like. And he went oh tell me about it. And he said okay well he said I understand your your point of view and you know I'm glad you understand mine. And I said, "Look, Steve, I'm not trying to upset you about I said I just I was just really disappointed, you know, maybe just for the fans and the crowd that we wanted to see him next to Predell because, you know, and and Kriso because the crowd would have gone absolutely crazy." But Steve was like, "No, I've got him a basically insinuating that he had him a solid fifth." But then obviously I said to Steve, I said, "Well, what what about what can happen? What can happen tomorrow?" And he said, "Well, as you know, Jo, anything can happen." So I thought Keon I thought Keon did himself proudly. looked absolutely fantastic and uh he definitely held his own and um and I'm glad he placed where he did. >> So moving forward, do you if you were his adviser, manager, would you would you encourage him to do more open shows or just stick to 212? >> Do both. >> Okay. >> Like like Clarita did, you know, because he can realistically [sighs and gasps] I mean I I the guy could win probably five 212 Olympias at minimum. I mean may maybe if he wants to go for the record. I don't know whether he wants to stay in that category as long, but there's I think he should just keep his options open. Uh and just look at Chris over there that real beautiful. Um I think he should just um just just do both. I mean, because like I said, I I don't think there's anyone to touch him in the 212 right now, but uh I think um I think he could definitely pick up a few open open wins along the way for sure. So he would have won he would have won a lot of open shows earlier this year that I've seen. >> Yeah. In the lineups I mean but you know he doesn't want I don't think he wants to enter a a smaller show that's not going to really advance his career or impress anybody. If you win I'm not going to I'm not going to mention any particular show. But if you win a show with a weak lineup as a 212 doing open it's not really proving that's not proving you're one of the best buys in the world. just proves that you're beating a bunch of lesser open guys. >> True. And that's why it was good that he jumped into a show like this that was ultra competitive. You had the Mr. Olympia, you got the fourth place, sorry, fifth place guy from Olympia. Um I think it was AI think it was a brave move. And um I didn't have him coming in and winning this by any stretch of the imagination. But also there was comments on his legs. Um um Steve said to me about his legs and I'm like his legs look pretty good to me. But um he said when stood next to open guys he said it looks like you know that's someone who needs more legs. I think he just needs a bit more chest because I think he's very del dominant. But um it was overall I think it was a fantastic showing for Keon and I'm really really excited and I'm really glad that he he did do the show because you know like the the just the general feeling and chatter and hype around the show. A lot of people were talking about Keon. >> Oh 100%. Uh and you know I I don't think he disappointed anybody. He brought a great package over there. opposing >> opposing. He's he's he's still a fantastic world class open bodybuilder. Just because he didn't win this doesn't doesn't >> and I and I and I I feel like I deserve a basket of muffins for for taking taking the heat off Big Steve because that was that's quite scary when Steve comes at you. [laughter] >> But uh but it was it was funny. It was funny because a few people around were going, "Oh [\h__\h] this is this is bad." So I went up to him and like literally within two minutes we were shaking hands and laughing about it sort of thing and like, "Okay, okay, fair enough. I understand." And you know, it's uh and then we just kind of we we came together on our on our mutual understanding of how people can just stir [\h__\h] online, you know. >> Fair enough. Now, you also got to see Rough Diesel. Uh Terrence Ruffin made his way over there to Prague, which, you know, I was a little surprised. He's also qualified for next year's Olympia. Did not need to do this. >> Um but it's always a treat. This is one guy. If I ever was at a show and I missed his routine, I would be very very upset about that. Uh, and I I heard this was a postpose replication of a Shawn Ray routine. >> No, >> no, >> no. Where'd you get that from? Where'd you get that from? Keon's [clears throat] Keon's routine was the the license to kill, but it wasn't pose for pose, but there was a lot of similarity. You could see he'd looked at it and and and added a few of his own poses, but that was Keon, not Terrence. >> Okay, gotcha. See, see how easily I get mixed up. Oh, sorry. >> It was um it was me that suggested Terrence to do it. So, I messaged him and he said um because he was doing was it Mexico or Brazil? He did >> Brazil. Brazil. >> Yeah, Brazil. Because I was there was two shows. I keep getting them mixed up. Um and I he said, "Are you going to be there?" I said, "Of course I'm doing the commentary, mate." and he said uh so within an hour I messaged Peter the Peter the the the promoter uh the CEO and then he messaged him they spoke directly and um and in within 45 minutes or something Peter says yep we've got a deal he's coming over so I was really really happy because I knew I knew that uh once he hit that posing routine it was going to be something special thing is they faded his music after one minute and it's like a three I think it's a three minute posing routine and then when he won um I was hoping I think I said on the live stream I I can't remember exactly I was like, I hope he gets to do his routine. And then the MC went, okay, now you've won. I think we all want to see I think we're going to make an exception that we're going to let you redo, but do the full routine. And then when it got to the point where his music was cut last time, you could hear the music being faded. And then and then TER WENT LIKE THAT. He like he went he kind of, you know, broke character out of his posing routine. He went like, "No, keep it going. Keep it going." He kept it going. And my god, mate, I'll be honest. I mean, it had it gave me shivers that posing routine. And um and you know me, I'm a bloody I'm a conditioning and opposing snob. So I have high standards for both because you know I started following the sport in 1990 and you know watching all the 80s posing routines. Um but this I I honestly I think I think there's an argument for him going down as the not just one of the greatest posers, but I think the greatest poser of all time. I told him this at the afterparty afterwards and he was like whoa. And I went I'm serious mate. I've seen great poses, but like what he put into that full routine, if you really watch it and analyze it and watch the transitions and the the the hands, the face, the like it was it was like watching, you know, like interpretive dance, you know, like that kind of like the top top level. I remember when we went to see like a was called Phoenix. It's like one of the top uh one of the world's top like sort of interpretive dance, you know, like um that what's interpretive dance? There's another word for it. And it was it was that level of execution and that level of um professionalism. And I'm telling you what, to see that in the flesh >> on stage, it's like it's it's not just you're not just watching something, you're actually experiencing something. It was it was quite it was quite unbelievable actually. I will say that. >> I mean, I'm trying to think of I've I've seen some amazing posers over all those years. Lebr Labrada, Bob Paris. I've seen all the videos of Frank Zayn, uh, even going Muhammad Macaweave, Ed Corny, all these people who are talked about in that conversation as the best poser of all time. And I can't say that any one of them is better than Terrence. And Terrence, you could make a very valid argument that he's he is the best poser of all time. >> I mean, if you watch if you watch like just what you're watching now where he's just doing this is a 60 seconds. It's it's amazing. It's great. It's beautifully done. You can see he's put a lot of effort into it. Um, he doesn't relax any body parts. Every, you could take a photographer because I was a photographer. You could take a photo at any point and it's no the stomach's not hanging out or he's not pulling face. It's like every single second that guy is on stage, it is just it's like it's it's like watching living art. It really really is. And I'm telling you what, when you experience it and you feel it, like I was actually emotional. I was like I was I was starting to well up because it was just to see something and to experience that with the because the place was sold out and there's a couple of thousand people in there to see it like everyone was just like it was it was absolutely breathtaking you know like probably like when Ronnie walked out in 2003 and everyone was just like holy [\h__\h] we're really this is we're kind of witnessing something pretty special here. Um that's that's how it felt to me and I think it how it felt to a lot of people because it was just it was mind-blowing. >> Yeah. So, good on him. All right. Well, that is uh glad glad you had a great time over there. >> Uh let's talk about what uh what happened right after >> one thing. >> Yeah, go ahead. >> Uh mention the UK 212 guy, Yinka. >> Oh, who's that? >> This guy there, the post there, the first post Dennis Wolf at the top. >> Uh going back going back to the >> No, no, no, no. Just on this one. On this one there. The guy pulling the the the this sign there. Right in front of you. >> Oh, right. >> There you go. Yeah. This guy here, this is um this is a British 212. He's done two shows already this year. He had a really bad guy. You know, we had it operated on. >> I'm telling Ron Ron, I'm telling you, mate, this guy is something special. He was 195. >> Wow. >> And he was probably one of the smallest in the top five, but he was the clear winner. Everyone could see it. >> 195. He's got 17 pounds before he reaches the limit. >> Um I had him training with Andrew Jacked at um one of the gyms. I did the the um the on the tour last year with Andrew last November. I'm telling you, mate, 17 pounds to play with couple of years. I mean, he's qualified for the Olympia now, but I think he'll be top 10 next year. But imagine him like you look at like he reminds me like Samson a few years ago where you look at and you think everything's there. He just needs more size. And if he's like if he was 212 at that, I'd be like, mate, you kind of you're going to do okay, but you're not going to be >> right, >> you know, you're not going to the very top. someone who looks that good. Winning shows at 195 beating guys a lot thicker. I'm telling you, every body part, every pose, um go to the um if you go to the photos I posted, there's some black and white shots from the back. He's so complete. Try and pick a fault on him. Apart from just needs a little 5, 10, 15 pounds more size. Those black and white shots. There they are. >> On your page. >> No, no, no. You went back. Go back. >> Oh, on his page. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I'm telling you, mate, there's kids something special. They're black and white shots. There you go. >> Oh, there we go. Wow. >> Look at that. Look at that. 195. Imagine that at the limit in a couple of years. >> Oh, yeah. He's He's got everything. >> I can't fault him. I can't fault him. >> Look at that. >> And he's a really He's a really good poser. He's got it up here. He's got a good coach. Um but he reminds me people are all basically everyone at the show was saying you remind of us like a 212 Samson like say two or three years ago where he was at that point. >> Yeah. >> So I know we've got a few. We've got Ryan Terry in the men's physique. We've got Ria Gail in the figure. We've got Shelly in the fitness and obviously we had Samson's Mr. Olympia. I'm telling you, two more years and uh I think he's going to be giving Clarida and Keon and Nat absolute hell. >> And I don't know that that could possibly be a Nigerian name. We're not really sure. >> It is. Yeah, it is. Yeah, he moved over when he was 13, but um he trains at um he came out with a meal with us the other night with with Ronnie. >> Oh, wow. >> On the on the final night, but um I've known him for a couple of years, but um until he dieted down, I didn't realize how good he was. I told him I've never even heard of him. So, thank you for bringing him to my attention. >> Go back to my Instagram and you'll see the the couple of slides I've been training with Andrew. You'll see the difference between a 212 and an open. Go back to it. Go up. Go up. Go up. The postse on that one there. Yeah. Yeah. Go move the slides across. >> 212. >> Hang on. Look. >> Hang on. >> There he is. That's Keep going. He's I mean that's Andrew training with him there. There's Andrew. [laughter] But look at look at the next one. Oh, next one. >> Yeah. Look at this. [laughter] Wow. I mean, it was >> And that was last year. That was last November, right after the Olympia. And >> that's 6'2 versus 56. 55 or 56 maybe. >> Yeah, I think he's Yes. 56. >> Yeah. Yeah. Andrew is a big Andrew's head doesn't even fit in the frame. He's so big. [laughter] Goodness gra. >> Okay. God, good on him. Thanks. Thanks for bringing him to my attention. >> Yeah. I'd tell you mate like he's you know like he you know like sort of I can spot sort of future if he keeps improving. I said mate don't blow that I talked to his coach I said mate just don't blow that waistline keep those clean lines and keep doing what you're doing. I says because if you keep improving mate you're just gonna because I think he'll be top 10 Olympia next year but I think after that I think he's he's going to be a top five maybe a top three guy in the next two years. >> Right. Tiger's good at the future talent. So there was a big dinner. Ronnie, Ronnie's wife, >> Chris, >> Chris, the partner on the tours, Lauren Lauder. That is that Ruffin. >> No, no, that's >> Yinka. Ah, Terrence going to kill me. All right. And uh All right. Well, let's talk about the Ronnie tour. >> Can I can I tell you a funny story about mistaken identity? >> Please do. on the first night on the Ronny tour because I when they went after the seminar and everyone queues up and I like to just sort of mill about and just speak to people you know and you know because there's always a good vibe and everyone's excited and you just want to communicate you know so I was walking up and there was this father and son and the this because they look very similar and the kid was maybe I don't know 16 17 or something bright red hair and he looked quite a shy kid and he was holding a belt and that was in um Edinburgh [snorts] last week and uh and he had a copy of Flex magazine in his hands And he said, I said, "Oh, you got some stuff for Ronnie to sign." He says, "Oh, do you think he'll sign it?" I said, "Yeah, I'm sure he will. Just, you know, just ask him. I'm sure he'd be happy to." And then I looked down and I said, "Um, I said, "You do know that's not Ronnie on the front cover." It was Eddie Abu. >> Oh wow. >> And I had to walk away because I thought he was starting to cry. [laughter] >> Oh my goodness. >> He was like, he looked devastated. I was like, "Oh, this is awkward." So I had to walk away. Bless him. Cuz I think he he just started like like he was mortified, mate. But it was I don't think I even told Ronny that. But that was that was for my sense of humor. That was quite funny. >> Wasn't there a caption on the the cover or something? Or >> I don't know. [laughter] Ronnie probably would have just signed it. He probably would have just laughed and signed it anyway. You know, probably he probably would have told me in secret afterwards. He said, "You did I signed that magazine for that picture that wasn't me." [snorts] >> Boy. So here we go. This is the beginning of the uh the representation tour. I think this So this is Bristol. >> Yeah. I I was at that when I was in Prague. >> Oh wow. Ry did >> because what I what I did I did the first night in Western Super Mayare the first one and then that night I said oh by the way Ronny [laughter] I've got to go to Prague tomorrow >> and I was really nervous about telling him because I had Chris there and I had you know everybody and Susan was there and all the flights and everything else was booked and taken care of. Chris had the full schedule and he went okay and then Susan came in his wife and she was like yep no problem we'll catch up with you in a couple of days. So we I picked him up from the airport on Manchester on Monday because he had a uh sorry on the Tuesday because he had a day of rest in Ireland and um yeah just re rejoined the tour. So I missed the I missed the Irish one which apparently was a really good one as well. >> Where'd that throne come from or the >> Yeah, I know that was they they was I think they capt they sold all 200 tickets to that one. [snorts] >> Okay. I mean you don't bring that that throne everywhere you go, do you? >> Strap it to the top of the car. Yeah, we got [snorts] it. Seems like it be all right. So, that was the first stop and it was without a >> That was second. That was second. >> This is backstage at Prague. This This stuff >> is AJ. >> There's AJ. All right. That's also backstage at Prague. >> Yep. >> Lauren, you finally got a good uh uh portrait I saw. I don't know if that's coming up. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> I can't believe how much slimmer AJ is in a good way. >> He looks great, doesn't he? looks great. >> He was he was headed for a heart attack or something. I know I heart attack with you. >> All also um there was a few comments on Instagram saying I was shushing AJ on the second day. No, but there was a reason because after day one the there's like a big production crew. There's like five people working all the cameras and the lighting, the DJ, the music and everything. And there's a there's one guy that controls the the camera switching and also our audio. And apparently when the MC talks, he has to pull the our volume down and put his up. So he said like it to mix it, I didn't realize they did this. He said to mix it, he says you have to stop talking and let them talk. Otherwise, he says it just the audio kind of goes over each other. He says, "So you got to be really careful." So of course I did it a couple of times as well and AJ sort of said, you know, he'd like point, you know, off because we there was no cameras on us >> and uh so a couple of times, you know, where we're just kind of just, you know, just getting caught up in the moment. we were kind of talking and then I'd have to kind of give him a nudge or a kick under the table and say like and a couple of times I did shush him. So people were thinking I was being rude and horrible to to Agent and I'm like no I said because the producers told us you know we've got to we've got to you know sort of when the MC's talking they want they want to have his audio over the live stream obviously. >> So a couple of times we slipped up but I wasn't I wasn't trying to be you know I wasn't trying to be mean. >> Of course not. You're Giles. You wouldn't do that. So look you had a good time. looks like he did a good job commentating. >> Yeah, he's brilliant. He's brilliant. He's brilliant. >> I mean, he he's he's good with the women's divisions, too, I guess, which you know, >> well, because in the morning won the Saturday, sorry, Sunday morning, wasn't it? Um, we had all the sheets and I said, "Right, let's decide who's doing." He said, "Well, I want to do open with you, Charles. I want to do I forget what other category um because we're supposed to get George Farah, but I couldn't get hold of him." So, we'd literally write on the sheets, okay, Lauren and AJ, Giles and Lauren, AJ and Giles, you know, and we basically just figured out and then we text each other, you know, because AJ's either backstage or he's getting stuff for his Instagram or, you know, so we'd always but we made it work and we were bang on, you know, apart from when the my chair collapsed. >> Well, you're just too you're too you're too heavy, Giles. >> No, I was it was when I was um when AJ and Lauren were filming. There's like a VIP segment with all the tables right in front of the judges and I sat on this chair and then I just felt it just [laughter] felt the leg just go crunch. So, and of course everyone's behind me, a couple of thousand people. So, they all saw so they all laugh. So, the only thing that but luckily um the only thing that was bruised was my was my pride. >> There we go. Thank goodness. >> Yeah. [laughter] >> So, this was Nebula and Wetford. >> Yeah. I missed that one. That was a really good one. Apparently, >> it's another cool chair. I think these people all find really good seats for Ronnie, I gotta say. But what a turnout. Everywhere he went had a really really good turnout. >> And and to be honest, most of them were capped. Like they they could have sold more. They could have sold more. So, um we sold a ton of merchandise as well. So, that's that's good. That'll uh that'll pay the rent. >> I [laughter] saw that guy walking away with crutches. Did Ronnie cure him of uh like he couldn't walk and then Ronnie did some faith healing on him? >> No. >> No. Okay. >> A younger fan. This is crazy to me that people, this kid wasn't even born when Ronnie retired. Not even close. >> Do you know Do you know what, Ron? As well, the um because obviously every single night um it's funny, I shouldn't say this really, but like the first tour I did with Ronnie, I think it was the first or the second one. I was on the phone to Lauren because I ring her every night and uh and she was a bit quiet and I always know when something's up and I said, "What's what's that about?" And she says, "Um just, you know, I'm just worried." I said, "What about?" She says, "All the Ronny groupies." I just burst out laughing and I said, "Do you know what Lauren?" I said, "I've got Ronny's crutches. I can fight them off if need be." I says, "But you know, you don't have to worry about Ronny groupies and me going off and having orgies." I said, "I'm sure I'm sure me and Ron will be a Ronnie will be able to handle it." >> I mean, Ronnie had his wife with him for one thing. [laughter] >> No, but my point was, sorry, that was a point. Apparently, um, like when I looked around the I would say the demographic um, is probably 80% 18 to 25 year olds. >> Wow. Yeah, >> I wouldn't think they even they probably have heard of Ronnie Coleman, but the fact that they're fans and they paid money to come see him. That astonishes me. That's great. >> And I'm sure this one was like the Irish ones. They're like hundred euros a ticket. Like it's $100. It's like whatund. That's more. And they like I I took Ronnie to Ireland last March and they they capped it at 100. And that was a hundred euros per ticket. Which which is what over $100? >> Yeah. Wow. >> And that was all 18 like nearly 90% 18 to 23 year olds. I always say like young lads, you know, the whole the whole broccoli head crew. [snorts] >> So, here is Stockport. Uh, >> that's a good one. >> Positive health and nutrition. >> Yeah, the cop car. >> Oh, yeah. [laughter] Look at that. LAPD. >> Yeah, it was LAPD food. It was um it was like a food delivery service for like events. So, when when he because the guy said he said, "Let me know." Because we um Lauren went in a taxi and I drove and they because we didn't have enough room. So, they went separate. They got there before us. And then when when I drove around the corner, I was like I was like, "Is that a cop car?" And like an American cop car. Ronnie was like, "What the hell?" And I was like because he said, "Give us 2 minutes notice when you tell us when you're a few minutes away." So they must have just turned all apparently the police came over and said, "Look, you know, you can't drive with those lights on, >> right? >> That's illegal if you park it and you're doing like a food like event like this." >> Yeah. >> Because they were giving out pizza and all sorts. There was like a promotional thing, you know. So >> that was cool. That was so cool. Yeah, Ronnie used to drive one of those. >> Yeah, [laughter] exactly. But look at that billboard. Isn't it amazing? >> Yeah, I these promoters really go all out. >> It's a big deal having Ronny there, mate. I mean, these these the love and and respect he gets. And and you know what? I'll say this now. This is why I won't take any ego attitude or anything off anyone in the industry, new legend, anything. Because like I've done only four tours of Ronnie. I've worked with him. I worked for him. I've done Fibo, Body Power. I've um you know I've done podcasts with him and he's always always as a fan as a media guy. Every all the different things I've done with him a tour manager and I'm telling you he's never ever been anything other than polite, respectful, kind, easy to work with. I mean he's like the Ronnie you see you know how he is with fans. That's how he actually is. That is Ronnie. Um, and obviously having uh Susan there was um I I've only met her like a couple of times, but she added so much fun and um and joy to that tour. Like we're like we're just we're all best friends now. I mean she was so lovely and and al also it was really lovely to see like their relationship. You saw I saw another side to Ronnie like his more personal side and the love and respect those two have got for each other is it's it's it's something quite it's like couple goals you know when you see you know things you want to emulate and I was like wow you know you know it was it was quite quite wonderful actually. >> So who was watching their 32 kids back home? [laughter] >> Yeah. Yeah. They've Yeah. And all the cats and everything. So >> Ronnie Donuts. Oh boy. Yeah. [laughter] And uh and of course I kept saying good old to everything and Rody kept laughing. [laughter] >> But mate, he was he's in good spirits, man. He's in good because he hasn't he's not back training for another two months because obviously he's lost a lot of weight there. I mean, I think Susan said he'd lost 43 or 48 pounds since >> since he obviously before it went in. And he he can't train. All he can do is cardio. He's like a stress test. He's got to do so many sessions. his heart's now it was 20% when it happened because he said sex has probably saved his life because it alerted him to the heart thing. Um otherwise he would have been in a situ because his his heart was working like mine was like 15 20%. Um and then uh after the the heart valve replacement he's at 40% and he reckons by the time he gets checked up he reckons he'll be about 60% and when he's at 80% which will be his that'll be him forever he's going to they said he can start back training. So he's he said he is he's desperate to get back training. bless him. >> Sure. Yeah. That's someone who loves training like few people on this earth. >> Yeah. He goes six six days a week and the only day he doesn't um train is on Sunday when he goes to church. >> That's right. And do you know what it I I don't know if he still goes to the same church, but the one I went to 20 years ago, if they had a church like that in my town, I would go to church every Sunday. [laughter] It was It was enormous. It had like a a band with guitar guitarists, drummers, and >> a choir. It was it was a great time. It was like a party. >> Wow. Well, I when I was 15, I went backpacking with my trainer partner. It was like 20 21. I went backpacking around the east coast of America and Canada uh in 1991 and we got an East Coast Amtrak train uh train thing and we um he was a born again Christian and he had a church uh so we went to church. I'm not religious, but we went to a church in Toronto in downtown Toronto and it was like it was it was probably a couple of thousand people and I think me and my friend James were the only white people in there. So I was 15 and I you know I'm from a town where there's not even really any there just just all white there's no multi- not like casai society is now today and um but they that we it was incredible. I actually bought one of the tapes because it was that much fun. >> Wow. >> Hearing you know and everyone's singing and you know everyone was so welcoming and I was thinking why isn't church like this in the UK? I think they would probably they'd probably be a bit bit more popular and get a p probably pull bigger numbers like because it was it was just amazing. It was great. It was really joyful, very positive, you know, it was about stealing values and wasn't just like all the the kind of fanatical religious stuff that I kind of switched off to >> like you're going to hell and give me all your money. Yeah. >> Yeah. And I didn't burst into flames when I walked in. >> Of course not. So here was Original Fitness Kirkham. >> Yeah, that was a nice one. That was like the the um the owner is a um ex professional boxer >> that um he does a lot of like really like these crazy charity events where he does >> you like tire flips for 24 hours and you know runs the length of the country with a backpack on and like he's really uh because I think there's some something I think one of his something he's connect he's got a special connection to this particular charity because of something that happened in his own life with his own family if I I'm sure that's how I remember it. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. That was a good one. That was a good one. >> That's Kirk. So the next one was performance gym Irvine. >> Yeah, that was up in just outside of Edinburgh. So we had to drive up to Scotland. That was like a three three hour 20 drive. >> Um there's big Chris. >> I don't know how he maintains the amount of muscle he does because his diet is absolute dog [\h__\h] [laughter] >> I never see any protein. It's just sugar and carbs and he's he's got veins on his triceps and as you can see he's a big guy, you know. >> I did not know that. Yeah. So, uh, yeah, Kirk, I didn't know there was an Irvine in Scotland because there's there's an Irvine in California. >> So, now I know that's the original. >> That's about that's about 40 minutes outside of Glasgow, this one. Um, and that was that was a nice one as well. Really good. Beautiful gym as you can see. I mean, they didn't have gyms like that in my day back in back in Wales or Scotland, you know, back in those days. These kind of new gyms are some of the new gyms I'm seeing, you know, by doing the tours, driving around the country. I mean, there's some really, really beautiful gyms opening up now, like real kind of like American style, you know. But, um, yeah, it was brilliant. We went to Ed Edinburgh Castle as well. Ronny like that. Got Ronnie got a little uh Edinburgh beanie hat and um and Susan got a load of stuff for the kids and because her name her maiden name is Wilson. So, she wanted to get all this, you know, family crest stuff. Scottish, she's got Scottish she's got Scottish blood. So, Ronny's kids have got some some Scottish blood in them. Go. I think I think my hair ancestry came up like 1% Scottish. So [laughter] >> it was like Norwegian 1% Swedish 1% Scot. It's all these random 1% things. But that was cool. So Scotland. Did he have any >> Isn't that clever how they can work that out? >> I I I don't even know if it's accurate, but you know, let's just assume it is, I guess. So that was Scotland. Uh this was Edinburgh Castle. >> That was in uh that was um yeah, there's Edinburgh Castle because I was trying to find them because I um I had to go park the car and park in trying to park in Edinburgh. It's just a nightmare. I mean, you may as well just get the train up. But um I think yeah, I found them at this point. Um but Ronnie had his his hoodie up and he didn't want to be recognized, so we were calling him Steven. [laughter] >> So Susan says, "This is Steven, right, Charles? This is Steven." and he was with his hoodie up because I think he just wanted to just, you know, because there was a lot of people there and the thing is if one or two people spot him, it is it's like people just come from nowhere and everyone wants a picture and then you because we only had a couple of hours to uh to spend there before we had to drive back to make the seminar for the uh the muscle hot one in Glasgow. >> Glasggo. So I think this castle was built at least 200 years ago if memory serves. It's very >> the rest and the rest. >> It's probably Oh, that was um that was a cat cafe. Go back. >> Cat cafe. Yeah. >> Well, we got we have we have quite a few of those in the UK now. There's basically you walk in and there's like a doorway because obviously all the cats getting out. It's like a rescue thing and I think a lot of the money that they they raise goes to like cat charities. So, you can go in and there's all these like cat you know those those trees like I've got for my cats and you can just basically have a coffee and then just chill. You have to take your shoes off and you can basically just pet all the cats. It's uh it's my kind of place that mate. It's like my [laughter] house. >> Thought it was for people to bring their cats to, you know. >> No, no. It's just like a little rescue cats that they just have living like a complete life of luxury. >> They need to do that with pit bulls. Who wouldn't want to go and be amongst a bunch of unleashed rescue? >> Yeah. Also chewing your leg off. Um that burger as well that Susan said that's the best burger she's ever ever had outside of America. [snorts] >> So here you were. This is still Muscle. This is Muscle Hut Glasgow. >> That was the busiest one. >> Why is he dressed like a traffic cone? This guy. >> It's Halloween. >> Oh, okay. He's the only one that dressed up. I felt really bad for him. But he I saw him outside and he had his sunglasses on. I said, "Look, there's a traffic cone." He says, "I'm keeping the street safe." >> Oh boy. I mean, I would go like as a vampire or something, not a >> traffic cone. And then Rody says, "Come on in, traffic cone, man." >> There he is. Yeah, [laughter] he definitely stands out. >> But apparently this one they they capped it at 80 tickets. Uh, and then like it was when I did that one in um in Peterbr last year. Word got out and then they said um people were showing up saying can we pay on the door? So I think um I think they let about 230 240 [laughter] people in. >> That's certainly more than 80 people. I can tell right there. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Cuz I went to the toilet and there was like a first couple of rows of people were sat down and then I went up in [laughter] the toilet. I'm like, "Holy [\h__\h] where did all these people come from?" And Ronnie was like because he loves it, you know? I mean, he just Ronny just he's one of the people that, you know, some people say, "Oh, I love my fans." And you think, "Do you really?" Like Ronny genuinely like, you know, Ronny genuinely loves meeting his fans. And I watch him. I watch him from the first one to the last one. And he's Oh, that was We went to Nandos and the other people that we ordered for went to a different Nando. They got the wrong Nandos. [laughter] So, we basically got we literally got like enough food for probably 10 people and there was like four of us. So, like Ronnie was Ronnie took bags and bags full back to his room and I said, "Ronnie, please keep taking bloody food, mate. It's gonna go to waste." And you know me, I I for the very idea of me um um wasting Nando is just sacrilege. >> I've [snorts] only had it twice when I was in Brisbane, Australia a couple years ago, and it was so good. So good. >> Susan's addicted now. That was the first That was the first one. First time. >> Strength Asylum is in Where is Strength Asylum? >> That's in Stoke. We went we that was where Eddie Hall used to train. I've taken to be honest they've been supportive of the tours right from day one. I took Phil Heath in 2019. I've took Ashley there Ashley Cultwaer. I've taken Wesley Vessers Andrew Jack Terrence and I've taken Ronnie there twice. >> Wow. You know the only reason I know Stoke is you know Slash the guitarist for Guns and Roses. >> He's uh he did a solo album a live concert called Maiden Stoke because he was born in Stoke and then they moved then they moved to the USA. I think his father's British. I'm not sure. >> Wow. Okay. >> One of them is British. >> Cool. Oh, you're going to see um the Predator film. You going to see that this weekend? >> Oh, I don't know about this weekend, but I'll see it eventually. >> Oh, yeah. I know. That looks really good. >> I probably will. I mean, my sometimes my son wants to go see the >> with usually he sees it with his friends and I'm not invited, but you never know. I'm not that [snorts] cool. Thought that was Chris Bum said there. So, this was also Muscle Glasgow. That >> was a good one. That was a good one. There's me chilling. >> Do you say Glasgow or Glasgow? >> Glasgow. Glas because Branch Warren um I was taking the mick out of uh branch which I do which I can get away with as well. Uh so I've survived Steve Weinberger. I I've taken the mick out of branch warren. I think I must have a death wish. [laughter] I said to I said to Branch in Sweden a few weeks ago I said I said branch I said it's Glasggo not Glasgow. And he just laughed. >> Ronnie had his shirt on says Natty. >> Yeah. >> He's with um he's with TLF clothing company now. He's not with young anymore. >> Oh, okay. >> There's Muscle Hut from the outside. That's a cool logo. >> There's they've got um I think there's eight of them now. These muscle huts and they've just opened one in Dubai and apparently they're going to open another two. So like the it was only a few months ago. I think I took Andrew there. I took Ronnie to the one down south. Uh I think they had three or four, but now they've gone from four to eight. And do you know who that is? >> Uh Ria Gale. >> No. >> Uh >> look at the medal. >> Look at the [clears throat] A clue. A bit of a clue. >> No, she won. I can't think of the name. It's It's a long name with a hyphen in it. Help me out. >> This is Shelly that won the fitness Olympia. >> Shelly. What's her What's her last name? >> Mensah. Mensah. >> Mensah. Isn't there Isn't there another name with a hyphen attached to it? >> Uh, yeah. Shel. >> It's Michelle something. Mensah, but we just everyone just calls her Shelly. But Lauren Lauren arranged that one because Fitex, they've been trying to level up, you know, for the last few years. And they've had some names there, but not big big names. So in May the one the smaller one at the different venue I forget where it was uh somewhere in the northwest. >> Yeah. >> Um we took Terrence Ruffin. So that was a huge deal and um he's I said look I said I might and then when obviously when the tour got rescheduled it I actually thought well I could put it on this week and then um take him to Fitex. So I spoke to Darren the the guy walking us in there and he was like oh could you get Ronnie? I said yeah. So uh we did the meet and greet and we also managed to arrange Ryan Terry Shelly H and Ronnie. So basically we got uh three major names there. Two two current Olympia champions and Ronnie Coleman. So that was that was a huge deal for them. So and that's something that me and me and Lauren pulled off basically. So >> good job. So that's that was at the NEC in Birmingham. >> That's that's where I that's where I was the first weekend I ever met you in real life. Remember >> 2010. >> Yeah. So that was Body Power Expo. This is not Body Power. >> This is Fit Expo. >> Yeah. Who's good? He's building it. He's building. In fact, I've just been talking to him today about who we're going to be taking in May. Um, and we might be taking four >> four big names. So, I can't reveal yet because we haven't sorted it. But, um, yeah. So, so he's he said like Charles, he said if you can make that happen, he says that's going to really help everything I'm doing. Ryan Terry said he's Oh, lightweight baby. Uh, Ryan said he's going to get try and get some big sponsors like Jim Sha he's attached to and you know, sort of because it helps helps these expos to grow because I spoke to Ryan. And I saw him there and he went he said, "Jarie, this this is really good. We need to really help these guys," he says, "because this is really good for the industry, for the bodybuilding industry." Um, oh, this was um this was in the green room. Um, and see the guy behind him, not the not the the bald guy, but the the big big scary looking guy. That's Joe Egan. That's Mike Tyson's old train uh sparring partner there. >> Oh, wow. >> He's a bit he's a bit of a celebrity in the UK. He's kind of uh because he's he's a really lovely guy. real sort of old school gentleman, but not somebody you'd want to mess with. >> No, I could tell by the face he's been punched in the face a lot. [laughter] >> Luckily, we got him really well. So, >> and he's got no neck. He's got like a 20-inch bull neck. >> What What a cool guy, though. What a cool guy. >> Certainly can't be a young man. >> And also this I was just Yeah, this was um we managed to organize a podcast with Eddie Hall. >> Wow. for his channel because um we actually we kind of canceled at the last minute because um Ronnie was tired and we were like, "Okay, we're gonna have to drive an hour and 20 back to Stoke and an hour 20 back." So um we managed to because I was having a nap and I managed to sort it out that they had enough equipment that they could come to us. So, we managed to get we managed to get it done and it went on for two hours and it was absolut tell you what guys when it goes out you've got to check it out because there was stuff I heard about Ronnie that I Ronny talked about that I'd never ever heard about different stories and stuff that because I've read his book I've done you know gazillion seminars with him and I've known him for years but this was really this was um this was awesome because Eddie Hallman he's a really good interview and he really did a lot of research so um check it out on on Eddie's in on Eddie's YouTube channel because it was absolutely brilliant. Uh, and this is Paul Knight and Tanya Knight, judges at Craford Weights. >> Yep. >> So, that was another stop. How many stops of mine? >> Were there 10? >> 10. >> Wow. Good. >> The thing is, mate, our energy the whole time because we made sure we kept a close eye on Ronnie. Like me and Susan, we were kind of like communicating the whole time. And we know the signs of when Ronny's getting tired because Ronnie will just keep going. He won't say, "I'm tired. I'm out of here." He will literally he's he's he's so he's so giving to his fans and to everyone like he you know we and Susan had to got to sort of stay in close communication to make sure that you know we didn't overdo it and we made sure he got enough sleep and you know we kept him fed but um you know because he's he's he's not 100% yet but I mean you know and and 10 stops you know that's a big tour. We had one day of rest and it you know a lot of travel. Um so we had to really really pay close attention to make sure that he was okay. So but he was and everyone was you know because like normally on that kind of tour even I like day seven day eight I'm I'm really starting to dip. But um we made it work and to be honest Chris was amazing. Lauren was there for some of it. She was back at home as well booking hotels and anything I needed to do. So like Ronnie messaged and he said uh team work to make the dream work because with Ronnie you'll always get like a long on the group chat we had a group chat Ronnie always sends like a really long detailed like really heartfelt sort of message they'll say and he'll you know really he's very he's very thoughtful and the thing with Ronnie he appreciates the little things he likes hospital he mentions hospitality a lot he likes you know uh he likes when you when you really pay close attention to to the small things like Lauren gets little presies and little presents and stuff for him and gifts and it really means the world to actually because he's a really he's a really he's a real really special guy. I'll tell you that now. And the more I get to know him, even though I've known him so many years, the more amazing I really realize he is. And also uh getting to know other elements of him through his interactions with his wife Susan, like to see the kind of love and respect they have for each other. It was uh it's quite amazing actually. >> I mean, you're with this guy day and night for like eight, nine, 10 days in a row. So, >> and honestly, and and the energy was good, the mood was good, like no one fell out, no one had any like everyone was just so like everyone was in it together, you know. It was um it was everyone was so helpful. There was no there was no sort of divas there. There was nobody sort of um you know, everyone kind of chipped in and did everything they needed to do because the full focus was on Ronny and making sure he was okay and he was happy. And no, I got him on the Amorto coffees as well. That was good because I said, "Ronny, do you trust me?" I do. And I said, "Try an Amorto coffee. It's h you'll love it." >> Nice. >> And uh yeah, that was that's a lady that comes to all every single one of my all-star tours. >> Um and uh she brought her husband and a child this time as well. It was really it's just like I said, the whole thing is just there's such a wave of positivity these tours bring. They're always so like they're like a joyous occasion and I think there was extra appreciation because obviously people were so worried about Ronnie and that to have him fly all that way over. Um like it meant a lot to people, you know, people were like the appreciation [laughter] and the fact that people were so happy and so relieved that he was okay was just it just it just added it just added an extra layer of positivity to basically what I'm trying to say. Well, I want to finish up with this amazing Joseph ALT portrait backstage of uh you and Lady Tiger. I hope you take my suggestion and get this printed and blown up and framed. If >> I had a picture like of of me and Janet like this, dude, I would probably make >> t-shirts. No, I don't have one like that. >> They they could have they could have photoshopped my ears a bit look a bit smaller, you know. >> You could do that. You know how to do that, don't you? >> Oh, I tell [laughter] you what. I tell you what, I haven't posted it. I probably shouldn't say when Ronny went to because we're up in Scotland and it said Lo Lomen and I'm thinking well Loch Ness is not too far. So there was a day on the Monday in Ireland when um Ronnie and Susan went to like this beautiful like scenic park because they had a they're like you know they wanted to go out and see some sites. So the the owner of Nebula Gym Dave uh took them out and uh so there's a picture of Ronnie like sort of you know basically sat by this huge lake. So I said to Chris said Chris can you can we basically post that it's actually not nest. I said, "Can you super can you can you photoshop something in there?" [laughter] >> So, basically photoshopped the thing of Desessie. >> So, I think we might you might see that on Ronny's Instagram very soon. Like Ronny spots the Loch Ness monster. >> Well, I want to see that. I I'm a huge fan of all cryptids. Bigfoot, Loch Ness, Moth Man, you name it. Chupacabra. I believe in all that crazy dumb [\h__\h] >> What's the uh also the the alien ship Atlas 3i? That's supposed to be come. That's supposed to be. You must have heard about it. >> No. >> You know the big comet that's coming. The alien ship. >> Oh, come on. Ron. Do you Do you even go on social media? >> Uh, yeah. But I don't. So, there's an alien ship. That's a It's an actual It's people believe >> it's passing by the sun. It's passed by all the planets. And there's pictures of it. Says it's got flashing lights and there's no exhaust or whatever. There's something like it's complete Abby Loeb. This guy, this uh this scientist who got form for bullshiting. He's he's basically had the it's all over the American news, CNN and everything. And uh every day it's getting a little bit closer and they think it's going to be like an operation blue beam, you know, like a government control thing. It's just it's I love following because I I find it the whole thing just so entertaining. >> Well, I'll have to look into it now. Thanks for uh thanks for giving me more conspiracy theory crazy crackpot stuff to look into. >> Three Atlas. So in 52 days, everyone's getting a probed. >> Okay. Well, I'll be ready. I'll get the lube ready. [laughter] >> I can't I can't shock you anymore, can I? >> No. Alien probe. Probe. Yeah, that's >> that's old hat. You're gonna have to work a little harder. >> Damn it. >> I will. Don't challenge me. >> So, I'm glad I'm glad the tour went very very well. You know, I love Ronnie, too. And it it's so it really I I know this sounds sappy, but it it warms my heart. It gives me a good feeling to see that so many people, especially young people, come out and pay. It's not cheap. they pay to to meet him, to talk to him, to take picture with him because, you know, Ronnie is a living legend and and talk about someone who's an ambassador who gives back and I've only known a few guys and I won't put put them all uh on display here, but that really take the time for every single fan like that. There's not many of them in the industry. >> And mate, Ronnie was I remember like the 2001 Olympia and that was the year that he wasn't well. Do you remember when he the exhausted and stuff? So he was and this was when the meet and greet was in between the judging and the night show >> and I remember watching and every Marcus Ru Jay Cutler all lofno all that lot because he used to turn up to pictures and it all went and Ronnie was there to let me thinking Ronny's probably on stage in three hours he could be saying no I've got to go back to the room I've got to eat got to do this and he was there till every fan because that was the time I was trying to give him some photos I'd taken from the British Grand Prix in 2000 and I tried to give them to his family and um and they said oh do you want me to sign I says no they're for him the big 10 by8 of photos I'd taken that I wanted him to have. So they went over, spoke to him, he got up and he walked over and of course the whole the whole line thinks I'm trying to push in. So I was getting real evil looks. And he came over and he said, "Hi, what's your name?" And I said, "My Charles." He said, "Thank you so much for these pictures." I didn't I didn't expect him to do that. I just wanted him to have them. >> I wasn't trying to interrupt or cut the line. And then he went back. He said, "What's your name?" Got me a signed picture, came back, came over, came over again, shook my hand, and then rejoined. I mean, stuff like that. That was That's He didn't know who I was. I was just, you know, so stuff like that it's um it means a lot, you know, but um Ronnie did say actually because I because I was always worried that we would never be able to top that six country tour we did last summer. >> Um because for me that was I was like [\h__\h] this is this was so good and so big. How am I going to top this? And um and Ronnie said, "No, I think this one was this one was even better." So that for me, especially with the the stress I went through in the summer, you know, with worrying about Ronnie and also the implications of, you know, all these people that had paid and all this like it's big money, you know, >> I was um I had respiratory depression for a few weeks. I couldn't breathe like it's like you know you can't get your breath >> like it's it's induced by stress and then that sets off my heart arithmia and obviously with the heart thing like that that panics me so that that'll give me sleepless nights. So, the whole the fact that it all [sighs] we pulled it off and it was so good and it was and the fact that Ronny's okay and and it was just um to I woke up today feeling bloody relieved, happy, content and excited for the next one now. So, I've got um Dennis Wolf January February. I'm working on I'm working on Andrew Jack after the AR UK. I'm pulling that together as well. And Andrew says, "Jars, you know, I love doing the tours with you so much." He says, "What did he say? Five, 10, 15 stops. I don't care. Line them up. I love it. [laughter] >> So, so the hard work is starting to pay off now. You know, that other athletes are starting to see and you know, the athletes, they all talk. >> So, you know, and uh and also Dan's very very happy. Dan Solomon's very happy with um what we're doing. And uh I think I've always got their support as long as I pay as much attention as I do to making sure that they go well because any anything negative, you know, that will reflect bad in Olympia. That means the Olympian will be whipped away. So, I'm under that understanding. So, as long as I keep doing a good job and keeping everyone up to date, keep everyone happy, I think um I think I'm going to keep building these. >> Oh, I mean, you like I said, I I can't imagine why any athlete wouldn't want to because you're making all the arrangements. They really just have to show up. You know, you're taking them everywhere. You're making sure they don't miss meals, which is, you know, that's so paramount to a bodybuilder. >> Feeding Andrew, though, my god. feeding Ronnie three times a day and he's just eating Nandos and burgers and chicken and steak and you know normal breakfast egg white omelets or whatever like that's that's easy but Andrew who's eating 400 gram of salmon at a time and you know but that that's where Lauren came in really really well she's um you know we sometimes work with prep meal companies we make sure that they get the food so it's it's fresh enough every couple of days and yeah >> you know it's um but we've got we're look you know we're experienced enough now we know what to expect and like I said long as you as long as you keep these guys fed and you give them the schedule and you know there's you know obviously they're paid well and stuff you know make sure that's done before they get they before they land like as long as you show that you're there for them 24/7 and they're fed and everything like you you get the best out of them so you don't ever get any any issues you know >> and uh yeah it's um and like I said Ronnie this is the fourth tour I've done with Ronnie now so he knows you know we know what to expect and and to be honest having Susan there as well took a lot of uh not pressure but took a lot of Yeah, you know, with obviously with everything with Ronnie, it's just, you know, she was very, very helpful and um I think I've got a friend for life there. >> Cool. All right. Well, let's wrap it up. It's been the power hour and a half. So, that's it, guys. If you have any comments about anything we talked about, uh Romania, Prague, anything or any athlete, good comments, bad comments, they all help my videos, believe it or not. So, drop a comment there. And uh that's it. Giles, thank you. Oh, one last thing. >> That Poland show was bloody good, wasn't it? >> Oh, the Poland show. Yeah. Yeah. >> Very good. That was a that that was a show I wasn't even my radar and they end up getting a really good lineup, great lighting. Um so let's give a bit of credit to those guys as well because that was that was a good show and that's um it's nice because like um it's more remember the post Olympia Grand Prix tours. >> Yeah. >> Like you know you think about it, we've got we've got Prague now, Romania, Poland. Um, we had the British one, you know, the uh it's great to see more opportunities for the for for the Olympia athletes and other athletes also to have a crack at the Olympia athletes. Um, it's uh it's good that um there these events and also gives opportunities for these for for guys to qualify and get nice early qualification in. So, and also I'm really happy for Prey because he's I felt like he's had a bit of a raw deal last couple of years. >> He did. It was kind of a controversial decision because Predell's from the front, I mean, the the quads are so much bigger. A lot of people were upset that Predell's lost to uh to Prey just based on the legs, but Prey's his back is much much more developed. His condition was far far superior. >> So, they both had things that you could say are flaws or or weak points. And like you said, judges are looking for weak points because these guys are all great. They they did what they had to do and they they chose Prey. But think about it like the Olympia like Derek, Haddie, Andrew, Samson, Martin, they've all there's no kind of dominant champion. They've all got their strengths and weaknesses. You know, we know that Derek's biceps are a bit flat from the front, but then you got Hadtie's one leg that's slightly bigger than the other. Like they've all got their pluses and minuses, basically what I'm trying to say. Yeah. >> So, like there is no You could make an argument for like five, the whole top five for being, you know, a lot of people had Andrew winning the Olympia, mate. A lot of people had Andrew winning the Olympia. Yeah, >> you know, a lot of people had H had winning the Olympia. It's like it's it's just it's I think we're in that era now where there is no dominant Ronnie. There is no dominant Phil Heath, no dominant Dorian or even like um you know 2009 Jay where it's like [\h__\h] okay, who's second? It's um so I just I think that's why we get so much chatter online because I I I get it. I do see that um there's a lot of these you know there is no sort of holy [\h__\h] you like 2003 Ronnie or 2011 Phil or 93 Dorian where it's like oh my god you know there is an argument for all these guys and that's why I think the title will change hands um quite a lot I think you know from 79 to 84 we had a different Mr. Olympia every year. I mean, I think I think Andrew is actually my could potentially be the one to win everything. Like I think he could do what Derek did this year by winning Arnold. Arnold UK, obviously Romania, and I think he's got the potential to win Olympia. But then again, you know, like I said, there's no dominant champion. So it could be Derek, it could be Hadti, it could be Martin, it could be Samson again, of course, you know, so it's um in some ways it makes it more exciting. But I do think there's going to be a lot of um you know, like I you like the Arnold Classic, who knows? I mean, there's going to be five, six guys there got the potential to win it. >> Absolutely. All right, we'll end it there. So, uh, thank you, Giles. As always, great, great time talking to you and everybody. Thanks for watching Power Hour. Be sure to drop a comment. If you're not subscribed already, do that. Hit that thumbs up thing. That's a like thing. It's free. Helps me out. And we'll see you right here again next time on Power Hour. Thanks for watching.