What's up, guys? News travels at the speed of light. So, you might have already heard this, but Arnold Schwarziger just announced within the last half hour he is raising the prize money for winning the Arnold Classic from $500,000 to $750,000, a full $100,000, more than the Olympia. Let's go to his post and have a listen to what the man Arnold Schwarzenegger had to say. Here we go. that in 19. Okay, we'll go back. Can you believe that in 1965 and Joe Wheeler created the Mr. Olympia competition, the first professional bodybuilding show ever, 1965, gave $1,000 as cash prize. And then in 1975, 10 years later, when I won for the sixth time the Mr. Olympia competition in South Africa. I still got $1,000. I mean, it was wild. The sport didn't grow. So, this is why I decided to retire from bodybuilding and to go and organize with Jim Lama the world championships. Mr. Olympia, Mr. Universe and all that. The first year 1976, this is 50 years ago, we right away went up to $5,000. the next day to $10,000 then to $20,000 to $50,000 and now now at the Arnold Classic World Bodybuilding Championships we up to $500,000 in cash prize first prize alltogether a million dollar in cash prizes but now since we have the 50th anniversary coming up 50 year anniversary 1976 6, 2026. I mean, think about that. With the 50th anniversary coming up, we're going to go and do something very special. We're going to up the cash prizes from 500,000 to 750,000. And the total cash prizes will go from a million to a million5. Nice. Because I'm sick and tired with all this waiting around. I want bodybuilders to train all year long really hard and to be able to make $750,000 for first price, then go to the Arnold Classic in England, the European Arnold Classic, and make another $250,000 to make a million dollars. See, that's what I call changes. I want this bodybuilders not to just train all here make the sacrifices and sweat and pump up and off this stuff then go to aorium is full of empty seats. No, I want to be packed. That's why it is so important for the armor class to go and increase the amount of spectators that come so it's packed because I see it as something wild. We want to have bodybuilders and the spectators all kind of go crazy there create excitement. We don't want any of this fluff and the smoke and the this and that on the stage. No, we don't need any of that. What we want is just a simple stage. It's between the bodybuilding champion and the audience, the fans. That's what this is all about. This is why we're going to pump up this thing with the biggest sports and fitness festival in the world. I mean, think about it. We have tens of thousands of athletes participating in different sports and we have over 200,000 spectators coming there over a period of three days. The greatest in the world and we're going to continue pumping it up. So let the others chase us. We are always going to be the leaders as the Lista baby. Boom. I mean how awesome is this? I mean, we've been wanting these guys to get more and more money for a long time. And now that the Olympia and the Arnold are just going after each other back and forth, back and forth. We are seeing the prize money raised exponentially. Every year it's going to go. I said we're not we're only a year or two away from a million dollars first prize. Don't be surprised. Do not be surprised if the Mr. Olympia this year gives a million dollars for first prize. If not this year, next year at the latest. I I'm certain of it at this point. See what you guys got to say. What do you got to say about this? I think we're all happy, right? Arnold. Yeah. See, the whole thing, guys, is Arnold for years, he kept the prize money lower out of respect for Joe Weider because Joe Weider was one of his mentors. He's the one that first brought him over from the from uh Germany where he was working uh in Munich to the United States. Sponsored him uh had him under contract. So, it was Joe Weer's Mr. Olympia. He didn't want his Arnold Classic to outshine the Olympia. So, he intentionally kept the prize money lower. But Joe Weider has been dead for a while now. So, the gloves are off. Flip-flop. Your my opinion has actually been massively influenced by him doing this month on me personally. Some negative thoughts about body. This is just wow. Get to the chopper. Yeah. 750 for first prize. You know, this was uh when Derek won it was 500. It was a half a million. He went up from a half a million to three quarter million terms of influence for sports on Arnold did the most. Oh, absolutely. No, Arnold Arnold did the most for us because Arnold was the and still will always be, I'm sure, the biggest crossover from athlete to the mainstream public because he was a a movie he was the top movie star, the top box office draw during the 80s and 90s. He was governor of California. You know, even when he was a bodybuilder, he was on talk shows all the time, touring the country, writing books. You know, he did more to promote bodybuilding single-handedly than anyone ever has or probably ever will. That is awesome. Like, stop one million. Oh, we're close, Loho. We are close. I I I bet you I bet you the the Olympia because they don't want to be outshined by Arnold and they're at kind of a disadvantage because they have to pay out 11 divisions. Okay, 11 divisions where Arnold has eliminated a few of the divisions that he's not in love with, let's just say, or that they didn't feel were marketable enough or drawing enough of a crowd. So, uh they don't have to worry about paying 11 different divisions like the Olympia does. Again, this makes it better. Olympia will have to pay more because Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The million dollars will be met very soon. I again, how much do you want to bet? I'm not I'm not a gambling man, but I bet I would not be surprised at all at all if we see a million dollars for the Olympia this year. And it's because the Olympia does not want to be uh second class. And I know the Olympia is still going to always be the top title. The guys still want to win the Mr. Olympia. That's always going to be the most prestigious title. But money talks and [\h__\h] walks. People love money. We all need money. These guys are going to follow the money. We're we're going to see more and more of the top Mr. Olympia guys in the past would have sat out the Arnold and just focused on the Olympia. Now that it's 750 and maybe maybe eventually a million dollars, they're not sitting it out. They're going to do the Arnold. They want that money. Absolutely nuts. The King just dropped 750K like it's a warm-up set. Yeah. The only reason Nick Nick strength and power, he beat me to this. Nick is very tight with the Arnold Classic people. He does pay-per-view commentary for them. He's in Ohio. Hey, I mean, my channel is like a a little mouse compared to Nick would be like a blue whale, but he got the scoop. I actually knew someone had told me earlier in the day that this was coming, but they didn't know when. And uh thank you, Kan Kalan Krishna, who's a regular on these live chats. He's the one that let me know. Uh, I had just finished eating. So, uh, appreciate the appreciate the heads up, kid. She just sent the student in. So, yeah, I mean, people are gonna people sent it to me. But like I said, the move news moves so quickly in the digital age on social the social media age, I should say, that you know, within an hour, everybody everybody in the industry is going to know. And that's crazy. It's like when I was in the magazine days, this would have taken like a month, four to four to six weeks for this news to be disseminated among everybody. This rate, give it five years time, we might be looking three times. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, at the rate we're going a million dollars, we're we're getting very close. We're no more than a year away. Next year, I I So, this this will be take effect for the 2026 Classic. So, the Olympia this year, I'm certain they're going to have to give away Mr. Olympia is going to get at least 750, but maybe Jake Wood will say, "Shit, no, no, we we've got to do better than that. We got to make we got to make sure people know we're the biggest show." Again, they're always going to have the title everybody. All these guys want to be Mr. Olympia. They love the Arnold Classic title, too. Don't get me wrong. It's an excellent title to have. They still want to be Mr. Olympia because that's the toughest show. That's the show that all the best guys are at. Bill, I told you also call Olympia Bluff with Lights and Smokes. Yeah, I mean like I said, the gloves are off. You know, Arnold used to be very respectful of the Mr. Olympia contest. He used to attend it fairly regularly. I can remember a few Arnolds Olympias that Arnold was at. Um, but no, not anymore. Not anymore. Now it's war between the two shows. Who's got the bigger show, the best show? And uh, you know, they're spending money. They're putting the money out there for these athletes. This is awesome. I'm actually stoned he mentioned this. The smoke BS. Not a fan of at all. Yeah. And I think uh Dan said they were they were already planning on toning things down with the with the lasers and the smoke and everything because people just they've expressed the fans have expressed they do not appreciate it. It doesn't it makes it more of a spectacle. But for a contest where we're really trying to get our best possible view of the greatest physiques in the world, we don't want to have smoky haze up there obscuring the details. We don't want to have lasers behind them, you know, just messing taking away from the from the physiques. Uh, let's see. Palumbo is going to salivate at this RX update. It's another RX muscle rant. No. Why do you think Arnold's pushing so hard? I It's It's simple. He wants Arnold. He's a competitor. He wants to be the best at everything. He wanted to be the biggest box office star, biggest earning actor in the world. His movies made the most money. And he did that. He wanted to be governor of a a state in a country that he didn't come to until he was an adult. He did that. You know, the only reason he can't run for president is because we have that uh that article in the constitution that says you have to be born in the USA, even though people say Obama was born somewhere else, right? Um man, but he wants to be the number one show. And to do that, giving out more money than every other show is a very strong statement. It's a very it's a very strong motivator to get all the best competitors because now they're paying out more money than the Olympia uh so far. We'll see what the Olympia does to up the ante and match or surpass this. Stoked. I was wondering why you said stoned. Your mom's flip-flop folks must be pissed. Oh, but they'll fire back. They'll fire back. That's it's going to be a back and forth between these two. And honestly, we win. The fans win and the athletes definitely win. They're going to be making a lot more money than they ever were. You know, Arnold mentioned in the beginning of that, which guys, if you're watching the replay, it's on the it's on Arnold Sports IG and the Arnold Schwarz Arnold Arnold's IG, which is just called Schwarzenegger. That that clip I played at the beginning. Um, yeah, they're going to fire back. They're going to fire back. They're they're going to up the ante. They have to. Uh, he's getting older and wants to leave his mark. Maybe. Maybe it's again I think it's I feel like it's because Joe Weider Joe Weider has been gone now for long enough that it's not really it's it's always going to be in his in name. Joe Weeder's Mr. Olympia, but Joe Weider is long gone. There's no one from the Weer family that carried on the tradition and took part in promoting the event. Jake Wood bought the contest. He's got no ties to Joe Weider, of course. So, you know, Arnold's like, "Well, you know what? For years he kept the prize money small lower and he would give out extra gifts to try to in give an incentive to people like he used to give out the Hummer the car like Ronnie Ronnie Coleman said he did the he competed in the Arnold class 2001 because he wanted a free Hummer when he got one. So they used to give out that and they gave out a an Odmar PK PK watch 25 $30,000 watch nice you know designer gold watch morning what country is that it's 552 p.m. where I am. Arnold pockets are deep in the owners of Olympia. I don't think he's personally I don't think this money is coming out Arnold's person. You know, they got big sponsors for the Arnold Classic. I mean, why wouldn't they? It's all about the sponsors and the sponsors are the ones that really come up with all the money for these things for every aspect of them. Surprised Arnold didn't jump 2 million. That's probably a year later because like I said, I think the AR the Olympia is going to have to match that this year. They're not they're not going to let the Arnold Classic outshine them in terms of prize money. They're going to up the ante and and at least match it for this year and then next year. Well, the Arnold this is going to take effect for the 2026 Arnold Classic. So, don't be surprised if the 2026 Mr. Olympia, if not this year's, gives a million dollars for first prize. It's about freaking time. Yeah. The Olympia OG passed away. How long is Joe Weider? I want to say 10 years. Let's I'm curious. I know I should know this. But let's look uh in Wikipedia. Joe Weider, he died in 2013. So yeah, March 2013. It's been over 12 years that Joe Weider's been been gone. So there's no reason for Arnold to to do anything out of respect for Joe anymore because it's not even Joe's. Joe's not the owner. He sold it off. They sold it off to AMI, a different company, and then Jake Wood bought it from AMI. So it's it's already been sold twice since Joe died. Sleepless Red Bull Fuel Nights for the Olympia coming. You know, I I have a lot of respect for the Olympia people, too, because they believe me, those guys work so hard. They have a lot more athletes to deal with than the Arnold Classic. Well, that's not true. If you if you factor in the Arnold has all these other sports, it's like 30 sports or something. There's there's something like a 100,000 athletes altogether in all kinds of things all the way from martial arts to gymnastics, weightlifting, powerlifting. It's a ton of different sports. That's why it's called the Arnold Sports Festival. Um, but they don't have to fly everyone in. They only they only pay for the airline and hotel for the athletes competing in the bodybuilding, the auto classic portion, you know, the female and the IPB pros that are competing in that, pro league pros. Um, the Olympia has to pay for everybody. Everybody that's that goes to Olympia has their flight paid for and their hotel paid for and it's somewhere around 300 athletes total. I think it's more than that now. So, they're putting out a lot of money at the Olympia because of the sheer number of athletes because they have to feature every single division. They don't have the option like Arnold does of, well, let's get rid of women's physique. Let's get rid of women's bodybuilding. Let's get rid of 212 bodybuilding, which the Arnold has scrapped, you know, several divisions because they can. They can do whatever the hell they want. There's more division. Yeah. Yeah. The Olympia is always going to be the biggest show. I mean, it's the most athletes. It's every single division. It's always going to be the biggest title. That nothing can change that because that's that's just uh it goes back to our history. We've had, you know, the great Olympia champions all the way from the first Mr. Olympia, Larry Scott, uh Sergio Oliva, Arnold, Franco, um he's after that we had Frank Zayn, uh Chris Dickerson, Bonut, Samir Bonoot, Lee Haney, Dorian Yates, Ronnie Coleman, Phil Heath, Jay Cutler, uh you know, so many so many iconic champions. It's late over here, man. So typos are coming. Yeah, you are. I think six hours ahead. So, it's almost 6 PM here. Is it almost midnight over there? You're in Germany, right? Classic. Well, you're never going to make everybody happy. They're not going to give everybody They can't af Nobody can afford to give like a million dollars to every division. Open bodybuilding, open men's bodybuilding is always going to be the main draw. Why do people fly from all over the world for the Olympia? Of course, a good amount of them do want to see classic and 212 and women's figure and this and that, but the main motivating factor for most people who spend $1,000 or more on their VIP tickets, you know, a weekend in Vegas, five grand easily. If you're going to go to some shows, you're going to stay at a the nice hotel, it's a few grand anyway. I don't know about five grand. Men's open bodybuilding. That's that's the reason people are willing to spend money. Anybody want super good season? So he's gonna have Philippian Arnold in one win. Yeah. I mean the money. So let's say next year is 750 for the Arnold. We know that. Let's say next year's Olympia is a million dollars in two wins. If somebody wins the Olympia and the Arnold in the same year, right there, they've got $1.75 million in prize money alone. And some of these people, a lot of these athletes, it's a clause in their supplement endorsement contract that they have to match the prize money. So, you can double that figure for some of that. Like I I don't know if obviously I don't know the details of people's contracts, only they know. But it it was common like I' I remember I've spoken at multiple athletes who had a part of their contract that prize wings would be matched by the sponsor. So, whatever they won at the show, it was doubled because the sponsor had to pay out the same amount of money. 7:53. It's early over there in Australia. Yeah, Australia. Nice. Yeah, I'm going to Sydney next year. I think it's October. Uh my daughter's getting uh she she married her husband who's originally from Sydney in 2016, but next year is their 10 year anniversary, and they're going to do their big wedding because their wedding here was when they were he had only been over in the USA for a couple years. He wasn't established, very well established yet. You know, we didn't have a lot of money. It was a church wedding, a nice uh a nice church. Uh and we had the the reception in our backyard. So, it was this is going to be their big wedding. Their big money wedding, I should say, the spectacle with all that stuff. Anyway, just looked it up. Arnold's net worth is 1.1 billion. Oh, well, I guess he could afford to he could afford to pay for himself. You know, Jake Wood could probably I I don't know what Jake's worth these days. You can look that up. But Jay could probably afford to pay some of these prizes himself. But why would you do that? Because this is business. It's not your personal money. People in business don't spend their own money. They borrow money or they get uh investors to to give them money. It's that's business obviously. What do I know? I'm not much of a businessman. Lo, you think this comes as a full surprise people? Are they somewhat informed? Well, if I knew about it about eight hours ago, I I heard it. I should have made the thumbnail earlier. that would have saved me about 10 minutes getting this video up. Uh if if I knew about it um and I heard about it from someone over in UK and he didn't tell me his source, but I'm sure you know Nick Miller, Nick Strength and Power, he knew about it because he had the video up instantly when the uh when the when Arnold made the post, his video was up the same time. Um yeah, I'm sure they heard they heard about it because we suck at keeping secrets in bodybuilding. We're we're we're gossip mongers. We're like the uh the old housewives folding their laundry over the back fence and talking gossiping talking crap. So yeah, I'm sure they I I would I would bet you they knew about it. Let's turn the classic into a full-on Olympia prejudging bank heist. That's peak week motivation. Yeah. 750 $750,000. You know, I can remember the first I think the first Arnold Classic was uh geez. I'm gonna go to turn that down. Go down to the I'm gonna go to their Insta. I bet they have I bet they have footage of uh the first Arnold Classic on there. I bet they do. Arnold Sports. It was It was $60,000 in 1989 when uh the first Arnold Classic happened. So when he says 50 year anniversary, he did clear that up. That was his first promotion with Jim Lurmer. uh the late Jim Moore. He passed away a couple years ago now. Uh but Jim was the he was a he was a contest promoter starting in the very late 60s I think early late 60s. Uh he started promoting bodybuilding events and he uh promoted an event called the Mr. World for many many years that uh I'm just going to put this up for now. What the heck? And Arnold was so uh so impressed with Jim's promotional skills. He said, "As soon as I'm done competing, I want to start promoting contests with you. I I like your style, your professionalism, how efficient you are, uh, all that. So, I'm gonna I want to promote contest with you." And true to his word, Arnold retired. Oh, see UK, Arnold UK is coming back next year, too. This was a big announcement. So, March 27th through 29th, 2026, Arnold UK is coming. Good news for you guys in the UK because they did miss this year. There was no Arnold UK. Yeah. Yeah. I think they're gonna I think they both they're both well aware that uh they want to they want to be the best and one very simple way to do that. One very strong message to send that you're the best contest is to have the highest prize money. Olympia shouldn't pay for athletes so they can prize. Well, Trailblazer, tell that to the Olympia competitors who they they qualify for the Olympia. They're going to say, "Well, you got you got to get your ass to Vegas on your own dime, and you got to pay like 300 bucks a night for a hotel or an Airbnb or more." Uh, no. That's never going to fly. They've They've established They've established that they pay for the competitors, travel, and hotel, and they get a a meal per DM, a daily amount to spend on food every day. They they can't take that away from them. That's it's not going to happen. I mean, I I know what you're saying. I know what I know. Of course, you want to find ways to come up with more money, but you don't need to. They're not going to they're not going to ever pay all the divisions as much as they do open. I'm sorry to say. It's just not feasible. It's not feasible. Uh what was this Brian Powers? Yeah. Who's he there? Okay. Yeah. Why is Classic E Money so far behind Bible? Because it's just not. It's supply and demand. Is who do people come to watch? I know Classic is very popular. Is it as popular? Is it as popular as open bodybuilding? No, it is not. It is not. Um, I know this because when I have lives on, when I'm when I'm doing a live contest, a watch party, and it's a live stream, the biggest numbers are always they're always way more viewers when Open men's bodybuilding is on. Classic isn't that far behind. I'd say it's like twothirds. So, just to throw a fake number out there, let's say I have 3,000 people watching when Classic is on on a on a watch party that's a free live stream because I don't do them if it's a pay-per-view. I don't want to lose my channel. 3,000. When Open Men come on, come on. It'll go up to like 5,000. Boom. Like that. So, that's one indication right there. What's more popular? I I I don't see Classic ever being quite as popular. It's close. It'll be close. It's close right now. Is it as close? Is it ever going to be the same? I I don't think so. You know, and I I understand a lot of you love it. I love Classic, too. I'm just being honest with you guys. I'm just being honest about what do I think? Do I think it's ever going to overtake open? I do not. I do not. What about Lee Haney? Lee never won the Arnold. People want to see a freak show. Yeah. One's worth. Does that mean actual cash in their bank account? How long before Arnold creates his own body federation? No need. No need. And I don't think we need another federation. IFPB Pro League, they do a great job with promoting shows. They have the very best athletes in the world. Um, and it's not like the IPB Pro League is ever going to tell their athletes, don't compete in the Arnold Classic. They they wouldn't do that. So, there there's no motivation for Arnold to do that. And Classic actually growing a faster rate than open. Yeah. Oh, absolutely. It's getting participation. If you go to any contest, regional shows, national shows, there are far more classic physique competitors coming up the ranks becoming competitors than there are bodybuilders. Bodybuilding is it takes longer. It is more risky. You do need to take heavier doses of drugs. You got to eat more food. It's just a lot more wear and tear on the body because of that because you need to acrue so much extreme mass. And to do that, you need to go to extremes with peed use and food intake that classic might not because they have a weight cap. Sponsors won't be doing that anymore with prize money shooting up. Like you should save money, do 25 per division. Yeah, I'm with you. But what are you going to tell these people? You qualify, but you can't how do you cap it out? That's that's the main question there. Uh, you know, we're only going to take the the 25 best contest winners. How do you determine that? There's just I I understand what you're saying, Tony. I just don't think there's a way to do it. Believe me, I Nobody wants to sit through a judging with a class with 60 70 people up there. It's ridiculous. 6070 classic guys, 6070 bikini fit model. If they I don't know if they're having if they're fit model this year. My god, I was just at an NPC show that my son was in this past Saturday and the biggest division was fit model. They had far more people competitors in fit mall than any other division. like twice as many. Then they they had no female bodybuilders. They had no women's physique competitors. They only had a few women's figure, a few wellness, good amount of bikini, but fit model was the biggest division. It's because it's it's a lot more accessible. It doesn't take long to look like a fit model competitor. Wedding is cheaper for less. Big investment just Yeah, that's talking about my daughter's wedding in 2016. Jake Wood is crying somewhere. No, Jake. Jake is on the phone with Dan Solomon and Tammer. Tammer and you know, it's probably just he's on the phone. They're they're plotting their next move because they're not going to sit back and let this stand. They're going to they're going to come back immediately with something. Don't be surprised. They might even announce tomorrow that they're going to like they're either going to ma they're going to match it for this year's Olympia or surpass it. I wouldn't be surprised. Phil's done. Trailblazer. He's done. He's done competing. Phil is all set. I You're never going to see Phil. on a stage again. Rather, do you think the Arnold people inform the Olympic people? No. Why would they do that? You know, they're rivals. They're business rivals. You don't tell your you don't tell your rivals, your competition, what you're going to be doing. That would be that would be very, very foolish, stupid. It's like Pepsi saying to Coca-Cola, "Listen, we're going to come out with this awesome new marketing campaign. That would just give them a chance to get ahead of them." No. No. They they don't. The Olympia people don't tell the Arnold people what they're going to do ahead of time and vice versa. It was $55,000 for Gaspar. Okay. So, he only got 55, not 60. Damn it. Wow. The Arnold UK every two years only. No, I think they had an issue with the promoters from 2024. Uh, a lot of things did not work out well between the Arnold Classic people and those promoters over there in the UK. So, they didn't have anyone else to do it. And now I think they decided they're just going to somehow they're going to put it on themselves instead of having a UK based team given all the money they spend to take strate maybe worth their time to buy a private plane. Uh well you'd still have to get all the athletes. They wouldn't even fit on one plane. I mean a plane even a big unless you're talking like a jumbo jet. I think most planes only hold about 100 150 people. So you'd need two jets. No. No. Guys have good ide. got horrible ideas, but they make financially they don't make any sense. Arnold is president. No, he's not. Donald Trump is president. Where you been? You see Bible start peeking just for the Arnold after Olympia. No, they they're never going to they're never going to stop competing in the Olympia. Even if the Arnold had more prize money, everybody wants to be Mr. Olympia. That's their dream. You know, when they start out, it's that's the big title. It's the Arnold Classic's a nice title. It's a great title, very prestigious, but the Olympia is always going to be the ultimate achievement for a bodybuilder. You know, that's that's that's just the reality of it. Every year was stopped for one year due to financial management issues. Yeah, it was last year the UK was stopped. I think a lot of 212s are about to jump into the open division now. Come on, Keon. Keon just needs a little bit more size. He would do okay right now, but with more size, say like 10 pounds more muscle on him, he'd be winning open shows. He could win some open shows right now. They all have to do to pass the Olympic prestige. They can't. Unfortunately, they can't. Um, they can have they could even have the better show if they wanted in terms of many aspects, but the Mr. Olympia title, that's just it's like if you're in the movies business, what's the ultimate uh kudo? What's the ultimate achievement for a movie? You know, aside from box box office, you know, making a billion dollars or something. They all want to win best picture at the Academy Awards. There are many other award shows, right? There's uh for that that a movie could win awards at. I don't I'm not going to rattle them off because I don't know them all. But let's just say there's there's five to 10 big competitions for movies uh you know where where they give awards like film of the year, best picture, whatever. But they want the Academy Awards. That's the one that matters the most. Mr. Olympia is always going to be the title that matters most to the athletes. Nothing is ever going to change that. Oh, is he suggesting that they buy a jet? I got to go back and look at that. Yeah, you were saying to buy a plane there. No, no, no, no, no. I thought you meant like charter a jet. Yeah, no. That would be a even I'm not great with money, but even I know that's a horrible idea. Olympian people already prepared the impressive. Well, I think they're always watching each other. They're always they're always keeping an eye on what the other one's doing and they don't want to get outdone, outshined, outclassed. Yeah. Going around. Hey, no. Go to sleep, man. Get your rest over there in uh Dutch. Have a good night, man. Good knocked. Good knocked. What's a New York pro, buddy? It's I think 25K first prize. Let's see what Steve Weinberger's website says. Oh, not website, Instagram. I think they put it up there. Well, there's the ring. You get the ring. That's Cassan. It's Cassan today I think. Yeah, it's Cassan Herat at uh Bev and Steve's powerhouse gym in Sioset, New York. Of course, Steve is the owner of that gym and the promoter of the New York Pro and the Mr. Olympia head judge. He wears many hats in the sport. There he is with uh Steve with Andre Doo. I'm just trying to see if there's anything that says prize money. Wesley. Oh, Wesley was there. Okay. Oh, Trend Twins. Those bums. I hate that name, the Trend Twins. Okay. I don't know the breakdown, but it's $30,000 for first place New York Pro. Okay. Got your answer. Shows Olympia in Pittsburgh. So, Didn't they have a body show in Dubai or Middle East that offered a million dollars? No. Maybe a million total. Dubai Pro is giving out 140 grand for first prize next month. All right, man. That's a rock show. Arnold raising bar and the goat. What about Palumbo's idea for Olympia? Only paid travel hotel for top five. How you're saying? Okay. I I didn't I I don't watch all these podcasts. I'm busy eating all the time and cooking and shopping for food and training even though I'm all banged up. Anyway, um so how would that work? The top five or 10 everybody has to pay their way first and then only the top five or 10 get reimbursed for their expenses because there's no Or you saying the top five or 10 like ranked people? Well, that's kind of slap in the face to all the others cuz what if it's somebody that we weren't expecting to do very very well and they end up doing very well. You know what I'm saying? If they're paying ahead of time based on who they think the top five or 10 people in each division are versus Yeah, I don't understand how that works. Lo, can you can some Can you explain what he was more about how that was supposed to work? Reimbured. Okay, that's not going to work because a lot of these people are broke. Okay, a lot of these guys and girls, they're broke now. They're putting all their money into this between paying coaches, training coach, maybe they pay a trainer to train them in the gym, a guru, a nutrition and peed coach, a posing coach, uh a choreographer, you know, they're they're putting out a lot of money. Uh, and a lot of them count on getting their trip paid to the Olympia because once they they've spent all their money preparing for a show to to win, hopefully win and qualify for the Olympia and then they don't have to worry. And I think that's the way it's it's going to have to stay that way because that's once you establish that, you can't take that away from them. Okay? I don't think any Olympia division should go away. The Olympia is the Olympia. It's the It's the official Super Bowl of the entire RPB Pro League. Basically, it's it's the biggest show. So, you can't take away divisions. You can't It would not stand. It would not fly. Athletes in the divisions, if you It was bad enough they took away from the Arnold, but the Arnold is not the Olympia. The Olympia is much more closely tied into the IPB Pro League and NPC Worldwide. They're all, you know, Jimn's the president of everything. So, they're all basically all one mega corporation type of deal. I don't know. I don't know how to describe it. But, um, suffice to say, the Olympia cannot remove, and they would not remove divisions. They they hold all divisions equally in esteem. Even if they recognize that these draw more fans and more money, sponsorship money, VIP ticket sales, pay-per-view sales, they recognize that, but they still have equal respect for all divisions all the way from open bodybuilding down to bikini wellness fit model I think is starting this year. I don't know. Um, so yeah, I see the views are going down, so I'm going to get off here. Brand new plane cost 200 million. Forget about the plane, man. ain't happening. It's like in the movie Mean Girls. Fetch. Drop it. Fetch isn't going to happen. I wonder how much Jake Wood makes for Olympia. 750K. Whoa. Yeah, it's good. It's great. Go back to Arnold Sports. Yeah. Free live stream. The Arnold. I mean, they they do things that the fans really appreciate. Free live stream is awesome. We love free. Who doesn't love free? Free is awesome. Uh, I'm just gonna go to something. Keep this up a second longer. Yeah, leave that for now. Yeah, strong man. Okay, Sam. It was a poor choice. I should leave this up because I'm gonna I'm gonna be signing off here in a minute, guys. I think I made my point. It's breaking news. Sorry know Nick Walker wins 750k next year. Well, I mean hottie could show up and beat him. Samson could show up and beat him. Derek could beat him again. Who knows? I know for Olympia live stream. Is it They've already They haven't announced it yet, have it last year. Could be cheaper this year. Could be the same. Could be more. We don't know. We don't know. Anyway. All right, guys. Uh, I think that's that's enough. I think I've made my point here. $750,000 for first prize for the 2026 Arnold Classic. Arnold announced he also announced the return of the Arnold UK for 2026. That can be found on the Arnold Sports Instagram page and the Schwarzenegger Instagram page. So, check it out. That's it, guys. I appreciate you all joining me on the live. Don't know if I'll be on tomorrow for anything, if there's any more breaking news. Uh uh other than that, I'll probably see you guys Saturday for some recaps of judging and finals for New York Pro. So have an awesome next couple days and I will talk to you later. Later.