 you have a totally different perspective when you're watching these guys live uh in real in real time in real life so giles uh overall impressions of the show before we before we get into specifics oh it was absolutely fantastic i mean the level of um production from brian and arnold on the team and i think it's obviously because i was um hanging around with ronnie jay phil all that lot um you know you see a lot of the behind the scenes stuff so you see backstage you see in the green rooms and you see all the organizational teams backstage and i mean the amount of staff they bring over from america is unbelievable the amount of equipment they have to bring i mean it's just you just realize just the sheer scale of because i was thinking you know i've i've you know i've had i've promoted events and tours and stuff like that and you know and that's that has its own complexities but when i saw like i just thought how the hell do you i mean you have to have a real dan solomon always says that he says you've got to have a good team he says otherwise it's just impossible so it was um it was it was absolutely incredible but the expo wasn't as big i think as many as expected but um i mean on the saturday it was as busy like per square inch like it was at the ohio okay good okay so uh let's get into the actual show and we'll start off looking at the initial call out from friday night and this was okay so we had of course martin fitzwater brandon curry andrew jack and patrick moore um it was only eight guys it was a smaller show so uh it wasn't a lot of drama i i say i'm so happy for andrew but i kind of wanted to see more of a battle for him so it would have been a little more interesting but still this was a pretty decent top four when they came out what were your initial impressions of martin brandon andrew and patrick well first of all i was just so happy for patrick moore because he was messaging me a few weeks ago and he was saying hey brother he says long time no speak he says do you know who i can contact to get into the obviously because i've been messaging them and they're not getting back to me and i said well mate you just got to keep trying i said but you know i really really hope you get there i said but uh just keep trying so he um uh and obviously with um i think with had he not no nick and the numbers then uh they they put in blessing and patrick but when patrick got first call out i mean me and aj because me aj and chris call me were sat together in fifth row uh also a big thank you to david bay and aj for sorting my tickets because i only decided to go kind of midweek um and i didn't even have a ticket i just and i literally bought my expo pass and uh aj says you've got to come to the show and i said well i've got a ticket mate and he said uh wait here five minutes he called david bay he said jiles wants a ticket david bay said no problem and aj came over with a piece of paper with a barcode on it like a qr code and scanned me and got me in yeah yeah so a big thank you to there to david i thank david as well personally and on dms and obviously aj as well for sorting that so you know that was i mean we had good seats as well you know so it's uh it felt weird actually going to a show without a press pass and everything being organized for me you know because i was only going to go down for the saturday and that was last minute and then on the friday morning i was sat in here all my work for the week was done and i was scrolling watching what was going on at the show at the expo and i just thought what the hell what am i doing so i i asked the neighbor to feed the cats on this friday she said no problem so literally i jumped in the shower booked my hotel the extra j and i and i just and i just floored it down there and i'm so glad i did because i went straight to the expo and was hanging out with everyone but going back to the show yeah um uh andrew look fantastic i mean he's um he's just gone to a whole new level now with his physique uh and he looked even better at the finals uh brandon looked very very good um martin was uh a disappointment um i think actually i'm i'm glad that patrick beat him because i think patrick you know obviously patrick's got his own flaws in his physique you know the posterior change of it you know is uh from the back there's a little bit of um you know he needs more conditioning the glutes and the and the hands but but martin wasn't really conditioned anywhere so and in fact he actually looks better on this video than he did in the flesh i'm sort of hate to say it oh wow and i actually had blessing ahead of him as well really wow yeah i did no completely blessing was in good condition i know he hasn't got the he's got kind of a weird shape but he was bigger his shoulder to waist was impressive and he does have some nice shots and i thought okay he's really put the work in here he was keep but he wasn't keeping the midsection of the control when he was in the lineup but like he stood back he was when he was out posing but he wasn't and he was he was really improved at the finals as well but um shoulders and arms are enormous but um yeah i was really really happy for andrew i mean i didn't see anyone coming close to andrew the thing is when you see him in the flesh because i haven't seen andrew on stage personally since the 22 olympia when he was eight and he had one i think he had covert didn't he yeah but i mean even just like i posted um because obviously i'm hyping the talk for flying him in on the weekend and um i was looking at the like how we bank how big he was in 2024 which is October 24 and even just as soon as i started saying i think he is coming at the bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank bank on stage personally since the 22 Olympia when he was eight and he had, I think he had COVID, didn't he? Yeah. But I mean, even just like I posted, because obviously I'm hyping the talk, because I'm flying him in on the weekend. And I was looking at the, like how big he was in 2024, which was October 24. And even just as soon as I started selecting the pictures, I was like, he is a lot bigger. Because he wanted to see me on the 24, because he's got some Andrew Jack hoodies he's got left over. And he said, Giles, rather than me take them back to Dubai, then bring them back next week. He said, can you come and collect them? And then just take them home. And I said, yeah, no problem, mate. So I went to the hotel, knocked on his room, knocked on his room. And it's funny because he opened the door and it was just, he filled the door. Yeah. And I said to him, I said, Andrew, I said, you know, when you see these like really like the, you know, like the strong men types or the powerlifter types or the offseason pro bodybuilders, like when they're in their baggy clothes, he's like that, but shredded. Wow. Like he literally, and I hugged him. I said, come here, make your hug. And I hugged him. I went, Jesus, I can't even get my arms around you. It was like, I said, what's that? And I said, oh, it's a trap. Wow. It was huge. It was, oh my God. I was like, Andrew, you're just, like, he's so wide now. I just, I honestly, I mean, I dread, I mean, I've just hired a seven seater for the tour because there's no way I could fit, there's no way I could fit him in my car this time. Jeez. I mean, I've got like an SUV, like a, you know, like a medium sized SUV and I said, no, I'm getting a seven seater because he needs to be, you know, I don't want him like, you know, he needs to be comfortable on this tour. So, but my God, he's just a, he's just such a monster. Yeah. I mean, I'm just curious. Did he ever tell you what he weighed? Cause I'm, I never got a weight from any source. I didn't ask him cause I, we would literally just, I got the case and then I was going to get the shuttle and go with him to the venue. And then as I was going back to my car to put the case in the car, I voice noted him and I said, mate, I tell you what, you go on ahead. Don't wait for me. Cause he needed to get his tan. And then I drove around and he didn't get the voice note. And then I said, mate, go, go, you go. And I'll go separately. Cause I got to park my car. It's going to be a pain in the ass to get back to the Hilton otherwise. Yeah. So, but he, I didn't ask him. I didn't ask him. We were just kind of just chit chatting about life and stuff, you know? And, and, um, but, um, it was so good to see him. I'm really, it got me really excited, extra excited about the tour. Both tours. Just getting back to Martin and not to, I'm not going to dump on him, but I, I honestly thought he looked good enough to be third place. No, because I was judging it by this. And typically people look better in, uh, in real life than they do on the, on the stream. And you're saying it was actually the opposite. He looked worse. Yeah, he did. He did. And honestly, I mean, I, I, I didn't know what to expect. I mean, cause obviously he's had a, I mean, he's obviously had a stressful few weeks. Um, I mean, let's not talk about why, or, you know, who's to blame for that. But, um, I mean, he seemed, I mean, Dennis, I was watching a clip of, um, Dennis James on that, uh, primetime muscle. I was watching a clip today. And he said, the thing is with Martin, he seems to be on, off, on, off, on, off. Like when he was at Pittsburgh, he was off. And then he went to the Olympia and looked incredible. And then, well, Prague, he looked even better. Uh, the thing is obviously burned into my mind was how he looked in Prague. Cause he was absolutely fantastic in Prague. I mean, that was, that was even better than he was at the Olympia. Right. But, um, um, I, I, yeah, I don't know whether he can, he just, yeah, he just, I mean, that frontal bicep, you can see that the lack of separation of detail, but, um, yeah, I mean, I mean, he's qualified for the Olympia, so it's no big deal anyway. So it's not like he has to now panic and go and, uh, you know, go do show after show after show, trying to qualify potentially. Absolutely. So, um, you know, it's, uh, well, I mean, fourth place, uh, could have been fifth. Um, it's, I don't know how I'm feeling about it. I mean, he's probably deleted his social media again. Well, he already did, but I'm saying I, I'll give him credit because I really didn't think he was going to do this show. I thought he was. I didn't, I didn't, I didn't, I thought he was, I thought, okay, that's him for a few months. We're not going to hear at all from him for the next few months, but it's funny because when his girlfriend was on stage in the wellness, she got fourth in the wellness, um, he came running through the curtain in his trunks and he sat down in the front row and jumping up and down screaming and shouting, encouraging, you know, like giving us support, you know, and it was only like a few seats away from Arnold. It was just funny to see this, like this bodybuilder in his trunks, like shouting and screaming for his girlfriend, obviously just, you know, just supporting. It was kind of cool. Really? I said to AJ, I said, look over there, mate. And she said, what? I said, look, look. And then Martin jumped up and he's going, yeah, yeah. Yeah. You know, so, um, she looked really good as well. She was also really good. Yeah. I mean, people want to, where does he go from here? I think he said he's qualified for the Olympia. Olympia is not till September. He could easily take a good break right now. Yeah. Get away from everything. Maybe take Andrew. No point. There's no point competing now. If he's, if he's going backwards like this, you know, he's got, he's got, at the end of the day, he's got, he needs to be able to take, take a bit of time for himself. He's obviously committed to the show. He wanted to do it. His girlfriend was doing it anyway. So I would just take a bit of time off and then get, get the game plan, get your head together, get your body together, get the recovery together, and then go smash it at the Olympia. Cause I think he'd, um, you know, cause if we see, if we see anything like I saw in Prague of Martin at the Olympia, he's going to, he's going to really shake up that top five, mate. Yeah. You know, I give the guy his due. He's 29 years old and I, you know, for people to say he's done, he's finished. No, come on guys. Be real. He's got, he's got plenty of gas left in the tank, but getting back to Andrew for a second. He beat Samson, mate, at the Prague show. That's right. And Samson was back up to almost his usual form at that point. Yeah. But a good, a good 85, 90%. Um, but, uh, so Andrew getting better and better. It's been a, it's been a kind of a gradual thing, but where do you see the most improvements in Andrew since maybe a year ago? It's, it's overall like detail development separation. It's quality, which comes from quality, hard, heavy training, you know, like sort of real, um, you know, like, cause like, cause I know the way Kamal trains is old school. It's just, it's balls to the wall. It's, it's, um, it's, you know, it's, uh, it's just, it's just, it works, you know, but I, I, I am seeing real improvements in, in Andrew. His waist isn't quite as small as it was, but you know, that's to be expected when the guy keeps getting bigger and bigger and bigger. But when he hit that ab and thigh, I mean, the abs are so deep and the waist comes in beautifully and the way he hits it. It's just amazing. So, um, well, I'm going to maintain what I said, you know, uh, well, after the Olympia that he's going to win the Olympia this year. I just don't, I don't, obviously Derek and Samson, and they'd be coming in, you know, uh, you know, each, each with their, well, two, three Olympia titles between them. But I think, um, I just, I just think Andrew's on a roll now, mate. I think he's, I think he's hitting his stride. I think it's his year. And I think, um, and I think these two wins just more than prove that. Yeah. You know, people are already jumping ahead to the Olympia, which it's understandable. We always do that. Uh, cause Samson was looking enormous. He's definitely, definitely huge and full as a house and monstrous. Yeah. But it's offseason, mate. Doesn't count. Doesn't count. And Derek, you know, Derek's had a full year too, but. Yeah. Andrew just seems to be on such an upward trajectory. Yeah. Like you said, the thing is, he's the one that really can improve the most. I mean, we don't know what Samson's going to bring. I mean, I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm thinking now, like I was thinking, I was going to ask you actually, well, I'll ask you now, 26 finals, Arnold UK, Andrew versus 24 Olympia Samson. I mean, that is, that's, that is something I would love to see because I mean, to get, to get those two versions of each other stood right next to each other. I honestly can't say who would win, but thing is, Andrew seems to be improving, you know? So, I mean, is Samson going to be as good as he was in 24? Is he going to be better? Or is he going to be not as good? We don't know. But I honestly, honestly, I believe it's Andrew's year this year. And obviously a million dollars helps as well. Yeah. They call him the million dollar man now. Because Derek, Derek won over a million dollars last year too. But Andrew, if everything, if everything lines up the way we think it might, and I think the Olympia is going to jump up to a million dollars this year. Do you? I strongly suspect that. If that's true, it's possible Andrew could earn two million dollars in prize money alone this year. Wow. And do you know what it is? He's not money orientated. He reminds me of Lee Priest because like when I've talked with him and stuff, like I remember, like I told you the other week, I said, I remember I was adding up all the payments because I send him like an individual payment. And I was like, shit, I still owe him a thousand pounds. It was a thousand pounds. It was just a little. And so I sent it off to him and I didn't hear back. And I thought, oh, I'm annoyed him. I pissed him off. So I messaged him a few days later. And I said, mate, I said, have you got that money? He went, oh, I wonder who that was from. No problem, bro. It's like, I mean, like some guys you'd be working with, they'd be like, I'm not getting on the plane if all that money's not here. And you know, some stuff, it can be like that. Do you know what I mean? I have experienced that, you know, the very, very, it's all about the money. That's all they care about. But Andrew's just so laid back and he's like, I'm blessed. I've got, you know, he's got good contracts. He's with BioL. He's with Cytec. He's got, I mean, I'm actually trying to get him an equipment sponsor, actually. No. So that's something I'm trying to work on for him because I mean, you know, I'm surprised they haven't like Panatta or Jim 80 or one of these other companies hasn't snapped him up because the thing is, then you're talking like what? Another 5, 10, 15K a month, you know, plus he's, plus he works as well, you know, when he's back home. So, I mean, his income is, is, is crazy right now. Do you know what I mean? It's like, like Samson's wasn't 24, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's doing, and it's great. It's good to see as well, but he's just, he just doesn't seem fazed by it. He just, I don't know. I think he just loves what he does and, and just goes with the flow. He's just a very, very cool laid back guy. I can't wait. I can't wait to see him. I like train with him some days. Yeah. Okay. You know, people, some people criticize because they'd say, well, he's too laid back. He's too mellow. He doesn't have that eye of the tiger. But I think that's just the quiet storm kind of demeanor where he doesn't have to be all that yelling and screaming and fake intensity. And I'm going to win the Olympia. You guys all suck. You know, that's not him. He's, he's very, exactly. Exactly. Let's talk about this guy though. Runner up Brandon. I mean, 43 years old for someone that a couple of years ago, people were saying it's time for him to go. So he's, he's, he's passed his prime. Let the young guys, let the young guys rise up and take his place. And he's still holding on. He's still doing well. Second place at the Arnold UK. And I thought he looked fantastic. He did. He looked really, really good. I mean, obviously he doesn't have to worry about qualifying because he's qualified for life now. Is that, that's that rule still applying? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So he's, you know, he's just, I mean, what did he win here? I think it was a hundred, a hundred thousand. That is coming second at the Arnold Classic. And he probably would have won. No, I'm sorry. I'm corrected. I heard 125. So it was half of 250. 125,000. And he got fifth at the, the other Arnold. So he's, you know, and his sponsors are probably giving him bonuses as well. So he's probably just made himself close to 200K. Yeah. You know, for a guy that's been going since, well, I remember him at the 2011 Olympia. You know, he's, he's still hanging in there, still looking great. Because the thing is, he's injury free. He's injury free. There's nothing, there's nothing. He's obviously not, he's not obviously not hammering the gear, you know, I mean, to the point where, I mean, I've spoke to him about that and he's another one that comes off properly and, you know, lets his body rest and he doesn't just kind of kill his body year round. You know, he's doing, you know, he's obviously looked at it long term. He's a responder. He trains bloody hard minds. Like I said, I remember when I had my local gym and, you know, he killed Derek and he says, I'm only training at like 50, 60%. This is just maintenance. I was like, I was watching him and I was like, he's doing exercise after set after set. You know, the intensity was good, but he just, yeah. And he's, he's still making a fantastic living doing what he loves doing. I'm thinking he's 40, what is he, 43? That's nothing, mate. Yeah, 43. I'm 49, mate. I'm 50 in two months, Ron. Yeah. That's still young to me. I mean, Sean Roden was 43 when he won the Mr. Olympia in 2018. Yeah, there you go. There you go. Yeah. I mean, Ruli, all those guys, they were all, they're not even hitting their peak till they're 40, you know? So as long as you're injury free, you look after yourself, your health is good. I was talking to Jay Cutler about that. He was saying about, you know, he was saying back when he was competing, he says, he says, I did everything all the other guys were doing. He reeled off all these, all these different things. Yeah. And I was like, yeah. And he says, he says, but my health is really, really good. He says, some guys are all messed up with their kidneys and livers and everything. They're all messed up. He says, but he says, my health is really, really good. So, um. Jay looks fantastic. He looks so good for his age. Yeah. I had some, I had some really good talks with Jay actually, because I was with them because I got there the first day and then, um, one of my friends says, um, I'm on the pronounced down with Ronnie and he wants to see you. So I was just wandering around. So I was like, okay. So I came and went to the green room and, uh, it's funny because when I first got there, because I'd been to a show for a while, I was a little anxious. Yeah. And then as soon as I saw Ronnie, I just felt so calm. It's weird. He has such a weird effect on me, Ronnie, you know, being around him because he's so cool and so laid back. Yeah. And we had a really nice talk and it was, um, yeah. And I'll see Susan was there as well. So, um, so birthday today. Well, happy birthday. Oh, happy birthday, Susan. Yeah. And it's, um, just, um, yeah, we just, and then they were doing the photo opportunities where you can have photos with Jay and Ronnie, like professional photos. In fact, I've got one here. Oh yeah. I got, I got one as well. The actual physical photo. We don't see those too often anymore. Yeah. And then Ronnie was like, I should have got Ronnie to sign him. And I had a really couple of, I had three really good talks with Jay. He just kept coming over the first two times. And then the third time he was sat by himself in the corner and he kind of went like that, gestured. And I went over and just started chatting to him again. And it was, um, he loves, and Jay and Ronnie really love each other as well. There's a genuine, there's a real friendship, respect, you know, sort of love there. So that's great to see. Yeah. When we're done with the, with the contest talk, I want to look at all your expo picks with you. Cause you, you had a good time, but I'll just getting back to back. Let's get Patrick a little moment in the sun. Um, he was definitely tighter than he had been in, um, Detroit. And, um, you know, third place at the Arnold class at an Arnold classic. This is a career highlight for him. I'm happy for the guy. And he beat, he beat Martin Fitzwood, who has been fourth and fifth place at the Mr. Olympia. But may also, he's coming off an Achilles injury as well. I don't know how long, I want to say it's been a couple of years, but still that's a major, major injury. But when he walked out, I just went to AJ. Look how much size is upper body. I mean, he's, he's what, obviously we saw him at 2019 Olympia. So it's been, that's been like seven years. I mean, but he was so much bigger and fuller and wider. And I was like, holy shit. And the only thing is when he turns to the back, the posterior chains a bit. Squishy. And because I messaged him and I said, mate, I said, um, cause he's doing five more shows. Wow. Yeah. He said, I'm doing Feebo. I'm doing Cali. I'm doing, uh, Steve Weinberger wants him to do, and Tyler wanted him to do Pittsburgh and New York pro. Of course. And, um, how many is that? Four or five now. And then I think Legion would be the last one in that sequence. Yeah. Yeah. I have to check the texts on my phone now. Yeah. That makes sense. Cause they're all in a row. And all I said to him, I said, mate, I said, get that low. I said, drop, drop a couple of kilos, mate, and get that lower body tight. I said, and I think you'll get a qualification and a win for the Olympia. And he's, and he's, he was like, yeah, I agree, brother. He said, that's, yeah, that's exactly what I'm going to do. He says, but I'm, you know, I think, I think this gave him a real boost, this third place. I think it gave him a real, cause he's, he's, he's, there was a show last year. What was it? Oh, the British show. And he didn't get a very good placing. And I thought he looked absolutely fantastic. When he competed against Chriso. And he's, he's kind of had a bit of a resurgence. Cause obviously when he made top 10 at the Olympia in 2019, it was like, oh shit, top 10. He's got a great routine. And, you know, and everyone was going crazy for him, but his career kind of dropped off a little bit. But so it's really nice to see him come back like this and have this, uh, like a bit of a comeback. So I said to him, I said, mate, all you got to do is just get that lower body tighter. And I says, I'd be very, very shocked if you didn't get a win and we don't see you at Olympia. So he's, uh, he was, he was really fired up from that. So it's a perfect example of why I never give up hope completely on anybody. You know, even if they come in off condition off for a while or a body part, I've seen enough guys fix a body part or fix condition or whatever needed to be sorted out. And come back looking fantastic that I never say this guy's done. He should just hang it up because, you know, um, blessing, I blessing. I was, I didn't, I blessed him was better than I thought he was going to be. He's, um, he's a lot bigger and he's very, he's got a lovely shoulder to waste. Um, in fact, the video doesn't do him justice. See, honestly, he's one of those guys that when you see him, he's actually in the flesh. There was a guy in the classic that was, um, like that, that really stood out when they came out on stage. Plus Mike Sommerfeld as well. He was another one who looked at the videos don't do him justice. I believe that. I believe that. But blessing, man, he looked, um, I thought, I thought I said to him, I said to AJ, I said, I think he deserves to be placed ahead of Martin. I've got Martin fifth. And, uh, cause I think, um, I think everyone was just kind of expecting Martin to come in looking, you know, good. And then you get like second, you know, but, um, when you're coming off, you know, you're going to get beat by guys who arguably don't have as good a physique, but have peaked better and have better conditioning. Yeah. Yeah. Blessing fixed the midsection issue. He, he, he brought it down a little bit from the way it looked in Detroit. He still needs to control it better in the transitions as. Yeah. Cause it was distracting at times, but, um, yeah. Do you know the problem with blessing is when he stands back in the lineup, he lets it hang and it looks and it's like the judges and he's looking at it and he's kind of holding himself, but he's not holding the midsection, but you can see him trying to do his best when he's doing his posing. but you know when what lila brada said you know you've got to be you've got to be like a statue yeah like a statue the whole time smiling keep the legs tight the midsection in i mean those guys in the 90s they didn't really have bad midsections not like they did in the 2000s and onwards but um if you've got a if you've got a if you've got a midsection you know this is that the judges at the end of the day i always say this the judges are always looking for reasons to mark you down and find flaws they're not looking for the strengths they're looking for the flaws so they can decide who places where because martin does have a better a much better physique he's more complete he's more aesthetic but you know when when the conditioning is so far apart that these two were then i think um you know me i condition needs to be rewarded yeah well you know because i don't i'm not a martin fitzwater mega fan but i still based on what i was seeing which was different from what you saw in person very very i thought he was going to be third place but let's look at classic because condition wise the classic guys were in so much better cool so much better shaped in the open so this was your top four italy's andrea mamaly big old wesley vissers mike sommerfeld and this guy from mexico jorge herrera who took third man he ron he was amazing very impressive that guy i'm watching this video now and i'm disappointed it's you know it reminds me of when we saw sean clarida when i was i had my phone and i was filming him and i was looking like that and i was going the two the two aren't the same you've got to see there's somebody but i don't know what it is i don't know why it is but it's um there's some guys just the videos and photos just like dorian was like that photos and videos didn't do him justice you're always disappointed when if you're there and you're watching it you're always disappointed by what you see on the photos and the videos but i tell you what um sommerfeld he he won this clearly i actually thought a 204 or 203 version of mike sommerfeld would be beat by detroit wesley and i was wrong i was wrong um i mean wesley looked incredible um but sommerfeld was kind of on another level and his routine was absolutely sensational yeah i definitely want to look at that yeah the i was doing the live the watch party and a lot of people were saying wesley slim dunk wesley has this no even though not when you and it wasn't until sommerfeld come out in his routine and i said to asia i went like that to chris corby was sat behind me and then aj was sat there and i said guys game over sommerfeld won this and aj went yeah i think so i think so but um wesley's bigger i mean wesley's i don't understand how wesley's got so much bigger and he's still classic and he's i believe he's still under the weight cap isn't he i don't i don't understand it how can the short guys have like no room to grow and then the tall guys have got all this like wesley is wesley is really really big i mean that the laps i mean look at him i mean he looks i mean you can put him in an open lineup now and he wouldn't look out of place yeah i don't think he should switch to open he would need another 20 pounds at least to be competitive but i don't know you know i mean at a bigger show at a smaller at a smaller show i bet he could win a smaller open show right now if he first call out in just about any open show because his conditioning's good you know the separation's good and i mean that back i mean his upper body is just it's incredible the thing is he's got real good deep separation quality conditioning his legs are improving i mean he's got he's got a real presence wesley um his routine was really good as well um but somerfeld uh i was wrong like i said i was um i thought like a the seven pound off the 211 version of somerfeld wouldn't wouldn't be able to beat wesley but um my god when there was things happening on on somerfeld's physique that just like had our like literally we were just we our jaws were hanging we were like we were like swearing going ah like you know me and age would look at each other going wow and chris was like nodding you know like he does you know so this is the closer footage does this come does this a little more along the lines of what you were seeing in person still he's still more impressive in person wow honestly when he does those overhead shots and just there's just so much going on there's so much going on so and think about like that's a guy with that's lost seven pound of muscle really to to look like that so you can see that when he was at 211 212 he was really coming close to bumstead i mean it's uh he's just it's it's weird because for a few years he was just you know ticking along quite nicely in the in the in the classic he wasn't really sort of um he was no threat to the top three in the top five and then he was just and all of a sudden he just went to another level so um you know like kind of like andrew has now he's gone to another that's what everyone just kept saying it's like andrew's just another level now and i think and i think somerfeld in fact i i would put money on somerfeld and andrew winning olympia you should have seen the uh brazilians going crazy in the comments when i when i was suggesting i think mike ken win the olympia this year but uh you know ramon is not unbeatable he's not a chris bumstead i think this is better than remote i prefer this physique to anyone in classic right now honestly and i'm telling you wesley's going to move up he's going to be top five maybe even top three this year yeah that's the crazy thing is wesley has never been top five yeah at the olympia he's always sort of been like a seventh or eighth place guy he's one of those guys that sort of peaks earlier in the season and the olympia has always been a different story for him but yeah i'm but look at look at his upper body look at the chest and the shoulders and i mean that year off he took he was you can tell you can see here he was work at that frontal bicep i mean my god look at that i mean that sensational it's beautiful it's uh i didn't get a chance to say hi to him i saw said hi to marley his wife and his videographer but he was on the gym reaper stand taking and i tell you what the cues for wesley now are like honestly they're crazy i'm do you know what i think i might do another tour with him if he wants to do one after olympia do it because he was so i whenever i speak to the gyms you know the one i'm doing organizing these tours they always and all the fans and stuff you know when i talk to them online or at expos or at shows they always comment on the ones that turned up for wesley they always he really stuck in their mind they said uh wesley was good wesley's really made an he makes a really good impression wherever he goes and he says the right things and he's a gentleman and he's the way he's the sportsmanship he's shown towards mike summerfield as well he's he's just a really really classy guy and like i said i've spent what eight eight nine ten days with him on the tour and um you know there was no moment where he was a diva or he was a pain in the ass or you know we just we you know he was he was he was amazing absolutely amazing he's um he's a great ambassador for the classic and for bodybuilding and a lot of the older fans especially seem to appreciate the fact that he he reminds us of those old classic bodybuilding days of the 70s and 80s yeah he does he does i mean he would have been i wonder i wonder what arnold thinks when he sees him because i know arnold likes him but i wonder if he looks at him and thinks yeah yeah well what was didn't arnold say you remind me of lou ferrino was it was i don't know if that was a he took a crack at him there i don't think he was just being he was just doing that to be funny i hope uh but yeah wow it was it was a great it was a great battle between those two i'm so glad he made weight i'm so glad that uh yeah we got to see a a challenge because the open i'm happy for andrew but it wasn't it wasn't an exciting open because once as soon as andrew walked out there it was game over so but the guy who came third what's his name again george is it george herrera oh man he was i was looking on the screen and i was looking at him and i was just i was looking around and people's faces were like like that he was he's there's a guy that i've never heard of before um i know he's done a few shows and he's he's quite popular but i wasn't really aware of him uh and uh and and now i've seen him he's someone that is um you know he was very good as well but moly was good but that that that hog hay hog hay he was absolutely um uh incredible i think i have him right here hang on yeah because he's somebody that he's he's somebody who's going to be doing very well yeah i'd love to know more about him actually get him again get him for an interview if he speaks english wrong he probably does so is this is this him that's him isn't it yeah wow again video doesn't do him justice he was so impressive in the flesh mate i was i was super impressed i had a a classic pro leo meyerhofer doing the commentary and he was really thinking this guy should have gotten more of a look for the win no no or at least top two was top two was clear yeah i thought so too but this is a guy to watch i mean he'll be i don't want to say everyone's going to be top five in classic physique olympia this year we can't have 10 20 guys in the top five but he's got everything i don't see any weak points the condition was exceptional look at that he's completely me i'm looking if i was a judge i'd be like fuck i can't find any faults on this guy yeah it's just he's not mike and he's not wesley that was uh that's all you can really say about him fantastic and it was that there was a good crowd response to the classic as well there's a lot of interest you know um i'll tell you what um also aj did a really good job on the stage interviews yeah i saw he did a few different things i thought he was only doing the one i did all of them wow he did jane ronnie he did mitchell hooper he did with hat thor he did joey swole he did greg because i messaged him and i said my good luck to be those guys because like i've interviewed um mitchell hooper you know the um the strongest world's strongest man and i was given 20 minutes notice and i'm not i thought of my demographic and i managed to do it and i was a good hour as well but like honestly i would struggle i would struggle to interview some of these other guys you know would i i don't know yeah so wow this this is really grown i remember that that hall is it the it's the same hall that i went to 16 years ago right well there's like 15 halls this was i think all because there was another like uh cosplay um comic con thing so there's always like people dressed as anime characters and then we were all walking to basically everyone was walking from the car parks into the expo because they were right next to each other because i think the arnold was whole 10 to 12 or 10 to 15 or something the other one was like 5 to 10 i mean the nec is is colossal you know so they had two expos on at the same time and they had empty empty halls as well wow it was called mega con because i i saw a post the arnold sports people made a post saying uh because some of the i guess some of the bodybuilders were making fun of some of the mega con fans or whatever participants to cosplay yeah i didn't like that no that's not good but uh wow what a great show and i'm glad because we didn't have an arnold uk last year yeah well it's definitely happening next year because arnold said oh yeah but um yeah i spoke to sam su look as well because he was he was the next photo opportunity for um and it's funny i just i just i'm happy for the guy's success you know and he looked good as well um but he was like dressed like a really scruffy and yes i just i just i kind of don't get a lot of the influencer thing you know because i don't really follow their work so i don't really but obviously the content i mean he's wildly popular wildly successful and um i mean the crowds are just going crazy for him you know it was uh and he should have seen the queue for people wanting photos with greg jussette wow greg i mean i could see sam but i didn't know greg was that popular yeah he was i was like so i said so i said by the other food hall i said who's that q for they went greg you said i went really i was like okay the thing is i'm a bodybuilding purist so unless you're jay or ronnie or phil or and also i said to um because i was on the panetta stand a lot of the time with ronnie uh susan chris kamel and all that we were just um just kind of just basically being there for ronnie and there was a photo opportunity on the panetta stand where it was phil ronnie and lee haney so lee haney was stood right next to me and i said i um and i thanked him as well for doing that interview during covid i said i said i really appreciate you and ron setting that up for me because you were the one who reached out to him for me and he said ah it's my pleasure and i said well and also it's um it's good to see that you're not dead the last time we did power hour ron i poked him in the arm i said i said what i said god just just checking you're just checking your reel you're not hologram and he just started laughing and rolled his eyes we were doing this show a week ago as well got a big hug off phil as well uh yeah lee lee i called him because a week ago we were doing power hour and we we saw a group text that lee had died i'm like oh no so i called him right away and he picked up but uh just before we take leave off sam sullick i mean you this is a obviously the first time you've seen him compete does he have a future as far as high level pro classic physique he's 24 um do you know what he he's moving forward he's 24 years old he's i was chatting to jay about him and he told me some private things about how much money this kid is making and uh like what his gym shark contract was and i mean it's it's it's astronomical um so it doesn't matter if he doesn't he doesn't he's still going to be i think he's still going to be popular and still around um but um yeah it's uh you look the improvement at the end of the day bodybuilding is all about progression and moving forward now if you compare the photos and video to how he looked the year before he's drastically improved in a year so at 24 years old making that kind of money i wouldn't give a shit if i never won a show um but who's to say he won't because who's to say by in the next two three four years you know think about where ronnie started and guys like nasa and guys like that you know they started at the back of the park sean clarida you know so or who knows which direction his life is going to go in but he clearly loves bodybuilding he was having an absolute blast up there he looked great his physique looked didn't look out of place beat a couple of guys and um and he's he's just living the dream i mean my god if i was 24 like when i was 24 you know and i'm just thinking i know exactly where i was when i was 24 living up in newcastle and you know and i just think about you know bodybuilding and training and making loads of money and you know it's uh you know it's uh it's just you just you've got the world at your feet you know and also to mention he he stayed long after everyone had left at the meet and greet and he he took pictures everybody that waited in line for him which had to be a couple thousand people i'm sure yeah yeah yeah yeah he posted a picture and the hall was completely deserted by the time he was done literally everyone else was gone and so did andrew wow yeah andrew saw every single fan because i've messaged andrew a couple times i said i said i think this tour is going to be a little bit busy in the last one mate i said this is um this is going to be and he says jails i love it i love it he says i can't wait to meet the fans i think it's like when when somebody was to say that um i'll be honest i do roll my eyes a couple of times but i think when i've worked with people like ronnie and andrew they and also wesley they mean it well i mean this is how you look at that this is how you build a fan base for life by doing ron ron he's he's so much bigger than that now mate if you can even comprehend that he looks pretty big there honestly it's not it's it's honestly when he opened the door i went holy shit he's like because he's he's he's like i'm six foot he was like he's tearing over me and he actually filled the door frame wow and he went to shake my hand i said no no give me a hug give me a hug and i couldn't even do you remember when i hugged andrea presti at the olympia and he was like rock because sometimes you hug them and they're quite squishy yep but when i hugged him went jesus christ i know it whoa and he just started laughing because he had his hoodie up and his headphones on it's like he normally does he had to be the case and he was uh you're you good bro how's things going i said yeah yeah cool good mate all good you know just uh you know just uh pushing on mate pushing on that's um i saw him as well dave from nebula that's one of that's one of the final gyms we're going to in ireland uh next weekend okay so here you are some shots from the expo there's the legendary chris cormier yeah i might be doing a podcast with chris as well who's this right here additional one that's um uh yinka the 212 guy i tell you what guys if the only the best way that i can describe him he's like a 212 samson and i think he might follow a similar trajectory in terms of a success in his division i'm telling this guy has got all the goods i had a good check with bob as well bob's cool check all the usual suspects there there's andrew at the biowall stand i mean that was packed because he actually asked me to do this video for him he says josh can you go around and get a shot of the crowd and i could barely get through it look i mean that because literally we were waiting i was i went to see chris because um uh quran is is the guy who does his page was messaging me he says go see chris he's on the biowall stand now and i was like okay well i'm right next to it so i went over me um uh chris and uh claire and we were just waiting i was just chatting to to chris and then they said um i said what's all these people queuing for and he says oh andrew's supposed to be here in a few minutes and i was like okay i said well hang on then because i wouldn't mind seeing him again and lit and he's i mean he's brilliant with fans he's brilliant with fans look at that i mean that's not it was yeah it's busy yeah yeah look at that you can't you can't even see the crowd there's too many people on the way that's all that's all the peptides they're biowall wow they got their summerfeld they had the bikini winner they had aj was on the stand as well because he's he's working with them as well he was being paid to be there as well by them wow jay's doing really well man tell you what i was i was i messaged him i said i'm really proud of you mate i said you really you've gone up a level because you know and you could see he was a little bit nervous you know because it was a big undertaking because it was a lot of work as well to do a lot of back-to-back interviews and then you're on the back on the biowell stand and then you're doing your social media i mean he's um i bet he's absolutely knackered now oh yeah yeah i mean i i miss those weekends where you you didn't sleep a whole lot but boy you were buzzing you just you know the energy the adrenaline well i was originally supposed to go down for just the saturday like i said i went down for the friday and then the sat nav i must have missed a turning or something and i ended up not going to the hotel first i ended up and i was like okay i'm five minutes away from the expo or i'm 30 40 minutes away from my hotel so i'll maybe just go straight to the expo and i had such a good day i'm so glad i did and i stayed for the sunday as well i don't know yeah so three days in a row wow there's ronnie i shouted lightweight baby there lightweight baby that's susan it's her birthday today there's jay jay jay jay jamelle there's uh matt the manager's there somewhere as well i like matt as well i think some good talks about he's cool guy oh yeah i've always got him is that him over there yeah i've always gotten a good impression of him from the the cutler cast yeah he's smart guy switched on jay there's ronnie yeah ronnie was uh still getting around he still was do you know what he his face looks back to normal now oh good it was even on the tour he had those sunken eyes that he had when he was in hospital for the sepsis there's this samsu like i know wow so it doesn't have like a an entourage of bodyguards no he's just i do i really i like him more and more all the time now he's he doesn't he just he wasn't dressed he's like really i mean obviously got tan probably had some but you know there's you know he wouldn't be even if he put new baggies on you know he can he can throw them away if they get tanned uh stained with tan you know there's matt there yeah but um yeah he's just he's just um like i said hello to him and he's not there's no fakeness in him and you know he's um that's probably why he connects so well with his audience because he is authentic i mean the very first i i had no idea why he was popular and i was sort of saying oh why why do people follow this guy it only took one video of his oh really and i was like okay i get it i totally get it now ah yeah i've never watched any of his videos i just i don't it doesn't doesn't really interest me you know but um you know you don't you know there's no you don't let's see stop it there's no um it's not a what's it called what i'm looking for well he just seems yeah he just he just seems very authentic he's not he's not playing a character or a role or anything like that yeah people can tell people can tell when you're real versus when you're playing some sort of character yeah how many olympia titles between them quick oh hang on let's go back so 16 23 wow it's ronnie was chad phil was uh phil had honey as his coach and lee he had no coach yep okay that's uh as can i do the um the the live stream commentary within sweden i'll be doing within in a few weeks in because i've got two andrew tours i got this andrew tour for a week then he flies home for two weeks then he flies back into prague then we're back into uk scotland ireland then we fly back then we fly to stlovakia and then we fly home and then i've got sweden i think the two weekends after and then i've got kevin nevroni at the end of may jeez you're gonna be a busy busy dude guys we might miss a power hour here and there i'm just telling you i'm warning i'm warning you all right now i'll do my phone yeah these these aren't my phone i got these oh yeah now that we're using your phone i think we're okay this was josh you've been fed you've gone out you've been such a whinger what's a wind you're like a whiner a whinger oh hassan didn't look good my god oh did we see him right there oh he was last place yeah yeah i don't know what's going on with hassan i really hope really hope he gets it together though because it was it was rough to see i mean i know he ain't got the narrowest midsection but it was like his the front of his midsection looked really bad as well he just looked like he was eight weeks ten weeks out yeah and yeah the midsection was just a big block i won't belabor it i won't keep showing because i don't want to kick the guy while he's down there's that picture he just showed us there's when they took it good stuff there's ronnie's stool yeah yeah looks like it's heavy duty good stuff oh that's oh that's geez that's a throwback to seven years almost seven years ago 2019 olympia yeah right so is he a last all-star tour oh no the first one you did with andrew yeah yeah yeah yeah so there's yinca then yeah there's kamal was this was this recent or was this a while ago that was right after kamal won the olympia the 212 olympia in 2019 and he was um he said i'm going to go see my sister in newcastle do you know any good gyms and i said yeah my mate's got a good gym and i'll message him and i'll say you know is it okay for him to drop in and train and then what i said well i'll tell you what i'll come up and see you as well because i'd like to see you and then i invited john john citrone and we all train chess together oh wow that's cool so man you you have to be so happy that andrew won of course because you want andrew to win but look at this six eight you got a let's see scotland england england england england i think these are all england right two islands the last two islands ireland see i wouldn't know and then you're back czech republic scotland england i suppose ireland england maybe hazel grove it's hard to say uh that's um that's north near manchester okay and then brati slava in the that's an mpc slovakia show so we've got um we're literally flying in at midday and then we've got to do the seminar at five and then we can chill with him for the rest of the day and the next day so i haven't booked his flights back yet in fact i need to know whether he i need to message him because he's the first i haven't booked his flights back for the first tour yet because i'm wondering if he wants because it'd be a lot cheaper for me to fly him to fivo oh yeah that's true yeah sure i was like always high tech paying for it you know because it's big business class you know it's expensive you know so i've uh i've just spent um a lot of big ton of money on hiring a seven seater for the uh yeah it's funny because i did it with ronnie i did i did that with ronnie hiring the seven seater and as soon as i got it i went i said to chris i said chris we've got to do this for every tour regardless now because this is so much more comfortable you know that they're really luxurious seats and you don't got worry about squeezing the luggage in and you know and trying to put the food somewhere and everything being cried it's just so much room and it makes it so much easier and we share the driving as well you know oh really i didn't realize he would drive in the uk on the wrong side of the road and everything but no chris oh chris chris okay and i think we're going to do really well on the merch sales as well because we didn't do crazy well on the last one because um you know what i think this is going to be a much much busier talk i mean andrew's name has gone to a whole new level now oh rightfully so so it's funny that he could he could afford these supercars like a lamborghini or brigatti but i don't think he could fit into one of those because i've i've ridden in those and they're they're tiny yeah but thompson can really well he's got a bloody mclaren i mean okay he's got one of those that always got one of those little go what those no go those rapid go-kart things what they call the race car things a little with the roll bar things he's got one of those as well i think wow okay that's different you got you got you know you i mean and i mean 350 345 at the moment i saw samson because we actually we were with ronnie going back to uh go back to the hotel and we went right we didn't realize we went right through in front of his photographer on his queue and i was like and then ronnie turned around oh sorry samson he's like oh it's all right guys don't worry about it i know you're blocked so i'm going to show you his instagram page cool he hasn't blocked me please don't block me you blocked me yeah i believe it i don't understand that like what have i done apart from fatigue his physique i just don't get it was it that was it so yeah i mean uh we'll we'll talk more about samson in the months coming up but uh yeah he's looking very very large right now so man wow what a weekend for you i'm glad you made it i'm glad you made it to the show uh you know i think if i hadn't gone i think i would have been i'd have been really miserable i think because i remember friday morning the weather was horrible and i was i was thinking well i've got no work to do today um i was going to go to the gym tonight but that's it and then i just thought and i'm looking on my social media and i'm watching what's going on two and a half hours away when all i have to do is book my hotel extra night and just go yeah so i and i felt so much better as soon as i got on the road i was buzzing you know and i was and everyone was messaging and susan was messaging she goes i'm like we're gonna see you you're gonna come over and then come out was texting says ronnie wants to see we're on the panetta stand come and see us and uh and it was just good because it was just um it was just nice to see everyone because like you know you've seen jay as well because jay's a lovely guy as well he's a real gentleman um and phil and bob chick and you know just and also walking around yeah i must have done about 50 laps of the expo and like a lot of people like know me for it's funny because people know me from so many different things like oh you're giles tiger from the this podcast or from global muscle or from md or from your tours or you know it's funny they all know me for something different you know so i'll get back there i really do miss being at at the shows it's it's it's a totally different experience you need to find a way to get there mate me or find some way of representing some company or something that will fly and pay for everything like aj did with buywell you know in the arnold like he he made twice you know so i'll talk to these guys exactly flights hotels because you know you're a well-known person you know you'd be honest you could be on one of their trade stands for a couple of hours a day and then the rest of the time you could be off watching the show and getting complimentary tickets or a media pass or you know there's there's you could be there for two or three different reasons i've done that before yeah you know i've been uh i've literally been there for a couple of different reasons and it's um it's it's uh you just gotta hustle mate gotta hustle you know i don't need business i'm so small i don't need business class i can fit into a regular seat yeah yeah it's okay no because jay said to me he said josh hang on why are you doing these stage interviews and i said well i didn't ask i didn't approach them aj probably did he probably spoke to them and said how about it you know and i said so good on him i said good on him you know i said because he who dares wins you know you've got to put yourself out there and you know you've got to you've got to never stop being hungry to push yourself and like i did for those 15 years when i was trying to get the top of the industry getting to work for md and flex magazine and i took him 15 years of pushing yeah so you know if you've um i think if you stop pushing and then you know you just leave opportunities for somebody else to make a place you know so because there are plenty of people doing lots of different stuff there so um so yeah so i'm gonna pick my yeah i've realized sorry okay i said i've realized if you sit around waiting for the phone to ring it doesn't really ring no vince taylor said when he won the nationals he was expecting the phone to ring and it didn't yeah you've got to put yourself out there mate you know and i mean you're very active on social media so your following is going up you're still working and still contributing for me it's for me it's like i spoke to david bay and i said it's great that we're all we've all found our way to still make our contributions to the industry because then when you contribute to the industry you get something back out of it as well you get to travel you get to network you get to have these experiences meet these people and you know and um because because i mean i've done it where i've just sat home and i've been all resentful and all that and and it gets you nowhere so that's why i jumped on the tours because the tours are within my control so and that's why you know a couple of weeks ago i was feeling a bit like oh and then i went and organized a tour with flex wheeler in a day a tour with kevin ron in like a one to two days you know and the next thing you know you've got all these other things to look forward to then all the live stream commentary trips coming into sweden and romania and prague and you know it's all it's all good mate it's all good so well you have a lot of work to do you're putting together the andrew's coming in a few days so uh i'm sure you have a lot of little details to take care of i will uh let you take care of those i thank you so much giles uh especially because i i haven't really spoken to anyone who was at the show and you gave me some new perspectives that i would never have known not being there in person so thank you so much that's like that new guy as well the the british guy the black guy who got one from last because he beat hassan oh abu yeah he was some he's got some good shots in there i mean he's he's obviously nowhere near that level yet but i mean what like these back shots i was thinking like a few tweaks here and there and if he does everything right you know in a couple of years you might be a little bit of a young little fox wow i mean i saw we were talking about muscle sorry very thick dense muscle and there's stripes in the delts and separate separations in the arms there's no oil we love that we love that the back shots you can see there's a few there's a few areas that need tidying up but you know when you can see the glimmers of some sort of like serious potential yeah you know and obviously doing this show would have raised his profile anyway but um i think yeah there's what there's a guy that um if he doesn't sort of fall by the wayside and you keep pushing there's a guy that could be something special in a couple of years and and also what i said watch out for that yanker major on muscle um because he's going to be a couple of years he's going to be pushing sean and key on it if you look good i'm telling that now i believe it cool all right mate uh so i'm gonna wrap it up and let you take care of that so guys file follow giles and you can check out all the antics of these andrew jack tours as well as the other tours with all the other athletes coming up and uh very exciting stuff i'm very i'm i can't can't wait to see the the reactions of all these fans around the around europe to uh andrew jack live and in the flesh right in front of the groupies yeah plus the tiger groupies as well yeah you know we can't discount those either thank you giles and thanks everyone for watching this episode power hour and we will see you next time well i gotta hit end recording guys sorry my bad haha