What's up everybody? What's up? It's been a while since we did one of these lives where I just answer any and all questions. Feel free guys in the comments, anything you want to ask me. I'm not going to necessarily answer everything if you get really crazy personal, but I'm going to give it my best shot. Let's start with Joe Toa all the way from Ohio. So, we got a lot of Ohio people in the chat today. Uh, so Joe is asking, "Are peptides genuinely effective for muscle growth and recovery? Are they just a modern version of old school Joe style marketing hype? I'm not seeing big changes in my clients." Um, well, I mean, I've only used them a little bit myself. I didn't see massive changes. I remember using uh the BPC-157, which is the number one recovery peptide for healing from injuries and things like that. I use that for my quadricep tear re rehab and recovery and I honestly don't know if I if I healed any faster than I would have. It's really hard to say as far as the ones that that you know for used for muscle growth and so on. I don't know. I hear a mixture of views myself. Some people rave about them. Some people say not very impressed with the results. I would say you know they're they're kind of pricey. They're on par with steroids as far as price goes. We know steroids work. I'd say, you know, if you don't want to use steroids, give them a try. If you're not seeing results after a couple months, that's it. Scrap it. Forget it. Don't don't keep using something that doesn't work. But yeah, I have no definitive answers on that. Big Mike Cox, originally from Ohio, now living in Florida. If you could go back and do things differently in bodybuilding, what would you do differently? I would put my ego away and hire a coach. Well, Mike, I don't think either of us had that option when we were starting out. I mean, I started bodybuilding. I considered the day I started bodybuilding to be fall of 1987 when I really understood I I had my first magazine that I look through and I'm like, "Okay, so this is bodybuilding. That's what I want to look like." Prior to that, I've been lifting weights and trying to get bigger and stronger, but not necessarily having bodybuilding as the end goal. So 87, fall of 87, there were not coaches around back then, but if there had been, yeah, I could have saved myself a lot of time and effort. You know, looking back at my competitive years, I probably could have done better if I had a coach just to keep me from doing some of the dumb things that we all get caught up in. I mean, toward the end of a prep, especially, it's really hard to be objective when you look in the mirror. You're either going to think you look better than you do or worse than you do. It's very hard to be objective. So, you might think, "Oh, no. I'm flat. I need to eat more. When you really need to keep dropping fat. You might think, "Oh, I'm shredded, but yeah, you're still fat. You need to be leaner." Or you could be super lean and ready to go, but thinking, I got to keep keep pushing and pushing. And I did that a few times and ended up really stringy and overdated and flat where I if I'd had a coach to say, "Hold on. Don't don't do that second session of cardio today. Have a little bit more carbs. You know, just somebody to steer the ship for me toward the end when I was in no no position to be a captain. put it that way. I mean, there's a lot of things I would have done differently. That could be a whole whole hour. Zionic, what's up? It was good doing live. All right, let's go. When coaching someone deep in prep, do you prioritize sleep, stress, or sodium first? Sodium has nothing to do with prep. Nothing. I mean, I want to make sure people are having enough sodium. I don't want to keep harping on it, but sodium is something you want in your diet. It's something that's necessary for muscular contractions. You're not going to be able to get a pump. You don't want to go no sodium. Even uh even on contest day, you don't want to go no sodium. You want to have a little lower sodium, but you'll be so flat, unable to get any pump. Um someone deep in prep, sleep is huge, hugely important. Stress and sleep kind of go hand in hand. Uh a lot of times if you're stressed out, you're not going to be sleeping right. And if you're not getting much sleep, you're going to be stressed and tired all day. Sleep is very, very important. Uh but it's by the time you get to those final few weeks like my son is uh geez he's two weeks and three days out now from his first show. Uh we definitely want to make sure he gets enough sleep. He gets plenty of sleep doing his cardio. Everything works hand in hand. There's not one thing that's far and above more important than anything else. But yeah, definitely you want to make sure you're sleeping. If you're not sleeping and if you're all stressed out, that's a perfect storm for losing muscle mass, especially if you're a drug-free athlete because your cortisol levels are going to go through the roof. And if you don't have steroids, which are anti catabolic, working in your favor, yeah, I mean, you're going to lose you're going to lose a significant amount of muscle. Stean, hey guys, just want to check in. Wish active. What's up, man? Hope you all have a great day. Steon is the village in Ukraine my grandmother came from. True story. What current trendy fitness advice is [\h__\h] I I don't follow a lot of the trendy stuff. One thing that I see a lot I I guess I could go on all day, but one thing that I see far too much of is a lot of these influencers, especially the very young influencers and wouldbe online coaches posting up videos saying barbell rows suck, deadlifts suck, bench presses suck, all the basics. They're telling you these things are worthless and they're horrible and they're trying to get you to do some other variation. usually like a crazy isolation move on a bench at this weird angle where you're using like this much on the weight stack. Really isolating and squeezing this tiny little part of the lat when if you have no back yet, if you don't have a really big thick back, you need to be doing barbell rows, dumbbell rows, tea bar rows, deadlifts, not not spending all your time with these little ca cable things and trying to really isolate and squeeze. Now, that that's one thing is I see I see a lot of uh influencers now, especially the young ones. Yeah, I'm the old guy here. I'm the cranky old mother, cranky old bastard, trying to steer you away from the basics. Basics have always worked. They're always going to work. There's a reason they're called basics because you need to master those and get good at those and get strong on those before you start really worrying about isolating. You know, you're worried about, we talked about this Lee priest, he mentioned it. People worried about, oh, I need to do this to strike my chest. Meanwhile, their chest is this thick. Worry about striding a chest when you got this much pec meat. Okay. Until then, press, press, press, dips, incline barbell, flat flat dumbbell, all kinds of good free weights. Yeah, good stuff. Coaching. Oh, and you know what else? What else? If it fits your macros, I don't have a huge problem with that one, honestly. Give me the best advice to get rid of the elephant skin. Yeah. I mean, John, I actually even now I have a little bit of loose skin on the on the corners of my pecs. It really bothers me. It's it's loose skin. Um I'm assuming that you were bigger before like I was. I was I used to carry about 20 pounds more muscle mass for many years. I did. And I'm downsized now. And it's the same problem with obese people, though. They have it to a much larger and more noticeable extent. You'll see people that lose 100, 200, 300 lbs. You see it on these shows like The Biggest Loser, uh, My 600 lb Life. When they lose all the weight, they have all this extra skin. You'll see like it flapping around and they have folds and folds flapping down from where their big giant gut used to be down to their knees. And you have to have skin surgery. Skin surgery removal. Skin removal surgery is the only way to get rid of that. And I assume that's what you're talking about is that loose skin. I I wish there was some magic potion, uh, you know, a cream or something you could just rub on and it would it would go back. But as we age, you're 73, I'll be 56 later in the year. We lose a lot of the collagen that was in our skin that made it pliable and elastic. That's why our skin used to be so tight, firm, and as we get older, it gets wrinkly. It starts sagging because it doesn't have that elastic component, the the collagen in it anymore. So unfortunately, yeah, the only really s the only option you have at that point is skin removal surgery. Uh I wish I had some better news for you, but I'm kind of in the same boat. Like the only way my chest I could get rid of loose skin because I'm I'm I'm not fat by any means. I'm I'm not in contest condition, but I could be I could be in contest condition in like eight weeks if I really wanted to. If I really got super strict on my diet and added in more cardio, I could do that. But that loose skin is still going to be there. Uh, I don't have any on my anywhere else on my body, but I do have it in these corners of the pecs right there. And the only way I could get rid of it would be if I built my chest back up to what it was, which needing a new shoulder, there's just no way I can I can press the kind of weights. That's why I've lost I've lost some size in my shoulders and my chest over the past few years as this shoulder's gotten worse. And Tuesday, I am having my consultation with the surgeon and we're going to book we're going to book a day to get it replaced. My younger brother had his left shoulder. Same one I need. He had his replaced on Monday. Two days. What's three days ago? What's today? Thursday. Yeah. What's good? Your mom's flip-flop and Deutsch. Was it Deutsland, right? Yeah. You're over in Germany. Jam Butterfly girl. Wow. Thank you for being one of my very very few female viewers. Understand you need want followers, but you don't match well with Matt. He's very inade too good for him. So, she's referring to the Muscle Discord show that I go on, Monday nights live with Matt Sinkerang and Phil Clayhard, the Jamaican Tank. That's not my channel. That's his channel. Um, it does. I don't think it really helps me, you know. Obviously, that is part of my motivation is I'm He mentions my channel at the beginning and I'm hoping to get more viewers and followers. I don't know how successful that is. I haven't seen a massive uptick. So, yeah, I like Matt. He does tend to be uh negative sometimes, overly critical. Uh I think part of the reason I still do the show or I like doing the show is because I can sort of counteract that. He might say something I disagree with and I'll pipe right up and say, "No, I I don't agree with that at all. This is what I think." So I I feel like it's not my channel, it's his it's his channel, it's his video. Um, but I feel I do serve a purpose there as far as being another opinion, another another voice that's, you know, I I try to try to not be negative. If I ever have critiques of bodybuilders, it's purely being objective. It's not based on whether I like them or not. I wish all of them the best. I'm not trying to [\h__\h] on anybody. I'm not trying to discourage anybody. But if I see things that could be better about somebody, I try to give constructive criticism. I I will never be that guy that says his back sucks. It's always going to suck. He's never going to win the Olympia. You know, I don't I don't like to speak in absolutes like that. And I don't like to I don't like to say that someone's incapable of ever achieving their goals. And I'm talking about the pros right now because they all work hard. They all uh they all despect the hard work ethic. I'm just making sure no more some of the comments are coming in on the actual posts of video. So, I'm I know I'm missing a few, but yeah, I thank you. Thank you, Jan, for that. That's my thing. What's up, Kion? Appreciate that. Of all the magazines, which is the best. Well, there are no more magazines. I'd say though, for a long time, MD and Flex were I won't say one was better than the other, but they were both excellent. There was a period of a few years there. Um, I'd say when Peter McGuff was the editor of Flex, uh, I can't remember who was the editor of MD at the time. It wasn't me. Uh, but does it's not really who was it? Was it Ry? Anyway, it doesn't matter. The magazines were both over 400 pages. Uh, they had tons and tons of athletes under contract. We were trying to outdo each other. It was kind of like a Coca-Cola Pepsi Cola rivalry situation. So, you know, that forced both of us to keep stepping up our game, get more controversial, get better, more and better athletes signed, the photography, the layouts, everything. We were really had to be on our agame because Flex was trying to shut us down. We were trying to shut them down. We wanted all their subscribers and we wanted everyone to buy MD and they wanted everyone to buy Flex. You know, a lot of people bought both anyway, but I'd say Flex and MD at that time. Although I always liked uh Iron Man, which I wrote, that was the original magazine I started writing for back in early 92 and I wrote for them for over 20 years, well over 20 years. Uh they were very different. They weren't as commercialized. Um they were more about the training really really training and and geared more towards training and nutrition for regular people, not so much routines of the pros and here's how Ronnie Coleman diets. It was more geared toward regular human beings, if that makes any sense. And Muscle Mag International was a great magazine. Rest in peace, Bob Kennedy. It was it was a really fun magazine because Bob was someone who had a deep passion for the sport. He was an artist along with his his uh partner in the magazine, Gino Edwards, aka Johnny Fitness. They put out a really different magazine. It had more of a fun fun vibe to it. you you really you really came away from every issue just having a a deeper love for the sport. I think it wasn't again and they weren't very commercialized either. They did have a lot of like star profiles of the pros and things like that and training and I was very fortunate to write quite a bit of those but uh I'd say that was just a golden era. The golden era for magazines was probably 95 to 2005 that that 10 year span. Then social media really started started to permeate the industry and you know as soon as things like Instagram got big and YouTube got big that was sort of the the death nail for magazines and now they're all gone. What do you think is the best supplement stack for natural bodybuilder? Currently 36. So you don't need a lot of supplements as a natural bodybuilder. Um, I would stick with the ones that are proven, tried and true. Uh, creatine monohydrate, thousands of studies have been done on it, proven it's effective, more muscular endurance, strength gain. Uh, it attracts muscle uh, water into the muscle cells. It's a great cheap supplement. Anybody can use five grams a day, put it in your shakes or dry scoop it, whatever. Creatine monohydrate works great. uh a multivitamin mineral if you're not taking one of those just to make sure you're getting all the proper nutrients that you need every day. Uh I also take antioxidants, extra things like uh vitamin C, D3 plus K2, uh gez, co-enzyme Q12. I take quite a few, but like I said, I I told you I was going to tell you to keep it simple, so I should really stay on that track with you here. Whey protein isolate, it's basically just food. It's made from eggs. It's, you know, it's made from what they used to just throw away that part of the eggs the way the the skim that rose to the top u during pasteurization. But whey protein, a multivitamin, uh creatine monohydrate, and a pre-workout. I mean, you could just use coffee, espresso, something like that with high caffeine, but there are plenty of good pre-workouts out there. Right now, I'm I'm with a company called Legion Sports. Uh the link is in my descriptions and everything. 20% off your first order. They make they make really good products, but I wouldn't I wouldn't I wouldn't steer you towards uh things like test boosters, things like that because I I don't feel they're very effective. Uh having tried them myself as a natural bodybuilder, which I was a natural bodybuilder for many years before I started on gear. Um and I didn't see any of those, you know, I they were sort of in their infancy back then, but I still don't think the test boosters do a whole lot to boost your test. Uh, but yeah, you can't go wrong with the basic stuff. Creatine, multivitamin, whey protein, and a pre-workout formula. It's really all you need. I wouldn't get too fancy with it. We're drinking five plus liters a day. O, I had problem going to the bathroom all day. Yeah, join the club. Any tips? Based on submit, I heard you should drink one liter per 20 kilos. So, yeah, five liters is uh it's a lot. I mean, I don't know if you necessarily need five liters all the time. If you're in a hot environment, if you're sweating a lot, uh if you're if you have an active job, yeah, I mean, I'd say we don't use liters here in the USA. We're still stuck with that old uh measurement system, gallons. I'd say like a gallon, a gallon a day is a is a good base level water intake for most people. Um you shouldn't be peeing all the time. If you're if you have to urinate say more than twice an hour, you probably don't you're taking in more fluid than you need. Um I I know there are these formulas telling you this is how much per per compound of body weight, but it's an individual thing. Um I guess you could probably go down to four liters. Like I said, you shouldn't be in the bathroom all day. It shouldn't be to the point where you know it, for instance, I walk my dog twice a day. They're like 45 minute walks and I drink about a gallon to a gallon and a half a day. It's It becomes more as we get towards summertime, but right now a gallon gallon and a half a day is probably I'm probably at a gallon to be honest with you guys. Plus a couple cups of coffee. I don't really count. Um but anyway, when I get back from walking in 45 minute walk, even if I peed right before I left the house, I have to pee again. But I'm 55 years old. I'm sure my prostate gland is grown. and it's pushing against the bladder and I'm in a different situation than you because I think you said you're 17. So, you shouldn't be having to pee that much. If so, cut the fluid intake down a little bit. Uh, you know, if you if you have things like dry skin and dry scalp and you're thirsty all the time, yeah, that's an indication you probably do need to be drinking more, but I I have a suspicion you're drinking more than you need right now. When does the grow into the show face and hold it together with cardio and caffeine phase grow into the show, I'm not saying it's impossible. The old school guys did it, but this is what they were doing. Growing into a show um really just means you're adding you're adding muscle mass while you're losing body fat, which you're not gaining you're not going to be able to put on new muscle mass unless you're blasting a [\h__\h] ton of gear. But even so, what most people say is they were in their offseason. Uh they were off gear for a little while and then once the prep started, usually 16 weeks, that's like the random arbitrary number we all came up with. That's how long a contest prep should be. So that's when they get on their diet, very strict, and they introduce the steroids again, the growth hormone, insulin, whatever, which they've been off for a couple months typically. So, if you've been off all the gear for a couple months, off all the peeds, you are going to put your muscle back on. You're not really growing. You're just putting back the muscle that you had on the muscle that you only have when you're on drugs. Because, as I've said before, when you're on drugs, that muscle mass, a substantial amount of the muscle you carry when you're on drugs is rented. Once you stop the drugs, you're going to lose part of that. So, when you do lose part of it and you go back on the drugs and gain, it can seem like you're growing to the show. you're not really growing. Because think about it, to get lean, to lose body fat, you need to be in a caloric deficit. You need to be taking in less calories than you're expending. So, if you're putting out, if you're expending, you're burning 2,000 calories a day and you're eating 2,000 calories a day, nothing will change. You won't lose anything. You need to go down to say like 1,800 calories a day. I'm just I'm not saying these are numbers you should follow. I'm just giving out random random numeric examples here. So when you're in that caloric deficit, now your body starts getting rid of the fat. Or you can create that same deficit by doing cardio and now your energy expenditure, now you're burning more calories. So you could take in the same amount of calories, but if you're burning more calories, now you're also going to be in that caloric deficit. So yeah, but if you're asking like uh that there's really very very rare situations where you're growing muscle going into a show. So, I I I tell I tell just about everybody, anybody that I'm coaching or just anybody that's in prep is don't worry about gaining muscle. You have to shift your focus from gaining muscle now to just maintaining the muscle as best you can while get riding get getting rid of as much body fat as humanly possible. That's the goal. If you're worried about still gaining muscle psychologically, you're gonna have a very hard time eating less because you're like, "Oh no, I'm not gonna be able to make any gains." Well, you're not you're not supposed to be making gains. Now, that's what the off seasonason is for. That's why we have these phases of the year as competitive bodybuilders. We have an off seasonason where the goal is you eat a lot of food. You still do some cardio, but you don't do a ton of cardio and your calories are higher. They're in a surplus. They're more you're taking in more calories than you're expending. That gives your body all the raw building blocks, the nutrients, the calories it needs to theoretically help you synthesize new muscle tissue, lean muscle mass. Then you switch into prep mode. Again, that random arbitrary 16week mark. That's just what most people do. I don't even know who started the 16 weeks, how that all came about years ago. That's when your focus has to shift from, okay, now forget about building. I'm in the gym to maintain my muscle. You're still training hard. And this is another thing, another mistake that I made and I still see a lot of people make is they start doing a lot more intensity techniques, drop sets, super sets, four reps, all that kind of thing, and their training volume increases and their intensity increases as they're getting towards a show, which now you don't have all that food that you had a couple months ago. Now you're doing more cardio, you're burning more calories, so your body doesn't have the resources to gain any muscle. So, what can happen a lot of times, even when you're on drugs, is you can lose muscle because you're just burning you're burning the candle at both ends. You're doing too much. You know, like with my son, I say, "I don't want you doing any super sets, drop sets, anything the last couple like the last eight, 10 weeks, I said, straight heavy sets. Straight heavy sets. Nothing crazy. You're just training to maintain the muscle mass. You're still training as hard as you can, as heavy as you can, but you're not trying to destroy yourself in the gym every time. And I know that the temptation is always there to do it in prep because you're looking better. You're in tank top now. You're in your shorts. You're tan. You got the veins. You never want to leave the gym. You want to keep training harder. You're motivated. You just want to do more. I'm going to super set this. I'm going to do a trip. I'm going to do a giant set. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do that. You know, you find yourself in the gym with weights for two hours because it you're looking in the mirror. You're looking fantastic. You're so highly motivated. The show is coming up. But you have to really curb your enthusiasm, temper that, and realize your body doesn't have the resources that it had before. So, step back, realize you probably need to cut the volume down, train as heavy as you can, but straight sets. Just go to failure, and that's it. You don't need to be doing drop sets, super sets, giant sets, none of that. That's for the offseason when your body has uh a fighting chance to grow instead of now you're putting yourself at the chance of going into a catabolic state. We're going to lose muscle mass. You don't want to lose muscle mass going into a show. Nobody does. Not even the guys that are 300 pounds on stage want to lose muscle mass. And those of us who are mere mortals, o, no, no, no. Steon, good luck to your son's contest. Fuse well for my life. Goal seven son. Yeah. I mean, uh, so my kids are 31 and he's 25. He'll be 26 in September. And no regrets. You know, I was I said this because my daughter had her birthday a few weeks ago, a couple weeks ago. And I I was just scared shitless when when my wife told me she was pregnant. So that would have been like fall of 1993. I was and I'm 20 at that point. I think I was just turning 20 23 or just turning 24 in the fall of 93. Scared shitless. Did not want to be a dad. I don't want I didn't want that responsibility. Uh to be honest, I didn't want to have to deal with a baby and all that. I was like, "Oh, no, no, no. This this is too soon. We've only been married a couple years, two years at this point." And now we're going to become parents and we're going to have to live for the for some baby and but you know looking back wouldn't trade it for the world. Uh but thank you for the good luck. Stick to the basics kids. Big Mike Cox knows he's not as old as me but he's not far behind and he is big. Still big. What do you think is the best supplement stack for experienced natural bio training 15 years? Currently is 36. I think you uh were you the guy that Yeah. So I answered that question. Yeah. Basic stuff. Basic stuff. protein powder, whey protein powder, creatine, a pre-workout, a multivitamin. There's really no need to get too much fancier than that. I mean, you could get into health supplements like fish oil, extra vitamin C, vitamin D3, and K2. I would add in some health supplements if your budget allows it, uh, just for general health because the healthier you are, the better your progress is going to be. That's why I say uh a lot of guys who are abusing gear like taking a lot of amounts, their their health is being negatively impacted and that does affect your gains. Even though you're on all these drugs now, your body's not running well efficiently. Your organs are struggling. Your liver, your kidneys, your heart, they're all having a tough time. You can't possibly be the best athlete. Whether you consider bodybuilding athlete an athletic pursuit or not, you can't possibly be your best if you're not healthy. So, be healthy. Stephan says, "Growing the show means you've gotten all the fat off early going to a contest, increasing calories. Sample Brandon Curry this year." Um, I I wouldn't necessarily call that growing into the show because growing into the show, most people when they say that, they do mean that they're growing. They they're they think they're actually putting on muscle mass. But I hear what you're saying. I do like to see people being ready for a show. Like when I coach people, I'm not trying to wait until the very last minute to get all the fat off. I'd rather have them at two weeks out from a show, you should be pretty much ready to get on stage. Like if phone call came and said, "Hey, we had to move the contest to this weekend." You wouldn't be like, "Oh, no. I need two more weeks." You like, "All right, okay." I mean, I don't get to do my peak weekend, but I could do it. So, yeah, if you're getting if you get all the fat off a week or two before the show, you are allowed to eat a little bit more. Whereas, if you're struggling all the way up until contest day to lose fat, that means, you know, you're still depleting, you're still doing all that cardio, you're still going very low, maybe even zero carbs for like you might be doing that every day. Don't want to do that. You don't want to go into the show weak and tired and depleted. I mean, that's why people do the whole carb depleting and loading thing, which I'm not a fan of. I did it myself and I I used to have clients do it, and I really don't do that anymore. Now, I just have them instead of depleting, I just have them eat a few more carb, few more couple more carb meals the last couple days. It's all you really need. Eat up. Just be nice and full and rested and relaxed. You haven't trained. I have them stop training for a couple days so the muscles have time to fill out the glycogen in the muscles and yeah, you'll be you'll be perfectly rested up and ready for contest day. Kalan again, which non-negotiable variable would dis would associate the most importance with training and nutrition genetics? Um, did I put this up on Instagram the other day? There was an interesting uh it's in my stories. Oh, Drew Bay put it up. Drew Bay put it up. Let me let me show it to you. It's actually a pie chart that Drew Bay Drew Bay is David Ba's brother. Uh, David Bay was the MC for the Classic. But anyway, Drew is a trainer. He's a very smart guy. I want to show you something. He or did he post it in my He posted in my thing. I'm sorry. He posted it on my page in a thread I did yesterday and it was a pie chart representing the importance of of things and I think it's it's really dead on. Uh so that was on Ah, here we go. It was in this thread. Was in this thread. Yep. That's right. Ah, here we go. Okay. All right, guys. So, take a look at this. Drew Bay made this. I did not make this, but I totally agree with it. It's a hierarchy. So, can you read that? It's showing. Yeah. What most people believe is required for success in bodybuilding. You can see uh training is a the biggest part of the training and supplements are sort of equal in this pie chart of what we think is required for success. Genetics is still a sliver there of the pie. Drugs are a pretty big chunk there. Diet little less than drugs. Um you you know you think a lot of people would tell you diet's like half of it. Um but in the bottom you can see genetics in the second pie chart. Let me move that up a little. No, I can't do it. So genetics uh is half the pie chart in reality. Supplements little tiny sliver. They're not the big giant sliver up top there. big chunk of the pie. Drugs not as important as people think. Not to say that they don't work and that they aren't required to have that freaky look that pro bodybuilders have. They are. But without this genetics here, this big chunk here, if you don't have great genetics, you're never going to be huge. You can be a lot bigger than you are. And regular people are going to be impressed by you. But put you in a in a room full of pro bodybuilders, you're not going to you're not going to look like one of them. You'll again, you'll be big. You're not going to be that big. You're not going to be freaky crazy bit big where people like, "Geez, look at that guy." So training training not as important. I know training and diet, it's I I hate to admit that it's it's not as important as genetics, but I've seen so many people with gifted genetics over the years, and they're a rare breed. So when I say a lot of people, they're not a huge percentage of the population, but I've seen a lot of those individuals over the years, and I've seen them with really poor diets. They don't eat enough. They eat the wrong things, junk food, fast food, skipping a lot of meals. The training, I see them just uh cruising along, not training that hard, just doing exercise they like to do, pumping, things like that, or just doing some ego lifting, things that I wouldn't consider proper training, and they still look freaking amazing because, you know, they're genetic freaks. All right. Do you think when you're obese as a teen, the loose skin will make a real big impact? So the lucky the lucky thing is is like I I was talking before about loose skin from a 73-y old gentleman brought it up. Uh collagen is is abundant in your skin when you're young. So that means if you had uh if you were obese as a young a very young person, say a child and a teenager, you can still if you lose the fat, the skin will sort of snap back like an elastic. That's what we're talking about. Elasticity. Collagen makes your skin elastic. So it will go back for the most part. you shouldn't have much loose skin. However, as you get older, the longer you're obese and the longer that skin is stretched out and now you're older and your skin doesn't have as much collagen in it, now you're going to have that loose skin. But for most people who are obese, unless they're like morbidly obese, and you don't see too many very young people that are at that stage of obesity, you should be able to have a very minimal amount of loose skin, if any. Uh, I've known a lot of people, bodybuilders, that Evan Senapan is a great example. He was a fat kid. Uh by the time he got to high school, I think he had started slimming down. He wasn't obese, but he was a pretty fat, chubby boy. He's posted pictures of it. And obviously there was no loose skin on Evans Centipani. Um and you've seen I've seen other examples of people who are they were heavy. They were overweight when they were younger. So, the older you are as an obese person and the longer you've been obese and that skin has been stretched out, the less the chances are that that skin's ever going to go back snap back to uh to be tight on the body like it was. See, in good shape as always, I'm trying to I'm trying. I'm trying. Do you get new shoulder be able to train delts again? Yeah, Mike. I' I've actually been talking to some people who had it done uh in my area. a couple actually had the same surgeon that I'm going to be seeing in. Um I I guess you can't ever go back obviously to what you used to do. You know, I used to be a shoulder training stud. I was never like the greatest bench presser. I could never bench press much, but d I I I could press 120 pound dumbbells overhead seated dumbbell press for 10 12 reps any day of the week. And on a really good day, I could do the 130s. Uh I did 315 military presses for 8 10 reps many times. Even when I was when I was very young, I was in my early 30s, I could do it behind the neck, which was stupid, but is what it is. So, I do expect to be able to train again much better than I'm able to train now, but nowhere near as as well as I was able to train 20, 30 years ago. I mean, I I'm not being greedy. If I could have if I could be free of pain right now, that's the main thing. Just getting out of pain because it's it's it's constant. It's 247 now. It's hard to sleep. It's uh it's hard to get comfortable. I can't sleep on the side obviously, but even on my back, I try to find a position where can I how can I put my arm where the shoulder doesn't hurt and it's it's it's a challenge, but it I do expect to be able to train again better than I'm been training for a while. So, if I can put back just a little bit of the mass that I've lost on my chest and my shoulders, I'll be very happy. I mean, like my legs, I I never expect my legs are never going to be what they used to be. I tore my quad. Uh I've AI've been able to put back about 80% 85% maybe of the mass I had on my legs. It's never going to be what it was. But it's still pretty good. And I'm I have to be happy with that. I can't be greedy. I have to I I really try to be grateful for what I'm still able to do, what I do have now instead of crying about what I used to be able to do or what I used to have. Because what is that? This that's just self-pity that gets you nowhere. It's a pity party. Do wide hips mean bad police in the classic? Yes. Yes, they do. Sorry to say. Um, the wide hips, the only division you might be able to get away with wide hips is bodybuilding. And in that, I have to temper that by saying the only way you'll get away with wider hips in bodybuilding is if you have very, very wide shoulders and you build so much muscle mass on top of the clavicles and on in the upper back so that you're so wide up top that the wide hips aren't as distracting. You don't because otherwise you're going to look like a block. You're going to be built like Spongebob. Spongebob doesn't win bodybuilding shows, guys. You want to have that V, the V taper for your upper body. A small waist, wide shoulders and upper back. So, if your hips are wide, if they're the same width as your shoulders, you're blocky. You're square. You're built more like a refrigerator. And honestly, it doesn't even matter what division. Ideally, every division is looking for that same structure. wide shoulders, narrow hips and waist, and arms and legs that aren't overly long or overly short. Ideal bone structure. Because when when we talk about structure, I know a lot of people don't understand what that means. Structure, you know, shape, muscle shape, muscle structure. Structure is your bones and all that is it's it's obviously you can't change your bone structure. You're born with it. And either your your shoulders, your clavicles, they're either going to be narrow, average, or wide. Your hips either going to be narrow, average, or wide. Ideally, for any division, whether it's any of the women's divisions or even a men's division. We're talking about men's physique, those guys crazy Vtapers. Classic physique, they want to see a crazy Vtaper. Open bodybuilding, they still want to see a good vtaper. I mean, that's part of the reason Andrew Jack beat Sassan Herat last weekend. Sassan was in better condition. He's got a good amount of muscle. Andrew is obviously, you know, a giant compared to him, but still Andrew has that superior structure. Very, very wide shoulders, narrow waist. Sassan, average clavicles and waist is it's average. So, he doesn't have much of a Vtaper. And I'll tell you, when when the lineup first comes out, before anybody hits a pose, when they're just standing there in that front relaxed position, I can usually get a very good idea of who's going to place where before a single pose has been hit, just based on what I'm seeing before me, the bone structure, the muscle shape, the size, the definition. I can sort of take it all in very quickly. And I'm usually pretty accurate. So, yeah, wide hips are going to be bad, unfortunately. And I I know it's something you can't change, so I feel bad in telling you this, but I have to be truthful. wide hips. Only way you could possibly get away with wide hips is in bodybuilding. And even then, uh even if you've built so much mass up top to sort of compensate for it, you're still probably going to get beat by someone else who has maybe less mass but better structure, narrow hips, wider shoulders and upper back. It's a physique contest. It's like a beauty pageant. What's your favorite hobby besides everything bodybuilding? Of course, let me see if anything's come in on Facebook. Okay. I know. Uh, horror movies. Yeah, I am a huge, huge horror fan. If you could tell by all the horror tattoos I have. Uh, horror movies have been my thing since I was three, four years old. I've seen thousands and thousands of horror movies. Um, huge. Some of them I've seen 20, 30 times. Uh, I just love horror. I love Halloween. My favorite holiday. dressing up in the in the scary costumes, going to haunted attractions. I've been to Knots Halloween uh what's it called now? Knots Not Scary Farm or Knots Halloween Haunt out in Anaheim, California or it's near I'm sorry, it's in Buen Park. I've been to that like 20 times. Uh I go to Halloween balls and been to one in Vegas. Yeah. So, horror and Halloween by far. I mean, I could talk horror movies. You know, the the two things I could talk about all day with somebody who's equally passionate. I could talk horror, horror, horror movies, books. I'm a huge Stephen King fan. I've read everything he's ever written. Uh I write horror fiction myself. There's there's a link in the description uh to my hor I've got two collections of short horror stories I've written that are on on Amazon Kindle. Um yeah, so that that's my hobby. You know, most people that know me are they know that. John, 30 minutes cardio npm strict diet, HVT high volume training the best advice for elephant skin. Do you agree? Uh, well, John, if you're talking if if by elephant skin you mean loose skin, the problem with loose skin is it's not going anywhere because it's not fat. You can shrink, you can get rid of body fat, you can get super lean. Absolutely. Um, but I'm not sure if you're talking about elephant elephant skin being wrinkly or loose or both. Um, if you have a lot of wrinkly skin, if you have a lot of loose skin, yeah, I mean, the body fat's not going to not going to help. You see, you see a lot of these uh masters bodybuilders who are even older than me, guys in their 60s and 70s, uh they they do tend to have loose skin and wrinkles and things like that, even when they get very lean. And there's nothing you can do for that aside from surgical intervention, unfortunately. I mean, I wish I wish it weren't the case. I wish we could just get lean and the the wrinkles would be gone and the and the loose skin would be gone, but it's skin that's been stretched out. And as like I said, we've lost collagen over the years. It's never coming back. It's it's that ship has sailed. Everyone like the video. Thank you, Jasper. Uh what are some good things to stack for growth when running test? I mean, geez, everything test test works well just like about everything. It's it's like uh it's like a universal donor type of steroid, if that makes sense. I mean, the the the stack that people have used the most over decades and decades, I'm talking like 60 years of steroid users, test, deca, and dbol. You can't go wrong. If you can't if you can't gain muscle when you're on test, deca, and dbol, take up golf or something because you are not meant for bodybuilding. That should be enough to pack on muscle for anybody. But like I said, test stacks well with just about anything. testing trend, testing deca, testing equipoise. Uh I I don't mention the other things because you know people are starting to use things like primobolin for offseason because it is a little bit safer and they can run in higher doses but classics the classic the classic offseason building drugs for years and years have been test deca equipoise orals like anadrol uh dianabal very very effective cheap they're the cheapest drugs compared to the ones that people use for prep like anavar primobolan uh much much more expensive. Windstrol premable is very expensive, guys. Very it's like three times more expensive than test at least. Um, so yeah, test test works well with just about everything. So, hope that answered your question. Matt likes to stir things up. We're talking about Matt Sinkerang. That's entertaining. Does offer some decent feedback. Yeah, Matt has a good eye for physiques. Like I said, I don't agree with everything. And that's again, that's why that's why I do I do enjoy going on his show on Monday nights, the Muscle Discord uh live show, because I want to make sure it's not like I'm trying to police him or anything. Obviously, it's his show. It's his channel, but I want to make sure that uh you know there's there's a counterpoint because sometimes him and Phil are in total agreement when they're talking about somebody or some subject and I have a very different opinion. And I like the opportunity to to introduce another point of view, another opinion. That's really what I'm there for. You know, he's he's a good dude. I like Matt. When you're deep in prep, motivation dips, you go full savage moral structure, routine to push through. Yeah. Uh I don't think moivation never dipped when I was in prep. If anything, I was always more motivated because I had that date coming up. Yeah. I mean, I can't think of any times I've ever been more motivated to to train, even though the energy is low. You know, I can distinctly remember I'd be exhausted almost all the time. Uh, you know, day-to-day tasks, getting my work done, the writing stuff, it was like I had this, it was a grind. I was like living on caffeine. But usually when I got to the gym, um, suddenly I would have this boost of energy because, you know, I was just so motivated seeing myself in the mirror and seeing the cuts and the splits, the striations and the veins and think and in my head I knew the date. I always knew exactly, okay, I have three weeks and two days or I have four weeks and four days left. It's coming up on July 14th or it's coming up on October 3rd, whatever date it was. I knew that's the day I was going to be up on stage in those little bitty trunks. Nothing to hide. people were going to see every aspect of the physique front to back, top to bottom. Had to be as lean as humanly possible. So, as much as I hated the diet at that point, I wanted to eat more food. I wanted to eat junk food. I had cravings and I'd be I'd be very hungry at night in particular. I remember like late at night waking up because I was so hungry. My my stomach would be like tying itself in knots. But, uh, just the motivation of knowing knowing that the show was coming up on this specific day and I had to look my best and I really wanted to win. And for me, uh, I always knew because I wasn't gifted genetically. I had a little little better than average genetics, but they weren't great genetics. The only way I had a chance of beating a lot of guys was to just be way better condition than them. So that was my motivation to diet stricter, do a little bit more cardio, suffer, just grind through it because I knew I I have to be sh I'm like my son now he's he's only 134 pounds. He cannot afford to be anything less than shredded to the bone. Even though it's a natural these are natural shows he's doing. They're both drug tested. He's still not going to be the biggest guy by far. But if I can make sure he's in condition and make sure he's going to be posing like a veteran, like a champ, he's going to have the best possible chance of winning, placing, whatever. And you know, we have no expectations. We're just getting him in the best shape he's ever been in his life. Uh it's going to be a great learning experience. He's going to make new friends. It's just it's going to be a lot of fun regardless of what happens, whether he wins, takes last place, whatever happens, you know, it's going to be a cool day. That makes sense. Thank for answering. Your job is great. Thank you. Appreciate that. I'm very very grateful that Giles does uh Power Hour with me. So, quick thank you from Fellow 50 plus. Thank you, man. Thank you, Will. Appreciate that very much. Over 50, man. We we grew up in a very different era, didn't we? Yes, we did. Do we know anything about the Pittsburgh Pro live stream? Oh, that's still four weeks away. You know, unfortunately, Gab, I will not be able to watch the Pittsburgh Pro. Uh I will be at my son's contest. My son is competing that day in the NPC natural Massachusetts. NPC just started with natural shows last year, I believe, rolling out more of them. Uh, and we had already targeted an O an organization called OCB does a show called Spirit of America every spring. It's a big natural show they do out on Cape Cod here in Massachusetts. So that was the goal and but then when the schedule the NPC schedule came out, I saw that. So the OCB show was on Sunday, May 4th. And then I saw this was happening May 10th in Massachusetts. Okay, it's not even a week later. It's literally six days later. So, you're already in shape. This is I'm telling this to my son. Get get another show under your belt. Get up there and do stage time. And another thing, uh I'm sorry I'm off topic about the Pittsburgh. It's just because I won't be I won't be able to watch it. I'm going to be at my son's show all day and I coaching him. Uh, but you know, when as we get closer to Pittsburgh, I'll be doing previews of the show and I'll have in if there's information about the stream, of course, I'm going to share that with you guys. I'm I'm certain they're going to have a live stream. They they're not going to they're not going to be like Fibo um who did not have a live stream. I'm very very very confident Pittsburgh will have a very good quality. They'll probably get Gilko to do it. I mean, it's Jim Manion show. He's the president. He's he's the top of the food chain. It's going to be perfectly produced, huge show. Uh they they'll have a live stream. Can't remember what I was talking about. Opinion on Dorian's training. If you think people should train like him, I'm sorry. Post Temple gym sucks to close down. Uh like I said, I mentioned Drew Bay earlier who who made that pie chart. He's a huge proponent of hit training, Dorian style, Mike Mener style, very brief workouts, very high intensity, uh, going to failure and beyond, and then giving the body plenty of time to rest. So, wait, in that scenario, in that style of training, hit the weight training workouts, they're supposed to be about a half hour, give or take. Shouldn't be much longer than that. Um, one or two working sets per exercise. People do it, people have their own little variations on it, but I have trained that way. I I don't know if it's any more effective. There's, to my knowledge, there's never been an actual, you know, double blind university study where they took one group and trained them this style H, you know, hit style, very low volume, and another style with more volume. If you guys know of a study like that, I'd be very curious to hear about it. So, if something like that was done with plenty of participants who were not newbies, um, a lot of a problem with a lot of those training studies that they're using they're using untrained subjects who were going to make gains anyway. So, it's kind of hard to compare the way they the results they would get versus those of us who have been training for a long long time, even for a few years, you have a lot more training experience and your body's a lot more acclimated to training. U, but that being said, I didn't care for it personally. Uh, I feel like it's very hard to do on your own. Probably best done with a really good trainer who's uh adept and skilled at that type of training to be able to push you. It's very hard to motivate yourself to do just one absolute set to failure and beyond and then nothing else. It's hard to avoid the temptation, well that was good, but I want to do another set. They say, well, if you do it right, you won't want to do another set. It's very hard to get yourself to that high of an intensity level where one set of an exercise is literally all you want or need. You know, when I was training when Dorian trained me twice, Dorian put me through a bicep workout back in New Jersey in was it 2009 or something, it was like a 20-minute workout at most. I think it was more like 15 minutes. It was three exercises. Uh he would he would have me do a couple warm-up sets and then it was like one all out set. Super high intensity. Uh I think I have the uh actually have it in my photos. Put it back. Come on, Ron. Get rid of that one. Oh well, you don't need to see it. It's fine. You don't need to see it. Uh so then I did not I didn't feel like I wanted to do anymore. But when I tried on my own, uh, obviously I didn't push myself quite as hard as Dorian was able to push me. Same thing when he put me through legs. That one time he trained me on legs in Birmingham, England at Temple. That was one of the toughest leg workouts of my life. And I trained very hard. I I always train very hard. Push to failure and beyond. But that was something else because I would do what I thought was the last rep and Dory would make me do another and another and another, you know, and I'm like ready to pass out. Uh, you know, blood pressure through the roof, I'm sure, from the effort, the straining. Um, and I definitely didn't want to do anything else for legs when we're done with that. I was it was all I could do just to walk out of that gym. But I didn't find it very enjoyable. I I like a little bit more volume. I like a little bit more variety of exercises. Um, it's it's personal preference. If you don't like a certain way of training, if it's not enjoyable to you, you know, I'm not saying it's all it should be all fun and games, but you should enjoy your training. If you don't, you're not really going to put that much enthusiasm and effort into it because you're you're you're having a bad time. So, should you train like it? I would say give it a try. Give it a try. If you like it, if you get great results, it's for you. If you try it and the opposite, you don't care for it, you're not putting on a lot of muscle mass. I do think most people, if they've never trained with abbreviated training with a lower volume and high intensity and more rest days built into the week, I think most people would probably do well on it and make some gains at least for a little while just because I think a lot of us happen to walk around in an overtrained state. we've sort of gotten used to it, so we don't really recognize it anymore, but you know, we're we're doing more than we need to do. We're training too many days a week without taking rest days. We're doing too many sets, too many different exercises. I mean, I I'm AI'm a perpetrator myself. So, if you go from that to something that's much lower volume with a lot more rest built into it, I think anybody would make good gains on it for a while. And if you keep making gains, keep doing it. I always say, if it ain't broke, don't fix it. So, if you try it and it keeps working well, keep keep going until the wheels fall off. But if you start to feel like burnt out on it, like ah uh dreading your workouts um and you're just not making progress anymore, go back to your volume. And you know, there's no you're not legally obligated to stick with any one style of training forever anyway. You could try hit for a while. You could you could do hit. You could go back to volume. You know, you could change your training split. You're free to train whatever way you want. So, switch things up a as needed. Uh, but like again, if as I said, if something is working, particular exercises, styles, techniques, keep doing them. And as long as you're getting results, don't stop. That's the bottom line. Mike Cox says, "Mile when you mentioned the magazine, man. That was great. Iron Man MD Flexim, great boost to the Arnold, too." You actually asked a couple questions, Mike, uh, that I want to get to. you asked him in the comments that I want to get to before uh before people started posting. Uh so Mike said, "Did Shawn Ray use a ghostriter?" So I can only speak for Shawn when he wrote for MD because I have he was writing in the Weer magazines too, I believe, but he did not have a ghostriter. He wrote his own columns. I do know this. Uh he did require some editorial cleanup as most people do. I remember like run I because I remember one time or I should say for a while I did a column called how I see it. Uh and at one time it was for a long time I think for a couple years it was Sean Dorian and Kev Sean Dorian Yates and Kevin Levon. I would ask the same question and all three of them would send me their either send me their responses. Actually they didn't. I I had to call Dorian and get his answer over the phone and I would transcribe it. The same thing with Kevin. Sean would send me his and I would just have to clean it up. There would be like run on sentences, grammar, things like that, but he wrote it himself. I I never put words in Sean's mouth. Uh, so he did write his own stuff. Uh, you had another one. Mike also asked, "How big was Nubane in your area back in the days?" So, Nubane is an opiate, a synthetic, a synthetic opiate similar to methadone, heroin, uh, you know, that class of drugs. bodybuilders were using it extensively in the 1990s all over the country, probably all over the world. Uh, it was a big deal. I mean, Giles talked about he was addicted to it for a while. The late Paul Deo was addicted. A lot of guys were addicted because they would take it before training so that they really wouldn't feel any pain. It was a painkiller. So, they were training high and then they would go home and like, well, now I want to relax, so I'll take some more New Bane and chill out. So they ended up being on Newbane like, you know, 24 hours of all waking hours they were on New Bane. Uh I I never used it, you know, probably for a good thing because I have an addictive personality. I would I probably would have loved it and probably would have kept using it. Uh but I was working in the 90s. I was working most of that decade in TV production as well as writing on the side for the magazines. So I couldn't afford to be high. I was I was actually pretty pretty straight edge for most of the 90s, most of my 20s because I was uh I was a natural bodybuilder for most of that decade. And I didn't drink. I didn't smoke pot. Anything that would ruin my gains, I would I would stay away from. I was I was pretty uh pretty good kid. But uh New Bane, I never knew about people using it, but people all around me were using it and they just weren't talking about it. So in the 90s, I was in LA most of that decade and it was huge in that Venice. But I lived, remember I lived about 30 miles east in the San Gabriel Valley. I would go I would only be in Venice either for the weekends. I used to I would go down and train at Golds and walk around the boardwalk. We'd go to the beach. I love Venice Beach, Santa Monica, that whole area. I would go there almost every weekend if the weather was right, which it usually was. So it was it was a big deal. It was it was very widespread, widely used in that whole community of bodybuilders in in Los Angeles in the 90s. But I wasn't part of that little click. All right, back to the comments. Non-negotiable variables. I lost my place. Sorry, guys. It happens to me. Thank you. Your mom's flipfall my [\h__\h] Okay. Whey protein made from eggs. Yeah. It's made from milk. No, it's made from made from milk, isn't it? Yeah, it's made from milk. It's when they I think it's when they pasteurize milk. It's the stuff that floats to the top, the curds and whey. And they used to for for hundreds of years, I think for for many years, they used to throw it away and then somebody must have done a test and realized how nutritious it was. Uh, five lose. They put them in the bathroom. Yeah. Yeah. I already talked about that. You drink it too much. You probably drink it too much. When best to take creatine? Right before the workout. Right before the workout. Uh, I would have it if you if it's already part of your pre-workout shake or if not, I would just do either put a scoop, a five gram scoop in your pre-workout or I would dry scoop it right before you head to the gym, take a swig of water or part of your pre-workout, but that way it's going to be circulating in your system and readily available. You know, some people do more than five grams. Some people will do there there's a lot of uh there's evidence coming out that there are additional benefits to things like memory for with higher doses of creatine. Uh, but generally speaking, you know, you can you'll get by pretty well on five or 10 grams a day. Raymond says, "I saw Bon the movie magazine dreams. What if they mention MD?" I don't think so. In fact, Bion didn't like the movie. I was trying to watch it uh if it was available for rent for just like, you know, four, five, six bucks. I was going to I was going to watch it last weekend, but I looked on on demand and right now because it's not in any theaters. My son was going to go to the theater to see that with his friend. It wasn't playing anywhere around us. So, on on demand, uh, Verizon, Vios, Verizon is our cable provider, internet provider, whatever. It was available for pre-order for $24.99. I'm like, I'm not going to [\h__\h] buy the movie. I don't I don't need to see it that badly. What's one myth about contest prep? You still need to be buried for like six feet deep. So, I think I would go back to the one I said is that you should train longer and harder with weights in prep. Totally, totally counterproductive. If anything, you need to do a little bit less with the weights. Keep it keep it really basic and heavy, just enough to keep the muscle mass, keep your size, keep your fullness instead of beating the [\h__\h] out of your body when it's in a in a depleted state. You're taking in less calories, fewer carbs, fewer good fats, you're doing more cardio. It's a it's a horrible situation to be suddenly asking your body, let's train way more and way harder. No. So that would be the number one thing. Co-enzyme Q12. Whey protein comes from you feeling all right. What's wrong with co-enzyme Q12? Yeah, whey protein comes from milk. Problem with sometimes when I'm doing these, I'm I'm reading ahead and yeah, I make stupid mistakes. 17 I do more than two an hour. Actually, extra tip. Two in an hour. Yeah, if you're going if if you're urinating more than twice in an hour, that's that's being four meals enough for a day. So cult if they're big meals, if you're eating four big meals a day, like as much as you can eat, you say you're an ectomorph, those four meals better be substantial. Like you should be eating to the point where you can't get another bite down, like ah I'm full, where you feel uncomfortable. Um yeah, I mean there's there's plenty of research showing now that we don't need to eat five, six, seven meals a day like a lot of bodybuilders do. It's all about the total amount of macros, the total amount of protein, carbs, fats, calories you get in during the day. Not so much. That being said, uh it's hard for most people to get all the nutrients and all the food they need in three meals. You would have to eat a lot. And most people would be hungry, very hungry, by the time they got to those meals. So, if you're only eating three times a day, let's say you eat at like 7 a.m. and you're not eating again till till 100 p.m. 2 p.m. and then you're not going to eat again until like 7 or 8 p.m. That's a long time to go without eating. Um, I do five meals a day. I do five solid meals a day in one shake. So, eggs and oatmeal in the is my first meal. That's around 7:30 or so. Uh, I either go to the gym or I don't. So, around 11 o'clock, if I don't go to the gym, I have a bowl, a big bowl of corn flakes with whey protein in it. Corn flakes and whey protein. Yum, yum. Uh, if it's a gym day, I'm doing a whey protein shake along with some fast acting carbs like grapes or fruity pebbles or something like that. Something just sugary. Not a huge amount, but that's right after the workout. Chicken and rice is the next meal. That's around 1 o'clock, 1:30 at the latest. turkey burger with cheese on a potato bread BUN with a a corn muffin at 4 o'clock. Ground turkey with gluten-free tortilla chips and an apple at 6:30. Last meal of the day is going to be around 9:30 and that's either going to be salmon or more lately it's a burger patty with some mixed nuts, unsalted mixed nuts and green beans. So, you don't need to do all that. Uh if you can get four very substantial meals a day. Uh, but like I said, I if if you're doing that and you're still not gaining weight, you're going to have to try to get a fifth meal in. You're going to have to try to just get more. People always say, "But I'm eating so much." I said, "Well, if you're not gaining, you need to eat more." Just like if somebody's dieting, they say, "Well, I'm not I'm not losing." I said, "Well, you're eating too much." He said, "But I'm not eating that much." I said, "Well, whatever amount you're eating, it's it's still too much for you because you're not losing any weight. You're not getting any leaner." Sorry. When you're deep in a prim that I hope you I hope you heard I answered that one. If I inject GH in the cockus grow bigger. Not that I'm aware of. No. No. I don't think there's anything you can do about your your penis. It is what it is. Day off. Just came from the gym. Left beer. What's up, Ron? What's up, Manny? How are you? Derek has a big success going 212 to open class. Why didn't Flex? So, Flex's biggest problem turned out to be his uh digestive system. First he thought it was his shoulder. He got his shoulder, he had a lot of shoulder problems. He kept going to I think it was Chile in South America to do uh stem cell treatment for his shoulder. And eventually his shoulder was feeling great again. And he was all set. him and his coach Neil Hill, they teamed up and like, "Okay, we're gonna we're gonna really put some more muscle mass on because he'd been holding back on his on his muscle growth for a couple years because he always had to come down to 212. So, they started and he just couldn't eat all the food he needed. his his his stomach couldn't handle his digestive his GI tract was rejecting the food and he would get nauseated and having uh you know I don't know if he was having problems pooping too much or whatever but I just know that it was it was his his uh his gut health that's what ended up preventing him from moving up because if you can't eat the food to grow doesn't matter how hard you train or how much gear you use if you can't get enough nutrients in the building blocks you can't make the gains and that's what happened is I think he could have he could have been Mr. Olympia. He could have been. You know, back in the day, if you asked me 10 years ago, nah, I'd be like, nah, probably not. But now that we've seen hottie become Mr. Olympia, we've seen Derek Lunford become Mr. Olympia. I totally think Flex Lewis could have done it. Totally. Can be honest. Uh oh. How many times we accidentally gone in the gym just to flex a good lighting leave? No, never. Because I'm I'm too lazy to drive all the way there. I mean, I have spots in my house that have pretty good lead lighting. So, no, I've never done that. If I go to the gym, I got to do something. I have to at least do cardio or something. Uh, but I won't even go to the gym to do cardio now because I do it on my days I train and I have there's a bike. We have a good stationary bike here if I want to do cardio, but so no, I've never done that. Over 60 would be a good workout split to help me recover from my age. So, uh, everybody's different. RG, some people can take more training. Obviously, younger people in general can train more, more volume, more frequency, more days per week and still be able to recover. The older we get, typically we don't have that same ability anymore. Our bodies just don't bounce back the way they did. That's why I was using a weird analogy, but when you went out and got hammered drunk when you were a young guy, you felt you probably felt sick and everything, but the next day you'd be okay. I find now that if I do that, if I get really really wasted drunk or something like that, which is very very rare, but it takes me a couple days to feel normal again. Uh, and things like injuries, you know, little aches and pains. I used to get things used to go get better like immediately. Now it takes days, weeks, months sometimes for an injury or an ache or pain to fully resolve. So, that being said, generally speaking, if you're if you're 60 or over, I don't think you should be doing weights more than four times a week. You should probably limit your workload to something you can get done within about 45 minutes with the weights. You should also be doing cardio for of course cardio becomes more important than the weight training at I'm going to say our age because I'm I'll be 56 because keeping your heart healthy is is paramount. You know, that's heart attack. Heart disease is the number one killer for for male male human beings, especially in the United States. So, you want to do whatever you can to mitigate any damage to your heart, keep your heart nice and healthy. But a good workout split, uh, it depends. If you're if you just really want to maintain muscle and be in great shape, not necessarily you're not trying to build anymore at this age, a full body workout, you know, like one one exercise per body part, three times a week, like Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Monday, Wednesday, Saturday, something like that, you know, a bench press or a bench press alternative. Uh a rowing movement, a pull down movement, a squatting move, just one one basic movement per body part, that's fine. Or you could break it upper, lower. Uh I I still don't think you should be doing more than say two days in a row. Uh you know, you might feel like training three days in a row or something. Don't. Um I find now that I don't get my best workouts. I don't recover that well. If I go more than two days in a row with weights, I still do go three days in a row a lot of times, but I could tell by the third day it's not I'm not 100% in the gym. I mean, my body is just saying, "Back off. Back off. Give yourself just a day and then if I take two days, two days of weights, take one day off and come back, I'm usually feeling great again on that that day I come back. But, you know, you got to play it by ear because it also depends on how much energy. Some people have plenty of energy well into their 60s and 70s. Other other people are like dragging ass. So, you know, try try uh try that. Try full body or try upper upper one day, lower another day or the old standby is push pull legs. Push, pull, legs. I love that split. That's what I've been doing for a few years now. Push day is chest, shoulders, triceps. Pull day is back and biceps. I throw rear delts in there, too. And obviously legs is legs. Uh I typically don't do all three in a row. I'll do two two in a row, take a day off, and then come back to the sequence. So it might be push, pull, day off, legs, push, day off, pull, push. You You understand what I'm saying? So try out a diffuse. There's no there's no optimal perfect split. I'm a bodybuilding scientist. You are a bodybuilding scientist. I Well, you're asking it with a question mark at the end. I don't know if I'm a bodybuilding scientist, but I've been around quite a while. Been around. You actually need wide clavicles to have a good career in bodybuilding. As soon as the shoulders are well built, they don't have to be wide, but they can't be narrow. Put it that way. Like people used to say, "Well, Phil Heath had narrow clavicles." There is not one pro bodybuilder, not one ever, who had narrow clavicles. We say narrow, I mean narrower than average. So some people have average clavicles, normal width, regular width, just average. That's what the word means. Those people build plenty of shoulder mass, deltoid mass on top of the clavicles, and it gives the illusion of wider shoulders. But you look at Phil Heath, if you take away, if you see where the bones are, you can see the little bone popping out the top of his shoulder. That's where the clavicles really that's the that's how wide his shoulders really were. He built like this much shoulder side delt to the side on each side. So, it gave the illusion of greater width, but he had average width. If you have narrow clavicles, you're screwed, unfortunately. I'm sorry. It's never going to be structurally impressive because you're never going to have a Vtaper. So narrow clavicles, you know, unfortunately you might end up looking like a pair if you have wide hips. I mean, that's the the absolute worst bone structure a man can have. Uh because we are judged on the traditionally masculine frame of the wide shoulders is narrow clavicles and wide hips. You're going to have a pear shape to your body. Especially if you have narrow clavicles and you gain a bunch of body fat, you have a big fat butt and gut. Oh, it's horrible. So yeah, if you want to be a good a really good bodybuilder, it starts with that with that gifted frame which is from birth. And you know, some guys have these like look at Derek Lensford. He's only five I don't know if he claims 5'5 or 5'6, but whatever he is 5'5 or 5'6, he's got the clavicle width of a much much taller guy. If you stand in in front of him or in back, if you see how wide his shoulders are, and I'm talking about the bones, the bones, the span of the clavicles, they're very wide, especially for somebody his height. You very rarely see clavicles that wide on someone who's as short as he is. So, he had a huge structural advantage. He chupan also very wide clavicles. Geez, a good a really good example of wide clavicles would be uh Andrew Jacked. Andrew has some of the widest widest clavicles in pro bodybuilding ever. Ever. So, Trump, what's your opinion on 24 to 20 fasting cleanse? I've I mean, I I'm not going to [\h__\h] on it because I've never tried it. So, people say it's a great thing. It detoxifies your body, cleanses your body. I've never tried it. Who the hell keeps messaging me? Someone named William. Jesus. Um, yeah, I've never tried it, so I I can't really give you an opinion. People do I have heard a lot of people say great things about it. They feel that it uh it really helps detoxify their body and and they feel so much healthier after these cleanses or these fasts. But I I like to eat. I don't like being that hungry for for that long. That's just me. Best way to bring out the lats is to build them. So talking about the the the width in the upper back, you're going to build most of that through vertical pulling movements. chin-ups, pull-ups, whatever you want to call them, lat pull downs. Those are going to work mostly that upper portion of your back, which isn't really your lats. It's your up, it's your traps, it's your terrace major, minor, your romboids, suppinitus, infrasmice, all those muscles of the upper back. Those are going to be built through those. For the lats, what we consider lats, you need to do horizontal pulling movements, which pulling things towards you. rows, barbell rows, dumbbell rows, t- bar rows, machine rows, cable rows, row, row, row. So, rows are the best way to really bring that out. You'll you can still have a wide upper back like a lot of people do from doing, you know, focusing more on the the pull-ups and the and the lat pull downs, things like that, but you'll lack that really full thick dense look to the back if you don't have the back thickness. And for that, you need a lot of rows. Lord Crawford at any point in Boulden Equipoise alongside TRT for 12 weeks. Uh I mean any point it'll help you make more gains if if that's your goal. It's certainly going to help you help you make better gains than you would have on just the TRT. So yeah, if you want to do it and you're you know you're keeping your blood work in check and all that, I'm not going to stop you. Your thoughts on the top tier bodybuilders using synthol? Yeah, I mean I don't like Here's the thing is I guess we only know about synthol when it's fairly obvious if you believe uh what a lot of people claim is that all the pros or at least the almost all the pros use some sort of sight enhancement oil. But most of them do it in such a way so it's not obvious. They're injecting deep into the muscle. They're not going overboard and going keep injecting more and more. they're doing just enough to bring out a little more fullness, a little more roundness to the muscle by going deep into the into the belly of the muscle. Um, then you have people that do go way, way overboard. I mean, we've seen, especially in Brazil, there's an epidemic of these mentally ill people, these guys who put tons of it in their traps and their chest and they're all over. I did a video on it because I I think it looks disgusting. It's an abomination. It's it's grotesque. Uh, I don't want to see even in pro bodybuilders, I don't want to see it. You know, we can't stop them from doing anything. There's no there's no way to stop anybody from using any substance. But if it's obvious, I think it should be marked down. Uh, if somebody's shoulders are really weird and funky looking, like we saw a few years ago at the Olympia, Howard Chupan's shoulders were all jimmied up. It was very obvious. They they look square. The angles, the shape was all wrong. And as a result, I think they placed him like fourth or fifth that year. Without that, he would have won. And I think he won the next year. I believe he won the next year because he didn't have it in his shoulders and they they were uh you know they they were rewarding him for having that nice clean look without the weird crazy angles. So I'm not I'm I'm not a fan of it. Um you can't put the Genie back in the bottle. Unfortunately, it's widely used. There's no way to test for it. They're not going to test for it. So uh the only thing they can really do is if it looks weird and obvious, they do score people down. And that's that's a good thing. I'm glad to see that. Did Sebum have surgery to fix a wide pelvis? Not that I'm aware of. I don't think he ever had a wide pelvis. No. I mean, what surgery would you have? Would they go in and shave it down? No. I don't remember him ever being out of commission because a surgery like that, I imagine you wouldn't be able to train for a while. That sounds very, very invasive. So, I've never heard that before. painfree and moderate weight is fine for me, too. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I don't know if you're talking about the shoulder, but if I could have no pain in that shoulder and just be able if I could even do like 30 40 pound dumbbell presses overhead again, I'd be so grateful because I can't with this arm, I can't even I can't even get the arm up. I can't even do a one pound dumbbell. It doesn't go it doesn't move that way right now. It's it's it's locked. There's a huge bone spur in there that's that's preventing movement. It's all kinds of weird things going on in there. Your mom's flip-flop question. I love when people answer when they get asked, "Would you do it all again?" I would achieve. Uh I mean, you know, everybody would probably go back in their life and change some things, but everything we've done made us everything good and bad. All the choices we made, good choices, bad choices. You know, hopefully we learned from the bad choices we made and the the consequences of our actions. and we've we've uh it it all led to where we are today. It made us the person that we are today. So, I wouldn't have changed too much. I wouldn't have changed too much. Would I have not used gear? No. Because if I never used if I never started gear, I would always be wondering what if I use gear, how big could I get? You know, I've been very fortunate with my health. I never had any major health problems from all the gear use that I I did for years and years. But no, I don't think I would change too much. I really wouldn't. probably would have I probably would have warmed up more and wouldn't have done as much ego lifting as I did at times. That's probably the one thing I would change. J color wide waist man. Yeah. So that's a good example. But he had very wide clavicles. Jay has very wide. If you've ever even now when he's downsized, stand in front of Jay Cutler. He's still got a lot of muscle on him, guys. Don't don't get it twisted. But he's he's down about 40 50 pounds of muscle from what he was when he was huge. But the clavicles, the shoulder bones on Jay, very wide, super wide shoulders, super wide back for a guy at 5 foot nine. He had the the width, the shoulder span usually you see on somebody who's well over six foot. Uh branch as your thumbnail pick looks amazing. Thank you. Uh that picture was Thanks. That black and white picture in the thumbnail was 200 nine. So I was 39 years old there. I wasn't that young. It was younger now. Significantly younger than I am now. Yes. But I wasn't AI was no spring chicken there. I was already close to 40. Any tips on getting the lats to really start growing? Row, row, row. I mean, every I would do just one type of pull down movement or chin-ups. And then I would do like three different kind of rows. And if you can deadlift, it's like rack deadlifts are good, too. But man, just a lot of heavy free weights. Don't worry so much about the machines, the cables. You can throw those in there. But man, dumbbell rows, T- bar rows, barbell rows, you cannot beat those. Just work your ass off on rows by journal. Oh yeah, that's me, man. Thanks. I run pre 50 m per week. Got a cruise alongside 100 mega test. It's pretty low dose. I'm see it's you probably get good results on that. And a lot of people like if you if you said that I bet a lot of people call you a liar. They would say there's nobody can do 100 milligrams of test is very very low. very low. Uh, you know, that's like a minimum TRT dose for most guys. Most guys who are on TRT are 150 to 250. 200 is like a very, very average amount for TRT use. Most guys, but I have heard of guys doing 150, sometimes even 100, but that's rare. But the fact that you're doing very well on those low doses shows you you don't have to go high doses. In fact, you know, the less the less you can use and still get results, the better the better off you'll be, I believe, because you're saving money, you're creating less risk for your long-term health and longevity. So, you know, it's like what Lee Priest and I talked about in the interview that's up right now on this channel, start low. If you're going to use steroids, start with smaller amounts, see how you do, and then as time goes on, you can build from there. But there's no reason to come out of the gate, your first cycle, with a gram of this and a gram of that. That's stupid to me. Like I said, that's like starting recreational drug use. Instead of smoking a joint, you're going to go straight to fentinil or methadone. Methodone crystal meth or something. Why does muscle discord? I don't know. I don't know what their deal is. I like I told I told Matt I said I don't know what the deal is with you and fouad. I don't want to know. I have nothing against Fouad. I've never had a bad interaction with Fouad Abby. Whatever their deal is, their beef, it's got nothing to do with me and I don't want it. I don't want any part of it, you know, between them. Primo was so expensive back. It's still expensive, Mike. I had once in 96 paid 19 bucks an amp sharing brown amps. Uh I had to I had to inquire about it for someone a year or so ago and it was like it's like 250 a bottle whereas like test tester Deca is like 70 bucks a bottle. 60 to 80 bucks a bottle is like a general range. Primo, two to 300 bucks a bottle. You know, 300's a lot, but when you're desperate, you'll pay whatever you got to pay. Where do people get roids from, dude? Google it. You It'll all There's websites, uh, there are so many people out there selling it. Um, gym dealers, you know, people get it through the mail, people get on the dark web, whatever. There's a lot of ways to get it, but 17. I would hope you're not going to be using them for a while. What's up, Dan Cardillo? What's up, Dillo? Make my own. Yeah, I mean, a lot of people make their own. Oh, you make your own primabone. Yeah, if you can, you know, you can order the powder, the raw powder from China. China doesn't give a [\h__\h] who they sell to. They don't worry about the legal side of it. They just still sell it to you. But you got to try to get through customs. If you if you customs stops it, you're screwed. But people do people do buy the raw powders of steroids from people in China, companies in China that make the raw powers powders for all the steroids. And if you know a little about chemistry and all that, you could you can make your own. I mean, I'm not telling you to do it. I wouldn't do it. I don't know how to make freaking steroids. I'm not I'm not about to try, but people have done it. Period. I think it's awesome. Your son's going on stage. You'll be there for Yeah. I can't miss my son. I'm not going to miss my son's show. I wouldn't miss it for the world. That's his second show. was first day is the Sunday before that six days before but no I wouldn't miss that for the world Jin don't remember me you get the plug what plug I don't know what plug you mean uh when I bought body fat if you have a dec yeah I mean I can usually I don't put a lot of stock in the numbers the body fat percentage numbers per se but I can tell you know generally speaking look at somebody and Say you're x amount of weeks out or you have you probably need to drop about x amount of weight to be stage ready. So yeah, I mean I can I can eyeball body fat pretty well. So if you have a decent six-pack but low back legs and glutes still have a ways to go. I mean if I say 10 pounds or 20 pounds, it depends on whether you're 150 pounds or 250 pounds in terms of weight, but you still have a way to go. I mean, uh, most men, the last place we lose body fat is going to be around the middle, the love handle area, the low back, uh, and obviously the glutes. I mean, the glutes are the last place on any human human being where the fat's going to come from. It's very hard to get strided glutes. You have to be very, very lean. Like incredibly lean to have strided glutes, very much so. See, will there be will there be a proone? I don't think so. I mean, I wish there were, but the only way I see that happening is if Jay Cutler stepped in and put it on. He's the only person I know I know of that could make it happen. The the guy who put it on three years ago, that was a oneanddone deal. He lost a lot of money. People were complaining they didn't get paid. People associated with the show. That's so he'll never do it again. But I don't know if it's correct. I heard Dan Duchain made all kinds of drugs at in his home. Dan, Dan's dead, so I can't ask him. I only met him a couple times. Didn't know the guy. Yeah, maybe I'll still Maybe I will do that, Mike. Maybe I will. And then I have to go into hiding. Sean Ray has an eloquent vocabulary in the novel last year. He was a ghost writer. Yeah, he didn't need a ghost writer. Most of the guys that ghost wrote for, they could have done it. You know, I wasn't writing uh elaborate novels or anything. It's just, you know, they were paid a monthly salary from from MD, from Steve Blackman to be available for us for photooots and for articles. That's it. For content and, you know, to make it easier on them because especially easier on our editors who, you know, if they they say, "Well, I want your column by uh by the 10th of the month." You know, most people suck at deadlines. pro bodybuilders, you tell them, "I want I want a thousand p a thousandword column on the 10th every month." Very few of them are going to give it to you. Some of them will never come up with it or they'll be like a week late and the editor is sitting there tearing his hair out because he needs to get the the magazine done. So, they would just typically it was just easier for me to call them up, ask the questions, get all the information from them, and I would just write it up. So, I wasn't writing out of thin air. I wasn't making things up. I would call them and get all the information, transcribe it, and then I would write the column and email it immediately to the editor so they had it and they needed it. Uh because Sean was pretty good with deadlines. Sean understood, but a lot of people they were not good with writing deadlines. They would just keep putting it off. 10 grams creatine. Yeah, there there really aren't any side effects, any negative effects to creatine. Testy in many 20 years. I want to start again. It's 250 a week. A good dose. Well, you'd have to go by your blood work depot. Um, we all metabolize drugs differently. So, depending on where your levels are at, uh, and, you know, what kind of results you see, 250 might be a great dose. 250 might be I don't think it would be too much because that's that's the high end of a TRT dose. Uh, so you might start with 250, go a few weeks, and then if you're not happy with the results, you could try 300 or 350, so on and so on. I would just gradually increase it. You don't want to just double it, triple it, you know. You don't want to make large jumps just like anything else. You know, you don't want to increase your calories far too excessively or decrease them. Everything should be done sort of incrementally. See, turkey burger with corn muffin. Oh, it's delicious. I love corn muffins. I put them in the toaster oven. Get them all crispy and crunchy so they're even better. I like the texture that way. Do the bike three times a week. Jerry Guns, what's up, Jerry? It's good cardio. Jerry, you're you're about my age, maybe even older. So, I would do a little more cardio just because, you know, I care about I care about our us older guys. So, keep your heart nice and strong and healthy, Jerry. I would I would do a throw a couple more cardio sessions, you know, or some fast walks, something a little more cardio. It's going to be good for you. Two of my friends just died recently. 55 58. Yeah. Yeah. There's no nothing's guaranteed, man. I mean, I'm My dad was 57 when he died. He had cancer. He also had heart. He had high blood pressure. He was on meds for that. He might have had a heart attack if the cancer hadn't killed him. I don't know. You I'll never know. So, you know, I want to live longer than that. Obviously, outside of 51. Oh, you're 51. Okay. I knew you were somewhere around my age. Four days a week. Two days on, one day off for weights, then three days off. Yeah. There's no ideal schedule. If you find a a a pattern, a schedule that works well for you, you're golden. You know, everyone's got to figure out what works best for them. Adapt everything to your own needs, your energy levels, your lifestyle. And once you find what works for you, it doesn't matter what anyone else says, what anyone else does. You stick to what you're doing because that works for you. That That's my feeling on it. And shoulder, back, biceps, and chest, and shoulders. Yeah, it's a good split. Solid split. Jerry does chest on Monday, Tuesday, leg day, back on Wednesday, Thursday, shoulder Friday, Saturday, Sunday off. Yeah. So, when's arm? When do you do arms? I don't see arms in there, Jerry. Uh oh. You know, the body for bodybuilding. Oh, okay. I mean, I would have loved to be a pro wrestler if I could have done that. I loved when I was a younger guy, I loved watching WWF, later WWE, you know, the I think I would have been great for the uh what's the part where they talk? What are those called? The promos. I think I would have been great at the provos because I was, you know, I did some acting when I was younger. Kind of a different question. Flex vers Jose 2015. Who's right for one? I'm going to interview this soon. Hey, Project Bibling. Josh, right? Um, two very different physiques. Flex had much prettier shape, structure. It was a much more aesthetically pleasing physique. And he got into great condition, too. Jose more of a herculian mass massive physique. So, it's really what you like. They were both equally deserving of the win. I know that was the year that I believe Jose Yeah, Jose won the Arnold Classic earlier that season and he was second to Flex Lewis. That's the best Jose ever did at the Olympia. But the win could have gone to Jose. They were both equally deserving that year. EQ was not bad. No, no, I used it many times. Like someone misplace their car keys. Remember exact go just on trend. If you misplace your car keys, you're just uh probably have short-term memory loss. These are weird questions, Ionic. I got to say, uh I don't even remember cycles I did years ago. People said, "What'd you do? What' you do?" I say, "I'm not being evasive. I just don't remember. I should have written that's one regret I do have is I should have kept a little notebook or a log book or computer file, something where I wrote down every cycle that I did and what I used. you know, I used this drug in this amount on these days. I should have done that. I never did it. So, I just have like vague recol recollections of cycles that I used to run. I wish I had kept records of that. That's that is one regret I have because people ask me, I'm like, I have I kind of have a general idea. I know what I did, but to be like really precise, I couldn't tell you exactly how much of this or that I used. I don't remember. In inches, what would you consider be a small waste? I'd say anything under like 32 would be a small waist. My son just measured his waist at 26. Again, he's only 134 pounds. He's 5'7 and a half and 134 pounds. So, 26 inch waist is still very small. But I'd say anything over 32, unless you're a really big tall guy. Yeah, if you're an average height size bodybuilder, uh anything over 32 or 32 or 33 in shape, it's a big waste. It's starting to be a big waste. I'm gonna be out of here soon, guys. We're get We've been doing this a while. Another tip. I'd really appreciate be on back train. My gym doesn't have any row machines. So, cable se just do better bar rows. Yeah. Well, if they have dumbbells, do dumbbell rows. Dumbbell one- arm dumbbell rows each side. Obviously, barbell rows. I mean, before all these machines and stuff were were around, people built really big backs with the basics like Franco Columbbo, one of the best backs ever. Twice Mr. Olympia. Tons of T- bar rows, barbell rows, and deadlifts, a lot of chin-ups. So, I mean, I wouldn't worry too much about the machines. They're great. I love using back machines with the chest support and stuff, too. But you can't you can't go wrong with the free weights. I mean, they've worked for they work for like a hundred years. They're going to they're always going to work. Can barely mix creatine. Just pop it in your pop it in your mouth and pop the dry powder in your mouth and drink some water. Hope your son is good. Thank you, Jerry. Appreciate that. Can you find out what happened to James T? I don't even know who that is. Candy, I'm sorry. I don't even know who it is. Will I make a supplement line? No, I will not. Don didn't know that. Sorry. Uh, cardio once a day. Oh, my dad. Is that what you're talking about? Yeah. My dad died 1986. My mom died in 2008. Cardio once a day for 30 minutes or every two days for seven minutes. I would do it every day. Every day for 30 minutes. Yeah, cardio is something you want. If you can do a little bit every day, a little bit, especially if you're hard gainer, I wouldn't be doing a lot of cardio. I wouldn't be I don't think you should be doing 70 minutes of cardio ever. That's too much. Anything over an hour of cardio, that's that's too much, guys. Uh I think 45 minutes is about the absolute most I would want to see somebody doing cardio in one session. The most cardio I would ever have anybody doing ever would be like, and this is like an obese person, would be an hour in the morning and an hour later in the afternoon or evening, two hours of cardio, absolute max. And that would only be for very extreme situations where somebody is obese and they need to burn a lot of calories. Uh, for the average person, 30 minutes a day, like five, six times a week is per probably ideal on rest days basically. I mean, yeah, I would do more I would do more cardio on the rest days rather than try to do all that in once because you're already at the gym doing weights, probably an hour, hour and a half. Then you're going to be doing a half hour to 45 minutes of cardio. That's a lot to be doing in one session. I'd rather see you doing more cardio on the off days from weights. Speaking of which, sport would have been a part of work. I don't think I was good at anything else. I wasn't good at any other sport. I wrestled in my last year of high school. I was okay. Okay. It wasn't anything special. No, I wasn't I'm not athletically talented at all. So, no. Yeah. Oh, wow. Guys, I've been doing this over an hour and a half now. So, very much appreciate you all hanging out with me today. How big was new pain? Let me get rid of the banner. Very much appreciate you guys hanging with me today on this live. We'll do it again sometime soon. And oh, was there one last question? One last question. Let me just say goodbye. Let's do rose posts. Boy, there's more and more hit volume train. Yeah, guys, I'll do this again because I got to get going. It's I got I got a couple things I need to take care of. So, thank you all for watching very much. Appreciate it. Please uh subscribe, like, share, do all that good stuff. Uh I'm here for you. So, whenever we do one of these, I'm here for any questions that you might have. So, peace, love, and happiness. Thanks for watching, guys.