What's up, guys? Uh, Ron Harris here and I am successfully returned home from my shoulder surgery. Had my left shoulder totally replaced yesterday. Um, spent the night in the hospital. Did not plan to spend the night in the hospital. did not want to, but uh because the surgery finished up kind of late, um they didn't think I'd be able to get to my pharmacy in time, which I wouldn't have, to get the pain meds, and they wanted to keep me on an IV drip for uh an antibiotic IV drip. So, they kept me overnight. It was the first time I've actually been overnight in a hospital since I was born when I spent the first week, I believe it was, in an oxygen tent. Probably because my mom smoked two packs a day. Uh but the surgery was a success. Uh, as you can see, I'm in the sling right now. I can't really pull it back to show you the incision. Or can I? Yeah, you can see it's all But the doctor said everything went well. Um, the crazy thing is the surgery almost didn't happen because uh my insurance company, Etna, it's actually my wife has Etna through Costco and I've never really had problem with them before. Uh, and it's crazy because the quad quad repair surgery was a lot more expensive. I think it was about 60,000. This was a little under 40,000. It probably will end up being more than that once all the incidentals are added up. But, uh, they they denied coverage and they waited till the last minute. And the doctor said that's sort of a a weasly trick some of these insurance companies do to try to deny the the coverage of the surgery. Um, and up until up until the 11th hour, up until uh the surgery was yesterday. Up until Tuesday at almost 6:00 p.m. I was still going back and forth with uh the doctor's surgical assistant who was going back and forth with the insurance company representatives trying to get this approved and it barely happened. I was I was fully prepared to uh not have it done. I I you know, I was thinking, man, if I have to go another six months because this doctor has a long waiting list. Now he's taking all of July off for vacation. It would have been about 6 months until I got it done. So, um I actually went in, of course, I couldn't eat anything. Couldn't drink anything. They allow you to have 4 ounces of water the morning of, even though I read you can have more water than that if that's sort of an outdated concept that anesthesiologists have sort of stopped doing. Uh where they allow you to drink normal amounts of water up until two hours before surgery. I did drink a little more than that only because I walked my dog super early in the morning. Uh it wasn't that early. Uh and it was hot. It was really hot. It was like Boston was uh on Monday we hit was it Monday or Tuesday? We hit we hit 99 or 100 degrees here and it was today it turned cold. It was like 65 or 67. It's crazy Boston weather. Get some of your comments and I'll keep going. Yeah. Thank God, buddy. Yeah, man. I I if I was so I was ready for the disappointment of not having the surgery and I was just so h cuz the pain the the pain I go through or I've been through I'm in pain now but this is going to be a temporary pain. This is going to get better and there'll be no pain eventually. The pain I was in was just getting worse and worse and it was never going to get better. uh extremely arthritic joints. They they don't get better. And I appreciate all the people that suggested BPC-157 and PRP, but you don't understand what severe osteoarthritis is when a bone surface the s the surface of a joint has been ground down. And mine was I think he said it was over a quarter inch was gone was completely ground away because it had been bone on bone for many years. There's nothing that can bring that bone back. The cartilage was gone almost 15 years ago. So after that point it started being bone on bone. Uh so there was nothing that could be done. USA. USA. Healing process goes well. Me too. Yeah. Luckily um I do have a very good perspective on the healing process because my younger brother Steve had this exact procedure done two months ago and I'm on the phone with him every few days. He's already driving. He's back to work. He's, you know, he my brother lives on his own. He doesn't have help like I do. I have my wife here and my son. If I really need help doing anything, they're they're here for me. Luckily, I'm right-handed. There are a lot of lot of really things I lucked out on. I'm right-handed, so not being able to use my left arm is not as big a deal as if I couldn't use my right arm. Wow. I mean, obviously, I can't drive for a few weeks. I think they said it's going to be at least three weeks. I have my first posttop appointment in two weeks where uh the doctor will be on vacation, but his his uh physician's assistant is going to be meeting with me and going over everything. Hope went well. It did. Yeah. I'm It's funny about the painkillers. They only give you they're very very cautious and conservative with pain meds now. Opiates of course because it's a massive problem opiate addiction a lot of people have become hooked on opiates from starting off using them legitimately um you know as pain relief after a surgery or something. Uh years ago I remember many years ago um they would give out 20 30 milligram oxycottton tabs. I think they go up to 50. So some people were on 50 milligram tabs at once. I was prescribed the last couple surgeries. Five milligram tabs. That's it. Five milligrams. Uh as well as like uh a few other things, not pain meds, but like a blood thinner to prevent blood clots. I'm on they they gave me like three three things I had to start taking. Good luck, Ronald. Well, it's Yeah, the surgery's over, so I don't need luck on that. I just have to need I have just have to be very fidious with taking care of it, making sure I don't do anything stupid, which I'm not. I'm not going to try to lift anything. Uh, I I was thinking I'd be doing legs by the end of the week. No, I'm not even I can tell now. There's I I'm not gonna be yet. Sorry, I got to take a drink. I'm not going to be back to the gym to do legs or anything for a few days. Sorry. Sorry, guys. I am on a little bit of Oxycon right now. 5 milligrams speed recovery. Feeling good. I mean, I have a pretty high tolerance to sorry, recreational drugs in general, unfortunately. Cannabis user for many years. Um, so five milligrams of Oxin doesn't do a whole lot. It's it's providing a little bit of relief, but it's not much more than like a Tylenol to be honest with you guys. As far as what I'm feeling, yeah, your mom's flip-flop speed recovery. I'm so happy it's done. You know, I know it's going to be a long road. It's going to be a very long road and I don't expect to be lifting heavy with this arm for a very long time or doing any heavy upper body work on this side. And I don't think I'm going to do if anything if anything I'll do some arm work with the right arm. I'm not going to do chest work and back work. I'm not going to do any of that stuff. I'll I'll do like isometric flex and stuff, but I can always afford to work that right arm because it's always been a half inch smaller than the left arm anyway. And it's not going to interfere with anything. I can I can do curls and I can do like one arm push downs but and I can do legs obviously I can't healing peptides could accelerate healing venuks you're right I'll be dead honest with you guys I can't afford them right now I can't like I said I'm making enough money with uh the online coaching YouTube to pay my necessities you know car insurance my car lease uh my my 401k stuff like that the necessities um but peptides anything like that no there's nothing and I'm not going to started to goofund me. Has it caused this problem? Um, you know, it's probably both because like I said, my younger brother had this surgery done two week two months ago and he aside from he does a little bit of lifting. Nothing serious at all. I wouldn't call him a bodybuilder at all by any means or necessary. He did work construction for a couple years. Um, but uh I don't know. So maybe it is more genetic. But yeah, I did train very very heavy for many many years. I've been training for 42 years and it's just a lot of wear and tear. You know, some people never have shoulder problems, but most guys and girls, but most guys, most of us, if you train long enough with weights, heavy weights, not just like, you know what, a normal person might just go to the gym and do some cardio and stretching and some light weights. That's not us. Anybody who trains like a bodybuilder, eventually you're probably going to have shoulder pain, shoulder injuries. I mean, I bet I bet twothirds of you watching this, if not more, have had some sort of rotator cuff injury already. I've I've had injuries to mine. Uh, luckily, my rotator cuff was intact, which is why they did the standard anatomical replacement as opposed to the more modern reverse replacement where they actually put a ball in on top and a socket on the bottom. The reverse of how your anatomy is. They do that for people who have either very weak rotators or damaged rotator cuff muscles because you need those to support the uh the implant the device that's in there. Uh so yeah, it's for soma and you what's soma? I don't know what that is. Smoke dog. Are you talking about gh? Ask for something. Who am I gonna ask? I got over my shoulder pains pretty minor still know. Yeah, my first shoulder injury was geez back when I was like 20 or 21. I started hurt I started injuring my shoulders. But in my younger years, my 20s and 30s, I would I would hurt my shoulder and it would it would heal very quickly. I'd be back in the gym like almost immediately. Sometimes like 24 hours later, it would be fine. It was, you know, I healed much. I had like Wolverine healing powers back then. Now, obviously, uh almost 56 years old, I do not. Thank you, Kenne. Appreciate that very much. Ah, thank you for the uh for the donation there. Sincere best wishes. Appreciate all you do. Christos, Australia. Yeah, I'll be heading to your country again. I've I've been there once. We were there for two weeks. You probably already know this, but I my son went to uh University of Queensland, Brisbane to to finish out his college, his his final semester of college last year. No, it was 2023. Gez, it's already been that long. So, we were out there for a couple weeks. Uh, we did go up to the Danbor, no, what's it called? Dan, the rainforest. Dan Bi begins with a D. We took a flight up to there to go to the rainforest for a couple days and that was really cool. Uh, we did see all Brisbane. We will be going back next year to Sydney. My son-in-law, Musa, uh, he's from Sydney, Australia. He immigrated here in 2015, I think it was. Married my daughter in 2016, and he's been here ever since. But, uh, they did not have a big wedding here. They got married in 2016 and it was a nice uh Orthodox church wedding and stuff, but we had the reception in my backyard. We had a tent and everything. It wasn't too ghetto, but it wasn't it wasn't the wedding that my daughter, you know, women women grow up girls, young girls grow up with this idea of this lavish fantasy wedding. So, they're going to have the big wedding next year in Australia, and we're going to a lot of people, a lot of us are going to head over for that. It's going to be a big big deal. We're going to rent a uh an Airbnb for I think 15 or 20 people. There's going to be a lot of us heading over. But, thank you so much, CK. appreciate that. Jay's one of those got pretty lucky. One injury was his bicep tear. Yeah, that's the only injury I think Cutler ever had was that he tore his bicep. But the one unlucky aspect was most of the time, 99% of the time when you tear a muscle, it's at the insertion. So, in the case of the bicep, sorry, I can't point because I only got one hand. Uh that would be down by your elbow. But he tore his at the origin up near just under the, you know, the the should just under the shoulder there where it where it originates, which was a much more complicated uh repair procedure. He did get it fixed, but it was it's a lot harder to fix that injury, but he did. I think Dorian I think Dorian had the same thing happen. That's why he never got his fixed. That's my shoulder. First time we Smith shoulder press. That's that's awful because you're only 17 or 18. Smith shoulder press. I like Dorian Fus. Well, I mean, I wouldn't I wouldn't stop doing shoulder presses. Uh, one, you know, people ask me, "What do you what would you do differently?" I wouldn't have done behind the neck presses. Behind the neck presses, they do put your shoulder in an overextended position and of external rotation past where it's supposed to go and you're under a heavy load. So, I did those for years. I probably by the time I was 30, early 30s, I had stopped doing them and I was only doing to them the front. But in my 20s, I was doing them all the time. And I think my first late 20s and early 30s were my first years on steroids and you know I wanted to be that stud that could shoulder press 315 on a barbell behind his neck and I did it but paid the price. Could I have gotten eventually I did start feeling pain after every time I did that and I said maybe this is a bad idea. And I always like dumbbell presses for shoulders anyway because you know they're lined up right next to your head. They're not going in front of you like a a barbell to the front or or the back. They're right right in line with your shoulder joint. So, those always seem like a safer movement to me and very productive. And again, uh they stoked my ego because I was very strong on dumbbell shoulder presses. So, that encouraged me to keep going and keep going heavier on them. Now, the one thing I would change about that was I would have warmed up more. I had a bad habit of doing just a couple quick cursory warm-ups. So, let's say 120s were going to be my top set. I would do 50s for like eight reps. I didn't want to expend too much energy. That was my thing back then. And I didn't do any rotator cuff work or stretching or any of that before the workout. No, of course not. Uh, so I would do like the 50s for eight and I would do like 80s for three. Like, all right, I'm all warmed up and I would go right to the 120s. And sometimes I would do 130s or 140s, which were too heavy for me. I always needed a spotter and I'm sure I slipped out of the groove a few times and that could not have been good. Soma is carisiprol heavy muscle relax. Oh well, it's stupid. They've already I mean my doctor's already prescribed everything. I'm not worried about it. I I have a pretty high pain tolerance. I mean that quad tear quadricep tendon repair surgery that I had September 4 was that was a very painful painful recovery. Uh this it's it's aching and stuff, but you know, I'll deal with it. It's gonna get better and better. My my my brother said I think after the first week the pain was very minimal, so I can suck it up for a few days. Going to visit FIBO anytime. I've never been to FIBO. Uh if it hadn't been for this surgery, I probably was going to go to this Euro muscle show in Amsterdam, which you can see is happening July 12th, 13th. Uh the promoter Matthew Pcel had discussed bringing me out there because Giles is going to be there. Jiles is going to be up on stage doing interviews and things like that with the athletes, kind of like what you see at a lot of expos. Um, I was going to be helping him out with that and doing what, you know, whatever I could do there. I was I I wanted to work. I wasn't just going to go over there and, you know, smoke dope and check out the canals. I was going to work. But, um, my doctor I tried to see if I could have the surgery done in July. And like I said, he's booked up six months in advance. So, if I didn't take this surgery date that was yesterday that he had available, it was going to be I was looking at like December of this year or January of next year. And no, no. The pain I was in, the workouts have been so my upper body workouts have been getting more and more limited over the past couple months. Um, I was doing cortisone shots for years. That's why I put the surgery off as long as I did because I would get the cortisone shots inside the joint and those would alleviate the pain very very well for about four to five months and then it would start hurting a lot and I would then at that point I would just get another shot over and over again. Those do weaken the soft tissues in there, the tendons, the ligaments, things like that. Um but the last cortisone shot that I had in February was completely ineffective. I got the shot uh and it was very painful for the next day which has happened before. It's like a reaction your body has to the to the cortisone. But then it never I never had any pain relief and I was like that's it. I guess I and I think that as soon as I figured out it wasn't the pain wasn't going to get any better. It was just going to keep progressively getting worse. Uh I contacted Dr. Glenn Ross and made an appointment and he checked me out and approved me for the surgery. Praying for speed. Thank you. Thank you. I mean however long it takes because I get that question a lot. How long is the recovery? I don't even know. And you know it's going to take as long as it takes. I'm really I'm not worried because it was either a lifetime of pain and very limited as far as what I could do for training or some pain from the surgery and you know not being able to use the arm for a little while and obviously I'm going to miss a lot of upper body training. But once this is all healed up and I can I'm going to go to physical therapy and start training again very light and build my way back up. I'll be training better than I have and certainly with less pain for than probably like 20 years. and the range of motion. I mean, I'll be able to put my arm up in the air. I can do that. That arm was only up to about here, like eye level. Not even. Yeah. Not even I couldn't even raise it that high. Um, so I'm just really, really excited, happy, grateful to get this done. Uh, let's see. Arnold, you're very nice, man. Thank you. Thank you, Arnold. Appreciate that. He's kicking up some dumbbells. Just ripped off. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Kicking up dumbbells, that's that's a very dangerous thing. I always said dumbbells, the stronger you get with dumbbells for presses, uh, you're putting yourself unfortunately at at a big risk because just getting them up in a position to lift takes a lot of strength, a lot of coordination, and you basically have to I that's how I did it when I was doing shoulder presses. I would flip them off my thighs and it was if you're talking about 100 to 120, sometimes more pound dumbbells, that's a lot. That's a lot to be flipping up in the air and trying to catch in position. Uh, and it was always hard for me to to to press them properly in the right groove when somebody handed them to me. And obviously if you're Nobody wants to hand you 120 pound dumbbells anyway. 130 pound. You see guys do it, but trust me, nobody wants to do that for you. That's that's that's asking a lot. It's a It's a lot of work for them. It's like a workout for them basically. So yeah, that's kicking dumbbells up. Welcome back. One, thank you. Thank you. Should have been home yesterday. I wanted to come home yesterday. Best way is probably use a good shoulder press machine. Yeah, I mean machines work too. I I wouldn't steer away. I mean, dumbbells do get riskier once you get very very strong on them, but I would still encourage you if you're a young guy and you're healthy and you warm up enough and you observe good form and you're not trying to do like two three reps. You're you're staying in the 8 to 12 range for the most part. I would still do dumbbells for for chest and shoulders. They're very very productive. The fact that you have to keep them balanced, you know, I don't believe in all that BS about stabilizer muscles. What is a stabilizer muscle? That's sort of been debunked as a as a myth. But still, because they do require more balance and coordination, free weights are harder to use than machines. So, for that very reason, I believe they force you to work harder and recruit more muscle more muscle fibers when you're when you're training more motor neurons, all that stuff. So, I would keep free weights in your routine unless you absolutely can't. Uh, just be very very, you know, cautious. Warm up a lot. Stay within stay within your your limits. Don't try to lift a weight that's, you know, don't make crazy jumps in weight, saying, "Last week I did 80s for for eight. This week I'll try hundreds." No. Try if I wouldn't even with free weights. I wouldn't even start a new weight until I could do 12 reps with the old weight. I wouldn't jump up to the next weight. And I would do like I would go from 80 to 85. I wouldn't go from 80 to 100 or something. You know, you have to be you have to curb your enthusiasm as we say. So if you guys warm up properly. Yeah, I didn't do that. I mean, that's that's one thing I would change for sure about my training. When people ask me, "What would you do differently?" I really should have warmed up a lot more than I did. And I would have I should have pyramided up. I shouldn't have started out with the heaviest weight. Uh I got that from LeBron, and I don't think he's the one that originated it. But, you know, the the reason the rationale behind starting out with your heaviest weight is that's when you're fresh and strong. But, you know, unless you really really warmed up, I I wouldn't say you're I'm going to keep using the same example. I'll use squats for example. Say your top weight of squats is 315 for 10. I don't think it makes sense to to go right from like 135 uh to that. I think you should gradually do a few sets. You should do when I was doing 315 for 10 years ago, I I eventually got stronger, but let's just use that example. I would do the bar for 20 reps. I would put 45 on each side, which is 135. I would do 12 reps or so. Uh, I would do 185 for like eight reps. I would do 225 for probably about four or five reps. I should have done more. Um, and then I would go to 315, you know. I think that was that was like four warm-up sets. That that felt right to me. And uh, where am I? Super good choice getting surgery. Oh, no. No, I mean the pain, you know, the pain made my my mind up for me. They they always say you'll know when you need a hip replacement or you'll know when you need a shoulder replacement. I knew it was time. There was just no way to put it off any longer. The pain was just unbearable. Keeping me up at night. Um this guy in my I shared a hospital room with last night. He was keeping me up. He was moaning and groaning all night. He had a knee replacement. Lee Haney didn't have any Yeah, Lee Haney has no injuries at all. He's in fantastic shape. He is 65 years old. Still exercises every day. You know, sound mind, sound body. I know he's getting some flak now for doing his contest on sanctioned by the NPC, but I love Lee Haney. He's one of the most real, genuine people in the industry. Uh, heart of gold, always positive. Never heard him say an unkind word about anybody. Never saw I never heard him gossip or talk about anybody ever. Lee Haney, great guy. You should do a little series of recovery training videos. Yeah, maybe. I mean, I don't think the physical therapist would let me film, but uh the road to recovery is going to be a long one. I I know I'm not going to be handling any heavy weights for a very long time. You know, mentally, I've sort of I've made peace with that because I've been training 42 years. I can afford to miss a few months, a couple months, whatever it's going to be of upper body training. I can I can hold off on that if it especially if it means that I'm going to be back to a level of training where I haven't been for many many years. Painfree and more range of motion exercise I haven't been able to do in a long time. I mean toward the end here this last this last couple months I haven't been able to do like lateral raises presses. I mean it's just been chest day has been getting more and more limited. I mean, even a few months ago, I could do incline dumbbell presses up to 70, which I know that doesn't sound like much because I used to do like 130 to 150, whatever. But it was still like a victory to me, like, oh, I can still do this. But, you know, that didn't that didn't last. Uh, there's But, you know, eventually eventually, maybe a year from now, I hope to be doing 70, 80, 90, who knows? I'm not gonna be trying to go crazy. I'm not gonna be stupid. Uh, I'm gonna be very respectful of this shoulder implant because it's still something that can wear out. You can wear out an implant just like you can wear out a bone. Even though it's plastic and steel or titanium, whatever the hell it is, you can still wear it out the same way you can wear a bone. I I don't have any intention of going through this again. Maybe off top. What do you think of this? Logan Dishman. I have no idea who that is. He's on 500 Trend. No, I don't I don't want to talk to 17-year-olds on Trend. I'll just get mad. Congrat. Thank you. Another surgery. Yeah, just the Darth Vader to become more machine than man. But this is the only fake uh body part I have. Everything else was just tendon. I've had a tricep tendon repair, a quadricep tendon repair, arthoscopic surgery there in 2011. And but this is the first artificial body part I've ever had. So I guess I'll set off uh metal detector at the airport now. Chie behind that borrow state. Yeah, I mean obviously we've we've come a long way in terms of knowing which things are more sus more more prone to cause injuries. And I don't think the behind neck shoulder press really got that reputation until maybe maybe like the 90s. I think people were really starting to figure out we shouldn't be doing these anymore. But it was, you know, they were a staple for probably a hundred years before that. You know, certainly 50 60 70 years. I mean, I I thought they were a great exercise. The reason I didn't like behind uh in front doing the presses in front back in the day was I always ended up sort of leaning back a little bit and ended up hitting probably as much upper chest as shoulder and I feel like I was not hitting any of the side delt at all. Whereas behind the neck, if I tip my head forward, I could keep my keep my arms up pressing up in line with my shoulder joint and I felt I was hitting more of the overall shoulder that way. Fuks after new hip and two surgeries. Roman Frisil did a little There you go. Okay. He's a young guy. He's a He's a specimen Roman. Great great physique on Roman. Roman's the guy that turned pro as uh he turned pro as a bodybuilder and then then switched to physique. Classic physique, right? Am I getting that right? Hopeful. Okay. My kind of power joint pain some reason. Who's a powerlifter? Oh, well Kevin wasn't. Yeah, Kevin did a little He wasn't really a powerlifter. He did bench press meets when he was a young guy. In fact, the very first bodybuilding contest Kevin entered and won was a complete coincidence. He was there for a bench press meet and they people were remarking on his development, how built he was, his physique, and there was a bodybuilding show being held that day and they said, "You'd you should do that. You'd win." And he's like, "Really? What's that?" He had no idea. So, he went to like a Walmart, bought some speedos, bought some razors, disposable razors, shaved his body hair, uh, picked out a song, cult of personality. I I know this. I've talked to Kevin about this so many times. And he won the show. He did win the show. He won the bench press meet and he won the bodybuilding show same day. That was back in Maryland. They were like behind that price. It is an awkward movement. And you really need a spotter on those. You really should never do those spot. Your speckles are man-made. Well, I can take these off. The implant the implant doesn't come out. That's in That's part of my body now. It's in there. Branch is by far the worst. Yeah. Yeah. Paul, everyone I've ever known that has torn a pec, it's been the barbell bench press. In fact, I had a young guy, a college age kid, come up to me in the gym last week. He said, "You look like you work out a lot." I said, "Oh, thanks." He says, "I just felt something in here doing the bench press." I said, "Well, don't do any more bench presses." He says, 'Well, he's following the routine that I think I think he's I think he's a football player, college football player, and they have him doing uh offseason work before training camp starts. And it I I looked at it said, "Well, it says you can do barbell or dumbbell, do dumbbells." Um, I've never heard of anyone. I'm sure you could carry your pec t with dumbbells, but you're much more likely because of the mechanics of the bar, the way the way it forces your shoulder to to rotate, you're much more likely to have an injury to shoulder, a rotator cuff injury, a pec tear with the barbell. Uh, I I I switched to dumbbells very early on. With me, it wasn't because of an injury. It was because I was so bad at bench pressing. You know, I I could get 315 for like one, which was pretty sad because there was back in those days people bench pressed and 405 was like a staple. Everybody could do 405. So, I switched to dumbbells and they they worked out fine. neck, lower back to six, I expect pecked tears. Yeah, Roman was always in the open class. Still is today. I thought he tried classic at one show. Also at the Olympia last year. He didn't. He wasn't in the Mr. Olympia last year, was he? Oh, was he? Yeah, you're right. He was. I forgot. No. Was it last year? Because I thought he got there in points. I don't know. Obviously, I'm not as big a Roman Fritz fan as I should be. Never did a set of bench in my life. Don't know why not. Well, the thing is the reason it became such a staple, I mean, in the USA, um, you know, it still probably is this way, but when I was growing up, uh, you know, I born in 1969, 70s and 80s, a lot of people, most a lot of families, a lot of kids, young guys had, uh, a weight set, a bench press and a barbell and some plates, usually like these cement filled plates or something, sand filled, cheesy store weights, you know, they weren't the highest quality, but, you know, we all bench pressed and you wanted to know a mark of manhood was being able to bench press a lot of weight. You'd ask each other how much you bench. And the bigger the number, the more manly you were, I guess. So, you wanted to have a big bench press number. So, most young guys who who lifted weights, they all bench pressed and they all wanted to have a big bench press, an impressive bench press to report. Summer of 69. Yeah, Paul, I was actually born on the last day, September 21st, the last day of summer of 69. So, that song does have a special meaning to me. True story. Kevin tore his pectoralis twice. No, once. It was once. Kevin tore his fully once and he was the recipient of an experimental type of pec pec tear repair at that time uh that had only the doctor practiced on a cadaavver or something because um I can't remember why it had to be done differently but uh Kevin was back on stage that same year. So that happened in very early 903. Let's see. He won the nationals at the end of 91. He competed 92. Yeah, I think in 93 he was uh it happened in early 93 or very late 92. I think it was early 93 and he was back on the Olympia stage that year and I think he got sixth place and that's where that's when he decided I'm not going to train all year. He saw how quickly he could rebuild muscle after not training for a very long time. So, he just decided after that point to take it easy on his body for a big portion of the year. Uh, and only really get back into like heavy weights and gear and eating a lot of food. Uh, I think 16 20 weeks at the most out from the Olympia. I want to say 16 because I I saw him a few times in the offseason, Kevin, where he was so downsized. I was like, "Oh, no." You know, because he's a big dude, obviously. Kevin Leone with the freaking shoulders and the chest and the tri. He's a big big guy. And I'd seen him so downsized. And then I'd see him a few months later at the Olympia, big as big as hell again. So, you know, he knew what he was doing. Bench press one of the most popular. You go, "Oh, it's the most popular. It's the most popular." I still think even to this day, people want to know how much you bench. I had a cardiologist check me out two weeks from Yes. two weeks ago, yesterday. Uh because they needed to clear me. There was a little bit of myopathy. They needed a cardiologist to clear me for this surgery and there was no way I was going to be able to get an appointment with my guy that quickly to clear me in time. So anyway, first thing this guy asked me, he's like, "What are you bench?" I'm like, "Are you kidding me?" And this is an older guy in his 60s, but yeah, it's still a it's still a popular question. Got to get going. Okay. Yeah, that's it's Appreciate you stopping by. I'm going to get going, too. I need to eat again. I missed a lot of meals, guys. I mean, yesterday I couldn't eat uh because of the surgery. Uh, I woke up from surgery at 5:30, got up to got up to my hos my room and had uh I think I just made the last call to order dinner. So, I had a little personal pizza and some French fries and a couple cookies and a little thing of ice cream at 7 o'clock last night. That was my one meal for yesterday. And then today, uh, I did order breakfast right at 6:30. got around 7:30 and had an omelette and a muffin and a piece of b a big strip of bacon. I I wolfed that down in like 10 seconds when you're used to eating every two to three hours, man. Going all day and going all night even. It's rough. It's rough. Anyway, guys, yeah, I'm going to take off because I'm going to I'm going to eat something else. I'm just I got a lot of eating to catch up on and I've got to ice this again. Give me get another get another VI not Viking Oxycontton in an hour. looking forward to that. So, thank you guys. I appreciate y'all watching so much. So, uh to to sum it up, surgery was success. I appreciate all of your uh well wishes uh for speedy recovery and you know, a lot of you wish me well. Hope the surgery was going to go well. It did go very well. Doctor, I met with the doctor this morning in my room and everything went fine. Uh so, now it's just all about healing and recovery and I'm I'm I'm here for it. So, that's it. Thanks for watching, guys. Have an awesome night and talk to you