What's up guys? Ron Harris here and we just got the best news of bodybuilding for 2025. Beirus Tobani from Iran after four years 2022, 23, 24, and now 2025 of being qualified for the Mr. Olympia finally got his visa. I would have actually been on the air about 20 minutes ago, but I got tapped by Olympia TV. Ter Gundy gave me a little uh invitation, so I had to jump on that. Uh so let's look at Beirus's Insta. This is where the info came out uh was announced. Uh this was only about two hours ago, but you know how fast how fast news travels in the world of Bing. So uh here it is. Let me go back. Let me share that. Okay, here we go. Okay, so this is >> Well, it's in Farsy. So, it's it's translated there. Good news. He's got his visa. You can see the the joy on this man. so happy because he has been working so hard qualifying for the Olympia again and again and again and preparing for it year after year all the way up until the very end not knowing if he was going to get the visa and he didn't get the visa these past three years that he was qualified which meant he was in prep all that time and it didn't it didn't pan out it was I don't want to say it was for nothing because it would have been on the Mr. Olympia stage. But now we finally get to see this guy on the Olympia stage. This is pretty damn amazing. Just follow from say what's up old TV. Yeah, I mean I was I'm not going to say no to Olympia TV. Come on. So it was me, Chris Cormier, Tero Gundy, of course, and a gentleman named Amir who is uh I don't know what his relationship he's a good friend of Beirus anyway. Just follow Holy Balls to quickly come through. Congratulations. Yeah, top six is about to be insane. So, this brings the total number of competitors now to 20. Exactly 20. That's a great That's a great total, wouldn't you say? 20 men. And unfortunately, for some of the other guys, uh, a lot of the other guys, they just went down a spot in the placings because they're not a lot of guys are not beating beating Beirus. I I think he's a solid top six guy as far as who who he can beat and who he can't beat. I don't see him beating the the top four in my mind. Everyone seems to have the same top four because we're talking about three Mr. Olympia champs from the past three years. Uh in Samson, Derek, and Hottie, and Nick Nick Walker. I don't see him beating any of those four guys. But after that, I think he can beat under the right circumstances Martin. He could beat Andrew, who else was a a possible top six guy? I mean, that was pretty much the top six. You know, people talk about maybe Rean, maybe Tonio. Uh, Rubio might have been possibly a top six guy. Urs maybe, but I honestly think Beerus beats them all because he's got that package of size and condition. Some of these guys have the size, but the condition has never been awesome like Rubiel. Um, Urs, I don't think has the size yet to challenge someone like Beirus. We'll see. We'll see. But boy, this is some incredible news, guys. Never expected that. And this also shows that the video I did the other day, which was a reaction to a video on a channel called Muscle Central, um, Sorry guys, my mic went off for a second there. Yeah, I was saying this proves that he was not a member of that IGRC, that elite military unit, um, that's tied into the fundamentalist Iranian government, uh, and has ties to Hezbollah and Hamas. He could not have been part of that unit. He had to have been just regular army because if he was part of that IGRC, special force unit, whatever you want to call it, they wouldn't let him into the USA. So, this is it. This is amazing news. This is a guy that should have been on the Olympic stage in 22, 2023, and 2024. He was robbed of his chance, and now he's going to show the world. He's finally going to get to stand next to must have been Milos's Instagram post that cinched it. Someone says he finally gets a chance to stand next to the best in the world because all this time, these past few years, we've been thinking, yeah, everyone, all the best guys are there except for this Beirus Tobani. What if he was up there? Who would he be beating? How would he be placing? We we were wondering and wondering and now we know. Martino says, "Amazing he kept the faith." Yeah, that that is talk about perseverance and maintaining a positive attitude in the face of adversity because so many other people would just be so discouraged like ah they're never going to let me in. Uh and I I kept hearing that the issue was that his first application from 2022 was still processing which that didn't make any sense to me. Of course, I don't know the intricacies of uh Department of Homeland Security and and how long these things take and what can clog clog up the process, but it doesn't matter now why he wasn't getting in before. He's here now. Best or deepest. Oh, this is a great lineup. I mean, come on. We're going to get to see Be's next, too. Samson, Hottie, Derek Martin, Aim, Brandon Curry, William Bonak, uh, Brett Wilin, Good Vidito, uh, Andrew Jack, Nick Walker, Regan Grimes, Tonio Burton, Sasan, Herat, Chenl Long, Shen, Rubel Mascera, Jordan Hutchinson, Dorian Haywood, Ers Kchinsky. This is an incredible Olympia lineup. It already was a great great lineup. It just got a lot better. The quality of the lineup just went up significantly with Beerus in it. Uh, so if Urs still makes top six, Rob, I don't know. I I I don't see it. And I'm I'm a huge Urs fan. I love Urs. I love his open bodybuilding physique. I like it a lot more than I liked his classic physique, that version. I still don't think he has everything he needs yet to be top six in Olympia. Mainly, I'm talking about the back development. His back is not yet thick enough and dense enough. We're talking about Urs Kachchinsky in my opinion. And you guys can have your own opinion, but you can't have any lagging areas and be Mr. Limp. You can't have uh legs that are lagging, back that are lagging. I mean, even when they say, you know, Nick Walker's legs aren't great. Well, they're still pretty damn good. Urs has a good back. He needs to have a great back to be top six at the greatest bodybuilding show in the world. That means you're one of the you're the top six. You're one of the top six best physiques on the planet. So, it's I don't I don't think it's being uh rude to say I don't see Urs in the top six. I'm just being realistic based on, you know, he's going to crack top five. That would be awesome. We learn don't buy into hype. Don't listen to rumors. Avoid speculation. I think he was a good lawyer. I don't know if I don't think he has a US affiliated sponsor. I don't I mean, look at his Let's go to his bio. Uh who is his sponsor right now? Who is he sponsored by? Uh, Arnold Classic. So, he won the Romanian Pro. Arnold Brazil, man. Panata. I don't see a supplement sponsor. I don't see a supplement sponsor on his bio, guys. Panata is an an equipment company, but I don't see a supplement sponsor. But yeah, but this is certainly certainly fantastic news. I think we're all happy. I don't I don't think anybody's unhappy about this. I'm sure Milos is just jumping with joy right now. If there was never any doubt the US government is fair and impartial as you know I think you're being sarcastic, Raymond. I think you're being sarcastic. Uh the US government is not always fair. It's not always impartial. Uh and you know there's bureaucracy, there's red tape, there's things that get should should be handled resolved quickly uh in the government and they take sometimes they take years when it should have taken weeks or months. Anybody can be beaten the title change. I don't see him winning. 20 is a good number. I don't see him winning necessarily. Um, but top five is within his grasp. And, you know, at his first Mr. Olympia and I found out he's only 32 years old, guys. He's 32 years old. So, that tells me he's not even at his full prime yet. Most pros hit their peak somewhere around 35, 36. He has been getting better. He's been very good for a few years now, but I think it's safe to say 32, he still has some amazing years left ahead of him. And now there's no doubt we're going to see him on the Olympia stage every year. There's no doubt he's going to qualify every year. I bet he does the Olympia. I bet he does at least one of these shows after the Olympia and gets his qualification for next year. Or maybe he just waits until the spring. They're going to invite him to the Arnold Classic. They're gonna he's going to want to do the Pittsburgh Pro. Why wouldn't he do all these shows? Arnold UK, maybe New York Pro. I mean, we This guy's a workhorse. He obviously has no problem prepping all year long. Dubai was back in July. So, this is a guy who's been waiting for the chance to compete inside the the US borders for a long time. I don't think he's gonna he's going to slack. I think he's going to take every opportunity presented to him and jump into every possible show that he can. Why wouldn't he? Can't hear [\h__\h] Oh, I mean that was back when I had my uh check check. Yeah, I'm on I'm on disagree. I think Beirus eats steric lunch all day long. Well, we're gonna see. We're gonna see. Maybe so. Maybe. So, Samson hottie be Nick Derek. So, a lot of you guys have higher than fifth or sixth. Should be Olympic for years now. Thank you, Dana White. And we're going to stop hearing about how Beirus would crack top six every year. Exactly. I mean, this is this is a great chance to see. Exactly. Was he hype? Was he really that good? I mean, we're going to see cuz we've never seen him next to top guys. No, we've never seen him next to any of the top Olympia guys in all this time. He's never had the opportunity to stand next to them. So, everyone's going to have to revise their predictions. Oh, 100%. I mean, I'm doing uh predictions tonight on the Meatthead podcast at 7 o'clock. I got Justin Compton, Batty, Batty Fair, uh, and Big Mike Cox. We're going to do our predictions. Definitely buying the pay-per-view he does fitness. I don't know what that means. The disrespect that Derek faces is unbelievable. Yeah, Derek Derek gets a lot of hate. Derek actually gets a lot more hate uh now, I should say, after Pittsburgh than he ever did before that. A lot of people were so upset that he beat Nick Walker, even though it wasn't Derk's fault. Derrick wasn't a judge and it was a one-point decision, but a lot of people were so upset. They thought it was politics. They thought Weinberger or Manion or somebody favored Derek over Nick for I don't even know why that would be a thing. I mean, Derek Derek has a lot of fans and he's been Mr. Olympia, but Nick has a massive fan following. So, politically, you know, if you want if you want the sport to do well and make money, you want Nick Walker winning shows as much as you want Derek. Quite a few stomachs that were lacking. There were Mr. Bro, we let chat GPT definitely. Yeah, the thing about chat GPT judging, I could buy into it perhaps if they had a camera set up on the stage, but taking like still shots from the pay-per-view and feeding those into GPT and having the show judged on those crappy pictures. No. If there was camera, if there were cameras set up on stage, video or still something where it could capture in real time, uh, from the best possible vantage point, resolution, all that good stuff, super high quality, 4K, 5K, whatever, ultra, I don't know. That's when I would say, okay, chat GPT, it's there at the show. I I trust that it can make uh an informed decision based on what what's right there. Per Sergio Leva, Cult Fitness helped him find a US lawyer. Oh, okay. I don't know if the gym I don't know if if it was an immigration attorney that made the difference. I I found out that Beir does speak really good English. I didn't know that. Chris Cormier was the one that says he's had conversations with him. So yeah, in the future I'm definitely going to try to get an interview with this guy. Everyone's going to try to get an interview with him now. I mean, I only avoid it because I assumed he only spoke Farsy. I've never seen him make a post on social media in anything but Farsy. He's great, but can he beat Andrew Martin in a crack top six? Don't know. That is an unknown. That is a huge question mark. Antoine, can he beat those guys? We're going to find out in nine days. Yeah, judging is just nine nights away from tonight, guys. Something understands that Beiru has never been on stage top guys. Yeah, I mean, one of two things is going to happen. Either he's going to lose to all those top guys or he's going to beat some of those top guys. Samson, Nick, Beirus, Derek. Wow. 32. He looks 52. He doesn't look 52, guys. Come on. Let's be nice. He doesn't look 52. Uh, you know, bodybuilders do tend to look a little bit older than their age. That's there's nothing uh nothing unusual about that. Yeah. So, this has to be There he was thanking Allah for the 140 grand in the win. And now he's got to be thanking Allah for helping him get this uh visa. The Andrew brings the best package yet. Yeah, Andrew was a big question mark. We don't know what Andrew is going to look like. He does no physique updates. Awesome. Haven't been compared to the best pros on stage. Let's say top 10. Top 10 is very reasonable. I think it's very safe to say top 10. Beyond that, we don't know. I do think he's he's going to be a top six guy. I respect Baru is fantastic with his legs lacking. But yeah, I mean, everyone's got something he could knock on. I mean, Andrew, you could turn to the side and his quad, his his hamstrings, I'm saying they're not fantastic. Uh Samson, it's hard to knock Samson. I mean, his condition hasn't been awesome up till now, but I think we are going to see awesome condition on Samson this year. Uh, Hottie, you know, everyone everyone's got something you can you can really pick on if you if you look for it. Any update on Andrew? No. No. I We're going to do, like I said, tonight on Meatthead podcast, we're going to do our top five predictions. It's going to be me, Justin Compton, Fatie from Fit Nation, and Big Mike Cox, and we'll be looking at the most recent updates. Yeah, the predictions are tonight, and we're all going to have different different predictions, and this changes things. We're only going to do top five. Uh, I think we're going to do top five for Open Classic and 212. And if we have Beirus in the top five, you'll be hearing his name thrown around. Oh, yeah. I That's why I don't have him winning. I don't see him beating Nick, Samson, Hottie, or Derek. I don't see him beating them in any under any circumstances. I just don't see that happening. But once you get past that, we're talking about guys like Martin, Andrew. It's possible. We've never seen him next to those guys and we're going to find out. Stood next to offse. Yeah, we did see him uh Samson in the gym. Got Visa for real. Yeah. Yeah, he put it on his Instagram a couple hours ago. This will be Can he stand next to Samson? Uh I do believe he'll be first call out. I do believe that's going to happen. Of course, if the first call out is those four guys we mentioned plus Martin and Andrew. Typically, they don't have more than six guys in the first call out, but it's at the judges head judge's discretion. that Steve Weinberger. He could very well have a sevenman first call out if he wants to. He's more personal. He's also pretentious. I don't know who you're talking about. Yeah, he got it. Derek's going to play seventh. Wow, poor Derek. It's funny how some of these want to be pros. These chat and their first stupid. I don't think I should be trusting Judge Bing shows. I don't either. That's my opinion. That's just my opinion. It's awesome. He's allowed to come here and compete. The question is, how long is he in the USA? What do you do? Prague. Um, he's already in shape. He's been in shape since Dubai. If you've been following his updates, he never got out of shape. Not for a minute. So, he doesn't seem to be one of those guys who can only peak and then can only peak for so long and then he has to run along and rest and recover and do all that stuff. So, uh, I could definitely see him doing some of these post Olympia shows. Prague. Uh here he was in Dubai where he won 140,000 bucks. Not a bad payday. You know, Olympia, I think like fifth place is probably if if first place is 600 or it might be as high as 750 this year. Uh I think even like fifth place is probably about 100 grand. Yeah. Black Angel. I'm not a fan is going to generally happen from this is great. It's great because, you know, he was caught up in the politics of the USA and Iran not liking each other, having very very poor relations, our two nations. And it's it's not fair to an athlete who just wants to be the best bodybuilder in the world. That's his goal. He wants to be Mr. Olympia. And he never had the chance to even stand on the Olympia stage. Even though he qualified for it for the past three years in a row, 2022, three, and four, he never got that visa. He never got the chance to get all the way. Persian genetic is coming. Uh, am I live streaming the O? Uh, if I if I do, and I haven't really made a decision on it, we can't. Nobody who's live streaming can show the actual video live. If they do, they get a copyright strike. And the Mr. Olympia, the Olympia production, Olympia TV is very, very good at catching people who are doing that. So, anyone who is attempts to stream the Olympia on their channel and do like a watch along streaming the video I'm talking about, their channel is going to get shut down. That happened to me last year and I even had it on a delay and I still got a copyright strike. I couldn't go live on my channel for three months it took me to get that strike lifted. Uh, but they could take your channel away. It's it's happens. Top six bro genetic. He may not be as good as we would see normally. He's so close to show. Uh, I don't think he's going to have a problem. I don't I don't This guy's been chomping at the bit for years now to get here. Milos is a very good coach. Uh, he's dealt with people traveling internationally back and forth to shows many, many times. Uh, I'm sure they're going to get him here as soon as possible. Uh, you know, I don't know how soon he's going to get here, but he'll be here very soon. He'll be in Vegas. Milos, his coach, is in Vegas. Milos will be looking at him every day, multiple times a day. Maybe he'll even stay with Milos. So I don't think that's going to be an issue. This is massive. Like Israel, PhD. Oh, is he here? She just got the news. Everybody is excited. Yeah. Yeah. This is awesome. Top five six Bible is not a popularity contest. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I mean, if it was a popularity contest, Chris Bunstead would win the Mr. Olympia or Sam Sull would win the Mr. Olympia. Twitch has people live stream, so everyone wants to search him out on that site. Yeah, I've never been on Twitch. I'm just shook right now. What's up, Muscle Central? You had Beirut's fourth. Wow. Updated again. Baru is fourth. Wow. So, who is that? Who's that knockout? Is that knockout poor Derek? The O just gets better and better. 100% sure Milos [\h__\h] his pants. Oh, Milos was one of the first people. He was the first person to put it in his Instagram post. Beus had it in his Oh, no, that's not true. When did me I don't know who had it first, but it was it was like one after the other. It's exposed as we can see. His quads are bad. Yeah, his quads aren't awesome, but they're not bad. Beu is top four. Damn, he just gets better and better. Crazy Mr. O lineup. Yeah, this is insane. This is going to be the greatest Mr. I say I think we say that every year. This is going to be the greatest Mr. Olympia ever. It's going to be a great great Olympia this year, guys. Uh it's worth staying up for. I personally don't like staying up that late. I'm old and I don't like being up past midnight at the latest, but obviously this time I will be up till probably 3 4 in the morning, something like that. It's It's probably going to go till midnight or 1:00 at the least. Next year they'll finally get it down because the number is going to come down. Um, but this year we still have, you know, 70 guys in classics, 70 guys in men's physique, wellness, bikini. They're going to be packed. So, it's going to be a long, long night. Did he really get the visa? Yeah, he did. It's on his It's on his Instagram, um, which we're looking at right now. But, let me go back to that post. Uh, he posted this two hours ago. Uh, and it's official. He wouldn't he wouldn't post this. He wouldn't jump the gun. And you could see how happy this guy is. He is just over the moon, ecstatic, as he should be. He's one of the greatest bodybuilders in the world. And now he gets a chance. The US fans especially, we've never had a chance to see this guy unless we were, you know, fortunate enough to travel over to somewhere like Dubai or Romania where he was competing. But now, uh, thousands of US fans who are going to be there in Las Vegas for the Olympia finally get a chance. I mean, Thursday night, meet the Olympians. This guy's he's going to have a table selling merch and, you know, greeting, taking pictures. That guy's going to have a line out the freaking around the around the room. It's a giant ballroom probably out the door, probably out into freaking on the strip for God's sake. It's going to be insane. Visa s I don't know what that means. Obviously, I don't speak Farscy, but uh yeah, this is this is the best news. This is the best bodybuilding news of 2025. And something I said on Olympia TV uh that I want to reiterate, oh, that's awful. is I think this this does show that the US government is recognizing bodybuilding as a major sport because it we have seen that Iranian athletes can get into the uh USA to compete for it said elite sporting events such as the Olympics and the World Cup. Those were the two that they gave as examples. And this shows that they are putting bodybuilding in that same category at that same level as events like the World Cup and the Olympics. So yeah, how great is this guys? This is pretty damn great. I'm not going to stay on too long because I'm actually I'm actually interviewing Jay Cutler very shortly getting his Olympia preview, not predictions. He doesn't like to make he doesn't like to make predictions because guys get guys are very sensitive. But uh we're going to be doing that shortly. And then we have tonight at 7 o'clock we have the meatthead podcast. Seen your home your opinion on chance to place Olympia? I think fifth or sixth is very very reasonable. I don't see him dropping below sixth which means he's going to beat either Martin or Andrew. I don't know which one he's going to beat but I do I do believe he's capable of beating one or both of those guys. They could both beat him and he could end up in seventh or eighth. Who knows? Cuz remember we have uh we have Samson, Hottie, Derek, and Nick. I think that I think that top four is locked. I that's my opinion. It's going to be my favorite Olympia. Hope everyone on the list makes it. Yeah, it's going to be awesome. Finally, first call out. Just going to want to see him next to the best. Yeah, the fans are going to go ballistic. They're going to go bonkers when this guy gets out on stage. Let's see Jose with you after the O judging. I always enjoy you guys. Yeah, I will get him after the Olympia. He's been very busy. I hope. Anyway, he must be beyond happy. Must machine man. This is so exciting for his fans. Yeah, for the Persian fans. Yes, I think I I always forget Cassan Herd is of Persian heritage. He's in the UK. He's a UK citizen, but he is he is Persian. He is Iranian for the Persian fans. And they are they're very very passionate, loyal fans. They love their athletes. You saw the homecoming that Hutti Chupine got when he came back after winning the Olympia. Uh, I think there were about 100 thousand people out in the streets. The airport was packed. They built a statue for his hometown of Hadti Chupon. That most muscular is crazy. I mean, yeah, this guy is like 510, 250 pounds. Very, very thick, dense, grainy muscle. The condition is just insane. Yeah, I don't see him doing any worse than six either, guys. I don't. Uh anyway, uh I do have to get going because I I need to start preparing for uh doing a doing a show uh a video with Jake Cutler very shortly. That's going to be up tomorrow morning. Uh and tonight, please join us on the Meatthead podcast. We'll be talking about this. We'll be giving our top five picks. Justin Compton is going to be joining me. Batty Ferry from Fit Nation podcast, another Blackstone Labs guy. And of course, Big Mike Cox. So, uh it's going to be like a soccer stadium. So, that's it, guys. Uh, I want to thank you for joining me today for this awesome news. Great great news for the the Mr. Olympia contest. Great news for fans of bodybuilding all over the world. Of course, Beirus Tabani fans are they have to be just ecstatic right now going insane with joy. Reasonably so, as is probably uh Beirus himself. So, I'm sure he'll be I'm sure he'll be back in uh he'll be in Las Vegas, I should say, very very shortly training with his coach, Milo Sarv, who is got to be God, I I can't even imagine what that's going to be like when they finally start uh their final peak for the Olympia together. I'm sure Milos is going to have a lot of content on his channel, his YouTube channel. So, we'll all be checking that out and his Instagram and everything. So, anyway guys, thanks for watching. appreciate it so much and I will see you guys later tonight exactly 7:00 p.m. Eastern for the Meatthead podcast.