All right, guys. This is not live. Uh, the show is is over uh at Bay Ruse One, but let's go take a look. Let's take a look, guys, the way it all went down. Should have stayed on camera the whole time. So there was a pose down the awards. Beirus Sabani is your new Dubai Pro champion. Um let's take a look at the awards. I'm just coming coming back to this. So here were the awards. So, let's go look at the final final comparison and then This is from Artha Lab. Yep. All right. So, this was the confirmation round. We had all the top guys there and some guys who were not in the top. That was the battle for. All right. So immediately after this, we just want to look at the top three guys in the awards and then we'll go back and start analyzing. Right. So the final call out was your top three. Tonio Burton, William Bonak, Beerus Tobani. Really no surprise if you're watching the judging a couple hours ago. These guys were your front runners. Modota was getting a really good look. I thought he was going to push for possibly the win, possibly. Clearly, I was way way off on that. Uh, going into the show, I thought Nathan Dasher was going to have a good chance to win. Did not make top three. So, here was your final comparison with the top three, Antonio, William, and Beirus. Uh, Beirus's legs, like I said, they were a little downsized from what they were before. He's never had the biggest quads and he's still been doing very very well as a pro. Uh, but he brought that condition. He brought a lot of thickness and fullness in the upper body. Really gnarly condition, I think, put him over the top. Antonio is a great these three all have really good backs, but structurally, Be Rouge has the best structure out of these three guys. And we've seen structure. We saw Regan Grimes win the Toronto Pro. Was it that he won? No, not the Toronto Pro. The Legion. No, that was Tonio. The Cali Pro. He beat uh he beat Sassan Herati basically on structure. Uh so structure goes a long way, but that's not to say that's the only reason Beirus Tobani won this competition. Clearly, clearly he has an amazing package, a great total package. Um, who was second? I just saw the results. They just uh So, it was Beirus first, Bonak second, Antonio third, Nathan fourth. They put that up in a banner for you guys. I don't know who got fifth. So it was we're looking at the final conf confirmation round here though guys. Be Ruse was to Beir was first second was William Bonak. I don't know how you guys saw the show. I mean it was not a clear-cut win. I mean, I don't think this was like a dominant win for for Beirus. I wonder if he got a perfect score. Antonio and Nathan. Jonio Burton was third. Fourth was Nathan Dasha. Okay. All right. So, there was your top top four. I'm not sure who got fifth. I haven't watched it yet. Ash, what place? Uh, they're only going to show us who got fifth and he was not in that first call out. So, Ashraf most likely not there. Uh, don't know if there's going to be any score sheets yet. Yeah, the scores are not out yet. It's probably going to be probably going to be a couple hours before we see any score sheets. But this was uh there you go. Beu's in the middle. Another great win at $140,000 for Beerus Tabani who will most likely never get to set foot in the United States unless the political climate and our leaders and immigration all those things change. I don't see Beirus getting into the USA. So this was his Mr. Olympia contest basically. And even though it was not a sure thing like we all thought it was going to be, his legs were definitely down. He walked away with the win. So it was Beirus, Tobani, William Bonak, Antonio Burton, Nathan was in fourth. I don't know why people keep underestimating Bonak. I don't know either, Goku. I think it's because he's just quiet on social media. He doesn't post a lot. I don't know. Yeah, I agree. I' I've underestimated him, too. Tony looks so much better than Beirus. You're not the only person who felt that way, Royan. A lot of people were watching uh the judging a couple hours ago and they thought Antonio had a very legit chance of winning this. We'll look at uh 212 and classic as well once we're done looking at open. But I this is my first first glance. I was away for a took a little break there. So this is my first look at the final final confirmation round. Final it's a double double there. So, Tobani in the middle, but they had everybody in the middle. Steve Steve Weinberger, like I said, he likes to shuffle everybody around. He gives everybody a chance to stand in the middle. It's really not so much a chance. It's uh he's trying to wear them down. He's trying to see who really really wants it. Beerus has no legs in the front. How did he win? I I don't know. I don't know. I wouldn't say he had no legs, but his legs were not great. So, they went directly from that to the pose down. There you see Modota. So, we'll see in the in the uh in the awards who got fifth because I I don't know who who got fifth place. Someone just posted really quick the top four results. Actually, it was Giles on our group chat. And let's see if the Dubai Pro has it up on there. Will they have a No, that's somebody else. Michael Doul won the classic and 70,000. I figured that much. Uh, so they haven't put up they haven't put up the results of the winner yet on their page. You got Michael Dool who won $70,000 though. Not a bad payday for a classic Z competitor, huh? It's exactly half of what the the open guy won. So that was the pose down. Wasn't even hitting the side chest properly. Yeah, but he won. Not going to say the fix was in because it was in the in Dubai. He's actually Iran, Iranian, Iranian. So, it's not like there was any real hometown advantage. It's his part of the world. But Beirus Tabani is a fierce fierce competitor. He looks looks amazing. He brings some of the best condition we've ever seen to the stage. So, a very very rightful win. Uh you could argue I mean it was it was close. I think Bonak looked really good today. Uh obviously Tonio looked good. I thought even FOD I'm surprised photo wasn't in the top four. 20-year-old Luca got second place in class. Yeah, we'll go we'll go to the other divisions. I just want to I want to focus on open first and then make my way back because I am coming to this not live. Uh because they just kept going after I stopped uh about an hour and a half ago. They kept going two hours ago. I stopped. They went directly from judging into finals because this didn't even start until five o'clock at night for them. So, uh, excuse Zilla. Who won? Take a look. Beus Tobani won. Yeah, I should have made the I should have made the the name of the video Beirus wins Dubai instead of watch party because it's too late to the watch party, but clearly I was in a rush. I was in a rush. I should change the name. Yeah, maybe I could do that. Yeah, I can do that. If I come up another screen, another YouTube screen. Yep. Okay. So, I'm going to change the name of the video right now as we speak to. Yeah, I'm going to change I'm changing this because Oh, we're going to I'll change it after these awards. look at supposing. So, I'm just curious to see who got fifth place. Okay, that photo that was just somebody walking. Yeah. I don't even know who got fifth place yet. I'm gonna find out right now with you guys. I don't want to miss fifth place. Oh yeah, it was Moto. Fifth place. Okay, I figured that. I figured that video chat, boy. Okay. Pro. Yep. So, I need to fix that. I'm just changing the t the title of the video, guys. Because Beerus won Tobani wins Dubai Pro. Yep. Change the title and I'll change the description. Join me as we recap. 212 and classic physique at the Dubai Pro. Start from Russian, guys. I couldn't really stay on the whole time. It was three and a half hours. I needed a break. I'm slipping. Okay, so that's there. All right, now we're back. and banners. So let me change that to reflect that. Uh low photo one fifth place. We'll look at some of the routines too. Photo. Okay. All right. There we go, guys. Yeah. All right. Now we're on track. Now we're up to date. So Arus wins, Bonak second. So Neczilla Rubel did not make top five. Neither did Ali Edward. I figured he wouldn't, but So I'm guessing Rubiel was probably six because that was the first call out was six guys and the only one missing from the the top five award presentation was Rubiel Mosca Nexzilla. Uh yeah, it was Tonio third. So it was Beirus. Yeah, I gotta go back to the banner. Beanie, William Bonak, second. Third place, Tonio Burton. Fourth place, Nathan Dasha. Sure he's not too happy about that. And fifth place, Muhammad Foda. Great job, Muhammad. All right. So, Beirus, good job. I mean, this was not an easy win. He certainly certainly had to work work hard for this one. Second, Antonio. Mr. Bikini Girls. What? No, you don't. I'd have him first or second Antonio. Yeah, Bonak is really good, but he's missing a waistline now. Yeah, Bonak. I'm sorry. Be having a little victory dance there. You know, you got to be you got to feel uh especially happy for Beirus in light of everything that's happening over there in Iran right now. They're at war with Israel. Uh the US is bombing them. A bunch of guys who were supposed to be here today in Dubai competing in the pro show did not make it. Look at some look at some routines. They didn't make it over. They they got shut out. What was that? I think we're about to see his routine there. This is Beirus's routine. I'm going to back up a little bit. I don't want to miss Beirus's routine. He's a winner. So, let's watch his whole routine. I know Jalice has been a little critical of his posing. Here's Beirus Savani, your winner. This is the winning posing routine. Let's take a look at that motorcycle stance. He gets away with it. He looks good. It's fine. double bicep. Great shot. Even though the legs, the legs are down. How did he win with those legs like that? The total package was good enough. I guess um you know, the only guy up there with freakishly huge legs was Ruby Allen. He didn't even make top five. I do agree though. I'd like to see more fullness and sweep to Beirus's legs. He's He's not going to ever be in the top five six Olympia. Even if he gets the Olympia, not with those legs. It's just not going to happen. The Olympia is the cream of the crop, the elite of the elite. And if you have one glaring weak point someone can point to, that's it. You're you're probably going to be relegated to bottom of the top 10 or or lower. It's it's ruthless at the Olympia. It's the toughest competition in bodybuilding. I said before I like that pose that he hits, that rear double bicep variation with one arm up and it's very artistic looking. Yeah. Condition impeccable. Be Ruse. Be Ruse brings it every time, man. To me, he's like a neck on top of legs. Is this neck zill you're talking about? Him. Two or three. It's Tobani. Ron. What did I What' I say? Did I spell his name wrong or something? Tobani. Oh, you just tell me who the winner was. I knew he won. Tony looked the best. Bon is good. He's missing a waistline. He's looking on top of legs. Results are out onb Pro. Okay, go to that. Thank you. Um Oh, okay. Yeah, you're right. The results are up. Okay. Uh let's go to results. Okay, so we have Beerus in first judging three finals four total seven. So he beat Bak. Bonk was in second all along. Um he was closer to him in the finals it looks like. Yeah, he got another first place vote in the finals. Williams. So, uh, William was only was only behind a few points. Third place, Antonio Tonio, 16 points. That was a very solid third place in the judges minds. Nathan Dasher in fourth. Fifth was Moda. Rubel was sixth. Was he always sixth? Yeah, he was always ahead of uh Ali Edward Carbo was in seventh. That makes sense. Then it was Adolf Bhart, Dennis Friedrich, Ashan, Hassnin, Ismal, Radwan, S. Husan Hassan Musabi Naj Nad Ibrahim Soi Sad Al Rafi. So yeah, there was your there's your scorecard. It's onbpro.com if you want to check that out. I'm going to go back to some more routines. This all we saw was Nathan. Who was this? It's not a phone, is it? Am I way back? Whose routine was this? Yep. I think I I skipped past a whole bunch of routines. That's Ali Edward Carbo. Nathan. Let's look at Nathan's routine. Yeah, I was really I had high hopes for Nathan in this show. I really hope Nathan was going to pull it off. just an underdog thing. Beus is such a heavy it's it's hard to root for the guy even though you know Iran is going through all kinds of crap right now. It's hard to root for the guy who's the clear clear favorite, the heavy heavy favorite where the odds are heavily in his favor and nobody's expecting anybody else to win. See him here. Yeah. Yeah. I put the scores up. So there's Nathan. I thought Nathan brought a good package. Was he a little bit flat, a little bit downsized? I I think he did give up some of that for for condition. It's a gamble that you take as a pro. Obviously, ideally, you'd want to be as big as possible and in the best condition possible, but most of the time you have to give up a little bit of condition to stay fuller or give up a little bit of fullness to get into that crazy crazy condition. So, I think what we saw with Nathan here is he went for the conditioning, lost a little bit of fullness, correct placings. I honestly I could have seen this thing going so many different ways. I don't think it was a clear-cut win for Beirus. Um, I thought Antonio looked really good. Bonak always looks good. Uh, Nathan, I'm a fan of Nathan's physique, too. I guess I would just uh I give it to Bonak, but I'm sorry. I give it to uh Beirus, but it wasn't an astonishing overwhelming victory. Here's Mo Foda, our fifth place finisher coming up on screen now. His posing routine. Much better quads than Beirus. Beus has a little more thickness and density in the upper body. And even though most condition is very, very good, Beirus takes conditioning to a whole other level. 510 result. Yeah, I had that. Uh maybe I'll put a banner with that later. It's hard to do. I can only do one thing at a time, guys. I'm not the best at multitasking. Yeah, Beiru is a winner. Absolutely not deserved. Not deserved. Well, the YT title fortunately will never make it to states with the current situation. I agree. This guy says not deserved. He says it looks great. A well-deserved women. No one say make it top four. Oh no. No. Nobody. Nobody that we saw the top four in the Olympics. It's pretty much locked up. You got Nick Walker. You got Derek Samson, Hottie, Andrew Jack, Martin Fitzwater. Uh it's it's stacked up there. I mean, Bonak might make sixth or seventh, but he's he's not doing any better than that. It's it's a tough tough show. The Olympia is the the cream of the crop. It's the best. Uh, this was that Adolf guy, I guess. So, I'm gonna see who else there was. Ali Edgar Edward Carbo was in seventh place. It's a big dude. I'll look at some of your comments. We'll leave him up. Uh, Nihhat won. Yeah, I want to go back and look at Niha in a in a minute here. The judges got scared and placed beers first in the Middle East. No, I don't think so. I don't think Dubai is not uh a fanatical country where there's a lot of terrorism and things like that going on. It's it's uh it's the most westernized part of the Middle East. I believe that's that's what people have told me. Um so I don't think the judges were basing their decision on fear of being attacked or something like that. Cole needs to be peeled in full no excuses. Well, Ronnie came in at times where he was not as conditioned. Uh, you could argue a couple of those those later wins that Ronnie had, he was not in the best condition. He was huge. Like when he was 296, he was not in that the condition wasn't that that great. Tony Lfield legs did not deserve second place. Felt he deserve first place. Oh, here we go. Here's Rubiel. All right, next Zilla on screen. Now I got Tabani first, Bonak second, 21 third. Yeah, that was right. That's exactly how it went. Here's Rubio Moscara, Nezilla. Biggest lower body in bodybuilding right now. The only guy that had quads like that was Ramy. And Ramy might make a comeback. We don't know. But as of now, uh, we can assume Ramy's retired until I know he's putting out these posts that sort of tease at a comeback, but until until I see him on a stage, you know, Kai Green's been promising a comeback for nine years and he's been teasing us. I don't put Rammy in that category, but fact remains that uh Ramy has not competed in a while now, and he might be all done. We'll see. But Rubiel, huge guy. I I just I'm not AI'm not a huge fan of his physique. I mean, I respect the mass and uh he's not it's not a horrible physique, but the the shape and structure and the imbalance between the upper and the lower, it really it really gets to me. Shed 20 more pounds. Yeah, I I think he would look better if he was just I don't know if he needs 20 more pounds, but even if we go somewhere in the 5 to 10 pound range, he would have been a lot sharper than this. Uh you can see he's close. He's close to the condition you need to be in, but he's not all the way there. Didn't didn't go down as low as he it's, you know, he's just doing what his coach told him to do. Okay, who's this? I probably could go past this. Uh, I don't know who that was. Trying to make sure I didn't miss any of the top guys. Was Bay Ruse again? Yeah, it's Bay Ruse. We saw Be Rouge. Uh, Bonak. Let's take a look at Bonak. I mean, he was a runner up. Yeah, Bonak. I don't know why I I don't always expect him to win or place. I knew he was going to place highly. It wasn't a matter of me thinking, "Ah, Bonak sucks. He's not going to be top five." No, I know he's always going to be up in the highest placings. And he does have an amazing physique. Come on. You can't really argue that. Is it as great as it was a few years ago? I would I would say no. Not quite as good. It's still very good. his waist has gotten a little bit wider. I think we've seen a little bit of atrophy uh in the in the limbs in certain shots, just a little bit. I mean, these are I'm nitpicking. I'm being very critical, but that's how you have to be with these guys because they all look amazing. They're all top tier athletes. These are the best of the best. Obviously, this isn't the Olympia, the Arnold, but it's it's still a really good show. It had a had a nice lineup. Uh, and you know, didn't have to sit through the women's divisions, which you know, I I have nothing against the women's divisions, but it just makes the shows the shows are so long when we have all the divisions. They go on for to to judge them takes about eight hours. Eight hours just to get through all the athletes. That's a long time. And then you got to do the finals for everybody. But Bonak looking looking really good here. The Conqueror is still in the game. He's 42 years old, still beating a lot of the young Bucks, still staying up top. Will this be his final year? I don't know because he's hit a lot of shows this year. I don't know if he's hitting so many shows because he plans on retiring at the Olympia. I'd be I wouldn't be surprised, I should say, if at the Olympia, regardless of how he places, uh I could see him going to the uh going to the microphone after his posing routine. Bob Chic Chikorilla will indulge him and say, "Here's your" They'll give a speech, a goodbye speech like we saw with guys like Dennis James gave a good one. Do we see everybody? This is photo. Let's take a look at photo. in that photo. Yeah, this his photo, isn't it? Yeah. Or is that or is that somebody else? I'm all mixed up. Go to your comments. More lats, but he didn't twerk. That's all the Germans. Yeah, we had a lot of uh Vasett that was get we had a lot of Turks in the chat uh earlier when Nihhat was on in 12 classic results. We'll go to I know double one Antonio was better. How's Luca? Well, it's over. He got second. He got second. So, the show's over his midsection. Still better legs in Beirus, but Beus has a better midsection. How to air goods platiton shipment second. Yeah, I could I could argue that. I could argue that my bad for chatting German. No, dude. There's people were chatting in Turk Turkish for quite a while and I don't obviously don't speak. Yeah, that's not photo. I don't know who that is. I don't know why I'm showing this guy. I should go to go to the awards for uh the final call outs for classic. This was classic. Yeah. Uh, I'll go to the classic awards. I know Doulool won. Michael Doulool. So, this was your final. That was the final classic call out uh of the confirmation round. Again, I don't know the gentleman on the other Luca. So, we have uh Richard Naggie there. What's Luca's name? Classic. Classic classic Luca Luca Riger Rigger uh Michael Dabul and fourth place must be that must be Khaled al- Nahawi. Khaled al- Nahawi from Egypt because he was fourth place and also from Egypt was fifth place. Ahmed Khalifa. Yeah, score sheets scores are up on are up on ipbro.com but this was your confirmation round. Final final group, final call out. This ended up being your top four. I think this kid, Luca, has got a bright future. Really bright future. Conditions on point. He just needs to fill out a little bit. Little bit more mass. I I doubt he's at the limit for his weight, for his height, I should say, the weight limit for his height. So, he's got room to grow. He's a young guy. I don't know how old. looks looks to be in his early to mid20s to me. Uh he just got beat by a more seasoned veteran. No shame in that. I mean, until today, I'd never heard of Luca Rigger. So, for him to come this far this fast and uh almost win, you know, second place out of I think it was 37 guys, nothing to be ashamed of. That's that's pretty damn good. So, did they go straight to awards from there or did they do a big pose down? They did do a pose down. Oh. Oh, no. That was confirmation. My bad, guys. My bad. Let me go back to the awards. No. Do we have the awards on video? I don't know. Did you get that, Artha? This is Artha Lab. This is her her video. She was streaming live live along with the pay-per-view. Uh, so those guys left the stage. She was on break. She left that. They called this a splash screen. Huh. And they went back to uh open comparisons. So when did the classic guys get their rewards? I don't know who that was. Is that the guy that won the amateur overall? Okay. Well, there's 212 212 awards. Nihad won. Okay, that was 212. So, the 212 results were uh winner was Nihhat Kaya from Turkey. Second was Angel Calderon Frius from Spain. Third was Juspi Zagarella from Italy. And two guys named Mahmud from United Arab Emirates. Mahmud Nem Nem and Mammud Adele were fourth and fifth. So these are Mammuds on each side. That's Jeppi Zagarella in the turquoise. And we'll see. I would like to back up and see the routines for those guys. But I think we need to see the classic awards first. It's 212 awards. Taking a long time. It's taking so long, guys. Second place award goes to Angel. Angel doesn't take second in 212 very often. Uh until you get to the Olympia. Where is he? Where's Angel? I see Niha psyched about winning, but where's Angel? Look, he's about to cry, which I understand. Oh, there's Angel. Okay. I was hoping Angel wasn't going to walk off the stage. He was just going around hugging everybody, I guess. Yeah, that's a bad look when you when you walk off stage without even getting your award. Don't do that, guys, if you're ever in that position. Second place, Angel called to run free us. And I just want to had a good victory shot of Nihhat. Yeah, Nihhat Kaya from Turkey, 22 years old. What a performance today from this young man. What a bright future. I mean, already they're talking about him pushing Keon at the Olympia. You know, that might be a little premature to say. We still got Sean Clarita up there. We still got some excellent guys. Angel, just because Angel got beat today doesn't mean he's not going to be better next time. I don't think this was Angel at his 100%. Uh, he wasn't off. He wasn't looking terrible. He got beat by by Nihot, though, fair and square. No issues with that. No complaints. There's nothing relaxed about so-called front relax pose. Totally agree with that. How do you should get here as speak for Olympia prep? Well, he's not getting out now. They're not letting anybody out of Iran into the USA right now. Trust me. Back is absolute joke. Speak is utterly horrible. Oh boy. Torso so short. Looks deformed. Horrible. Oh boy. You really don't like it. Luca is just 23. Okay. Thank you. Yeah, I knew Luca was young. Uh yeah, everything's been decided. It's all over this. Actually, I'm about an hour behind here. have changed. Yeah, I definitely am not live right now. I took a little break and I came back and the whole thing the whole show was over. Uh stricken or anything you'll be able to come to the US. I I don't know. I mean it's not looking good. Congratulations to Nihhat though. It's not looking good. Award after the final confirmation speech category. Yep. Correct. That's how they do it. Men's physique. I did not. I'm going to go right past them because I'm terrible. Don't know who won. I want to see the classic awards. So, this was Let's see the final classic call out. This was not the first call out, guys. We'll just go straight to the awards and then maybe I'll show uh I'll show the Bull's routine. There's Luca getting second. Alo, so that's Alexander West tomorrow, right? Yeah. Let me see. They kind of look alike. All you Germans look alike. Yeah. So classic physique. Yeah. Was Michael Dabul first, Luca Rigger from Germany, Richard Naggie from Hungary in third, Khaled El Nawi from Egypt fourth, and Ahmed Khalifa from Egypt in fifth to Egyptians. But uh great job Michael Dabul. He'll be going to Olympia obviously again. He's been he's been as high as fifth place. So, he is a top five Olympian, Michael Doul. And if he can stay in the top five because classic physique gets tougher and tougher every year, even with Bumstead gone. Congratulations, Dool. Michael Dool. And there's uh Luca Youngster. Bright bright future ahead of Luca Rieger from Germany right there to the left of Michael on your screen. That was open, guys. Just wondering if I missed any routines. It was open routines. I would like to see Michael Doul's winning, you know, his routine. He did win. I'd also like to see Nihhat's routine. And I'm skipping all over the place, guys. This is live. This is very live what you're watching. Didn't let everybody pause, did they? Yeah. Skipping around, skipping all over the place. I really just want to see Doulool in classic. Although a lot of you guys like this uh Luca guy. Maybe I should show him, too. Who's this? Is this Is this the bull? Was that the bull? I keep misidentifying people. I'm going to get in trouble. No, that's not my little bull. Some guys do bear passing resemblances to each other. I wonder they couldn't have let everybody pose. There was like there was way too many guys. Way too many guys. I just want to stop on either Luca or Michael. That's John Lee. I know him. Not sure who that is. Oh. Okay. Let's take a look at Luca. So, this is a 23-year-old Luca Rieger from Germany. Someone to definitely keep an eye on in the classic physique division. When Bumstead came on the pro scene, he was only 22 or 23. Same thing with Urs. They were both very young. Lot of young guys in classic. Uh, it's weird because Classic started out their first Olympia champion. Danny Hester's my age. I think he was already 50. Was he already 50 when he won that? No, he was close though. He was he was in his late 40s. But Luca, if he looks this good at 23, give this kid two or three more years and he's going to be phenomenal. He's already got the conditioning down. He's got the shape and the structure. He just needs to fill out a little bit, a little bit more mass. And he can do that gradually. He doesn't doesn't need to try to do that all at once and pile on 20 pounds of muscle. First of all, that' probably kick him out of the division. He'd probably be over his classic physique weight, but uh yeah, a little bit more mass. I wonder if Michael was after him. No, he was not. They're going in they're going in alphabetical order. So, I'm going to jump past this guy. Oh, Reager. So, it would have been I would have missed him already. He would have been already he would have already been gone. So, Michael would have been one of the first guys to pose if they're going alphabetically. Oh, that's Eric. What's his name? Um, Lizboa. Okay. So, yeah, Doul definitely. Oh, so he was the first one to pose. Michael. Oh, no. I'm I'm actually not looking at the score sheet. I'm looking at the score sheet when I should be looking at the I should be looking at the competitor list to to find out who was uh okay. So, Doul was in the classic physique. He was one of the first, I suppose. He's the only one the only other guy in classic I want to see. They couldn't have let everybody pose. There was 30 There were 37 guys. Maybe they did though. Maybe they did. Hard to say. Oh, here's the bull. Okay, finally we got him. All right. So, here's your classic Z champion Syrian, but I believe he lives in the United Kingdom. Michael Doulool. I believe he's been there for a while. Beautiful front lap spread. That's my favorite shot that he does is the front lap. He's known for his conditioning. They call him the Saharan Eagle because he's dry like the Sahara. He flies like an eagle. Yeah. See, this is a guy that uh there's there's some guys they say in classic he should go open. Nobody nobody says that about Doulool. He's he's perfectly at home in classic physique. He would need substantially more muscle mass to go open. I don't even know what he would look like with another 20 30 pounds of mass, but that's what he would need to be battling guys like Beirus and Bonak Antonio in the open. He'd need at least 20 more pounds of muscle, I'd say. Good job. All right, so that's the bull. See if we can go back and find Nihhat's winning routine from 212. Nihhat, where you at? Nihhat. I think they did let everybody pose. Well, let's take a look at Angel. We got him up there. Your runner up. Angel Frius from Spain. very thick, stock, densely muscled man. Way more size, far more mass than Nihhat, but the waist is significantly wider. Um, he's just got a very a very short stunted sort of torso compared to Nihhat. the structure. It looks, like I said, you can tell right away with nobody else on stage. You know you're looking at a shorter man up there just by the proportions, the size of the head in relation to the body, the limbs, the length of the limbs. You can tell right away this is not a a guy of average or above average height. It's a shorter guy. Whereas when we look at Nihhat though I don't think Nihot's a very tall person but structurally Nihhat does have more ideal proportions wider in the clavicles a little bit longer in the arms and legs but not too long. It's a it's a it's a delicate balance but Angel looked looked really good here man. I mean this guy's a warhorse. He's done a lot of shows and he's consistent. I think this is his third or fourth show of the season already. He went open at uh where was it? Empro I think. Yeah, he was open in the Empro because they didn't have a 212. All right. Now I got to try to find Nihut. But let me look at the list. The list will help me to figure out where uh so it was alphabetical freas. So we got to go all the way down to uh Kaya. Should be a few people a few people past him. Okay. Is this him? I can't tell until he turns around. Nope, that's not Nihut. That's not Nihut. That's not Neihot. I went way too far. I went too far. I don't want to miss Nihot because he was your champ. Got him. Got him. All right, we got him. Mihiakaya from Turkey. Guys, keep an eye on this kid. It's 212 sensation, 22 years old, coached by the great Patrick Tour. And here is his winning routine as a 212. He did the show last year at only 21 years old and he came back bigger and better. And he beat one of the best men in the 212 division, Angel Calderan Frias, who has been as high as I think third was the best he's done at the Olympia. I know he's been third. He might have been second. I could be I know I should know all these places, but Nihhat looks phenomenal. you know, just like Keon, he's he's a 212 competitor, but he's got beautiful shape and structure. Whereas someone like a Clarita and some of these other guys, structurally, they're not they weren't gifted with that ideal structure, uh the proportions, the clavicle width, the limb proportions to the torso, things like that. But Nihhat was he was definitely gifted that way. So, he's got a very bright future. He's going to keep filling out gradually, adding a little bit more size as time goes by. But look at that. Look at the definition. Look at the detail in the the glutes, the lower back. Christmas tree, the hams. Very well put together, this kid. Beautiful shot there. Beautiful. Most muscular shot. Hands on hips. Yeah, that is that's hashtag bodybuilding right there as far as I'm concerned. Fantastic. Good job, Knee Hut. All right, I'm going leave up some open footage while we're wrapping this up. Okay. All right. Oh boy. Terrible. Terrible. Terrible. Guys, it's not cool to make fun of Fuaden. The guy had a horrible motorcycle accident. Horrible. I wouldn't wish on anybody. Sal tal bodybuilding almost go to classics for MR Majest. Yeah, I mean but you know what classic is a very very popular division. It's a growing division. So it's not a big deal that you don't have uh a lot of representation in the open class as Germans uh because you're killing it in classic with guys like Urs uh this new kid Luca got Westermire. I'm sure there's some more. What am I talking about? We got Mike Somerfeld. Well, the best. The absolute best. Is that it? What we looking at there? I just want to leave up some awards. Was this open? That was more open stuff. So, bon just made $50,000. He's winning. Is that Craig Tennis? Craig is not. What's up, Sarcus? Appreciate you watching, of course. Fair play to Bonak Sigil Nihhat. He did it winner. He deal physique. I didn't watch physique. I'm sorry. Be winning out William. It's okay. Yeah, I'm not surprised too much. No, I mean is a great great competitor. He's a great bodybuilder. Shouldn't be any surprise when he wins something like this. Uh, you know, he's he's topnotch. I don't know how he would do at the Olympia and we'll probably never find out or at least, you know, it's not looking good for Beirus Tobani. It's not even looking good for Hadti to get into uh the USA. You know, he's got a family. Hadti's got kids. Otherwise, Hottie could have moved somewhere like Dubai, but he's got his own gym in Iran. He's got his family there. But had he moved to somewhere like Dubai, um he probably would have an easier time. Same thing with Beirus. If he lived in another country and not Iran, you know, you're going to move going to move countries just so you can get a visa to the United States. That's that's pretty extreme. I mean, if that's your life dream is to be on the Mr. Olympia stage. Again, I feel bad for athletes like Beirus who are caught in the crossfire of international politics and wars. It's got nothing to do with him. He's a bodybuilder. He's just trying to be a just trying to be the best bodybuilder in the world. He's not worried about uh how different countries act toward each other and relate to each other. That's really not his his problem. Shouldn't be his problem. I'd say does Bonak have Bonak's already got a win. Bonak won the Detroit Pro back in March. So, he's already he was set. He had his Olympic qualification months ago. We're already at the end of June. So, three months ago, uh Bonak locked up his Olympic qualification. He's all set. Uh Tony look great, too. I think his hamstring is the only thing holding back against Sky. Like Bonak, he could have been a little more conditioned. Maybe a little bit more size would help him. I mean, I'm just trying to think of how these guys are beating him. I I could have had him ahead of Bonak. I wouldn't have had a problem with that. So, I hope Urs takes it. Yeah. Yeah. I I'd say Somerfeld has a better chance obviously because he was second place last year at a Bumpstead. Ur was third, right? Because of Bonus. Bon's other body parts. Why beats him? I don't know. I think it's just a size thing. I mean, Bonak beats him on mass structure. Antonio Tonio, I I like his structure better all day. Bonak has crazy muscle maturity that Tonio doesn't really have that quite yet. Just want to say hi and warm class. Uh, so I think you mean uh Russy, were you at the Ronnie Coleman workout weekend back in Texas that we all went to Ronnie's house and we went to Metroflex gym? Is that what you mean? Says great structure, muscle quality. Remind you of Martin Fitzwwater. What do you think about the package? Nathan brought that look great. Play up. He got robbed. Yeah, I mean it was a tough It was a very close top five. You could have shuffled things around several different ways. I don't think it was a very clear-cut top five. Nathan could have could have placed higher. Shitty competition. I felt bad for Rubiel. Rubiel is huge. Absolutely. I agree with you on that. BB Fumante, but structure hurts him. His structure is is odd looking and his conditioning wasn't really there. He still wasn't as conditioned as he needs to be. Bonet's midsection is aging. Bonet have tears and muscles all over. Oh, you're at the workout. Yeah, that was a hell of a time 20 years ago. Synthol shoulders. Uh, people have said that about Tony. I don't want to say that. Good afternoon, I wars. Want to know Toronto? I really scared up the prediction of Tonio winning. I didn't know if you were joking about that anyway, Paul, because I there's no tone in in text. So, I didn't know if you were being serious or facicious, but uh I mean, he didn't do that badly. He took third place. And um you know, he was up there with these. Look at how hard they worked him. They they moved them around over and over and over again. So he did himself proud. The middle of born without calves wheelchair can compete in open. Uh who doesn't have calves? You're talking about Beirus. I don't know. I missed it. 100% serious. Okay. Well, Antonio looked really good. Um could he have won? I don't know. I don't know if there would have been a major uproar had he won and not because they're in Dubai and Beirus is from the Middle East. Um I think Beirus has just a massive massive fan base over there. Massive. Does Ramy live in Iran? Big Ramy lives in Egypt. Are you talking Are you talking about Chupan? I don't know who you're talking about. So it's just inject all over C's non-existent. Who's missing calves? Who are you talking about? Uh, Bonak has some calves. Jonah does not have great calves. No. All three look motor matur. Martin leg is double Beirus. That is true. Are them maritonists? Marathon runners. I mean, how can people say Tony synth shows symposes with synthol? Uh, yeah. Typically, unless you inject really really deep into the muscle, talking like an inch and a half, two inches, it's very very deep. That's like hitting the bone. Yeah. You're you're going to see a loss of definition and detail on the shoulders. How would a twin classic Ramy do in this lineup? I don't know. Prizes for the smallest one like Frank Zayn. That much oil in his body, tones, body fat. You said that before. You still think Beirus can beat Martin? You were pretty adamant that he can. Uh, I changed my mind. Give the old prize for Yeah, now that I'm looking at this and I changed my mind a lot and that's fine, you know, that's that's our prerogative. We can all change our opinions. The way Beirus looked today with those legs, uh, Martin would would smoke him unless Martin was off. I mean, if Martin came in smooth, you know, off his best condition and Beirus was shredded, we see these these things go different ways. Sometimes sometimes the guy who's not in the best condition still wins based on other factors. Sometimes he doesn't. Um, but I I don't think Bez would beat Martin. Now, I changed my I'm changing my mind about that. Be can prove Well, I don't think Beus is getting to the Olympia to be honest with you, Kulawa. I don't think he's going to be able to get into the USA. We're basically at war with Iran. It hasn't been officially declared, but we're bombing them. Um, so that's an act of war. We're dropping bombs on their country. That's war as far as I'm concerned. Um, so I don't think we're going to let people from Iran into the USA. I don't know if we will get uh an exception because he's been here several times and he does work for a US company, Eva Nutrition. I don't know if that's going to be enough to sway the visa process in his favor. Does Pittsburgh Martin beat Be Pittsburgh Martin? How'd he do in Pittsburgh? Was he third? I don't know. It's hard to say. It's not that important. Rubio looked like three of them. Yeah, it's it's not all about size, though. It's not. I mean, that's just one thing. If you want to just pick the biggest guy, there's there have been guys in in bodybuilding in the past that were bigger than everybody else and they never won much. Marcus Rule, I think, only won one pro show. He was pretty much the biggest guy of his era. Um, there was a guy named Greg Kovac, the late Greg Kovac, rest in peace. He was a monstrous guy. He had a horrible physique. Super wide waist, big bubble gut, just terrible proportions. But if you're talking about raw size, he was the biggest guy. Ruby look like three of them. Bonac two. Yep. Staying job by run as always. Thank you. Thank you, Jim. Put the bikini girls. Geez. Hey, Heidi should move here as fast as he can. Well, I don't know how fast he can get here. I mean, he's still remember still has to go through that whole process trying to get trying to get a visa. I assume it's like a work visa. Maybe it's an athletes competitive type of thing. I don't know the show. It seems like judge got to correct me. Nathan got a slight gift. Well, Nathan apparently posted that he was robbed. So, Nathan wasn't too happy. Uh, I want to see if there's any really good high-res images on the Dubai stream. Oh, sorry. They're on their IG page. Sometimes they have some really good images on these uh IG pages. See, what do we got? Share this tab instead. No, we already saw that. That's not new. These are images of the classic top four. This is on the Dubai Pro event Instagram page, but I already saw these. It's a good shot of your top two. Bonak and Beirus. It's a really good shot. Yeah, like I said, the definition wasn't really evident in the stream because we're so far back um from the from the stage. The camera work, these images give you a much better perspective. See, Beirus's legs don't look as bad here, do they? In this still image, his legs look a lot better, but when we looked at the we saw him on video, uh they were definitely a weak point today. There's Nihhat Nihad Kaya from Turkey, 22 years old, your 212 winner. So men's open got 140, classic physique got 70,000 and 212 only got $40,000. Big difference in prize money there, huh? Wouldn't you say? I'd say so. But congratulations, Nihhat. Uh, men's physique winner. Who is he? I don't know. They didn't tag him. He's from Czech Republic. Okay. Uh, I'll tell you who now. It was uh O. No, I need to go to uh results. Try to get the the name of that guy. I should have the winner's name for God's sake men's physique. So that is Miruslav Jurisk from Czech Republic and that was a big class that was 100. No 100 that was about 30 guys. So Miruslav Jurk, great job winning the show. Who else say they got it? It's a backstage interview with Chris Cormier. Nihut must speak English, does he? Elegy. Elegy. So, I feel like I mean this is the start of a new era in the 212 division. I saw you here last year and you placed second. You improved so much. Can you tell us a little bit about how you're feeling? and I saw all the emotions coming out on the stage and uh I feel like uh you can very well be buying for the title if not in the top two top three at the latest. But how do you feel right now? Alhamdulillah. Dubai. No translator. Pray for translator. I don't think we're going to get a translation out of that, guys. Some good shots of Doul winning. Nice. Yeah, he's happy. He's very happy. Okay, there's a shot of uh Beiru's winning. You got a closeup at all? Ah, there's a nice shot. Look at that. See, his legs look better there for sure. Legs look great there. I know. We know in the video they didn't look like that, right? They did not look like that. There's God number one. Yeah, it's a good shot. It's a really good shot. Uh, let's see. We have a travel ban for athletes competition. How do you probably make it? Yeah, it's been said that Beirus probably will not because he did serve in Iran's military. So, he's probably on some some do not fly list, some do not enter list or something like that. Uh, next show is next weekend. No, there's one next weekend in Italy. The Flex Weekend Pro in Italy. Amazing how well Bon continues to place. It's hard to argue he doesn't deserve the placings. She went for five hours. Jeez, she didn't even take a break. God bless Artha. I'm looking at her her video. I don't know how you can stand there for She did put a screen up, so maybe she ran out of the room to go to the bathroom or something. I'm guessing because I I I could never sit there for a full a full five hours without without leaving the room. Uh yeah, Bonak is he's good. He's very good and I don't always give him his proper credit. I I don't know why. He's a Hall of Famer for sure. Yeah, China was just today. Uh did Prey win that? Let's find out uh results. China DSM Pro. No, that was last weekend. Bonnie BM, I don't see I don't see the results up for China. There's a South Florida Pro MRO. Yeah, there's no results up for China show. I'm I'm curious to see who won too. Andrea Prey was the favorite, but you never know. Chinese one for second. It was uh $50,000. Wise men paid better than 212 guys. It must be more popular. It all comes down to popular. Chris was the best guy to interview someone who doesn't speak English. I thought there was going to be a translator there. I don't know what the point of that interview was. And how did Nihad even know what he was asking him? He he probably just gave like a a thank you speech. Lex Lewis. Yeah, I could see him in the top three this year. Yeah, I could see that. Chris could say I know a little bit of Turkish. Speak a little Turkey. This guy giving Chris a dissertation answer. Well, I don't know what he was saying because I don't speak someone from Turkey translate summoning up a dude from Turkey. There were a ton of Turk Turks on Turkish people on the stream earlier when I did the uh the judging watch party. Bar said 0% chance has a 1% chance as of making it today. Yeah, I know there's these exceptions being made, but we're at war now and it's that's really going to complicate issues. I don't know. I don't know. Their airspace is closed for the foreseeable future. No commercial flights in or out. So, how do these people from Iran that competed? How are they even going to get back home? How are they going to fly in? Geez. It's either private planes or what the heck are they going to do? Fly into the next country and try to get a bus in. Prey got second. A Chinese guy won. Wow. Good for him. I wonder if it was Le uh Schumang Yan. I wonder if it was him. The shorter guy who won the Chinese show. Um I should probably look at Milos's because Milos was there. Milos probably has it on his on his Instagram. Let's look at Mishko. Has one. I hope you see me in Olympia stage this year. I promise I show my best inst. I wish him well, man. I wish him well. Thank you, Milos. Thank you for everything. I love you, Milos. Congratulations, okay, so that's his client. Uh he's got some some more footage of Beirus. This actually this footage actually looks a little better than what we saw earlier from the stream. Let's take a look. Yeah, this is condition looks bang on. This is just somebody's iPhone, I'm sure. Somebody sitting a couple rows behind the judges. Uh what's his official RX Muscle? Maybe this Sid. Maybe Sid shot this. I'm sure Sid was a guest of honor up front. He should be. He's a He's always MCing and doing uh all kinds of things at these shows. So, there's Beirus's winning routine with some better Well, it's closer up anyway. I wouldn't say it's better quality than the stream, but it's closer up. It's zoomed in more. Yeah, he brought it. He brought the He brought the conditioning like he always does. best look. Just keeps getting better and better. Hope he can get his visa. Well, we saw that was his one wish. His one wish. He wants to get to Olympia. Will it happen? I don't know, guys. I don't know. I don't know. It's It's tough. It's tough with what's going on right now. I mean, it's unfortunate that this all happened because we haven't had major problems with Iran in a very long time. We We're not on good terms with Iran. I'm talking about the USA, but it was never like a war situation or not. You know, this is this is clearly taking it to another level what's going on right now. I don't obviously I'm not that well verssed in politics and world events. I just know we dropped a bunch of bombs on them. So, okay, this was the top two at the China Pro. Who's the guy on the right? He's just your local gym rat. That's That's the uh the white guy. Oh man, I lost it. And then this is Body Edge Sai. What's his real name? Body EdgeCl. He won the show. doesn't have his his real name there. I'll follow him. But so I guess this guy won. Um yeah, let's put that back up. That's Prey. So that's Prey next to him. I'm sorry. That's I know Prey. So it came down to Andrew Prey and this guy. And this guy beat him. Looks really good. obviously was not as strong a lineup. That's why and I didn't see a stream anywhere for it. Um but I knew I could probably find a stream somebody covering Dubai Pro and Artha Lab. She did it. I was able to get that footage. But this was your top two at the China Pro today. Andrea Prey and Who won this man? Who won this? I don't know. results. Uh, yeah, I don't see the results up on the IPB Pro page for the China show yet. 5B1 Classic Pro. I was in Alabama. No, there's no results up. So, there we go. Interesting. All right, let's go back to Dubai Pro. I'll wrap it up soon, guys. I'll wrap it up soon. We spent a lot of time watching the judging earlier today. A lot of time. I'll just leave it with uh confirmation round for confirmation round for open. Is this open? Sorry, I'm jumping all over the place here, guys. No, that wasn't that wasn't your top, guys. That was classic. Those awards. Yeah, I'm going to wrap it up soon, guys. Just want to get some more of your comments. Let's see. Bear is stuck in Dubai. All right. So, that guy's name is Shen Chen Long. Cheng Lang and then this guy calls him Cheng Cheng Long Shen. China's first Chinese pro winner. Good for him. Beu is stuck in Dubai. Yeah, I mean he can't fly back. What's he going to do? Take a bus. Problem Asian bless shines a light on his leg problem. Yeah, he doesn't have the best legs. Finally, someone thanks me. Beer is just incredible. Some structural like Raphael Bundell. Beer's looking so good. Come on. Press got ripped off from that quick glimpse. Dude, we've had major problems with them since 1953. Talking about Iran. Been embargoing their economy for years. GP list and Walmart. Um, I think we actually got along pretty well with them back uh in the days of like the sha of Iran. You know, we're talking about the 70s. I think uh the real trouble started when they had their civil war they had their government overthrown uh and you know the religious faction or whatever their that that group took over. Ayatollah Kmeni was their leader at that point. They took 52 of our US citizens over there hostage. Yeah, I think that was the turning point was the Iran hostage crisis that we had moved Dubai. I don't think it's going to happen Preston. I think people are so the the Olympia is so entrenched in Las Vegas at this point. I don't see that happening. See leg problem though he should not compete against Asians. Press legs don't match up. Chinese guy looks soft. Super soft. Olympia should move to Dubai or somewhere in Europe to afford all athletes opportunity. Well, the only people, you know, I don't want to downplay it, but we're only having trouble with a couple countries that can't get here. Everyone else, everyone else gets here. No problem. They won't let women on stage. Yeah, that's a good point, Dane. You notice there were no women's divisions. So, it is a it is a Muslim country. Um, as westernized as Dubai city is with the, you know, the huge skyrise skyscrapers, the the Bugattis and all that stuff. It's a very wealthy city, but it's still a Muslim a Muslim nation, and they can't have women up there on stage in little bikinis. Good coverage, Ron. Thanks. Oh, go take a shower. Eat something, bro. Probably could use a shower. All right, so I think I'm going to go back to Instagramos Be. Yep. All right. So, Beirus Tobani, congratulations. $140,000 richer. Share this tab. He is your winner to Dubai Pro. Uh I guess the question now is will he be able to get to the US? And we do not know. We don't have an answer for that. It's not looking great, but fingers crossed. Uh it could happen. We'll see. All right, guys. So that has been still does incredibly gay thing. Reflex glutes over and over. Oh, do not like it. Went super beautiful. Yeah, sure was. So was Cuba back in the old days. All right, guys. That's going to do it for me today. Uh, thank you so much. Appreciate all you guys who watched today. It was a long, long judging we sat through, but it was only men's divisions. we only had to sit through four men's divisions and not a total of 10 or 11 divisions which we would have if there were uh you know all the all the divisions with the women's bikini and fitness and figure and all that stuff. So anyway guys, thank you so much. Appreciate you all watching. Congratulations to Beir uh to Nihhat Kaya the 212 winner, to Michael Doul, the classic physique winner, and to Miruslav, can't remember his last name. Do I have it up there? Miroslav Minique winner from Czech Republic. His name was Miruslav Jurisk. Jurisk Jurisk something like that. So that's it guys. Peace. All right. Talk to you guys later. Thanks for watching. Bye.