Good morning, guys. Good morning over in Romania. The judging has been done for hours and hours at the Romania Muscle Fest. They're doing the finals right now. But this video is all about how great Andrew Jack looked because I thought he had leveled up at the Olympia four weeks ago where he took third place. Didn't know if he could look any better than that, but he did this contest specifically to see what he was capable of. Could he push the conditioning a little bit further? And what do you think, guys? I think we are looking at quite possibly quite possibly a 2026 Mr. Olympia right here. looking fantastic. Sharper, full uh every inch the champion. I'm I'm really pleased at how great he looks. I know that was only one that was only one shot. So, here's another look here. Even they're asking this is Beyond the Stage TV asking, are we looking at the next Mr. Olympia? I still I will be reacting to the back poses once I see one because I haven't seen one yet. I've been kind of rushing to get this done because it's already so late over there. They're already into the finals. Of course, they have to get through every division, but look at that. Andrew looking massive, incredible shape. So, here is a comparison next with Joan Kuan, sorry, Juan Pradels, who as I predicted would be the only guy to really stand next to Andrew and give him any kind of challenge today. Uh, and of course, Juan has a long way to go. He's a work in progress, but he's holding his own. But let's look at Andrew. The width of that front lat spread. He gets a lot of crap for his side poses. Let's see if there's any improvement in the way he's hitting them. Of course, he still needs more hamstring. Still needs more hamstring, but they're not awful hamstrings. Now, look at that. Here. Here we're finally seeing the back, the condition of the back, the glutes, the hams as tight or tighter than we saw at the Olympia four weeks ago. So this is four additional weeks of prep. He's really looking to find him and Chris Aceto looking to find that magic formula magic that they can apply towards next year's Olympia. Well, actually, what am I saying? They'll they'll be uh he'll be on stage again at the Arnold Classic in early March. So, could he beat everyone that's going to the uh Arnold Classic, which will be most of the guys from the Olympia? I think he's quite capable of it. I mean, the guy was third place at the Olympia. Remember, Samson was third place in 2023 behind Derek and Hottie, and he ended up winning the next year. A lot of guys have jumped from third to first over the years. It's not a huge progression. So, there he is congratulating Joan for giving him a really good fight today. having fun up there because this is a this was a fun show for Andrew. Not fun that he was continuing to prep and doing the diet and cardio, but fun because there's nobody that was going to beat him here. Not even close. But this was a chance for him to just push the condition, see what he's capable of, have some fun doing it. Got any comments yet? I'm really pleased at him. Wonder what you guys think. Only two comments so far. Wake up, guys. What's up, Gregory? Let's not kid ourselves. Derek can't beat that. His back looks wild. I mean, his back wasn't great when he turned pro. It It's been getting better. It's been getting thicker, more detailed, and I agree with Gregory Elise, IFBB Pro. I don't think Derek can beat that, honestly. Uh, I want to go to the really nice high-res pictures. These are on Jonathan Maro's Instagram page. He's an ace photographer out there in Europe. Get some amazing shots. Oh, that was classic. Nothing gets classic, but I want to look at Here's what we want to see. Here we want to see. Okay, so here we're gonna go pose for pose. It's not really a comparison. The only thing I think Predell's John Quan has on him is the legs, the quads. His quads are insane. But Andrews aren't far behind at all. One thing someone did keeps noting in the comments here is the left side, which is the right side on your screen of Juan is smaller. I don't see it so much in the legs, but I do see it. I see it definitely in the arms. I see that arm on your left, which is his right arm. Talking about Juan Pradell's is significantly bigger, especially the bicep. The bicep is coming up a lot higher and fuller. The tricep sweeps down lower. So, yeah, I don't know why I didn't notice that, but Andrew just dominating the shot as you would expect. You would expect. Most muscular. Juan is really holding his own that most muscular. I'll give him that cuz he's got some really crazy crazy delts. But still, Andrew Andrew got him there. Condition, shape, front lat spread. It It's very hard to beat Andrew Jack in a front lat spread. He's He's as wide as a damn aircraft airplane. Looks like he's ready for takeoff there. I mean, someone 6'2 and about somewhere 280, 290, whatever he is on stage. It's imposing side chest. I might actually give the side chest to Juan here. What do you guys think? Would you say what's up? What's up, Ryan? Guan's quads are Juan's quads are insane. It's even crazy. Andrew's keeping up with that. Yeah, he does he need bigger legs. I think Andrew really just needs bigger hamstrings. I think his quads are just fine. I don't see the issue. Catch you live is either one size under size. Yeah, I mean, I didn't notice it, but someone kept bringing it to my attention. I know if it was you in in the comments on the under the YouTube video and now that I'm looking I definitely saw it in that frontal bicep. Does his quads get bigger or is it just picture that larger arm is full of oil? Why wouldn't he put the oil in all the in both arms? That doesn't make any sense if you're going to put synthol or whatever in your arms. Yeah, Andrew is is better conditioned here than the Olympia which was his best condition by far already. So Andrew has surpassed his best look already. This destroys the look he's had the past couple seasons. And remember, his first proseason wasn't until 2022. Turned pro at the 2022 Arnold amateur in Columbus. [snorts] Uh went on to win the Texas Pro few months later, placed seventh, I believe, at his first Olympia. He was sick, sick as a dog. I remember interviewing him uh at that meet the Olympians and he was he sounded awful. Uh and the next year he got fifth and the next year he got fifth and then he got third. So 22, 23, 24, 25. So, seventh, fifth, fifth, third is his progression. But look at that. Wow. Side shots. I actually like his side tricep because that tricep is just wild the way it pops out there in the back. That the long head of the tricep. Of course. Would I like to see more hamstring? Of course I would. Of course I would. Juan's weakness is symmetry from right to left. He's got some glaring imbalances. Yeah. Honestly, I never noticed his left arm and legs and his right side undersides. I actually wonder if he was an ax. It could be like nerve damage. It's the best Samson. Better than Texas, too. The best Andrew. I think you mean this. [laughter] This is a lot of people are actually hoping that Samson would have jumped into this show as well uh for a rematch against Andrew. But I don't think Samson necessarily was avoiding uh Andrew, although I think Andrew would have beat him here for sure. That's my opinion. Uh I think it's more a case of he was done. He was just burnt out from all these shows this year. It was time to time to finally take a break. Interesting the side. Try better. Straightening his arm more. Check on the back lat. Look at the lower lat. Okay. Let's do that. Yeah. Yeah. Jan Huan. God, his name. It does look like the lad inserts a little bit lower. The imbalance in the leg doesn't look as bad on him from the back. He does need to fill in this whole area here. See how it's You shouldn't have a big hollow gaping chasm, a black a black abyss right here. That should be filled in with muscle like it is with Andrew. You're supposed to have this is actually the traps. All all of this up here. That's the traps. But still, that should be thick and developed all the way through, not just at the top and at the bottom. So, I don't know. I don't know what the deal is with him. Side try. I love that shot. Andrew Andrew does an amazing ab and thigh. Juan looks pretty good, too. But yeah, I could see that leg uh first. You can see that leg's actually the foot's angled away. So, it's not a it's not a fair comparison. This leg is angled a little to the side. The one here on the left, the one on the right is more straight on. Andrew congratulating him. I'm going to hit one of those fun poses. But yeah, man. I I'm very impressed with Andrew. I mean, who isn't impressed with Andrew Jack? I honestly believe it's well within his capability to be Mr. Olympia next year and even be be way before that six seven months before that to be the Arnold Classic champ. [snorts] Um I don't know. I keep hearing conflicting stories about who's going in the Arnold and who isn't. I don't think Samson beats this Andrew. No, I don't think so. Andrew looked a lot better in Prague than he had at the Olympia. No question. Way [clears throat] better. His fullness was mostly back. Uh condition was usually what it is. You know, his condition is never it's I don't know if he's capable of great condition, Samson, but he looked a lot better at Prague. I still think I still think this Andrew would have beat him. I mean, Martin beat him in Prague and I think this Andrew would have beat that Martin [snorts] going 26. Jimmy Jumanji. Yeah, he's referring to the fact that uh Fouad Abiad predicted Juan Predell's would be Mr. Olympian 5 years and if he can get his back uh thicker uh and that imbalance that I do see now in that in that arm especially the the arm on the left you can't see it as much here is significantly smaller than the one on the right looks incredible is next level looks like he's not just a future but compete with the present athletes yeah double O he's he's not there yet I mean getting a back it it doesn't happen immediately it takes some time it's It's not looking great for Samson. Samson out conditioning. Simpson get his conditioning together. Yeah, I mean this is just such an impressive Andrew. It's this would be tough for anybody to beat. We're talking hottie Derek. They're going to have a Samson's really getting the conditioning figured out. Take a look. There's Josema. Jose Manuel Mano Munoz, sorry. Who's probably going to be winning your uh classic physique title today. He is getting an early Olympia 2026 qualification. So, I don't know if he'll compete next year's shows like the Pittsburgh, New York, things like that as he did this year. Uh, but there's some other guys. I'm not dismissing them. I just don't know who most of these guys are, these other competitors. I know some of you guys are some good shots. That's the one I used for the thumbnail. That's an his frontal bicep Andrew. It's just astonishing. And drawing. Yeah, I I do see the difference there. Not so much in the legs. That leg on the left is a little bigger, but the arm the difference in the arms is is pretty noticeable. I don't know who all these guys are, so forgive me Europeans. I'm that ugly American, that ignorant American. But Jonathan Maro does some some incredible work with the photography. He also does videos, which I was hoping to see. He had some videos up. Go to Beyond the Stage again and see what else they have going. Beyond Stage TV usually has some really good stuff. This is just a real quick screen grab here. He's only going to hit one pose. I think this is when he first came out for judging [snorts] when they do the individual presentation. I was hoping they would shoot the whole thing or film the whole thing, but they did not. Dog gone it. dog gum it. And that's the same same thing we saw before. Take a look at Jawan Han. God, his name will be it's gonna be the death of me, guys. See, see when he's moving, the difference in the from right to left isn't as noticeable. You notice it more when the when it's not moving. You don't see it in that shot at all. He looks pretty symmetrical in that pose, the front lat. Obviously side poses. He's going to hit his better side, which for him is the right arm. Right arm is definitely his better arm. I'm just curious if you see that. See, why did they film the whole posing routine for the whole presentation for Khan and they didn't do it for Andrew? I feel cheated. I mean, we want to see more Andrew. But I agree. This kid, he is a kid. He's 28 years old, I believe. Everyone keeps telling me he's the future. He's the future. He's got so much potential. I don't want to say Mr. Olympian 5 years. I don't want to go that far because you never know. There's a lot of people with great potential who never fully realize that potential. But he's definitely looking amazing this young guy and I think he has a very very bright future. Go back to this while we take some comments. The judging I mean it's I didn't I didn't bother making a question in the thumbnail or the title. Is it Andrew or or Juan, it's it's Andrew all day. And Andrew didn't really do this. He didn't do this for the money or the exposure or anything like that. He did it purely uh from what he told Ryan Terry in a video just to see if he could push the condition a little further. Four more weeks of prep and he did. Josema never seen better condition. Josema's Josema is always shredded. I I give it up to that guy. Samson bring offseason condition compared to this. Andrew is only missing a better side leg. Could that be brought up in the five months? Uh, [snorts] could it be? I mean, why not? How long does it take for a body part to improve? I think at five months, [snorts] if he does the Arnold and he's done with that early March and then shuts it down, doesn't go on to Pittsburgh or anything like that, five months should be enough time to make improvement in any body part. If you're training really hard and you run on all the right PEDs and eating tons of really good food, I mean, if it's not going to happen in five months, how long is it going to take? I do see improvement in his hamstring over the past few years. It's it's still not where I want it to be because I mean, that's like the missing puzzle piece for Andrew. If he had if he had a crazy hamstring drop, I think he'd be Mr. Olympia right now. This ain't Jimmy Jumanji. Great movie, Jumanji. Not the newer one, the older one with Robin Williams. Great movie. Yeah, I think he's he's fully capable of winning. We don't know if he is, but he could show part of this contest. No, man. Samson, this is Instagram. I'm just showing Instagram. This isn't my uh No, they they don't want you going uh taking parts of the pay-per-view. Uh especially when the pay-per-view is still going on. But thank you. Appreciate that concern. But no, this is not YouTube. This is Instagram. This is uh Beyond the Stage TV. So if it's on Instagram, I am fully free to use it. SEO abuse makes Samson look super soft. Plus his arms, no definition in his arms. I don't know if Samson's got oil in his arms or Derek has oil. I don't know for sure. I mean, Samson's arms. I would like to see a lot more detail, separation, muscle maturity. You know, people could people uh accuse Sam, not Sam, Andrew of having oil in his arms. I don't think he's got oil in his arms. Someone in the comments is really upset that Andrew has high calves and high forearms. They think those two physique flaws should disqualify him from even being in the top 10 at the Mr. Olympia. And yes, he does have small forearms. His calves are they're pretty well developed, but they are high. There's nothing he can do about that. When you have high insertions like he does, it is what it is. They're not going to get any lower. But is that is that enough? He's he got third in the world with these major glaring flaws that these couple guys seem so worried about. Like I said, this is an objective sport or sorry, subjective sport. It's a matter of opinion and some people will focus on one thing and it really bothers them and other people could never even notice or if they notice it, it doesn't bother them at all. Huan looked amazing last week, but Andrew is making him look tiny. I think in terms of size, Huan is holding his own. He's not getting out outmasked much by Andrew. He's a very big, thick young guy. Uh, but the overall shape, symmetry, lines, balance, and his side pose was amazing. I actually I I like his side tricep a lot. I think he's got one of the best side triceps in the game, although I would like to see more hams. Best side try in the games right now is probably Neckzilla, Ruby Elmo Mosca. He he pretty much owns that pose. The obsessive oil talk is crazy. Yeah, I mean if it was really really obvious if I saw a big lumpy arm or shoulder with not one line in it, I would call it out. I don't see that with Andrew. Keep count on Martin's biceps. I find they lack peak. Well, lacking peak is just a genetic thing. I mean, if you go to a a good thing, a good exercise to do is just go to a go to a a local or regional contest, when they hit the front double bicep pose, a lineup of bodybuilders or classic physique guys, you'll notice some people have really good bicep peaks, some people have zero bicep peaks. It's not that they didn't train them right or that the guys with no piece of oil. It's just genetic. It's like I I don't have much of a bicep peak. My son, whose arms are half the size of mine, he has a much better bicep peak which he gets from his mom. My wife has a genetic bicep peak. Her biceps are peaked. It's just the shape of the muscle. Are calves judging comp? Not really. Not really. I mean, I I I've I've never seen a contest come down to two guys who were pretty much equal, but one had better calves and that's why they won. I've never seen anybody win just because they had huge calves. I mean, Eric Fankhauser, Ben Pakulski, uh the late Mike Modazzo, the late Paul Deo, Dorian Yates, uh these these people all had I shouldn't have mentioned Dorian because he did he was Mr. Olympia six times, but those other guys, none of them did extraordinarily well. Ben actually won a pro show or two, I think. But, uh just having huge calves, it's it's great, but it doesn't seem to bother the judges if they don't. You still muscles full of oil. Yes. Yes. I mean, I've talked to guys I've talked to a lot of these guys and they say if the oil is injected deep enough, it's not going to affect the the striations which were, you know, those are further up, closer to the surface of the muscle. So, [snorts] yeah, there was a better way to do it. I think Juan needs to get a bit tighter from the back. Oh, yeah. I mean, I thought he was going to win uh last week in Poland, but you know, unfortunately, he didn't. [snorts] Uh I thought, who won that? Was that Kriso? No. Who won Poland? Come on, Ron. Can't remember who won a week ago. I think it was uh No, it wasn't. Who the hell won Poland, guys? [sighs] Oh god, I can't remember. It was a week ago. You suck, Ron. Andrew's definitely sweeping the floor here. Oh, it's not even close. Chin Chin Dust Steven. So, his real name is Chinedu Obea. Andrew Jack, for those who didn't know, the oil tank obsession comes from Ivan, I think, the boy who cried wolf. Well, I remember going back a few more years. It was Louis Marco who was really he had a lot of funny jokes. The loyal is loyal oil and I can't remember all the catchphrases, but Louis Marco was pretty hilarious. Andrew side poses improved a lot, too. Yeah. I mean, he was hearing so much criticism that he had to fix them. He had to get them better. Tomorrow, I'll check Andrew. I'll meet him. Oh, wow. Okay. [snorts] I don't know where he's going. The oil in his muscles, I think. [\h__\h] I don't think he has oil in his muscles. I think that's just how great he looks. Bicep peaks relation long or short biceps surgery. We did not have great peaks but had thick arms with long insertions. That's well I I've actually there are people who have had long biceps that have a peaked shape. It's not just the length of the muscle. I know that seems like a a real quick analysis, but I've I've seen people with full biceps that insert close to the crook of the arm, you know, right where it meets the forearm, and they they do have peaks. Andrew is abusing oil in his [laughter] So you really think he's got all kinds of oil in his biceps. Shorter biceps have better peaks. Often they do, but it's not always the case. Some people have short biceps with no peaks, so they're screwed, you know, both ways. I've seen that, too. Ghana, uh, West Africa, that's where all the great genetics come from. Here come former IPB judge of the Andrew hate. Every great bodybuilder is going to have haters. If you don't have haters, you must not be that good. I always say if you suck, nobody's going to talk about you. You'll never get criticized or or insulted because nobody cares if you're bad. But if you're good, people are going to be jealous or people are going to be questioning, especially if you're beating. If they're a fan of someone else who you beat, uh, they will take it out on you. Do competitors inject glutes less in hopes of improved glutes? No. I think it's people inject where there are fewer nerve endings. There's only a few places you can inject that aren't excruciatingly painful. The glutes are the least painful. The upper outer quadrant, uh, you know, if you drew a if you if you drew the glutes into four sections, the upper outer quadrant on each side, very few nerve endings, so it's a close to painless place to inject. People go in the side delts. It's not too painful usually. Sometimes you will hit a nerve. Um, for my TRT now, I go in the lats only because I don't want to have uh bruises. is I don't want to have lumps in my shoulders from my TRT shots. This is legit TRT. I'm not doing cycles, but I still my glutes had so much scar tissue in them from thousands of injections. They have to You guys, you have to rotate if you're if you're doing multiple multiple shots like these guys. They can't just inject in one place. They have to rotate or else they'd have massive buildups of oil before the oil disperse. Andre Prey, thank you. Thank you, Gatano. Gatano Vicado in Phoenix or from Phoenix, I don't know. But yes, Andre Prey, he did beat uh this guy right here, Juan Predell's, which I I I could have given that one to Juan with all the flaws Derrick has, he still went on to win the Olympia, so why the bash on Andrew? Yeah. You know what? When people have awesome genetics, which all these guys have awesome genetics, don't get it twisted. It's not like Andrew is the only one that's got freak genetics. Joan Huan, he's got freak genetics. But when people have when they see that really full round muscle, [snorts] which not many people have, it's typically the African people with African heritage have more roundness to the muscles, then they get jealous and say it's all genetics. Uh, and they don't I remember Flex Wheeler because Flex Wheeler had some of the best genetics in in history aside from clavicle width. That's the only thing that he wasn't really gifted with was superior clavicle width. But he did okay, didn't he? Uh he remember he used to talk to me and say, you know, when I win, people sort of blow it off like, well, you're so you're such a genetic freak. You should win all the time anyway. And when he didn't win, people were like, ha, all those genetics to genetic gifts and you didn't win, you must be lazy, you bum. So yeah, when you have great great genetics, you can't win. Derek and Aceto versus Andrew Ace. Who's gonna be Mr. O? Yeah. Well, I mean, I give it up to Aceto is an amazing coach. He's been doing this for about 40 years coaching. Uh he's the mo he's one of the most experienced coaches. Probably the most experienced. He was doing it long before I [clears throat] ever heard of anybody being a coach for bodybuilders. Uh if we were disqualifing guys for high cal Derrick Samson arms not separated. So Oh, nobody's getting disqualified over calves. I mean, I I can distinctly remember many men's physique pro shows I was at watching where the top 10 either only one or two in the top 10 guys had any calf development or none of them had any calf development. In men's physique, you would think calves would count because their thighs are covered, but their calves are not. So, obviously the upper body, we know in men's physique, the board shorts division, it's judged, but wouldn't you think the calves would be too? But again, I've seen stages with a bunch of guys, super high calves, no development. Guan could probably qualify points. No, they didn't. They don't have the point system for open bodybuilding anymore. I was mistaken when I made a video a few months ago when they brought the point system back. It was it was only for some divisions, not all of them. They they're not doing it for men's open. Men's open, you still have to win a show. You have to win any contest, any any open bodybuilding contest or be top three at the Olympia. Those are the only ways to qualify. So, Han needs to needs to win a show. However, looking at the calendar, if he can hang on another two weeks, two weeks from today is the big man pro show in Alakante, Spain. He's from Spain. He would have two more weeks to get leaner and leaner. I'm pretty sure Han would do that. I'm pretty sure he would do that. Interject says shorter muscle builds are still very round full. Yeah, I don't know why they think it's oil. It's because I guess they're so round and full, but I don't see any weird shapes to the muscle. I don't see any loss in definition or separation or striations or anything like that. So, I don't I don't get it. It's just genetics. Yeah. Old Pix from Nigeria always had triceps like that. I remember him. The first time I saw him was in uh Larry Will's videos on YouTube. So, this is going back like four or five years. And uh I was just in awe of this guy's arms. Like, geez, this is one of the best gym bodies I've ever seen. Andrew's arms even back then, they were clearly a strong point. It doesn't matter what they measure. They were huge and they had this crazy round shape to the biceps and the triceps. Very, very impressive. Dave Mu Muscle, how are you doing? Good morning. Andrew finally figured out the riddle of his physique. The riddle of steel. That's what Conan had to figure out. He'll be the next M. He'll be the Mr. O next year. Only extreme. He's so big and bubbly, but his forearms tiny. Yeah. I mean, he's got just he's got high calf insertions and he's got high forearm insertions. So, when you're looking at those forearms, there's no muscles. There are no muscle cells past that initial bulge that goes just a few inches beyond his elbow. There's nothing. And that's just genetics. You can't do that. I mean, the people that have always you've seen with the great greatest calves and the greatest forms, they just had long forearm muscles, so low insertions and low calf muscles like Flex Lewis. If you've ever if you ever look at Flex Lewis's calves or Mike M, the late Mike Morazzo, even Dorian's, their calves insert just a couple inches above the ankle, whereas someone like Andrew, there's a good six or eight inches from the heel to to the to where the calf inserts. Nothing you can do about that. And same thing with these guys with the massive forearms like Lee Priest, the the late uh Casey Vader, Mike Mener, uh Dorian had great forearms, but they it's because they inserted really low, like all the way down to the wrist pretty much. When you have forearms that insert that low, you never need to do a wrist curl in your life. They're going to be massive just from gripping, from pulling and pushing everything. The forearm flexors and extensors, they get all the development they need. It's like Flex Lewis's forearms are probably 18 or 19 inches. I don't think he ever did one one rep for them calves they insert fairly high. They're fooling around. Yeah, he's developed he's developed what he can develop. You whatever's there, whatever muscle tissue is there, muscle cells, you can you can develop that to the max. But so if you have a short bicep, there's always going to be that gap. You know, for years they used to fill our head with lies in the magazine saying preacher curls will fill in that gap. If you have a gap right here, which most pe most of us have at least a little gap. We don't have biceps that go all the way to the elbow. There's nothing you can do to ever fill in that gap. That's where the muscle inserts. And you see the same thing sometimes with all kinds of muscle groups. You even see like with quads that insert a few inches above the knee sometimes. Yeah, I try try to give some education while I'm doing these. Same goes for his tricep. That blue ring of fire. We look at pictures from Milos Compius, you say his biceps are genetic, but today we know he shot uh he didn't do that till the end. Reno Renault, he didn't do that till the end of his career. If you look at Milos's arms in the first few years as a pro when he was a little smaller, he wasn't putting anything in his arms. He started doing the the synthol toward the very end of his career and he regrets it deeply. It's really his biggest regret because he almost died. He got a was an infection or a a blood clot or something. He almost died from from injecting his arms. So, and he he did they did look ridiculous. How do you sleep with that much hate for others? You're crime of half naked men. Oh man, you tell us by odd muscle shape and I don't I don't see that granddaddy of them all. I don't I don't see it. It's I It's a unique shape. I don't see it because I've seen plenty of weird looking very weird looking muscles. I'm going to go to something. I go to another picture. I'm tired of looking at this picture. See if any if Moro has anything new up. Actually, AJ had some stuff up. AJ had some footage that I hadn't showed yet. This is AJ's iPhone footage from wherever he was sitting. He usually gets very good seats. All right, stop crying. There's no crying in bodybuilding. You have no clue. You guys arguing with each other. Yeah, he does have some of there's there's no denying this guy has some of the best genetics we've ever seen. He's phenomenal. Cavs are a big thing. We would have lost so many guys in Cavs. Yeah, I mean, we've had Mr. Olympian winners with iffy calves. I mean, we've had some with great calves like Jay Cutler, Dorian, uh Flex Lewis, the 212 champ, had amazing calves, but we've also had guys like Ronniey's calves were never great. Dexter Jackson's calves weren't great. Sean Rhoden's calves weren't great. Uh Brandon Curry's calves aren't great. Yeah. So calves, they're not that important, unfortunately. And some of you guys are going to get mad at me. Look, I wish calves were more important. My calves are bigger than my damn arms. My calves are a legit 18 and a half inches. Uh my arms, they're not. Point system is vision. Yeah, point system is for classic physique, men's physique. Um, [snorts] bikini wellness. I think that's it. I think that's the only ones. I can clearly see the oil in Andrew. That's a fact. It's not a fact. It's your if if everyone's not seeing it, then it's not a fact. It's a fact to you. It's your perception. If you check out Andrew from when he was training with Larry, the [\h__\h] his muscles look the same, just smaller. Yeah. He That's what I'm saying. I remember seeing his arms four or five years ago in those videos and being like, damn, imagine if this guy started competing, you know, shortly after he did start competing and the rest is history, as they say. Can you explain what to look for in backpost? Cobra eyes. Cobra eyes. How does Andrew look in that regard? I'm not really sure what you mean by cobra eyes. I think you're talking about some uh the way it looks when everything's defined and you can see that that circular error between I'll go to it in a second. Trust me, you can't convince these people. Flex was a jack freak. He ran into another giant freak. Well, he ran into two guys cuz remember Flex was also runner up to Dorian Yates in 1993. [snorts] So Flex Wheeler went up against Dorian who was the best of his era and then he went up against Ronnie who was the best of his era. So Flex got caught in the crossfire of some amazing talent. What about Andy pushing his elbows out is most I don't like the way he hits his most muscular. Honestly, I think the lower traps contribute the most 3D back. I think lats without traps. Well, the what you're seeing in the middle of the back there. I don't know if you can see my cursor on the screen. Uh what you're seeing there, that's the the the trapezius muscle is a big diamond shaped muscle. It starts right under your neck and it goes halfway down your back. So you have to have a really thickly developed trapezius muscle. It's all one muscle to have a complete back. So a lot of times when people are talking about the lats like in the middle, the midback, they're really talking about the trapezius. Good Sunday for us boys. Go. What's up? Calves matter. If you had two bottles look exactly the same. Yes, that would Black Patron and you're right. The only time that would really really make a difference is if two guys were identical identical and one had big calves and one didn't. But I've never I've never seen it happen either. Not once. Just need to take care of the injections. I don't see the injections. Sex muscles. Calves and forearms. If they're good, you will look good in any type of clothing. Well, the calves you can't see if you got pants on, but I I know what you mean. forums. If you're wearing shorts, anything with short sleeves, you're gonna see that. Gotta show Larry Wheels. Yeah, I I I don't know if Andrew ever would have competed ever if it hadn't been for that. What else? See what else? What else AJ shot there? It's the same footage you got there twice, AJ. Uh Osma. We'll let let him show Hosa there. Jose deserves a little bit of love. I know we're talking about Andrew, but the conditioning on Josema is just next level. I'm I'm super impressed. Juan looks phenomenal. So polished and dense to be so young. Very impressed with him. Best young open by the way. Yeah, that kid is going places. He's He's definitely just getting started. Just getting started. Terra's major minor. Yeah, thank you. I was going to say romboid. Terra's major minor. Um, let me go to a some photos where you could see it better. Go to the uh Moral photo. Jonathan Morio Moral. He had the really the best comparison shots from these guys. Where'd it go? Come on, Ron. There it is. Okay. Yeah. So, one last time, Huan versus Andrew. It's not It's not a close contest. I mean, Andrew's got this. He didn't do this for an Olympic qualification or the money. He's made a good amount of money already from the Olympia and his sponsors, things like that. He is getting he's going to get a nice check for this. I'm not sure what the what the prize is, but he did this to as an experiment, him and Christo, to see what more how much more condition he would be able to bring about in his physique with another four weeks of prep. And I think I think the answer is a definitely a few percentage more few percentage points more. You only find a Derek Sik in the front compared to a hottie, but ignore the Andrew Sar detail. Good outside quad separation. Yeah, I I don't get the uh the critiques of his quads. I think he's I think his quads are just fine, honestly. When have we ever seen identical physiques? Yeah, I've I've been I've been covering this sport for 35 years almost. Yeah, 34. It'll be 35 years in January. Wow. Uh, and a fan of the sport for a few more few years prior to that. And I've never seen it come down to two guys that were identical, but one had better calves. Here we go. This guy hates Andrew. Andrew's arm, triceps, and last came. Let's see. Pointy shoulders. He doesn't have pointy shoulders. [laughter] Will you watch Will you watch Romania Muscle Fest now? I can't show the live stream. I some of you guys, you're always talking about going to Twitch or Discord or something where you can steal the stream for free, but otherwise you would have to go to uh the Wings of Strength [snorts] uh website and and buy the pay-per-view, but the show's almost over now. There show's almost over. They're already like an hour and a half into the finals over there in Romania. If Dererick does Y, he'll be butchered by Martin or Andrew. And then again, Derek is I be his favorite water boy. No, it's not Rig. I don't believe it's rigged and I think anybody can win this. Arnold Kriso and the few IPB pros. Yeah, Kruzo has phenomenal delts with beautiful separation striations. There's I don't believe he's ever injected his delts with anything but a little bit of gear. Damn, missed the whole live. It's okay. Your mom still flop. You can watch it on the rerun. For me, I wasn't going live with the stream anyway. I'm not I'm not following the stream. I'm just showing highlights that I'm finding on Instagram. Andrew won very easily. Just much better not to discredit Joan. Oh yeah. I mean it's it's there are two different levels. I mean give this kid J H Juan. Give give him a couple years. He'll be at the level that Andrew's at now. I don't have any doubt in my mind. Derek does be butchered. Well, he already said that. He already said that. I was going to put Andrew and Derek both lack quad each other. I saw his video and sartorius muscle not going through. I like it. Yeah, he's got great quad separation. Look at that. Look at the cross striations right there in that outer quad head, the lateralis. That's pretty damn impressive. That's pretty freaky to me. Look at that. Tell me this guy lost in Lindsford guy. Yes, I am telling you that's exactly what happened. [laughter] And just Scitec. No, I don't think I mean if you're a supplement company, why wouldn't you want Andrew Jack as as your athlete? Come on. Guy's amazing. if you can afford it. Scitec's got some bucks. Juan reminds me of Dallas Macccarver. Yeah, I mean he has he has gotten very big in a very short amount of time. I I hope the best for him too. I don't want anybody having health problems and certainly I don't want anybody dying. Ron is synthol sponsored. The glasses are oil proof. No, my only sponsor is Blackstone Labs. Synthol doesn't sponsor me. Best Hardcore gym left Rhode Island. I don't know. But if you're in north, if you're in like Providence or if you're in the northern part of Rhode Island, just cross the border and go into uh General Fitness in Fall River, Mass. That is the best hardcore gym within 20 miles of Providence, Warwick, those areas. It's called General Fitness in Fall River, Mass. Kriso's The only part of the shape that that is not good is his waist is wide. So, his front relax pose doesn't look good because he has no taper. And his front double bicep lacks taper. He doesn't have that Vshape from sweeping lats and a and a narrow waist. If he had those, I think he'd be winning a lot more shows. You really judge. [laughter] Sorry, we know we got different opinion. My views, this should be Mr. Derek. Oh, no. I wouldn't believe guys. I would not have been upset if Andrew Jack had won the Olympia. Hottie, Andrew, or Derek. I thought any three of them could have won. Know where I can find a free stream. Uh I I hear these guys talking about Twitch and Discord, but I don't know anything about those platforms. I'm 56 years old. Joan needs to take care of his imbalances. I don't know if it's I don't know what the deal is there. Shoulder. No, I don't see oil balls in his shoulder. I don't No. No. I mean, they all have a little swelling. They all have a little swelling from injecting there so many times. There's scar tissue in there, but no, I don't see oil balls. Place in Johnson. Yeah, I I live in south of Boston, so I don't get down to Rhode Island very often. Cranston. Okay, now you're talking about Rhode Island. The good name Andrew Scholes and most muscle. You see the SEO? Okay, let me look. Did I go past it already? I I see a lump there which could be just from regular shots. That to me that's not screaming. It's not screaming SEO use. It's these guys all inject their delts. Like I said, they have to rotate their injection sites because there's only so many places you can put steroids into your body. Typically, it's going to be the glutes, the delts, the lats to some extent, but most guys, those are the only most guys put everything in their glutes and their delts. So, yeah, there's going to be some some lumps from that. Good veto was a lot better. Improve the side shots. I agree. Make your eyeballs. [laughter] Didn't know you live in New York. I don't live in New York. I don't know who you're talking about. I live in uh south of Boston. I'm nowhere near New York. [snorts] Andrew can win. I agree. No matter how much gear you take, the average person these guys work ethic. It's not the I want I don't want to say it's not the work ethic, but you have to have the genetics. If you don't have the genetics, the work ethic doesn't matter. The drugs don't matter. If you don't have the genetics, you and I could take all the drugs in the world and work our asses off for 10, 20 years. We're not going to look like these two guys on the screen. You're not. You can get a lot bigger and you can get shredded. But this look to the muscles. Most most men are just not capable of ever looking like that. No matter what they do, it's it's you just weren't born with the right parents. Stick the outside quads all the time. I did that a couple times and the pain was excruciating. [\h__\h] injection. Well, you got to put all the shots somewhere because these guys take I don't know anywhere between four and 20 shots a week. It's got to go somewhere. Is Kujo better than Nick now? Uh, I don't think so. With lumps from recent injections, some people are just they always just want to want to cry. SEO genetics trumps hard work. Yeah. When when someone has awesome genetics, they don't have to work that hard. But at this level, the guys have great genetics and they work very hard and they're on all the best peeds. When your shoulders shape the same and most muscular? Yeah, I did that with my quad a few times and I'll never ever do it again. The pain was excruciating for for uh a couple weeks. Sit down my bed, relax, and muscle to do it. It still didn't matter. Even I was I was doing it that way. It didn't You can still hit a nerve. There's just too many nerve endings there. Genetics are key. Oh, genetics are genetics are so important. Just want to see if there's anything new posted maybe from the finals. on Beyond the Stage TV. Uh, no, I don't see anything new. This gentleman, I believe he's a videographer, photographer as well. See if he's got anything new. No, he does not. He's got the same Everyone's got the same clips up. So, okay. Can Andrew one more time. Yeah, I see what you're saying in the side delts. That's just from from injections, guys. That's not from synthol. You wouldn't have striations in your delts. He doesn't have a bunch of I don't believe he has much of oil in his arms and shoulders. He's just got great genetics. Trains very hard. And that's that. Uh oh jeez. Do a few more and then I got to go. True. Once you start inject once you start injecting Tesla, you can't get off. You have health problems. No, the thing is is if you inject if you use synthetic testosterone long enough, you shut down your body's own production. If you stay on it long enough, you'll shut it down permanently. If you're not on it that long, your own production will come back. But otherwise, you'll need to be on TRT for the rest of your life because your body's just never going to make it again. Sean Roden would go from couch potato to steak and potatoes. Do one TRT? I can only imagine. Well, they're not doing TRT. You're on TRT. You're just replacing your body's natural testosterone. These guys are going way, way beyond that as they have to to get this look. Can you do skin to see where it's best to inject? Uh, I don't know because you're looking for nerve endings and I don't know if those even show up. Same idiot have. How rigged are these pro shows? They're not. They're not. Thighs look thicker already. Kind of scary. Yeah. See? Guys, I'm going to take off. I actually have to run. Uh, got to go do a private training session, do a little bit of personal training, not too much. So, thank you all for watching. So, Andrew Jacked very, very clearly on the way to winning this. Uh, obviously it wasn't it wasn't a question of going whether he would win or lose. The finals are happening right now. Now, I imagine within an hour or two, he's going to win this show and pick up a little bit more money. But more importantly, he found out, him and his coach, Chris Aceto, found out just how much condition he was capable of beyond what we saw at the Olympia where he took third place. And we could see that he does have better condition right now. He looks better now than he did a month ago. That's a good sneak preview of what he'll show us at the Arnold Classic. And then he has five months after that for a little bit of an offseason to make some more improvements hopefully to the hamstrings and come back looking good enough to win the Mr. Olympia next year which a lot of people thought he was good enough this year to win the Mr. Olympia. So maybe it'll happen for him in 2026. So uh that is it. Uh some videos to look forward to. I'm doing a power hour with Giles tomorrow. I did interview with Natalya Quo that's coming out. I'll put probably put that out Tuesday. And uh I'm not looking at Larry Will's post. I got to go. And uh and we're doing Meathead podcast Wednesday night. So, thank you guys so much for watching. Appreciate it. And I will talk to you all later. Have a great day.