What's up, guys? Ron Harris here. And for almost two years, or maybe it's over two years at this point, we've been wondering, will Big Romney ever compete again? We saw him win the Mr. Olympia title twice in 2020. In 2021, 2022, he dropped down to fifth place. 203, he came back to the Arnold Classic and was fourth place. However, today he made it very clear he is not done with this post. Saying simply, I will be back with this great picture from that Arnold Classic where a lot of people thought he could have placed certainly higher than fourth. that uh he was sort of being penalized and it looked like some of the damage that had been done um nerve damage or whatever it was. We saw some atrophy in one of his triceps, a calf, his lats looked like they were a little bit retracted. It seemed as if he was moving in a positive direction toward the physique that had won him the Olympia twice. So, the question begs uh is is he coming back at this Olympia? Because as a Mr. Olympia champion, he doesn't need to qualify. He's already qualified for life and Olympia would be the logical thing like why would he come back to the Arnold Classic. I'm sure he wants the Mr. Olympia title back. Whether or not he's going to be able to do that of course remains to be seen. But he is fresh. He's had a lot of time off. Um stem cell therapy things he was looking into could have made a big difference at this point because he was we saw the effects of that the positive effects of that in uh the way he looked at this Arnold Classic in 2023. At that point, he'd only been doing the stem cells for less than 6 months. So, with an additional almost two years or over two years, I guess at this point, you know, what does he look like? We don't really know. Uh, you know, all the posts he's made since then, we haven't seen any any physique updates. Uh, this is this is an old this is old video, I believe. A lot of times Rammy I don't say trolls us but he push he puts up old pictures and videos but you know this was a dominant physique. This was the best in the world for two years in a row. I think we're going to see him come back at the Olympia or will he wait to the Arnold? What do you guys think? Let's let's hear what you have to say. Let's get some comments going. Going to look back here. He was at his Olympia winning performance 2020. Is your name Ronald? Yes, it is. Yeah, my full name is Ronald. Ronnie Coleman's name is Ronnie. His parents actually named him Ronnie. Mine named me the traditional Ronald, but on my uh driver's license and passport and all that, it does say Ronald. Will Big Ramy still be big? Uh, I never saw him look much smaller. Sometimes guys retire or stop competing and they lose a lot of size. Uh Rammy, we we'll take a look at his pictures. And again, we don't ever we haven't seen any anything close to recent in terms of physique updates, but you can see him in clothes, you can see him in t-shirts. He's still a huge huge guy. We we'll take a look at some of that. Francisco Eucalyptus says he's not done. Johnny a sponge. Big Ramy to regain the Olympia. I mean, that would be talk about a comeback. Shedding the stress of a couple wives be better than they What do you mean shedding the stress? Has he divorced two of his wife? I mean, he does have two wives. As far as I know, he hasn't divorced either one of them. Still younger than Brandon and William Bonak. Yeah, I don't think it's an age issue. You know, the the crazy thing about this 2020 Olympia, which was his first of two wins, was he wasn't even qualified for that show. He got there on a special invitation. He was supposed to qualify at uh I think it was the European Pro. It was a show over in Spain a couple months out. And remember, this was 2020, the first year of COVID. and he tested positive for COVID. They were they were testing everybody back then constantly and especially competitors. Uh when you got to the venue as part of the check-ins, you were tested for COVID and as it as fate would have it, he was positive for COVID at that show. Of course, he got over the COVID and there was no time to do any more shows. It was almost I don't know if it was the last qualifier. It was one of the the last couple. He didn't have time to do anything else. So, he asked for a special invitation. and they gave it to him and he's the only special invitation at the Olympia to ever actually win. Take a look at another show. So, this was his comeback. This was 2023 Arnold Classic. This was just 6 months after he took fourth place at the Olympia in 2023. Sorry, 2022. Uh, as a defending champion, he slipped all the way down to fourth. You know, a lot of people thought he was done because typically when we see damage to muscle groups, atrophy or whatever, whether it's a tear or nerve damage, rarely do we ever see the physique regain its former glory. Usually, that's it. They're pretty much done. And a lot of us thought that was going to be the case with Rammy. But he looks so much better here at the Son Classic in 2023, but that was the last time we saw him. And you know, he was supposedly going to continue the stem cell treatments. I assume he has been continuing those all this time. And you know, I'm very curious to see now that we know he is going to compete again. I'm very curious to see what he's going to look like. See, after shedding stress a couple wives is Fouad may come back. Oh, that's the guy that's obsessed with Fouad. Uh, still the most eye-catching resell time. Perfect proportions. Hands yellow, heart red. I don't know what that means. Hands yellow, heart red. But uh you know, look at the quads. See, this is the only guy that's got quads better than Nexzilla. And I say better because they actually have deep deep separations in them. So, let's go back to his Insta. I'll try to find the most recent the most recent pictures of him. So, that's a pinned picture. Those are This was three days ago. Obviously, we can't really see what's going on there. That was an old shot. Uh this was Big Ramy on June 15th. So, this was last month. He's in a tight t-shirt. Let's see if we can really get a good look. He's swallowed up by the crowd. You can see he's big as ever. He's not lost a lost a step as far as overall size. There he is training. Yeah. I mean, it's clear to me that he was he's probably planning a comeback for a while. The fact that he's got all this size right now leads me to believe that he probably is doing the Olympia because why would he why would be all properly gassed up for lack of a better word if he wasn't intending on doing the Olympia? I don't think we're going to see much there. All right. Still a big shirt, big strong guy still. Yeah, it's a max pump. Is that the equipment that he I thought he was with? Uh, thought it was with Panata, but apparently he's with Max Pump. They make some good stuff, too. Obviously, Big Ramy. So, this shot was 11 weeks ago. So, this was uh about two and a half months ago. Yeah. What whatever his offseason weight was, which is over three well over 300 lbs. I want to say he'd hover between 320 and 340, I think, in the offseason. Uh, he looks to be just as big as he ever was. So, I I do feel he's going to be at the Olympia, which is only what are we 15 weeks away at this point. Something like that. What else you guys got to say? What age is Rammy now? That's a good question. Big Ramy age. Let's go to Wikipedia. Just go to Siri or whoever it is. AI. Big Ramy age. Okay. Oh, he's 40. So he's 40 uh in September this year, 16th of September, 5 years before my birthday, he'll be 41. So he will be 41 at the time of this Olympia, but remember Shawn Rhoden won the Olympia. I think he was 44, 43, something like that. Second wife divorced him. I did not know that. I mean, I don't really keep up with his marital situation, but uh yeah, in Egypt, you can have up to four wives legally. Where was this? Was it guest posing somewhere? I don't know. That footage is pretty crappy. It's pretty blurry. Pretty blurry. I might have to go back to the Olympia footage. Oh, no. That's the only classic. All right. So, that was a 2023 Arnold Classic. Yeah, this footage is it's not great. He still makes the rounds, gets all over the place. Very, very relevant. Doesn't get over to this side of the world very often, but obviously he gets over to Europe. When was that? This back in the day, he says. I don't know when this was. Yeah, Sam says 39. So, they're Yeah, 40. How tall is he? That's a good question. I believe he's about he's 5'9 between 5'9 and 510 is my best estimate. Fact that he's wearing a t-shirt. Well, he was never a guy. You'd never see Rammy really showing a lot of physique offseason anyway. Olympia time he would be good with the updates, but maybe we'll start seeing those. You know, I I would hope for the sake of the Olympia, not that they need the ticket sales because they sell out all the time anyway, but just to help the Olympia get a little more hyped up. I would hope that if he is doing Olympia that he makes that known pretty soon so they can they can have a chance to promote it. Promote it. Yeah, Samson's 39. Samson might be 40 by the time Olympia. I'm not sure when his birthday is. I've seen Rama doing recently. Oh, yeah. I mean, I've I've had the privilege of interviewing a couple times uh once on video and two or three times in person. And uh yeah, man, just the nicest guy. a big they call him a gentle giant, a big teddy bear, you know, always smiling. I've never heard him say a bad thing about anybody. Um, just a just a nice gentle giant. He's got three or four kids. Family man, big Romney. Mitt Romney was former governor of Massachusetts. He's either 5'9 or 510. He's somewhere around that range. I know he's not any taller than that, but he's not any shorter than that. Yeah, Roden was great. Wish nobody the stress of having four wives. Well, I mean, I guess it would all depend on the the arrangement. the situation. I mean, like that show Sister Wives, which I I never really watched it. I I used to see the commercials, but from what I understand, they all had different houses. Four wives under one house under one roof, that would be rough. And I Yeah, trying to juggle four households and four wives and all these kids would be a challenge, too. But clearly, some guys are up to the task. I had enough trouble with one wife. Yeah, I think most guys, most married men would say the same thing. So, I say divorce him because he's little, right? Oh, that's rude. His legs are bigger than Tom top plats, I think, is what you meant to say. Yeah. Yeah. These are all older stuff. And this is 37 weeks ago. He's not he's not someone who posts a lot. Even then, I mean, he never really lost much size. I I don't think he would ever be a small guy. I don't think he would ever shrink down to nothing. Put it that way. This is kind of blurry, but you could still see this was AI don't know when that was. It says it was three weeks ago. Oh, that's just that post was three weeks ago. I don't know when this was originally posted. So, this looks like not the Olympia 2020. This looks like the second time he won 2021, which we're finally getting past that COVID nonsense. Yeah, he looked really good. Again, this I apologize the footage is it's on Instagram. It's not the clearest footage. It's not the best, but you can still get a sense of just how monstrous this guy was because, you know, right now everyone's freaking out about Rubio Moscara, you know, rightfully so. He's a he's a newer pro and he's got two wins now, two pro wins. It's exciting to follow new talent, but Rammy had just as much mass, if not more, with a better structure. Just, you know, nothing that was really a glaring weak point. You know, he he had the shoulders to balance out the quads. He had the arms to balance out the quads. Rubial needs bigger arms and bigger delts to balance out those monster legs. Romney was just big as hell everywhere. He wasn't he wasn't lacking into anything. Romney coming to Olympia. That's what we're trying to figure out. And we're we're just speculating obviously. We don't know. We don't know where he's coming back, but he has confirmed that he's not retired. He will be coming back. That's a good shot. That's a really good shot. Yeah. I was fortunate enough to see uh his pro debut at the 2013 New York Pro. I was also there in 2014 when he came back and won it again. And it was just astonishing to most of us. We had never seen we hadn't seen this this much mass with that kind of condition and shape and structure in a very long time. Obviously, Ronnie was the standard bearer for that. Um, but this was sort of AI don't want to say Ramy was necessarily bigger than Ronnie, but uh he definitely definitely could be compared to Ronnie in terms of someone who just carried the mass so well on on his frame. Any more comments? Yeah. So, I'm excited. I was a fan. We're all, you know, how can you not be a fan of Ramy? Even if he wasn't your favorite bodybuilder at the time, you still had to admire the guy and respect the work ethic, um, just the the sheer mass of the guy because he was a he was a freak, but he had I don't want to say aesthetics. He didn't he wasn't like a classic physique type of aesthetically pleasing bodybuilder, but, you know, he didn't have a gut. He his his midsection was proportionate. It wasn't big and blown out in the least. What else he got posted here? So, I'm curious. I'm very curious to see what this guy can pull together. There's some more footage. And then some more Olympia footage. Not sure what year this was. He did the Olympia for several years before he won. Uh I think 2013 the the was his first Olympia. Uh the year that was his his rookie year. And I I think he was sixth that year. Sixth or seventh. He had never been below seventh. Yeah. This is a good routine here. And of course it took him a few years. Took him a few years. a few different coaches to really nail it, but he did. And he nailed it working with Chad Nichols uh in 20 and 21 and he got the uh the ultimate title. And this I I do believe he's coming back for the Olympia. And today was just a preliminary announcement that he's back, that he's not retired. We will be seeing him soon. How soon remains to be seen. Will it be this October at the Olympia or do we have to wait until next March for the Arnold? Now, the Arnold, it's enticing. Uh he's never won an Arnold Classic. He's won two Olympic we already know, is going to be a $750,000 payout for first prize next year. So, it wouldn't surprise me uh if he wants to come back for that reason alone. I mean, that's not that he's hurting for money. I'm sure he's doing pretty well, but $750 grand. Three quarter of a million dollars, it's not chump change. Even to somebody like Ramy, I think that's enough to bring him back. Now, the Olympia, as it stands, is $500,000 for first prize. However, I would not be surprised if either shortly before the Olympia, maybe like a week or a month away from the show, Jake Wood and Dan Solomon make the announcement that the prize money is going to be boosted up to maybe they're going to match the Arnold 750 already. They might do that or uh at least 650 or something. No, because it was 650 LA, wasn't it 650 last year? Didn't they bump it up? Yes. I'm sorry. I'm my bad. It was 650 last year for Samson. Uh it had been 500 before that and the Arnold Woods fight was uh 400. They're both sort of doing this bidding war trying to outdo each other on first prize. And of course, who wins? The athletes win. The athletes win because they're going to get more money once, you know, other sports, other professional sports make so much more money than pro bodybuilding. So, I'm very happy to see bodybuilders getting a a bigger piece of the pie, a bigger payday. They work so hard. It's it's a tough tough sport. Let's be real. It takes a little bit a little bit out of your a little bit off your lifespan. Um, so it's it's good. It's about time these guys got paid. Was that a family shot? It's hard to say. Is this his family? The best. Really not sure. Sometimes I can't even understand what he's trying to say in English. Well, Jim New Cairo Masters. Yeah, that's his supplement company. Yeah. All right. Well, that's Big Ramy, guys. Stop sharing. Okay. Who says compl. All right. So, I guess that's we'll just do a few more comments while the I'll leave his I'll put his routine up again. Finish all your comments and we'll say goodbye. Yeah, he won in 2020 and 2021. That is correct, Darren. Yep. Get Giles. Get him on tour. I bet he would be a hit. It's actually not a bad idea. Uh he's doing a tour starting next week, I believe, with Lee Priest Giles. He was going to be Yeah, he was supposed to do a tour that would have started um about a week ago with Ronnie Coleman, but Ronnie had his health emergency and could not make it over to Europe to the UK to do that tour. He was also going to be appearing at the Euro Muscle Show in Amsterdam this coming weekend. But of course, all those plans had to be cancelled, put on hold uh because he's in the hospital right now. Ramy's a quality person. He's a good dude. He really is a good guy. You know, I don't I haven't met too many jerks over the years in the sport, but I can honestly say Ronnie's one of the nicest guys I've ever met in the industry. Just a nice, genuine, downto-earth, humble guy. um you know family man obviously he had two wives I guess I don't know if it's true that he's he's back to one wife uh has several children so I wish him the best and I am very much looking forward to seeing him on stage again very very soon so let me know in the comments guys where do you think Ramy will come back will it be the Olympia will it be the Arnold why is he gonna go for the big money that's for sure we know the Arnold is $750,000 The Olympia is not that far behind 650 and they might match it. They might or was it 600? Something like that. But I bet they decide to match it at the last minute this year. So either way he's going to make a big chunk of change if he can win. If he can beat Samson, Hottie, Derek, Nick Walker, Andrew Jack, Fitzwwater, obviously the whole crew that's coming coming for the Olympia. It's not going to be easy, but if the stem cell treatments have been working very well for Ramy and he is back to his former glory, looks as good as he did back in 2020 in 2021 or you know this look here. This was a great great look for him at the 2023 Arnold Classic. If he can do that, sky's the limit. I would not say it's impossible for him to regain his Olympia title. Samson is damn good, don't get me wrong, guys, but Rammy is very good, too. And if Rammy is uh as good as he was here or better, he's got a chance. He's got a chance. I would never ever say he does not have a chance to get his Olympia title back. Kai Green is trying to say, "No, I don't think so, Martino." Because when he says, "I'll be back," that's not just saying like winter is coming. I don't think Rammy is is trolling us the way Kai has been for all these years. He's already got all his sponsorships. He doesn't need to uh need to deceive anybody. I don't think Nasty wanted more wise four trolls you wanted everyone else to watch. O I don't know if that's true or not, but that's that's uh that's awful. Anyway, all right. I think that's it, guys. All right. Well, that was just a quick one. Just wanted to uh just want to let you know what I thought and want to hear what you guys have to say. So, or anymore. Didn't mean to run that. So, let me know in the comments, guys. What do you think? Where are we going to see Ramy Nixon? Is he really coming back or is he just trying to stay relevant? Is he just trying to keep the sponsors happy and the fans happy, thinking he's coming back, kind of like Kai Green's been doing now for nine years, or is Rammy the real deal? Does he mean it? Is he sincere? Is he going to make a comeback at the Olympia or the Arnold? I I can't see him doing any other show, anything that's a smaller show. Um, you know, he's going to go for the the two one of the two big one of the two biggest titles that I'm I'm certain of. So, let me know what you think, guys, in the comments. Thanks for watching and we'll see