What's up everybody? Thanks to Nick Miller from Nick Strength and Power and a short video he put out a couple days ago, I became aware of this young man from Russia who might have the world's biggest muscular arms in the world. His name is Andre Smeov and he's 26 years old. I know the uh the hair loss makes him look significantly older, but he's only 26. He's 330 lbs. I'm not sure how tall. He's got to be at least 6 foot would be my guess. And again, the arms are 65 cm, which comes out to 25 and 3/4 in. His forearms are over 22 in. This is a very, very large man. And I was pleasingly surprised, pleasantly surprised to see that it's not just arms. He actually has pretty pretty great physique overall. And look at that taper. You would expect somebody carrying that type of mass to have a big bubble gut. This smile kid, he's 26. He's the same age as my son Christian, which is insane. He looks like he could be Christian's dad. Uh, obviously being that big makes him look a little bigger, but man, this guy, we're gonna take a look at his Instagram. So, you can see he's got the whole physique. It's not just what we see here. A lot of times I see these guys uh on social media with the massive arms and they don't have a back or they don't have legs. Andre here has has the whole physique. Uh, I didn't know if you guys knew. What's up, Kenson? How are you, sir? You're natty vegan. [laughter] His arms are 25 inches. So 65 cm I I have the tape when I flipped it over that comes out to 25 and 3/4. So I know in the thumbnail I said 26. So I really misled you guys with that extra quarter inch, but Iranian Hulk 2.0. Iranian Hulk had big fat arms though. And we've got a lot of guys with a bunch of oil in their arms. Does calisthenics. He's 6'5. Wow. This is a joke. He's not really 26. Uh, I don't know how old he is. Let's Let's take a look at his Instagram. There's a lot of a lot of physique shots there. A lot of strength feats. 6 foot five. Wow, that's a big boy. It's a big dude. So, let's see. Uh, you have to translate everything from the Russian. Here he is with I don't know who that guy is. Some other some other guy in Russia, I'm assuming. So, yeah. I don't know how old Nick believed he was 26. And I don't know if he really is 26. He's with this Oxy Team, but watch this, man. Onear chin-ups at 330 lbs. Oof. Okay, the form is awful. Granted, but geez, wouldn't you think the bicep would tear clean off or or the shoulder would dislocate? That is pretty crazy to see him do that. Six six reps. Yeah, these these are anything but a strict chin up. But geez, that was impressive nonetheless. Yeah, I would flex my arms all damn day, too, if I had arms like that. There he is with Chupan if this was at the uh this was in I don't know where this was. Probably Dubai or something. Dubai must show. Here he is with uh Sergi Dinov. Oh, I guess he's not even getting himself in the shot. That's the guy that won the Was that the the France show a couple months? Not even a couple months ago. It was about six six weeks ago at this point. Sergey, some more giant Russians. Let's get to some uh some picks. So, yeah, he's going. He's all natural. He's got the the look that those bear guys love with the hair and everything, but look at the arm. Look at the just the the thickness and the density. Yeah, if he is 26 years old, that's He looks much much older. Um, but maybe that was a maybe Nick was misinformed or was a joke or something like that. I don't know. Uh, but there he is with the measuring tape. 65 cm pumped, which does come out to 25 and 3/4. Now, if he is 6'5, you could say, "Well, that's like a 5 foot n guy having 20 inch arms." AR, you know, I'm not going to argue that. Of course, it would be more impressive for a shorter guy to have 25 and a half inch arms, but geez, I'm impressed, man. There he is with Sergey Donov again. He does have a decent taper. Now, I don't know what kind of bodybuilder he would make, but look the quads. He's got really good He's got good legs. And there's some back poses, too. He's got a back. He's got all the body parts, man. He's strong. Uh he was doing some tea bar ro supported t-bar rose here with looked like it was about six or seven place. I don't know who that is. Is that his mom? I don't know man. That was his back two years ago when he only did pull-ups. So it wasn't very thick. And we're going to see a bigger back in a second here. I think that's more more front shots. what he's doing here. He's got some gadget. O I don't know how much weight that is. It's a wacky way to do Oh, it's [clears throat] He ended up doing 60 kilograms, which is about 130 lbs for three reps that way. Yikes. That looks scary. He stays very lean, too. Um, you know, for a guy that size, often times these guys with the 24, 25 inch arms, they're they got a lot of body fat. This young guy or however old he really is, he doesn't have. So, here's what his back looks like. It's pretty pretty damn good back. I mean, it matches the front, which I I wouldn't have expected. Look at that. Wide as hell. Super wide. Yeah. Branch is pretty upset about something down there. What else we got? What else we got? How many curl? How many How much weight is this? He has [\h__\h] form. Someone says, "Yeah, I agree. But at least unlike Elmpion, who do a [\h__\h] form and a ton of weight, this guy actually has the muscle mass. So 130 kg, which is what about 280 lbs. Now I wouldn't call this a He's got his his palms flipped, so this would be like a reverse curl, but that's I wouldn't even call that anything like an exercise. 250 kilograms for six reps on incline. What is that? 255 kilograms. That is Gez. Let me do some math for you guys. Okay. 255 times 2.2. It's 561 pounds. Wow. Go back to the studio for a second there. get some of your comments going. Got the biggest hands. [snorts] I'm getting a lot of different uh a lot of different different stats on this guys from you all. Smosak with his calisthenics 65 26 a joke uncromised for Olympia right there. You can jump super high as well. Yeah, that that's amazing that someone that big is is athletic in any way. Yeah, Dlet's arms were close to 25 the offseason. So were Ronny's. He's not 6'5. 6 foot. Okay, 6' 3. That's pretty damn impressive. Sputnik muscle Russians 26 years old. Well, that's what Nick Nick from Nick Strength and Power reported. He was 26 years old. I don't know how old he really is. He's not 6'5. He's six foot. Okay. He's 17 years old. Natty. Uh, I don't know about that. And a vegan. Looks like he's headbutting it. 85 cm. He's 185 centimeters. So, I think that is about six foot, right? All bicep curls and oats. He's 6 foot. Oh, he's Sergey's training partner, Sergey Donov, who won the Was that the Did he win the Tsunami France? Is that the show that he won? Sergey forearms are crazy, too. Yeah. I mean, they're they're like 20 22 and a half inch forearms. You can do chin-ups. Okay. Well, that's those are very fast. 52 reps. Holy moly. I'm impressed, dude. That's That's pretty insane. 30 [clears throat] kg with one hand. So, that's about close to 7 65 or 70 pounds. And he looks like he's doing it fairly easily. Not getting a full extension, but still that would rip my tricep clean off the bone. Pull-ups. I don't know if these are you consider these real pull-ups. Okay, that's one way to do pull-ups. I never [laughter] never really thought of doing them that way, but okay. Here he's dipping. I don't know how many plates that is. It's a lot of plates. Oh, 125 kg. So that's about 100. That's about 270 lbs. Something like that. Jeez. Goodness, that's a lot of weight. Okay. He's 26 27 on gear age. Oh yeah. I mean, I don't doubt that he's 26. I've seen 26 year old guys who are huge and on gear that look that old. I mean, once No, I don't want to say he's not natural. Got a frog. He's not natural. He get turned on by mail. No, I don't. I don't. I have nothing against gay people. I don't want to say I have gay friends and be a liar because I just I don't have any friends period. I mean, close friends. But, you know, I I I'm just I don't have any uh attraction toward men, but nothing against those who do. He's got big hands. Yeah, surprised he never got into a He's only six foot tall. I was I was going by what I was reading comments in the chat. Gumagella. I wasn't claiming he was 6'5. A lot of people said he was six foot. So, don't get mad at me. I get mad at whoever said he was 6'5 in the chat. His best clips are on YouTube. Oh no. Well, I'm not going on YouTube. Did arms today? Some closing in on him and so is child closes. Were just shy. Okay. Well, a lot of people a lot of people have had big arms. I shouldn't say a lot, but it's not that uncommon. They're censoring the best part. It's dips. Those were dips. Yeah, I'm not going on these. Uh [sighs] uh 45 kilograms. So that's about 100 pounds. O, that's a lot of weight right there. Wowers. What's he doing here from for I thought I saw some people. Yeah, he's got all the plate bunch. You got four plates plus a girl sitting on top. The girl alone is 210 kil kilograms. So she 200 k kilograms which is about 440 maybe. I don't know. Kilograms are hard for me to convert. I I need a calculator. But uh this is 90 kg which is about 200 lb. It's shrink wrapped in plastic. What's he going to do with it? O, I thought he was going to do a dumbbell row, reverse forearm curls. He's doing a lot of weird exercises. Forearm exercise. Russian lab experiment. Think he hasn't won anything. I don't think he's competed. Grabs fish bear. Yeah, I don't think he's ever competed. I think he's just one of those guys who's saying Derrick is armed routine. Wmp wamp. I mean, I don't think anybody's uh like Robbie Robinson's bicep routine wouldn't give me biceps. He's got Lee Priest sized arms. He's taller than Larry Wheels. Smubber that don't understand sarcasm. 25 35 and counting. I don't know how old he's Larry's taller. Siri is only 6'1 and clearly taller than SMAV. So, let's just call him six foot then. Let's call him six foot. I don't want to argue about how tall he is. [laughter] Forearm pump with a 40 kilogram, which is about a 85 pound, 80 85 or 90 pound dumbbell for 100 reps. He's got some massive forearms, this guy. 52 pull-ups, 300 lb. Insane. No point up fake stats. He's a monster. Yeah. Well, I didn't make up the stats. I'm just reading I'm reading what you guys are posting. Nah, Giles is not in the closet. He's got a gorgeous girlfriend. Uh he is a unit. Never seen someone sit on the weights and that exercise. Definitely a hard training dude. Andre. Yeah. I mean Russians have a long history of uh being successful in Olympic weightlifting, powerlifting, strongman. I don't know what's he doing here. static 90 kg bicep curl. What? Looks like he's just kind of staying in place. What he's doing here? Just talking about his energy drink. Probably we got some more one arm body weight 135. Yeah. Now granted the form is not awesome. This is more like a CrossFit style, but jeez, the fact that he can do that with one arm and he's not hurting himself. Pretty damn shocking. I I'm shocked. Does a lot of chin-ups, man. He's very strong at chin-ups. So, here he is with his own body weight plus 100 kg, which okay, I can do that math. That's 220 lbs. 222 pounds, I should say, for 17 reps. So if you think about that, it's his own body weight plus another 220. So that's that's about 500 lb in all he's pulling there, right? 330 plus 220. Yeah, that's 500 lb. Wow. I'm I'm impressed, dude. I'm officially impressed. That's pretty pretty crazy. Now he's doing 51 reps with about 300 pounds. This is 140 kilograms. Looks like looks like just three plays. So probably like 315. Granted, he's not getting the lockout, but he is getting the bottom range. That's still pretty damn crazy. Pretty crazy. He's the leg press. Hammer curling 90 kg. Why the hell is it plastic? Bro, he's going to knock himself out. trying to prove this guy. Clearly, his training is not science-based. Uh there's a a young guy who used to go to my gym and he's always posting stuff saying, "I guess science-based training doesn't work." And he did one like, "Uh, I guess science-based training, they said science-based training wouldn't build muscle." And somebody commenting, "Still waiting to see some muscle because he's not that big." So, what else? What What's he doing here? Okay. He does a lot of the same exercises. A lot of the same exercise. This is a shoulder press machine. You can tell by the face he's young. I don't think he's 35 or 36. I would I would actually believe he's 26. So that is what? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Seven plates each side on that. Yikes. Super strong pressing pulling. Like and subscribe. Thank you, Ron. Is that 11K? Thank you, Dom. Pump. It's all thanks to you guys in case you ever say Derek. Yeah. So, let's say he's six foot. I guess I guess the consensus seems to be six minutes. This guy tried arm wrestling. I thought I saw an arm wrestling clip. Let me go way back. I didn't bother because I'm like I don't care about arm wrestling. But I think I saw something where he was arm wrestling somebody. I with those forearms, just the forearm strength alone and the grip strength, you'd have to imagine he would be a damn good arm wrestler if he could learn the technique. But look at that. I'm just impressed at the the tape, the small waist, the quads have nice thickness and sweep to them. It's a very good physique, you know. I don't know what it would look like on stage and trunks dieted down with the the fake tan and all that. Oh, so here's a leg press. Oh, no. That's a calf raise. That's a thousand. That's like 1,200 pounds for 50 reps. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. I thought I saw some arm wrestling. And I apologize for not going to his YouTube. But if I go to YouTube and I didn't get the YouTube prime, look at those forearms. Geez, look at that. And you guys had to watch a commercial, you'd be very upset with me. So, I'm not going to do that. But you can check them out. You can look them up on YouTube. There's some more flexing his forearms. And those forearms are bigger than almost anyone's arms. I mean, when I say anyone, very few people have ar upper arms are over 22 inches. And his forearms are 22 in. I'm actually more impressed by the forearms because gez, rarely do you see forearms like that, man. I mean, very, very rare. Very rare. Maybe I was What's he doing there? That's a 60 kilogram. to about 130 lb. Well, he's not letting it down very far, so I'm not going to give him any any any credit for any of those reps. He gets no credit. Not that I could do it. I would uh tear every tendon in my arm just trying that. Maybe he doesn't. Yeah. So, I don't know much about him, and I apologize for not doing any research, but I'm just impressed at the some of the stuff this guy can do at that size. So, he can do This is what they call a flag. When you when you find one of these things, you go, "Look at that. Look at that. Wow. [sighs] A guy that size and that heavy to be able to even Wow. Look at that. That is amazing. I'm officially impressed." And I do not impress easily. Still looking for some Still looking for some arm wrestling. Maybe I was completely imagining that, but he measures things. His calves are His calves are 56 in. So that is how big is a 56 56 cm calf. That is 22 inch calf. Not too shabby. Not too shabby. Not a lot of 22inch calves out there except maybe on some morbidly obese people which not going to count that. triceps or pre mother bucker. That's bucked up. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Maybe he doesn't do any arm wrestling. Could have been completely wrong about that. This was a while ago. So that was 2020. So this was five years ago. Uh he's much bigger now. And look at that. He still had hair. It looks like it was starting to thin, but he had hair in 2020. That was five years ago. Look at that. He had he had hair there. It's going back 245 weeks ago. So, it's Yeah, his Instagram only goes back to 2020 or so. It's a bold side by side putting yourself next to Arnold. But you know what? He's not in terms of sheer mass. He's he's right there. He actually has much bigger triceps. See, Arnold didn't have the greatest triceps. He had amazing biceps and chest. His triceps were not great. Arnold Smeov. Yeah. Go back to a What's this? What's he doing here? He's going to curl. I think he's going to do a curl. Yeah, he's going to curl a uh kettle bell. 32 kilogram kettle bell is about 65 or 70 pounds. Somewhere in that range. Just invent he goes along. I mean, everything works. You're doing well. Everything works for this guy. looks in Savers Age. No, I don't I don't know if he's a He's just a guy that likes to lift weights and get huge. I don't think I don't think he competes in anything. I don't know. Maybe I'm I don't know anything about him. I was I'm just I just discovered this guy and all I know about him is he's a big dude. Oh, yeah. I mean, I know people get hurt. Nothing but peanut. Never trained anywhere near as reckless as that. Lol. Can hardly get by doing perfect form. Oh, I mean I I can get hurt with like just about anything. Reverse bicep curl. Okay. At least he's a little better range of motion. 100 kg. That's 220 lbs. Yeah. I mean, he's he's super strong, man. Super strong. Oh, here's the jumping jump PR 330. Oh, that's I don't know how far he jumped. He jumped out of frame and into frame. So, I don't know how how far he jumped. Jump PR. But shoe came off. I think that's all he's showing us. It's all reverse curls. I don't I don't see too much like regular curling. That would explain the giant forearms. I mean, you got to have the genetics. His forearms insert down at the freaking at the wrist. So, he was always going to have big forearms no matter what he did. Here are curls. Big boy. Big boy. Simmons belv training principle. I mean the Soviets for many years they dominated Olympic weightlifting. They were always winning the gold. And the Bulgarians too, which you know it's all Eastern block. It's all in the same general area. Nice to see these. Yeah, he'd be right there with Samson. He mainly focus on calisthenics. Has a bit of everything now. So I see him do so many pull-ups such. Yeah, I mean that's amazing because you don't see many guys that size do anything with body weight. Science poor w I [clears throat] agree with that. out of frogs techno jam shoulder press a loaf of bread it's going to last longer than he is rough taper on that guy for being that big is the most insane part bigger biceps so they're they're 65 cm which um comes out to 25 and 3/4 in in American US measurement or whatever that type of measurement is actually called the Jim bro final boss Us muscle dick lord is talking [\h__\h] about him about me. I don't know. Muscle dick lord. I didn't think of that. Muscle dick lord. I thought I thought one I came up with muscle disgrace. But muscle dick lord. That that's a pretty good one. That actually rhymes with discord. So your yours is better than mine. No, he ain't there. No way. That guy's natty. Sergey prepped him for the Shyu Classic. So yeah, I didn't know he was a training partner of Sergey Dunelov, the the Russian bodybuilder who's now qualified for the Olympia. Big his arms are. I mean, you have to judge this guy picture. They still have their photos being that large. Uh well, I'll go to his Instagram because he does have he does have pictures of himself next to other people. Perfect honesty before being able to see your biceps. It's very very rare. It's I don't know if anyone ever had like 20inch arms and 20inch forearms. I mean, Lee Priest had I think Lee had 18inch arms, forearms, and 22 inch arms. Yeah. And Nick couldn't do the human flag. Big Bash doing a flag. Probably the most impressive thing. Yeah, I was I saw that and I was like, geez, come on. That is nuts. That is nuts. I'm gonna find that again because that was just freaking that was insane. you. The only people I've typically seen doing the human flag are lighter guys built like gymnasts. Rarely have I seen I'm going way too far back. He did it when did he do it when he was younger or older? Luckily for me, his Instagram doesn't go back. He doesn't have that much on his Instagram. I think he does a lot more on Tik Tok. The hell's he doing here now? dip. What the body weight uh at 145 kilograms plus he's got a 32 kilogram kettle bell and he's doing I don't know if I call those dips. It's kind of like a It's almost kind of like a push-up the way he's doing it. The way his torso is lifted. Yeah. I want to find that flag again. Where was that? That was insane. I I've never seen a big big dude do that. But in the meantime, let's look at him next to other people because yeah, by themselves, you could say this guy must edit all his pictures. There's Sergey Donov, the Russian pro on the left. Know who that is in the middle. Another bodybuilder dude. Uh there he is with Bumpstead. Chris Bumpstead. Look at Look at how big he is. Kevin Leone. Was this at the Olympia or uh what show this was? There's Dennis James. Flex Wheeler. Uh there is a next to Andrew Jack who is 6'2. That's him by himself. There's him measuring himself. I think the flag thing was further down. The human flag. I got to find it again because that was that was crazy. Wait, what's he going to do here? Smaller here. This is older. Obviously, the further back you go. Yeah, his legs were like half the size back then. Oh, that's no big deal. He's just jumping in the water. [laughter] Yeah, he I guess back then he did mainly he didn't do much weight weight training. It was more calisthenic stuff like you know body weight gymnastic moves. So maybe when he was doing that flag he wasn't quite as big. I know I went right I'm sure I went right past it again. I'll find it for you guys. My bad. I said I was just so excited that I found found out this who this person is. He exists that I was uh had to do a video. I was so shocked. I don't know why. I don't know where it went. I probably going right past it. Trust me though, he did the human flag. Big boy. Big boy. Yeah. So, Dorian had 20inch calves. Oh, yeah. Mazzo. Mike Morazzo had 22 or 23 inch calves. They were huge. Jumping in is more pre doesn't make sense. If you don't watch, you got to check it out later. Yeah. I mean, to to for him to have a great vert vertical jump going on about his hair. No, not here. The gear defo took the guy's hair. How big his biceps? Uh they're 25 and 3/4 in. They're 65 cm. He's aged horribly. Will they still age you? Your tendon ligaments are strong as hell. Always laugh when you're blasting. Yeah, some guys can do that stuff for years and years and they don't get hurt. Retro customized for 30 25. You really think the human race is going to be around a thousand years? Because I don't. I don't see people doing reverse curls at all. Did today actually. That's why Seth is so smart. Functionally lifts. guys from Athens, Greece. Yazu, Yazu, welcome. I don't know how to rank exercise. Surely human flag is hard and let's say muscle up. Seems like he was inspired by Jujim Mufu by Lucas for who you found the most impressive. Most impressive physique I ever saw. Oh boy. Ronnie at his biggest when Ronnie was like 330 340. That was pretty amazing. Um, geez, Nasser at his biggest. Victor Richards was so thick. And that was that was way back. We're talking like late 80s through the mid 90s was Vicard's heyday. Uh, I'd say mid 80s to mid 90s, like a 10-year run. He was like 5'9, 300 pounds. Solid. Solid. Big boy. Much respect. Better you do some of your health, Brad. We support you, Serge Bray. Yeah, Rule. Rule is also very, very big. Absolutely. Dale is bigger and harder. Who's Dale? I don't know who Dale is. Uh, I'll go to his YouTube just for a second to see if uh I can find anything, anything good. Andre Smay. Okay. And did he smile? Tries arm wrestling. Let's see what we got. Let's see if he can win. Oh, it's arm wrestling champion. So, he's screwed. Yep. [laughter] He's got no technique. He arm wrestling is a lot of technique. These guys, they know what they're doing. So, bodybuilders, anybody who just thinks because you're big and strong, even if you got a great grip strength, thinking you're going to be a great arm wrestler just off the bat, there's more to it. Oh, now the guy's having a little more trouble. Little more trouble. Oh, he beat him. Second round. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see if he can do it. Come on. Come on. 150 kilogram Russian powerlifting champion. So, neither one of them is an arm wrestler. All right. Well, so we know he can arm wrestle. Tries his arm wrestling exercise. Andre Sme on English is his channel fully. He's only got three videos, guys. Is there a different one? Is there a different Andre Smeov? Does he have a different channel? Because that can't be that can't be his whole channel. Three damn videos. I hope not. [\h__\h] Here's with Larry Wheels. I know. I know. What's he doing there? Yeah, Paul Dlette was also very impressed. All those guys I mentioned, it's hard to say like that one was the most impressive. They were all crazy big. He's got a sponsor already. He's already got a sponsor. So, works the factory. Got put Andre Sme jump. He's got channels in Russian. Okay. Andreas jump. Okay. Did he do it? So, 153 kilograms here. Okay, that box. I'm not impressed with that. But now he's putting plates on. Wow. Okay. 150. So, [\h__\h] plate almost fell. He almost got hurt there. Wow. Oh, that guy didn't make it. Four feet. Can he jump four feet? O [\h__\h] 4.13. Still, make He's still going. 4.27 feet. Another plate. Nope. Ah, that was the limit. 4.4 ft. I'm still impressed. I'm still impressed. That was pretty pretty crazy. Vertical jump. What can you do here? Very athletic for a guy that big and heavy. I'm I'm impressed. Vertical jump 3.68 meters. Is that what that means? No. Can't be that much, right? I don't know. It's pretty pretty high. He's pretty good jumper. Does he do long jump? Oh, I didn't know that uh Mike Ezrael criticized him. That's when you know you made it, right? What was this? Raiden mode. Limu emu. Sorry guys. So they did a There's another video. Bad marketing self should be a good idea to please give my help guys. Thank you. Good night. Four million people watch Sam and car dude has an athletic got a sponsorship. They're the ones posting on the channel. He never really market himself. Yeah, he definitely got older. [laughter] He needs to specialize at something right now. He seems to be specializing in getting just being a big dude. Yeah. So that's it guys. I just want to make a quick video because I just found out about this this young man Andre Smile from Russia. He's pretty damn impressive. Uh he's a unit massive guy. Still can do some very athletic things. It moves very well for someone like that. Can do a long jump. Can do a pretty good vertic. Has a good vertical vertical leap. Uh did the human flag on that pole. Yeah. strong man or something. So, I don't know what he's going to do with all that muscle, but now we know who he is. Uh, that's it. So, guys, thanks for watching. Um, I'm getting an interview soon with Natalya Qualo. I'm working on that along with other things. I want to do some coverage Sunday of Andrew Jack and see what he looks like at this Romania Muscle Fest. Dr. M. Yeah, Dr. Mike doesn't like uh doesn't like anybody. [laughter] So that's it guys. Uh if I don't do that video, if I don't get Natalya over the weekend, uh I will talk to you on Sunday anyway. So that's it. Please like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff, and we'll see you later. Thanks for watching.