recording. >> Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour with the dynamic duo of Tiger and Ronster. This week we're going to be talking about the very last open men's pro bodybuilding show for 2025. That's the Big Man Weekend Pro happening in Alakante, Spain. We're going to talk about Sean Clarita, who won the Japan Pro and has now qualified for both the Mr. Olympia next year and the 212 Olympia. And then we're going to get into shite, as they say over there, [\h__\h] contest lighting. What? Why is this allowed? What can be done about it? Because we've seen some horrible examples. So now, without any further ado, Giles Tiger Thomas, what's up, Giles? >> I'm doing bloody well, Ron. Um, it was snowing here a few days ago, but um, it looks like it's like middle of summer now, but it's just still very, very cold. A typical British, aren't I? Just talking about the weather. >> So, I I want to get into the the big men weekend. And the first person I want to talk about is not on the list. And I'm smacking myself in the head wondering why. This is Yoan. And I've got the correct pronunciation according to AD AI because we know ChatGpt is never wrong. So, if that's how they say it's pronounced, Yoan, that's how you pronounce it. So, Yoan Pradell's the young guy from Spain. He has done five shows this season. He was second place in Romania, in Poland. He was third place in British at the British Grand Prix and in Japan, and he was fifth place in Prague. So, I figured he would finish off the season in his home country with what could be a win and a ticket to the Olympia for next year, but he's not on the list. and I messaged him, but he's got several zillion followers. So, as you say, he might be like a bumstead and not not snubbing me, just hasn't seen my message, but why on earth would this guy not enter this show? >> Ron, it doesn't make any sense because like you said, he's he's Spanish. He competed in the Empro last year, so it's not like he's uh maybe he've had like a like beef with Alio, the promoter or something, but there's, you know, I've not heard anything and you know, Alio gets on with everyone. So, I don't understand why like he chose to do Japan as his last show because I'm guessing that he would have planned his shows, you know, ahead of time. I mean thing is I think he um maybe he didn't even expect this year to do as well as he has done because he's had some you know he's had a few seconds and and thing is like Sassan you know Sassan was a guy that just kept on going and going until he got a qualification and thing is and I hate to say it but this would be kind of like an easy win for him you know if you look at his past results of the last few weeks everyone he's beat handily so why isn't he doing this one I mean and also getting that nice early qualification and then he can build all the hype next year. It's um I just I'm absolutely baffled and um I'm really I we were speaking before we started filming here, but is there any way that he can jump in if he I mean he's probably flying flying back from Japan. I mean he's probably home by now because it's Tuesday now, isn't it? Tuesday. Tuesday. >> Yes. So why is he um is there any way that he can just you know try and get himself on the list because it's I mean what's it going to be? a quick flight, quick drive, and he could be there getting qualification, winning, you know, 10, 15, $20,000 and qualifying for next year's Olympia. I mean, I just don't get it because I think this is his best chance of qualifying for the Olympia. Um, and uh he should be seizing it and doing everything he can to get on that stage because this is just madness. >> Yeah, [snorts] I I looked at the list again this morning thinking, well, maybe it's updated. Maybe he's on the list. So, as of uh about a half hour ago, as of about 400 pm in Spain time, he still wasn't on the list, and that's on Tuesday. So, I don't know. I I know it's either Monday or Tuesday at the very latest that anybody is allowed to enter a pro show for the following weekend. So, >> maybe there's a glimmer of hope. Maybe because if so he could it's not easily win because we got guys like Mark Hector, Pablo Lopez, Munoz, >> Roberto we got some guys that are good but I I this was a great chance and also Florian Parson. We'll talk about Japan later but Florian just took second and Sean Clarita and he's not on the list. just I don't know guys are these young guys do they need to get a bit of a shake because I mean surely this would have been that the would have been the best option for him to do because you know like I said nice early qualification so I don't know what these guys are thinking I don't know what's going through their mind and the thing is I was just thinking there as you were talking he's not he's not sick he he's it's not like his body was falling apart like I mean I've done it where I've done four shows in a row and by the third one you know you just feel physically and mentally like you're just and by the fourth one I was just I was dead, you know. So it's not and he was kind of getting better as the shows were going on. Um so I don't know. I don't know why he's he's ch because I think he's I think he's really really going to regret this because I think he's going to watch the lineup and think [\h__\h] I really could have won that. So Yan, if you're watching this, mate, please please just try and I mean just do whatever you can to get on that stage because you are throwing away prize money, a qualification, and a chance to shut it down. And and thing is he's got a big kind of online following. So you have all year to build all that hype for next year's Olympia. And thing is he's one guy that I think he's one of the new generation like vetoers that are in their 20s that really uh I mean I was watching uh Bob Chicken and Shawn Ray the voice of Bodybun podcasts um and I was listen it's the first time I've actually watched it all the way through actually and it was saying like you know in five years time um because Fuad didn't he fad said oh in five years time I think this kid could be an Olympia champion and I was thinking actually in five years time um there's going to be no more Samson because he said he wants to be done by the time he's 45 he's like 40 now so you theoretically guys like Samson um a lot of the top names are not going to be here in five years time. So this is um this is a guy that uh is you know to be honest you as he was walking out there on that um that walk out video. He kind of reminded me of like a like a kind of where Jay Cutler was in like uh what 99 when he did his first Olympia you know you can see that there's everything's there. All the glimmers of of greatness are there. And I mean, look at him. He's holding his own there next to Andrew Jack. Someone that many thought should have won the Olympia this year. So, and I mean, he's more than holding his own there in the side shots with Andrew. So, so good at such a young age. This is a guy that um I think we would all love to see. And thing is he'd have a full year then to really really focus on that back because I saw him in Prague and he from the front and the side no one was blowing him away but from the back he definitely needs to lev it up and thing is a year off um like you know uh and like Veto you know overall with his physique um a bit of time off a good good long offseason he could really bring those areas up um bring his back up and uh and I think I think he could be competitive at next year's Olympia you know especially if he's got no other contest to worry about and no other, you know, no no sort of um concerns with qualifying. So, um yeah, this is uh this is this is madness, mate. >> And the other guy, Florian Pson from France, uh he looks fantastic. I think Clarita beat him unconditioned, but he's a big guy with really good shape, and I don't know why on earth he would not be doing this show. He's just he just competed Sunday, two days ago. >> What is it? Do they just are they just eating too much sushi in Japan or something and they've just gone a bit crazy or I think maybe you know because Japan's a country that I think a lot of people would love to go to but would never have the a reason to go there. It's not somewhere you ever go on holiday. But I think if you were if you were there as a competitor and a young guy like these guys, you'd probably they probably have booked a few days, you know, it's probably somewhere where you wouldn't want to just jump on a plane and come straight home the next day and get back on prep. I mean, maybe it's somewhere that, but if I had like even a few days or a hotel or something booked and I had stuff arranged, I'd be and I did this well in the in the Japan show, I'd be cutting it short. I would be cutting it short and I'd be um I'd be getting my ass home and uh and getting on that stage in in Spain. But Florian, mate, I told you about Florian, mate. I mean, he's be somebody I've been watching for a few years. And it was like um Josema because he did um he did well in the open. He turned pro at the the Portugal show uh the amateur Olympia and then he went and got fourth place the day after in the pros and he was only like mid20s and I remember I remember the hype and we're all excited about him and then he bloody went and switched to classic and I was like well first of all I don't think he like Josema did you know and I think um and Jo obviously did really really well and that's why he's staying in classic but this was one of those guys I just thought why because firstly firstly he's got too much muscle in his legs to be a good classic because all the weight that he has because of the cap is all in his lower body. And unless he just stops training his legs, he's not going to really he's not going to look good as a classic. He's just going to look like a classic with big legs and and kind of a a stringy upper body because, you know, now you're seeing what his upper body looks like with no restrictions. But, um, as a classic, it was I thought it was a complete waste of time. And the thing is, he didn't even he didn't even do that well as a classic. I mean, you could think if it's Joe Semon, like, you know, winning lots of classic shows and making top five, top six at the Olympia, you can see why it's worth it for him. But, um, but someone like, uh, someone like Floren, I think he's, um, like I said, looks like Dennis Wolf and Dor Yates have had a love child. [laughter] >> Yeah. So, you know, like I said, maybe maybe in a in an hour or, two hours, I'll look at the list again and they're both I would I would love to see both of their names on it because >> this is our last show of the year. I mean, Florian, you just took second place to Clarita, a two-time Olympic. >> He beat he beat Predell. I mean, he beat bloody Predell. I mean, that was like I mean, like I said to you before, I say, "Good job. We mentioned Florian because I like he was someone I said on the list, I said, "We've got to talk about this guy." I said, "Because if he starts to hit his stride, you know, this is a guy that's kind of he's kind of been disappointed because I could see how good this guy was back in 2018." And like I said, it's been a year after, oh, he's gone to classic. Oh, he's doing this. And for me, it was just disappointment after disappointment. And I was getting to the point where I was not I'll never give up on these guys, but I was thinking, mate, is this ever going to happen for you? Um, but um, so to see him get second and you know, the unexpectedness of beating kind of like one of the the hottest new names and one of the biggest talking points, it's kind of like Predell is kind of the the talking point what was a few months ago when he switched from classic to open and everyone was talking about and he won the two shows and I felt like it switched to Predell. But now, you know, Florian's just come in, swooped in and beaten Predell. I mean, that is uh that's a feather in in its cap in his cap as as it is because he's just beaten, you know, the guy that we thought would be battling with uh with Sha for first. But um you know, he squeezed right in there and uh and he and he and he caused an upset there, but um and right, you know, and uh and um I mean, could he have beaten Clarid? I don't think anyone would have been I don't think anyone would have really complained. Well, I when I looked at the score sheet, Sean did not win the judging with a perfect score. >> There you go. >> So, Florian must have gotten at least one first place vote >> because it wasn't 33, it was 43. >> I saw that, >> Sean. So, >> and he's young as well. I mean, he's he's what is he late 20s? >> Has to be. I'm just guessing people. >> And also by looking at this, he's brought the backup because that for me was the one weakness he had that he really needed to bring up. And it's and it's funny because he said that um when he switched to classic he said because Patrick Tur used to coach him and I said why is he switching to classic and he said he just doesn't want to be the work and what it takes to get to 300 pounds in the offseason. He said he doesn't for his health for he's a young guy. He doesn't want to be you know like huffing and puffing and and and and doing what it takes to be 300 pounds. You know he can be he can he he said he feels better you know like an offse an offseason classic guy doesn't have to be 300 pounds. I mean it's just unnecessary. >> So you know some of these guys as classics they just um they have a different approach to open bodybuilders. Open bodybuilders tend to go up in body weight. They might put 40 50 pounds on go from 250 contest to 300 offseason whereas the classic guys you know they they they sometimes their body weight drops if anything and then usually they'll just jump on a cycle or do whatever they need to do and then they just cruise in cruise into an open show. the body composition changes uh doesn't change sorry changes but the body weight doesn't necessarily change. So that's why open guys and classic guys do prep differently and that's why they say that's why they say that one is a is a slightly healthier approach than the other because it's not as demanding. >> Yeah. I mean Bumstead competed around 242 I think 244 and he never got I don't think I ever saw him get over 260 in the offse. >> Yeah. And that's with body fat. That's with body fat. So, so he's obviously losing muscle, so he's obviously growing into the show. I mean, he's talked about it and he says like offseason I'd do 500 mega test and that would be it. That's all I'd use in the offseason and then pre-contest whilst keeping an eye on the scale, you know, the body composition. My body weight used to change. That's why I did classic man last year. My body weight would sort of just literally just do that. it would there would be no, >> you know, sort of peaks and troughs because um you don't want it to because the end of the day, you don't uh you want to you want to be able to control and predict what your body weight's going to be because if you've got a you've got a weight limit to make. >> All right. Well, I realize we've been speaking about two guys who aren't in the show as far as we know. So, >> what an awful preview. >> That would be that would be the top two though. That's that's I mean, let's be honest, you know. >> Yeah, they would. I mean, because uh so we're I'm starting off Mark Hector who just took fifth place at the Japan Pro. [clears throat] Uh here's his routine from there. And it's very darkly lit as you can see. We're going to talk about that. This guy in Japan needs to bring in some lighting technicians or something. I don't know. But uh yeah, Mark Mark looked really good, but not good enough. I I had him as one of the favorites to win that show. Although beating beating Clarita would have been a real stretch, but I thought he would be the one to push him the hardest. Uh yeah, thoughts on Mark because what does Mark still need to do here? >> I I know we're going to talk about it later, but the the lighting's so bad. I can't tell you whether he's better than the other shows he's done, whether he's worse because yeah, if I really if I really squint here, yes, he looks absolutely fantastic. Um he looks detailed, he looks dry, he looks he doesn't look flat. the waist, the waistline, the midsection looks nice and tight. So, [laughter] I mean, look at that. The lights have literally gone off there. I mean, what how are we supposed to how are we supposed to sort of critique these guys and talk about how he compared to other shows when you literally can't it's it's very difficult to see. So, I'd love to be able to say, you know, working with Patrick this first time out, he's absolutely 10% better than he was, and he delivered the package that we all wanted him to deliver working with this new coach, etc., etc. But to be to me, mate, I can't tell. Um I mean, I saw some progress videos where it looked like his glutes and his hams were a little bit tighter than they maybe normally were. Um because Mark really took a level up when he was working with Cuba. Uh Keelin Kein, I don't know how you say his last name, but um they made some good really good progress together. And uh and I was curious to see what working with Patrick Tur would bring as well because obviously you know Patrick is a very good friend of mine and Patrick's a very top coach. And I was surprised actually I said this in the last episode. I was very surprised that that um that Mark jumped into a show so soon after working with a new coach. I thought, you know, and also really to be able to see what the difference is and and and you know, what differences he made to his physique with training and nutrition and, you know, and and those peak week and everything else. I was interested to see how different he would look in terms of his physique. Um so yeah, I was um it's diff but like I said, it's very very difficult to say because we can't see [\h__\h] Well, I mean, that's we're telling it like it is. That's all we know how to do. [snorts] All right. So, another guy from right there in Spain. So, he's he knows you're in Spain. Just do the damn Spain show. Pablo Pablo Lopez monos. Mos. Yeah, that's so here's uh here's here's his Poland. I should say he was third place here in Poland. >> Yeah, he did well. >> Uh and he was fourth at the British Grand Prix. So, he's had a pretty good season so far. his best jet. >> And if you're if you're an open pro from Spain, you you should be in the show. So, he's doing the right thing. >> Joan, come on, man. Get with the program. But Pablo Pablo has a has a really good look to him as well. I like that. Those crossions, the triceps right there. >> I've um I've not seen this actual little bit of footage, but um I mean, obviously the See, like I said, we can we can tell here. We can see what's going on because the lighting is good and also that the the quality of the of the filming quality is very very good. resolution as well. So, it's um we can see there that he peaked really well. This is his best season yet and um and he's he's kind of living up to those the potential that I I thought he had a few years ago. Like I said, I hyped him a few years ago. I put him in my MD column. Um I think he was eighth in one of the Spain shows. It might have been the Empro European. And I was like, keep an eye out for this guy because he's like I liked his big his quads are fantastic. He's got his big thick delts. I like his shoulder. He's got the nice wide clavicles and the nice tight kind of men's physique type midsection. So, for me, he was ticking a lot of boxes a few years ago and um and then he was kind of he kind of wasn't wasn't really getting better. He wasn't really getting any worse, but uh kind of he was kind of just stagnant. And now with with two top five placings and uh and clearly making big improvements to his physique, it looks like he's moving up. So, I'm really happy. Um, I've been communicating with him a little bit as well. And, uh, it's nice to see guys, and also, isn't it nice to see guys when they improve, but also they keep that midsection nice and tight because he had a good midsection a couple of years ago, and you know, a lot of guys, they do get bigger, but then the midsection goes. So, it's nice to see someone that's um whether he's consciously paying attention to it or not. Um it's just nice to see that um he's managed to uh he's managed to improve and keep it tight because look at I mean all the seratus and the intercostals there and the the obliques are nice and tight. So, it just sets his physique off really nicely I think. >> Yeah, this was last year's big man. Yeah. I'm wondering why Ake didn't do this show too now I think. >> Yeah. [\h__\h] Well, he's won it. He won it before. >> He's he's he won it last year. He's the defending champion. >> Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah, I wonder what do you know what that's a really good question. I mean I wonder why I mean was a maybe just I think is I don't know I don't know how each of these guys thinks. Do they just go it one show at a time and then and then play it by ear or do they do they plan out I mean I can't imagine like say Sassan planned all six of your shows >> you know I mean maybe they have a AI'd be interested to know this is why this is why it was good when I was doing global because I get to speak to these guys regularly and you'd get to hear their week by week. Sometimes I get them on twice in a in a season just to see like catching them at the airport for 15 20 minutes and just say look what was your what was your thinking on this one because like a like he got a not a very good placing in um the last year Poland wasn't it? >> Yeah. >> And maybe just thought you know what s this I'm shutting it down. I'm going to I'm going to go back to the drawing board and come back next year. Um but um but then again like if he' have if he'd have known that the lineup was going to be like this um he could have he could if he'd have just kept going he would have swooped in and probably got a win here as well and a qualification. >> Exactly. Well good luck Pablo. Let's move it on to Italy. >> It's very good. >> Roberto Buenomo Buenomo. I've spelled his name wrong a couple times. Roberto was third at the Tsunami France Pro show. >> Yep. >> That's his most recent update. He's So now we have really three good really good open pros from Italy. We got the two Andreas. >> His hands, his ham. Look, go back, Ron. Can you go back? Can you go back? >> It'll he'll come back to it. >> His bloody His hands were like literally they were like, [laughter] they were coming out like a It was like a bloody uh like a rainbow arc. Like it was >> That's what That's what Andrew Jack means. If Andrew has that, he's he's Mr. Olympia without question. As far as I'm >> I think he does. Hang on. Hang on. Somebody else said this the other day and I I was actually underneath a video of where you could see where his hamstrings had like I don't think they're a weakness anymore. I think they um I think people get so used to picking on certain areas like like like say if Kriso brought his glutes up. People would still keep saying oh he's got no glutes. He's got no glutes. They kind of repeat it repeat it repeat it. It's um >> Oh, I agree. No, I don't want to be guilty of doing that. >> People just parrot it. And I think I think sometimes you actually if you look at him and say, "Well, actually, if you actually look now, he actually has brought those areas up." Definitely. >> So, um but I but I think um Sorry. Sorry. You car >> No, I was gonna say Andrew just because I don't want to sound like I'm trashing Andrew. His hands are better. They have gotten better. I still want them if they're a little better than they are now. He beats He beats Hottie. He beats Derek. He beats anyone who stands next to him. Samson. >> Well, he's he's well, he's beating everyone next year, so get used to it. Get used to >> You know, I'm a legs on this guy. I'm a big I'm a big snob when it comes to quads. >> Um >> we're going to have our sort of uh yearly review coming up in a couple of weeks. Ron, I think we need to um I think we need to remember this guy as one of the most improved pros of the year because like he was he was I mean I've seen him compete loads of times. I think I think we've talked about him before and you were you were talking about as if he was a new guy and I'm like well actually he did six shows last year but he was a he was kind of um I mean like an eighth to 10th you know 8th to 12th kind of level guy but he was doing all the European shows but he's competed many many times and I think you just get used to seeing someone ticking along as like a you know like a oh this is here we okay this guy's guaranteed to be in the second call out probably mid-range to the bottom end you know um they they're consistently holding that second call that position, but here's a guy that's um it's really jumped up to to first call out and I think he's um I think it's because he's >> I think he's if anything I think he's probably come in lighter >> because he looks um he's he's a guy that his physique has transformed and but it doesn't look any bigger to me but he looks a lot better. So I think that's to do see that's why it's good to have a good coach like a like a Patrick Tur because Patrick will say look bigger is not always better because some coaches they just want to be okay let's get 20 pound on you then we can show off about how much how much muscle I've put on you when it's probably just bloat and you know and just and just it's just not actual properly quality size but a good coach will say right okay then we need to we need to bring the waist in we need to drop 10 15 pounds like a good coach now if um like say the prepping Nick Walker would say to him, "Look, mate, you know, to get you better, you don't have to go up on the scale, you need to come down on the scale, and we need to focus on the waistline." So, and I think someone like a Robert and a Patrick, this is why this is why choosing a good coach um like Robert has has really worked for him. I mean, Patrick, most people most people in the industry do know who he is, but there's a lot of the fans who they his name isn't as big to them as like a Hani Rambot or a Crystal, but Patrick's very very consistent with these clients. Uh, I I don't see too many of them ever coming in off. So, Roberto's in very good hands. Maybe that's what actually separates the the many many good coaches from the very very few amazing coaches because most coaches will just be concerned upon bragging about how much muscle and how much inches on their arms or how much oh look I brought my guy at 285 he was 255 two years ago but they don't they just look their kind of physique looks a bit of a mess. So it shows you that um he really knows what he's talking about because to uh I mean I mean you know we've we've seen it where um well like funny enough um Bob Chick was talking about Jay Cutler in 2009 when remember the 2009 the foot stomp year when he came back >> and he just looked he just looked like a completely different bodybuilder completely different physique and it's funny because he was actually lighter than he was in 2008 and that always blows my mind because people always assume bigger is better bigger is better so it's uh it's not always the case. But Robert, I think there's there's there's an argument for uh one of the most improved certainly in Europe of 2025. >> Yeah, I don't I would have gone with like uh Joe Palasio's, you know, we got have [clears throat] a lot of thinking to do about that one. >> Damian Damian >> Damian I mean Jordan Hutchinson looked really good as well this year from last year. >> But hang on, there's there's most improved and then there's the breakout star because Joe Palasios as we know competed last year but I didn't even he didn't even register. I don't think I don't think I even saw pictures of him because he wasn't he wasn't good enough to be even make it onto these Instagram feeds and and have people talking about him. So these some of these guys, you know, like I said, we're talking about, you know, the Florians and the and the Roberts as as like new guys when actually they've been competing. Um we were talking about I mean last episode I was talking about um John Predell's and I was said, well, hang on a minute. He was he's been around for years. He was in he was in the Empro last year, but it didn't register because he wasn't he wasn't kind of good enough at that point to register. Now, it's the it's the first thing we think about when we we we think about the new guys on the the big shows. >> Here's [snorts] a new guy, Andrew Jack. No, I'm looking at uh [laughter] Damian couple from Poland. And Damian was uh fifth place at the Poland show. So, representing his people, my late very late grandfather, he died like in the 50s. He was from Warsaw, Poland. So, got a little bit of got a little bit of connection to this guy. >> You've got you've got about hundred different nationalities in you, haven't you? But you had your DNA check. >> Uh I mean if we're going to if we're going to really be strict about it, dad's family was from England, Wales, whatever many years ago. >> Uh grandmother was from what is now Ukraine at that time. I don't know if it was Ukraine. Talk about like n she left like in 1910 and he was from Poland. So yeah, but Damen Cuffle uh never heard of him until this year. Here he's with that bumpstead character, >> mate. I I think I think Damian is one of my most excited I said this to him yesterday actually on on Instagram and he he thanked me and I said I think you're one of the I said I think along with Joe Palasio the one of the biggest breakout stars of the year because like I was I was obviously in Prague and I'm kind of um you know when I'm when Lauren was on with AJ or whatever I was taking a break or it was in between categories and you know because you know that the next categ I like to some just pop the headphones off or you know grab a coffee and I just have a wander around backstage to see what's going on, you know, to get ahead of it. Like I I always do that with the amateurs when I'm in Sweden. I always go back and have a look around and you know, then I get the headphones on and I get people hyped up. So, I've just seen the heavyweights guys. There's 12 guys and they all look amazing. But this guy, it [clears throat] was this one and the other guy with the massive arms. I forgot his name now. Um but um I saw him backstage and I was like cuz he's you know I hope you can it's difficult to see even in this video on stage just to show just to sort of see how big he was because he's I mean he's um he's like a one I think you you're like anything over like 120 kilos like 264 is absolutely shocking when you get somebody this big but we've seen all the 120 kilo guys. you've seen they're dime a dozen but when when they're in this kind of condition when they've got because I was looking at his physique and I was thinking [\h__\h] he's not missing anything and I was like he was walking around I he was eating a rice cake or something and you know getting tanned up and you could just see like when they're just eating something and you see the forearms and the fibers and you're thinking because it's quite dark backstage sometimes you know and I was thinking this guy is big he's conditioned you know because you're always looking for the new guys that you've not seen go oh there's Joan Predell's there's Samson you know there oh there's Kriso and Then you look over and you see these new guys and you're like, "Holy [\h__\h] who's this guy?" >> So when I got and the thing is his physique did translate cuz when he got on stage like he was in he was hitting because apparently AJ told me he [clears throat] used to be in classic. >> Wow. >> So you got a guy like 120 125 kilo plus with aesthetics. That's was classic. So you know they're going to be able to pose. You know they're going to be bringing good condition. Uh like that Matthew Hullwack. I know they've got that they they bring even though they're only fresh out the classic, they're still there still there's still a lot of classic in them. So, um Damian for me is one of the I mean I'd love to see him win this actually. I think he's um because I think he would um you know he'd um I'd love to see him in the Olympia next year basically. But um I mean really look at him. I mean look at the look at the detail. You don't see that on guys anything over 110, 115 kilo. Guys this size with that level of aesthetics, detail, conditioning, separation, quality. He's got nice balance. His posing was good. Um I mean this guy ticks all the boxes. >> He must be at least as tall as Andrew because in that picture he was standing. He looked like he might have been a little bit forward closer to the camera, but Andrew's 6'2. He's got to This guy's got to be around that height. He's got to be. He's not He's not missing anything, is he? >> No. Look at that. >> Look at that. We really really really scrutinize this guy's physique. I mean, if you get all the boxes and like like I said, there's there's no, you know, like say even Andrew like he's you know like there bits of his legs that look like they lacked a little bit of sharp detail and separation and you know, but uh I mean it's rear a bicep. I mean if you watch the live stream you just hear me just going up like every time you've been the call out and I knew because I'd seen him hit it a couple of times. I was like guys WATCH THIS. AJ, AJ, WATCH THIS. I SAID, "WATCH THIS REAL OLD BICEP." And he hit it and we were we were just going nuts. I mean, it must have been really hilarious to to listen to our commentary because it's just I mean, look at that shot. I mean, he is he is one impressive specimen, this guy. I mean, he's um Yeah, I for me, he's like uh he's he's what America did for Joe Palasio. This is what Europe's doing for for the you know, the real breakout star of 2025. So, um I I need to find out more about him, but uh I think um if he gets the win, then obviously he's going to his profile is going to raise dramatically. Um and uh look at side of his shoulders and that side chest. My god. And they're detailed as well. There's no crap in them, you know. It's like to be honest, he's actually it's actually hard to find a fault on it. So, um if this is just the start of more to come, then um I think he's uh I think he's I think we might have another GA on our hands, mate. going to camp. >> Yeah, I think honestly I think I mean it's not it's not um it's not sort of unrealistic to think this is a guy that could maybe get into the top 10 Olympia next year. You know, you don't know if he puts on another 510 kilos or something or keeps improving and gets the qualification here. I mean, there's a guy that could, you know, that could be the the the newcomer that um you know, because even even if he wins here, no one's really going to be talking about him for the Olympia next year because it's going to get forgotten about. Um, so he's one of these guys that could go, you know, go deep undercover and uh and just show up and uh kind of do what Dorian did at the the night champions in 1990, you know. >> Yeah. No, he's fantastic. And he wasn't on my radar at all. I mean, if if you hadn't brought him up to my attention, I don't think I would have even mentioned him. Well, for this honestly, I was so excited when I saw him backstage and I was like, "Holy [\h__\h] who's [snorts] that guy?" Because there's him and the other guy with the although his legs weren't his I forget his name now. I I can go if I've got the list. I can remember him. But um this was one of the guys that uh I was hoping that what I was seeing backstage I thought I hope he I hope it translates to the stage because you've done it I've done it loads of times when you see somebody backstage somebody new and then you go in the front then they get on stage and their shapes all a bit funky and a bit weird and they don't kind of flow but this guy is um I think we've got another European superstar on our hands mate. >> Yeah. Yeah, look at I mean just the muscle quality alone. Like I said, we >> h ah I always want to see the striations, the separations really nice and clear and deep and this guy's he's got all that. >> He's got no like look at that riddle bicep. I mean look at him top to toe. I mean he's just he's phenomenal. Phenomenal. [snorts] >> I hope he does. Um I hope to see a lot more. I hope he you know I hope you see um I just want to see more on this guy because like I said we're always we're always excited when you see new new faces coming through. But um yeah, he's uh he's he's one to watch, mate. >> All right, last guy we'll talk about for the big man weekend show in Alakante is Mohamad [clears throat] and I don't know how to pronounce it, guys. So, I'm sorry. NS Our R and Sur and I don't know, but he looks good. He's got a lot of muscle on him. He's a thick guy. He's living in Germany. Uh don't know much about him. Says he's been to the Olympia. I guess he's been to the Olympia before. I don't know if he had been a maybe a 212 in the past. >> No, no, no. He's been an open. He's won a pro show. >> Okay. I did not know that. Thank you. >> Yeah, we we've talked about him a few times because he's been like in some like you know when we do the what the power we do in the show previews um like two or three years ago he was um he's one of those guys, you know, like the we get like Italy and you get all the the three or four European pro shows on the you know the ones that Nathan Dasher tries to come in and win all of them. >> He's one of the guys that you know rounds out the top five. He's either in the top three or the top five. And um >> yeah, he's done well. He's got a nice physique and um you know, he's and the thing is he's done an Olympia. So um that's that's always going to be a feather in his cap and something that's going to separate him from, you know, many other guys because it is pretty hard to qualify for the uh for the Olympia in the Open. >> Well, it says he's here's the Olympia stage, but I don't know if he was in the open. I don't remember him in the open Olympia. >> Open. Yeah, he was. >> Wow. Okay. I believe he >> So wish him wish him the best. guys. >> If you if you looked at some old like um previews or whatever, like you you'd you know, maybe he looks different or maybe just forgotten about him. You know, maybe just my >> memory. We get guys, you know, remember that guys in the Arnold Classic and stuff that would get the invite and they'd end up last place, but you know, we um you know, maybe they look fantastic. Remember that what was that Australian guy that died? The the Australian guy, the um got last >> Luke uh >> no no no another guy. He um he did the Olympia 2003 and he got like last place which is no shame in the Olympia >> it no I forget his name now but like guys like that you know you know they um >> they sort of somehow qualify for the Olympia and um and they know that maybe they're not going to go in and make an impact but they do it anyway but just it's something that uh you know it's uh it's something separates you from 95% of all the uh of the the other pro bodybuilders. >> All right, [snorts] let's move on to to Sean Clarita's achievement this past weekend. He won his second men's open pro show four years after he did it at the almost end of 19 I'm sorry 19 2021 when he won the Legion sports beating Regan Grimes, Sergio Leva Jr. Uh this time lineup wasn't quite as uh had big names but he beat Florian he beat Yan Yon Turk Mark Hector at 178 pounds giving up you know probably close to 100 pounds in some cases to these guys. Uh and now the question is everyone wants to know why can't he do both the open and the uh 212 Olympia next year. He's qualified for both. You know, I I Lee corrected me, Lee Priest in a post uh or in a video when I was talking about it yesterday because I said, "Well, you know, they got to they got to the divisions need to be distinct. You can't have a figure a woman doing both the figure Olympia and the and the physique." He said, "But 212 and open, that's the same thing. they're just bodybuilders. So, that would probably be the one case where there was no blurring of the lines between divisions because it's the same thing. It's just a lighter weight category for the same exact division. Basically, you have lighter lightweight bodybuilding and unlimited weight bodybuilding. And uh you know what? What do you think would need to happen for Sean to get that permission or do we need to put pressure? Do we need a petition? What do we need to do? Look, I've been thinking about this because if they can give a special invite um I mean let's take um I know it's a different it's kind of different set of circumstances but the fact is they do have discretion to give special invites like they did with Derek Lunchman in 22. You know I know he was the defending 2021 uh 212 Olympia champion and they let him do the open because he wanted to switch to open. you know, the reasons are well documented. His body probably just wanted to grow, but this is a slightly different circum set of circumstances that he's actually qualified for both. And he's actually actively tried to do an open show and win it. Um, I think as a one-off, I I think just say let him do it. I mean, how often realistically is this ever going to be an occurrence anyway? Um, but I was I was chatting to Sean yesterday actually. The thing is the the problem is he's becoming he's becoming a bit of a victim of his own success because he's kind of the better he does now as an open it kind of doesn't really help the case for why the 212 was created in the first place >> because the idea of the 202 and the 212 I mean the end of the day uh we had like guys like Leo Brad Shawn Ray Terry Pastel guys like that in the 90s and the 80s that were second in the Olympia winning pro shows winning Arnold classics but when it you But um when it got to about 1995, it was the year Lee Labrada retired and kind of Dorian was coming into his own and NASA was super sizing and all these guys were kind of getting bigger and bigger and bigger, it seemed that like the the shorter the shorter lighter guys, not smaller, because pound-for-pound, I mean, I think Sean Karedo is probably the same amount of thickness. If you actually do 10 pounds an inch, you know, he's he's up there with Ronnie Coleman in terms of like density. Um but um like the guys were kind of getting swallowed up in the open and they weren't getting looking. That's why the 202 was created in the first place and obviously they was 210 then 202 then 212 then it settled um but they were doing um they weren't doing very very well. So like I said they created the class and then um it kind of gave those you know it's like say um Chris Bumstead I mean you know how well would he have done in open if there was no classic. How how would Flex Lewis have done? I mean, Flex Lewis did those couple of two 202 shows. Uh, sorry, open shows as a 202 and 212. Uh, the two I was at both of them, the Mr. Europe and the the Arnold, and he got like four third in one, fourth in the other. >> Um, and uh, but he wasn't he wasn't winning, you know. So, he was a multi-Olympia champion. Well, it wasn't the Olympic champ by then, but um it basically showed that, you know, these guys need their kind of um there's a reason to justify why they should maybe have their own division for a chance to, you know, let these superstars emerge. But then Clarita in 2021 then jumped into the Legion one and almost it kind of started to to um uh it started to justify maybe that the two the 212s, you know, wasn't wasn't really needed. So, I think it's kind of um it's kind of uh it's good for it's good in some ways, but in other ways it's bad. I mean, what do you think, Ron? Do you think um do you I mean, this is a separate issue about whether the 212 is even needed anymore because I first personally I think the 212 was stagnating for a few years, but now you got guys like Nia, Lucas Garcia, Yinka, the guy from the UK that just won uh the pro show of the week, and now new talent does see Franchesco Barios. you've got new guys coming through, but um and and I think um it looks like Clarita and um and Keon are going to be the top two for the foreseeable, >> but um I mean, sorry, let's let's just go to the actual topic of but personally personally I think I think he should be allowed to do both. Um but and then also then you'll see also how good a 212 is because if it's in the same show, you'll see how good at the best 212 is in in the open. So there's no speculating because thing is sometimes these the reasons the 212s do open shows is because they don't have the restriction and then they can come in at their natural body weight which is maybe 220. >> Yeah. >> You know like if we like you know if we' have got to see the best version of Flex Lewis when he was peing as a 212 we we would have got to see the best version of Flex Lewis on stage which we never got to see. But Clarida, he whether he rolls out of bed as a 212 at an open, he's always going to be the same body weight on stage because if he looks good, he looks good and he's still 20 30 pounds under the 212. So what's your thoughts, mate? >> Yeah, I mean I I don't see an issue with letting him do both. I mean, as a maybe do that as a special invitation, even though he's already qualified, but you know, they can do whatever they want. It's not nothing set in stone. It would be exciting. I'd like to see Keon on that stage, too. Although Keon's not qualified, he could get a special limitation. But, uh, as far as, you know, I guess we got to it's it's all sort of tied together. The topic of should there even be a 212 division? I think there are only a very very small amount of guys in 212 who are capable of holding their own and even potentially winning an open show. Sean and Keon are two that come to mind, but most of the guys in 212 would be in big trouble if there was no 212 division. They would get lost in the open lineups just because they're shorter and, you know, lighter. They're just not as good. But I I'd love to see I'd love to see Shawn do both next year. I mean, >> he's he has to choose and that's really not fair because [snorts] >> obviously he's not gonna he's not gonna forego the 212 because he's a two-time 212 Olympia champ and he was really pushing Keon hard this year. It's not like Keon kicked his ass. Not by any means. >> I think I think you've you've said it there. If like say like Keon shouldn't be allowed to say like next year say he says right I want to do the open and the 212 at the at the Olympia. But the fact is Sean has actually gone and done an open show to qualify. So because we all know that Keon, you know, I mean look, he looked fantastic in um in Prague. And I mean I got a telling off for from Steve for even hinting that he deserved to be you know compared with those top four guys and you know that's why I got the telling off because I was like justice for Keon. Why have they moved him? You know because it was like it was because Steve was basically saying no you're you're basically fifth and no better no worse. So, um, that's why I was kind of making that case on online and I kind of got a bit of bit of a telling offer it. But, um, I think, um, I think the fact that Sean has actually tested himself and qualified, I really genuinely think I think he should have the opportunity to do this. And I think it would be a good talking point for the show. Um, and um, and it be and I think [laughter] it just I think it's just a good I think he's, you know, he's gone all the way to Japan. He's tested himself. He's he's thrown himself again into the into the Lions pit and he's uh he's come out a champion. So, um I think he should be able to do both, mate. I really really do. And um yeah, and yeah, I just I don't see I just don't see the downsides. I don't see any downsides because I mean what's what potential downsides are there on? I mean, well, I guess you could say everybody that competes that could qualify for two different divisions, uh, should be able to do it. And then we might have women that could potentially win figure and physique shows in the same year or fitness and f, you know what I'm saying? It could start this whole argument that if you're qualified, you should be allowed to cross over and maybe that would start to complicate things, but I don't know how big a problem that would be. I don't know how often that would really happen. >> Yeah, but Okay. say yeah but oh um yeah but if you like we h the reason the reason how we how we find out who the best is for each Olympia division is that we have contests with those divisions so they can go and find out if they are the best. So, if um if Jessica Ray Padilla wants to go and do a women's physique and she wins a women's physique show and then she goes and does her quarter turns and puts her heels on and then goes and does a figure show, if she wins that and qualifies there, I think she should be allowed to because she's proven herself in, you know, in the amateur, I mean, we get I've seen them I don't think I've seen four, but I've seen them I've seen uh [clears throat] competitors do um three divisions. I've seen them do men's physique, classic, and bodybuilding. I mean, see all the time. I mean the bikini in some of the bikini classic you see them doing the novice the the junior or the masters and then they do the open and I've seen some guys and they'll be like on this like sixth seventh time on stage and they're walking off you see them at the auditorium you know walking around with like seven medals and six trophies [laughter] on them you know it's like the thing is so [clears throat] it's allowed in the amateurs um but um I just think um and I mean there was that also then I've seen it also where uh at the karina's laps there [laughter] just ridiculous No, I've seen it where um a girl won a pro card in figure and women's physique and this was in a uh you know, it wasn't like a sort of show with no no competitors in it and she was just kind of just, you know, she was just getting lucky. I mean, she was in in tough competition, you know, but also it just shows you that there's sometimes the lines uh are not that um that clear uh delineated, is that the word? Fro from between classes. I mean sometimes they do blur. I mean really for me a lot of um a lot of figure girls are just uh women body women's physique that just aren't flexing. [snorts] >> Oh figure and figure and physique are almost [clears throat] the same thing these days. >> Yeah. They just Yeah. One's relaxed and the other one's posing. It's like it's like men's physique and classic. I mean forget the legs. But uh you know some of them I mean a lot some of the guys they you know they hop back and forth in pro and amateur from doing men's physique and classic. I mean what's the what's his name? The um we see it loads of times. Uh well the um who did ho between what's his name? Um oh the uh what's his guy's name now? The um what's his name? Bloody the the guy who just he's just gone back to men's physique or classic or something. The no he went back from open. The guy used to train with um um what's the guy who won Olympia? My god my brain's gone dead. MY GOD MY BRAIN'S JUST SHUT DOWN. FORGET IT. LET'S MOVE ON. Move on. Sorry. >> Let's go. The next topic is terrible lighting. Terrible lighting. So, this was the show in Japan. This is the amateur Olympia portion of it. Um, but this is the same promoter that Look at that. Look at that lighting. Oh my goodness. He's the same one that put on the Masters Olympia where everybody was complaining that the backdrop was so distracting. Uh, let me see if I can find a picture from that. They had different backdrops. Even at this last show, one of them that they use, it completely washes out the physiques. Actually, let me go to Mast's Olympia. That's where I saw the pictures. So, you know, people want to know why why is there no standard for lighting or how do we how do we fix this? Because yeah, here's this backdrop here was very busy. It was taking away from being able to see the physiques. Um, it just, you know, you're you're at a show, especially at the one with an Olympian name, where you do expect to see proper lighting. It shouldn't be lighting that you've seen better lighting at a local show. But, uh, that that was the case at that show, the Tub Bro show back at the British Grand Prix. Goodness gracious. Let me go to that one. That was probably the worst lighting of any show this year I've seen. Uh, a pro show. And we're not uh we're not shying away from critiquing them, but uh let's see. See if I can find the British Grand Prix lighting. Even they don't have much footage of it up there. >> Oh, you've um you're not blocked. >> No, not yet. Give me Give me a minute. Maybe they'll block me after this. But uh this was a British Grand Prix. You can see how dark it is there. There's It's almost like there's almost no extra lighting beyond the standard house lighting. Oh, >> and you know, this is a sport where we really need to see these physiques. [laughter] We really need proper lighting or else, >> you know, we complain about bad live stream quality, but if the if the lighting in the first place is bad, it doesn't it wouldn't even matter how good the actual camera quality and resolution was because the lighting is not going to showcase the physique. So, what do we do, Giles? I mean, there should be there should be some standard, but I don't know how that would be enforced. >> [gasps] >> Look, um I mean I was in obviously I do sometimes do the the the commentary in in Romania and that's a beautiful venue that Face Club in Bookucharest and um you walk in because at at nighttime on both nights uh the amateur and the pro they you have to everyone has to be out by a certain time because they they pull all the chairs or pull the chairs away and then they basically flick a switch and all the gra all the the LED screens all around basically just all come off and then it goes back to a nightclub. So it basically turns back in nightclub both nights. So it's not I mean so they hire the venue but it's only from say 9 in the morning I don't know what 8 in the morning till 10 at night and then it becomes a nightclub for a few hours and in the morning they flick another switch and it all comes back. But um so they don't like you know bodybuilding shows typically you'd have the rollup banners, you have the banners on the screen, they have you know uh like at the the um the Sweden show it's like they have all these huge gasp printed you know like roll up uh sort of cloth banners and stuff and it's there's a lot and you see them and it takes a while to get them taken down and put up you know because I'm sometimes you know we're we're still talking to people on stage having our group photo >> and they're starting to lower you know the hydraulics for all the so they can pack it up and then and get out there. But now we've got everything where press a button and you know because obviously they must have like some sort of template um okay you can put your sponsors here or you're telling the sponsors okay you'll be on this banner here this flashing LED so give us any video and that will be up that's your running ad that will be seen in the background when all the competitors are on stage or the groups or you know that people are going to see when you walk in and um and uh yeah so but now it's changed because it's everything's It's electronic. So, but the problem is with these flashing screens, what the sponsors really want to be on because they want to be visible because everyone's pointing their phones and all the cameras are on that stage. They want to have presence, you know. So, that's basically something that the sponsors kind of insist on. It's something that they expect now. Um, like you I mean, I don't know how they're going to manage it that how they're going to sort the Olympia, but now these screens, I mean, even in like the the sort of smallest or cheaper venues, these LED screens are everywhere now. Yeah, >> it's uh it's just common place. I mean, it's um you know, if you go to the theater or you go to anywhere like you know, like a like an auditorium, like it's just every single one they it's just it's common place. They all have it. So, um I don't know. I honestly don't know how we fix this problem because the lighting hasn't caught up. And unfortunately, some of these venues are not just venues that have bodybuilding shows more than one or two days a year. So, how do you mitigate mitigate against that? Because like you said the um and I don't think they've got they need I don't know what they need to do bring in some lighting experts to say but how do you how do you counteract what's going on also when photographers are um you know setting exposures and stuff on their cameras it's going to adjust to what's going on the backdrop. So that's why sometimes if you were sat in the I've been where I' I've been at these shows where you you're watching it on your phone the the the afterwards back in your hotel room and you can't see anyone. It looks dark. It looks terrible. But when you're actually at the venue sat in the audience, it looks fine. So it's also what the cameras pick up. Like you said it there. Um I had a bit of a disagreement with the promoter a few weeks ago and I said um I said this is it was a it was AI won't say the name of the promoter but I said this is really really bad. And he says no. voice. Is it the Was it He said it was it the I said this live stream is really bad. Is it the live stream or the or the or the camera or something? Oh, no. It was the the the camera quality. It's basically insinuating that it's um Oh, I knew you were going to bring this up. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. It was like is it is it what what the camera's picking up for the live stream or is it actually, you know, the the venue itself? I don't I hope that makes sense. Um but um yeah, this is see this is why the thing is this is why Fouad with the Detroit show no is really um he's gonna make a name for himself because I had a bit of a disagreement last year with one of um one of his team because they said oh this is this makes it the best show on the planet and I'm like what because purely because it's got a black backdrop but but no I kind of but afterwards I was thinking about it and I was thinking okay that was a bit that was a bit over the top but you know what he's kind of I can see his point I started to see his point more and more because when would we the frustration of you know seeing show after show after show um I mean we've seen like three four five on the trot now and it's not it's not been like this like we're seeing here with Bonak and thing is those those videos and photos this is timeless this is stuff that's out there forever and you know you might have been you might have won one show in your career like say imagine Sean Kar that's the only show he ever wins and then he looks back in his career in 20 years and he's got this framed picture in his office and it's just a silhouette [laughter] You know, it does. No, think it's really bad. So, you know, I mean, all this Gilo footage um from the Detroit show is beautiful because you can see like I can I can tell you now whether Bonac was in shape or not because we can bloody see him. >> Yeah. >> So, it's it's very frustrating. It must be very frustrating for the fans, for the, you know, so I just But I honestly, Ron, I don't know what the solution is, mate. >> Yeah. And, you know, you brought up a point with the sponsors. They pay a lot of money to have their signage, their logos up on the stage. I know in Fouad's case, they had it above the black backdrop just but some sponsors that might not be good enough. They they want it directly behind the athletes so that every time there's a photo or a video posted from that, you have to see their logo and they're getting the exposure that they're they're paying thousands and thousands of dollars for. >> Yeah. Yeah. thing is the thing is you can't you can't wind it back. I don't I and I thing is without you know because thing is like say you got say you got like the Olympia now they're getting pressure to put you know they're competing with the Arnold. The Arnold's outdoing them 750,000 750,000 for the Open and you've got all this pressure to bet more money. Oh but okay so you get more money for the Open. What about all the other divisions and then the the the 212 guys are complaining and people the fans are complaining and it's like well okay then well we have to bring in more more money more revenue. How do we do that, Dan? Oh, well, we've got to bring in more sponsors. Oh, well, um Oh, also the uh the competitors have been complaining about the um you know, the the the fans have been complaining about the backdrop. So, we're going to have to remove that from So, you're going to have to tell all those sponsors now that um that we're going to have to remove, you know, the the we're going to go to a black background and then the sponsors are not going to be overenthused. So, they're going to pull their money. So, you see like when you look at it in a in a bigger in a bigger scheme of things, it's it's tricky, mate. And to be honest, I wouldn't want the um I wouldn't want the job sorting that sort that one out, right? I really wouldn't. >> But as far as the lighting, I guess if a promoter consistently has poor lighting, that's something that I guess the president Jim would have to address with them or or Tyler, somebody very high up >> that could say, "Listen, if this if you do one more show with poor lighting, we we're not going to give you a sanction because you're you're representing the pro league. This is an IPB pro league. This is an Olympia qualifier >> and it's lit like a you know I've seen local shows at high schools with better lighting than this. >> May I've seen um I mean now like I mean I've um I've known promoters get proper tellings off uh and warnings from the pro league for not doing a live stream. >> So like stuff like that. I mean, it's like cuz um you know, do did you know that after a show um say a head judge gets sent to an amateur show in Europe, he has to like like I'll talk because we always have dinner with them after and stuff like that and they like, "Oh, I've got to go and do the report now." Um I said, "What report?" You know, because he's been judging all day for two, three days straight. Oh, I've got to go do a report for the head office now. We got to do a report of um you know, like a report for the um of of what how the promoter is doing. So, the head judge from America, that's why they send them they they send all these judges. So they have to do like a written report to say okay this was good this was good anything that needs there'll be a question say anything they feel that you feel that they can improve on because that's why they that's why I said that's why they send these these uh these these judges from America to all these different parts of the parts of the world because they want to keep standards up and thing is standards of promotion like you said with lighting with things like live streams it's um it's becoming you know that's basically what the the promoters are paying their sanction fees for to make sure that certain uh standards are addressed because I mean you know the pro league is very very high in terms of you know they want high standards because they you know that's why they that's why they command these sanction fees and that's why they will send at their own expense these judges. So um it's um yeah it's uh I don't know it's a tricky one. I wouldn't want the job of sorting that sorting that one out to be honest. No, I don't even >> When you bring up the sanction fees, are they really gonna unless this person is doing an absolutely terrible job in disgracing the pro league, are they really going to say, "No, we're not going to take your money. Keep all that money." You know, >> there's got to be Yeah, but there's got to be a balance, Ron. There's got to be a balance. I mean there has to be a point where you know like certain things have happened at shows in the last couple years let's say that you think um I mean I I I sometimes wonder how some certain promoters are even still allowed to promote with some of the things that not only happen at their shows but the standards >> of things like live stream like lighting like you said it should be a maybe a three strike rule and you're out like if you get a strike if you you okay you've had poor lighting at your show you used a new venue you um you know you were unprepared or whatever or something happened. Um, something went wrong. Okay, well, you've got one strike, you've still got two strikes to you got two chances to sort that out. But if you do it two, three times on the trot, then it just basically says to the product, look, you just don't give a [\h__\h] you know, and then all and then all all the competitors and all the the fans who are um uh bombarding the head office with all the complaints of, you know, and what are we paying our entry fees for, blah, blah, blah, etc., etc., right? >> So, it's it's in everyone's interest to keep standards high. So they maybe they do need to maybe the pro league themselves actually needs to say okay we found a solution we've got a certain um you know we've got pointers and or maybe people that we can that you can team up with you know like I say um like a promoter will have live stream companies that they they work with. >> Yeah. >> You know they they actually have I've worked with them. I've worked with the producer and I've sat next to them where they're doing the switching and you know they'll bring in professional companies to make sure that it's it's done properly. It's not something they do themselves, you know, because they have to hire all that equipment and bring all the equipment in. So may maybe it have to be the same for them for the lighting as well. But um yeah, it's been it's been I've never seen it this bad actually. And thing is it's not not something you ever saw in the 90s, was it? Because I thought the lighting at all the shows in the 90s was was always pretty pretty bloody good in my mind. [snorts] >> Yeah, I don't recall, you know, I went to a good amount of shows in the 90s. I don't remember anything like that. But we do have so many more shows now and so many different promoters. I mean, we talk about live stream, the quality can vary from that Gilo stuff we were just looking at, which was beautiful footage, multi- cameras, top-of-the-line equipment, and then you have we've [snorts] seen at least one show this year that was somebody's it looked like just somebody's phone on a tripod. >> Yeah. >> That was that was streaming. That was and that was the pay-per-view. And it was behind the judges and the judges heads and shoulders and the equip and the and the tripods from the photographers, the still photographers were blocking the the lower one-third of the competitor's physiques. That was >> I don't want to call them out, but that was the worst live stream of the year. Absolutely. I've just um I'm I'm just doing I've been chatting to Andrew Andrew Jacked about um literally last few days about um a graphic for for a tour we're doing and I got some I got some really nice high resolution shots of Andrew from Romania from um from Jonathan Mario and I sent him a couple of mockups and he says, "Oh," I said, "I love that picture, Charles." He says, "But my physique kind of looked better at the Olympia." And I said, "Yeah, but the lighting is not as good." I says, "I can get probably get the images, but there's more to it than just how good your physique looks, you You know, I said the lighting is perfect. It makes everything kind of look more 3D and more high quality. Um, but who do you think's got the best lighting at the moment? >> Oh, boy. I mean, I like I like that black backdrop in in Detroit, but that's >> uh Jeez, >> that's a show with only two pro categories. I mean, I don't know how you can say it's the best show. I mean, it's a fantastic show, don't get me wrong, but you know, you're comparing it against the Arnold and Olympias and saying it's better than those. I think it's I think it's um I think don't go overboard, guys. You know, >> Romania had Romania had really good lighting. I thought >> Yeah, >> Prague. >> Trying to think >> Prague when you're there is perfect, but on some of the videos and photos like like you said, when it came through on the live stream, I was getting DMs as I was doing it saying, "Oh, the lighting's too dark." Like, "What do you want me to do about it? I'm doing the bloody commentary." But I think they hope that you're going to go and let somebody know. And uh you know like sometimes we'll get messages and AJ will say, "Jars, I'm getting DMs or texts from people saying that your audio or my audio is too low and like stuff like that's really really helpful." Um but um yeah, Prague was when we were there it was amazing, you know. But >> Texas Yeah. Yeah. Texas. >> Yeah. Freddy and Freddy and Sheila, they put on a they put on a great show overall. But yeah, they they put the effort into the lighting for sure. The Texas show that's lit better than most of the pro shows for sure. But it's the thing is they've got they've got they've actually that shows you that they've actually put the effort in it because it's not like one year it's great, the next year it's not. It's like consistently from when they started that show in 2021. The level of quality of the lighting has always been consistent. So, it's not like, oh well, you know, oh, it's the venue's fault or we used a new venue or something like that because I'd love to know what they actually did to make sure that they went in and they because it can't be coincidence that those promoters every single year, I mean, is it the same venue they've used every year? >> Yeah. But I can tell you because I remember the first time I went to it, I was talking to Freddy about promoting and he did tell me at that time >> he didn't just depend on the venue and what they had available. He brought in extra lights, extra crew, because you can't just you can't always rely on whatever the venue has available. If you really want to make sure the lighting is outstanding, you bring in your own you do the research, you bring in your own lights and and a separate crew just to handle that. He did that and that's you see the result. It looked great. >> Uh I remember obviously remember the Iron Man years. I mean you used to go to him um the Mike Nephew remember the photographer for Iron Man magazine. lighting was just I mean those shots of Phil Heath in 2008 I mean I think sometimes some of those shots are better than more impressive of Phil Heath than when he was winning the Olympia and I we know he wasn't as good a bodybuilder in 2008 because >> you know because he was he was progressing he was he was in a state of progression. >> Yeah. >> So um but Kevin Horton you remember I was um originally I was part of that British Grand Prix team in 2011. Oh, >> it was me, Zach, and Simon Fan. And then I and then Zach to his quads and then I stepped away and then it became uh Neil Hill, Simon Fan, and James Collier. So, the three of them stepped in. Good job. Because it lost a ton [laughter] of money. So, lost 200 grand. I mean, I I'd have been finished. So, I'd have been screwed. So, I was quite happy that worked out the way it did. Um and um Kevin Horton uh rang me and he said look Charles he says you know he says if you want he says I'll come over the day before and I'll help you set the lighting up like because it was in London. It was in London. He said I will help you. I will come over. And he says I'll help you. He says if you buy me dinner or something or take me out Fernando or something. He says and he said I'll come over. So like the offer was there because he said I'm if I get there the night before I can make sure that the lighting is absolutely on point. So, but like you said, like if Freddy can um you know, spend the extra money and make sure because you might you might get to a venue and the lighting might be amazing. You might just strike it lucky. But thing is why rely on I think that's why um that's why a lot of promoters like to use the same venue because they know what they're getting. Like the one in Sweden, that show has got bigger and bigger and they've had to extend it. But um they're literally bursting at the seams with that venue um because it's uh the show is like a lot bigger. But the you know the so but um but yeah and what else what else the um like with with Prague now um their lighting their lighting's very good as well. I don't know what they do for extra light but it looks like they've brought extra lighting in as well but I think I think it just comes down to the fact that some promoters really really care and and some not as much >> 100%. I mean the last thing I'll say about the I used to go to the Iron Man every year I was in LA and I I actually wrote for Iron Man. It all tied together anyway. I would be there sometimes hours before the show started and Mike Nebby was still making all these adjustments with the lights and light meters and his he had a whole he had a crew of a few technicians that worked with him. He was he was just painstaking and meticulous getting that lighting perfect for those guys and that's why 30 years later we're still talking about how great the lighting was at the pro Iron Man shows. >> Do you remember the um I mean they they say it was like the greatest show on earth, the 1999 British Grand Prix. >> Yeah. Ronnie, Flex, I reckon that was Flex Wheeler 258. He put 10 pound on from the Olympia. All seemed to go to his muscle, not not his conditioning, um Kevin, Marcus Ro, NASA, Milos. Uh I mean that was the it was just the Ronnie obviously. Yeah, I mean it was just you know and that lighting was just I mean I went to I went to that venue 20201 and then they moved it to Wembley Conference Center 2002, three and four. Um and then the split happened and Kerry stopped promoting it. But um when he was at the the Apollo Theater because I went to a Jordan Peterson lecture there uh it was my first outing after my heart surgery in 22. >> Oh. >> And I remember like I was like I recognize this venue and then I saw the name. I was like oh this is where the bloody I came for the Grand Prix and that that was like that night of champions 1990s overhead lighting. >> You remember those shots of like Muhammad Benza and Dorian and I mean those those shots like that was Dorian's first show. Imagine that the year he kind of he hit the ground running and you know cuz he said if I don't make top three I'm not going to continue as a pro and he got second and you know then then obviously you know history happened after that but um those iconic shots of like the whole name the shadow and then the overhead the shadowy lighting. I mean I think those photos really helped to establish his kind of mystique and his uh and and basically what made him a legend. Um, but thing is it shows you just how important, you know, especially I mean I was a photographer for many years and you know good lighting uh when you're at a good a show with good lighting um you know you know you're going to get the best quality shots. You know there's nothing worse than going to a show and the lighting is terrible and you know that when you get those photos back or you go through and you start sifting through them, they're not going to be as you know they're not going to be you know that the body aren't going to be looking as good as you wanted them to look is basically my point. >> 100%. [snorts] All right, I think let's uh let's wrap it up. It's getting dark here. >> Yeah. Well, you're you're five hours ahead of me, right? You're >> Oh, I I put a comment and I said, "Oh, I said the show should be renamed the Bane Classic." >> Bane from from Batman. >> Yeah. I was born in the dark. Molded by it. [laughter] [clears throat] >> I didn't. >> Not many people got that joke either. >> No, I'm There's a lot of Batman fanatics out there. I'm just uh I I'm AI'm a casual Batman fan, not like you. >> What? >> So, >> how [laughter] can you be a casual Batman fan? What is wrong with you? Well, I mean, I like the movies, but I'm not like, "Wow, I gotta go see the new Batman movie. I'll wait for it. I'll wait a month or two before." >> You're a man with testosterone in your system. My god, what's wrong with you? >> I don't know, man. Why don't I like Why don't I like sports? What's wrong with me? >> I don't like sports with you. >> You're not. See, see, people would say, "What's wrong with you, J? How can you not like sports?" So, guys, leave some comments there. Uh, if you want if you want to comment about Clarita being able to do both the 212 and the Mr. Olympia next year. Uh, if you want to speculate as to why Yoan Predell's is not doing the Spain or maybe he you know him personally and he is. Uh, if you want to talk about the lighting, anything you have a comment about that we were talking about, drop a comment. Helps us with the algo rhythm. Follow us on the Instagram. >> The alcohol rhythm. Old people don't say Instagram, they say the Instagram, the Facebook, the YouTube. So Giles Tiger there, Giles Tiger and Ron Harris Muscle. Give us a follow, like, subscribe, share, do all that good stuff. This has been Power Hour with the dynamic duo duo duo [laughter] of Tiger and Runster. And we will see you next time. Thanks for watching.