You need What's up everybody? Welcome to Ron Line Report. Today's guest, you know Mr. Man, he is the one, the only blessing a woeboo. How are you, sir? I am doing fantastic. Every time you say my second name, I always get so impressed. Did I do it right? Did I get it right? You You almost sound like you're from Nigeria. Give me I think you've said so many Nigerians name now. You're so used to the used to the accent. Andrew, uh that we got few Nigerians coming up on the on the scene. So you got so many Nigerian names on the scene now that you're so used to the African accent. Are you aware of the Kennedy Colossus Kennedy? Yes, I did. I saw him uh this past weekend. Yeah. Anyan Wu another Nigerian. So the trick is be from Nigeria. Don't from don't be from Somalia or Ethiopia. Yeah. You'd be too skinny. Exactly. Uh I'm gonna get right down to the question everyone's been wanting to know. And I know you did put a video out there a little bit explaining, but what happened at Legion? Why were you not the boogeyman, the blessing that we saw three years ago, winning the New York Pro, winning the Indie Pro, you know, smashing those shows and and making a big statement. So, what what was uh what was the deal? Just break it down for me. Hey, you know, Ron, it's a journey, man, and it's a process. You know what I mean? It was another me speak. Um I feel like you know this physique that I have like I'm I'm like almost there you know but you know I'm not I'm not quite there yet but I'm almost there you know and um it was a it was a mix and um actually had a really good offseason with boss. We are almost a year together working together. We put on tons of mass tons of mass. I was heaviest I ever been you know but in terms of hardness and quality wasn't the hardness that I've ever been. And as we diet it down, you know, I wasn't seeing that hardness that that hardness and that density coming through, you know, like 280, 275, I should be diced, you know. So at 270, we weren't seeing the condition that we wanted to see. So we had to dig down, which was uh it was not the move for this frame, for the size that was carrying, you know. So we had to dig dig down to chase that condition, but it wasn't there, you know. I just I just uh I just wasn't ready, you know. I I didn't think it was a was a good time to step on stage, you know, because, you know, the work we were doing in the gym was absolutely fantastic, you know. It's like the gains haven't fully marinated, if you know what I mean. Yeah. Yeah. You know, but I really feel like I'm like I'm like so close. Even though stepping on stage, you might see my physique and like damn, it looks so far away. But like when you are this wide and you with this frame, you just need so much mass and density and fullness to really to really showcase that shape, you know, which I wasn't able to do this past weekend and um yeah, that's what's up. You know, again, you learn and and and uh you take something away from me and you move on. You know, we keep digging, keep working. Everyone had a theory, you know, what went wrong. We're we're all trying to figure it out before you even said anything on social media. My theory is and you tell me if I'm right on or I'm dead wrong. I think maybe you got too heavy because you had a very very long offseason and didn't give yourself enough time to diet down into shape. Am I am I right or am I wrong? Um um I actually it was actually the longest prep ever. We had like I think it was almost close to 20 weeks of of dieting, you know, and I just for some reason I just want to see the hardness the the hardness just one coming through. I was in the [\h__\h] was absolutely beautiful. Best shape I've ever been in when it comes to like you know balance symmetry from from the top to bottom. And then again when I show up on stage it looks like you can see like my legs really flying out because again we had to dig really deep to try and chase that condition which wasn't there. You know what I mean? But um the only thing I was missing was just was just the hardness that hard dense dense uh dense muscle you know with this offense that I had. And I just feel like you know u um I'm like you know I'm almost there you know but I'm not quite there yet but I'm really really close. Okay. When you say dig deep, were you on like no carbs? Were you doing two, three hours of cardio a day? What? Yeah, I was doing I was doing two I was doing two cardios a day. I'll do like uh about 50 minute in the morning and 40 minute after training, you know. That's after we we hit 270, you know, and um from there I just my legs kind of flatten out a little bit. And we're working like, okay, once we start to, you know, carb up, everything's going to come back to life, you know. So we have to eat so much food. So much food. From Wednesday till till pretty much uh uh Saturday morning the show day we were eating a lot. We were eating over around 1,00 500 to 1,800 grams of carbs. Wow. And for some reason yes it was a lot of food and for some reason I don't think I was able to absorb all that carbs in quite well. And then you can see my waist actually got really got bad while my legs got flatter. Yeah. You know what I mean? So it was on stage it was very hard for me to control my waist which is you know was I'm known for like you know having that really small tight waist and once I lose my waist you know and my legs looking a little flat that's it for me. It's like it's not even it's just a bad when I miss I really bad. Yeah. I mean, this is this is uh when you won Indie 2022. We're looking at that and your waist was tiny. Yeah, it was it was to today best best uh it was the best conditions I've ever been in, you know. I'm a lot well I'm a lot bigger now. I have so much more muscle now, you know, but it's not the same. And even I was we went back actually went back and we look at my offseason and how my offseason was trending down when I started prep in uh for that show in 2022. I just had this I just had this hardness and density to my physique that I couldn't see during this uh during this prep. It was just it was it was different. Yeah. Do do you think it's because you went so long without competing because you hadn't been on stage since when was uh the Flex Pro Italy? Was that August of 23 somewhere? Yeah, I was 23. I didn't compete 2024. uh you know 2024 man I I went through you know this uh I went through some period where I was like yo I was suffering with Somnia so about almost almost a whole year you know with with really really I'm talking about really bad sleep you know sleep issue like really really bad and things start to get better for me like I think uh uh uh maybe maybe around about 10 weeks about about 10 weeks out things start to get really get good for me. It took me a while to get in shape when we started prep like I was like what's going on with my body? My body was just not moving you know which which for me is a little little weird because I get in shape real fast. I remember that prep for for Indie and New York dude I was in shape six weeks out. We actually had to stop cardio sickness. But this time it was it was just different. You know, it was uh it was a little it was a little difficult and um I think we know the reason why, you know, we're going to get my blood worked on uh on Monday. We're going to see some things and then, you know, we're going to take it from there. Okay. Well, you mentioned the insomnia and that's obviously when you're not sleeping, your body gets flooded with cortisol, the stress hormone. Makes it very hard to to lose body fat. So now that you say that, did did you ever figure it out? Did you get on like ambient or Lunesta? Yo, I 2024 was a really tough year, man. I tried every medication possible. Even a lot of the stuff and I I think that got a that that definitely got a play that got a play in it. And what happened with my physique, a lot of things that I was able to use in the past, I wasn't able to use it because they they triggering the insomnia. They make they're making my sleep worse. I couldn't, you know, a lot of the fat burn I would able to use in the past. I wasn't able to use no fire burner here during this prep. I mean, there's even there's even some anabolics that are standard in contest prep like tren that are horrible for your sleep. Yes. So, a lot of things that I was able to get away with in the past. Yeah. I had to stay away from from a lot of a lot of stuff because the trigger, you know, the sleep is when you can't sleep, you can't perform and the body wouldn't look right, you know. So, uh, definitely dad's got got to do with it a little bit. Like I said, I didn't start getting better till about 10 weeks out that my sleep start to get better. Um, things start to look better for me and my body start to move, you know. Yeah. So, uh, another thing people were talking about, people were saying that you have a knee injury and that prevents you from training legs correctly. But, uh, is is there any truth to that? I remember your knee went like backwards one time during a hack squat video, but here you are. You know what? Actually, I have a trainer now. This is the best my training has ever been, man. This is my leg training. Absolutely amazing right now. I have a trainer uh uh I'm training with a guy called Eddie by It Goes by Quality Muscle on Instagram. He is very very good and we actually, you know, he actually fixed my knee issue. There was a point that I there was a point at some point I was actually draining my knee like almost uh uh every second week. Every time I do a really tough leg workout, you know, my my knees fills with fluids like like so swollen that I had to go get it drained. Like I was doing that like every second week, you know. And I got to a point where I link up with Eddie and we fix we fix few things. We work on my range of motion. We work on my u uh ankle and knee flexion. Just slowly slowly build up some strength on my left knee. And then actually my knee this actually the best my knee's ever been right now, you know. So when it comes to my training, leg training, everything has gone a lot better. Honestly, actually my legs progress, you get it wasn't able to we weren't able to showcase on stage, but yo, my legs went up big time. We brought my legs up big time. Of course, you know, when I when when you when when when I go through a bad peak like that, one of the one of my worst body part that you're going to notice downfall is my legs. you know, legs normally just flatten out, which will happen at a at a um Legion Sport Festival. But when it comes to the knee issue, we definitely walked on that. And this is the eliest my knee's ever been, you know, with the with the work I've been doing with Eddie. What was wrong with the knee or what is what's the issue with the knee? Do you know exactly what the the diagnosis is? Uh it just just a lot of pain on my left knee and uh it naturally it's like hyper extend a little bit you know and uh and I get clicks on it every kind of it kind of prevent me from from eating a lower range of motion when it comes to it gave me AI have a really bad knee flexion ankle flexion because of that I can't really squat really deep I can't press anything really deep but you know we fixed that we got over it and we like I'm in a in a lot better place now with my knee than I've ever been. Yeah. So, I mean, obviously, I think it's been very common with body rolls over the years. If you bring up a body part, it's the it's the first thing that kind of goes when you overdy or diet too much. And so, you you experience a 270. I think I post a picture there. 270. You know, I was I absolutely love that look. It was the most balanced balance I've ever looked. And uh but the only thing I was missing was the hardness hardness and that and that dense dense look which you know we talked about you know the the the issue that I had with insomnia and sleeping and you know that that's that could have a lot to do with it you know but right now you know we're going to get my blood work we I'm get my blood work done seeing uh what we can see on the blood work and then we take it from there. So you know moving forward will you stay leaner in the offseason? Oh yeah, 100%. We're gonna stay within, you know, eight to six weeks out from from from a from a from any shot from a show, you know. So, we're going to try and stay as lean as we can here and then just work on that density and that quality muscle. The size is there, everything is there, you know. I'm carrying a huge frame. I just need to improve that, you know, that, you know, conditioning. You know, if I can bring that fullness, the hardness to stay with the ship and and and the side I'm carrying right now. Yeah. Yeah, that's that's a physique you want to be seen on stage. Yeah. You know, you you didn't you haven't dumped boss of all, right? He's still your coach. Oh, yeah. He's still my coach. He's he's awesome, man. He's really good. I got on the phone with him. Like, we literally talked for like an hour and we went back, you know, we went back to to uh we look over a lot of the daters and we went back to what I was doing in the past, what I look like in the past. And then you can actually see the difference, you know, on that with that body and this body today, you know. Here today, huge amount of size, but it's just not as fresh and hard as it was in the past, you know. And right now, we know I think we know where to where to go with that. So, give me an idea body weight. We're looking at your New York Pro win here from 2022. This foot is even better. 2022, Andy, what were we weighing in that in that spring of 2022 on stage? Uh, Indie I probably I would probably win maybe 256 in Indie. Uh, two Yeah, about 256, 260. And then in New York, a lot lighter. Maybe 252. Okay. Cuz yeah, I was I was uh I was a lot tighter, more conditioned. New York pop. Definitely my best look was India for sure. Yeah, you were fuller fer for sure. So what what' you weigh in at Legion? Do you know? Legion I think I must weigh I think maybe 263 or something like that. Okay. H pretty soft. Yeah. I mean, right now I should be I need to be 270 plus hard shredded. Yeah. Full as [\h__\h] you know. But we knew some right. You know, some of course we you know, we have to go out, you know, we have to go ahead with the show and and step on and compete and try the best we could with the with the peak. You know, the the peak didn't go right, you know, because, you know, from the get-go there just something something weren't right, you know. And honestly, I feel like I am actually really really I'm actually really really close, you know, because I know the the shape that I have, the physique that I have when I'm able to pull all that puzzle together, it's it's can be really really dangerous. I mean, we're looking at it right here. You were beating a lot of people a few couple years ago. Um to in retrospect, you know, you carved up I think I heard 8,000 calorie breakfast. Pretty close to that. We I was bro I was eating a lot of food and that's what you can see that you can see I was I was having problem uh with my waist on stage and I was sweating a lot you know my body just I just I don't know my body wasn't able to you know handle all that food or you know push all that nutrient into the into where they're supposed to go and I still look flat on stage. Well, it looked like you tried to to I hate the I hate the term crash diet, but I was looking at your pro your progress pictures, your updates for the last, say, eight weeks, and I was like, "Oh, boy, he looks behind. He looks really behind, you know, I because I'm I've seen people prep. I've seen thousands of guys prep for I know where you should have been." And I was like, I don't know if he's going to be able to get in shape. And it it looked to me like you guys really dropped the hammer and went very low calories, super high cardio toward the very end towards the end. We did. We have to because we just want we just want to see we just want to see what we're supposed to see. We just want to see the condition coming through. We want to see the hardness come true. Um you know and and towards the end we're like all right you know for like seven days straight we went really hard at it. We go from 27. We went from 270 to like two 262, you know, and I go a little tighter, but still, you know, it's not that it's not the look that that you want, you know. And then we had to see, okay, let's put some carbs into it. Maybe you're going to go harder, drier, you know, but everything just backfires. Yeah. Well, I mean, it's your first prep with boss and, you know, he's every coach still needs to learn the client's body. This was your first prep. You've been with him a year, but that was mostly off seasonason, correct? Yes. Yes. This is the first spray. And what I the one thing I liked about him, you know, he pay he paid attention to the details and you know the uh well, you know, after my blood work, I think we know exactly where to take this, you know. So, I'm I'm I'm pretty pumped for the next for the next move. I know I'm going to get it together and I really do I will get it together. I'm pretty close. And when I do, I think it's going to be it's going to be pretty awesome, man. It's going to be awesome to see, you know, especially people seeing my story, you know, uh going from show to show, not, you know, not not not not get what I wanted and then finally nailing it, you know. I think it would be something to to to really celebrate. So, I'm not stopping, you know, I'm not slowing down, you know. I know exactly what I got to do, you you know, I got to keep putting in that work and just just trying my best to improve and and and and keep keep doing what I do, you know, and just keep chasing trying to be better every day. So, I mean that so that leads me to the the next big question. You dieted, you know, you you weren't where you wanted to be, but I I don't I it's your it's your career. you and Boss are the ones figuring this out. But I hope you're going to hit another show soon or another couple shows because you'll get better and better instead of just going back into an off seasonason or something. You know what I mean? Because people all it's going to take is for you to come back looking great one more time. Yeah. In a few weeks and everybody forgets whatever the past was. Look at Patrick Moore. Exactly. Three days before that show, people were still saying he sucks. He should retire. He's the worst. Then he shows up looking great at Legion. Everybody loves him again. Nick Walker. God, how much hate did he get after that last Olympia? Then right after he comes back in in uh Pittsburgh, everybody loves him again. Derek Lunsford, right after last Olympia where he was flat. Derek sucks. He should retire. Blah blah blah. Fans of Fans will turn on you, but they'll jump right back on you. That's their job. That's their job. So, what's going on? What's your next show? Do you know? Uh, honestly, I can't say what's my next show. We're just going to get my blood work. see what's uh see what's going on with my blood work and then we we we're back at it, you know. We're back to working, you know, and we see we see we see what's next for me. Exactly. But I'm not but I'm not going to wait. It's not going to be like, oh, I'm going to wear another. No, we're working and we're gonna we're gonna see, you know, how much better how much improvement we can make from here, you know, for the next couple of maybe a month or two or whatever and then we shoot again, you know. Yeah. So, Dubai is out because that would have been three weeks from from Legion. Oh, yeah. No, I honestly I have to be realistic with myself, man. You know, like I said, you know, like all that stuff that I went through last year, you know, I just everything was there, size, everything was there. I just I was just missing that Dane's heart look, you know, and and we see how f how fast we can improve on my conditioning. Why still maintain a really good thighs and then, you know, we're going to take it from there. Okay. All right. Well, let's share some good news. Your you already have one child. Your daughter is what? How old is she now? Three, four. Uh, she's about 20 months now. 20 months. Yeah. She's Yeah, she's almost two. Oh, it's okay. She's not that old. But, uh, you have another another baby on the way, right? Another baby on the way. You know, family is everything, man. Yeah. I'm looking for family pictures on your Instagram. I can't find one. You'll have to dig deep. That's okay. It's keep your private life private, I always say, if you can. But uh yeah, I mean that that shouldn't play a factor. People saying, "Oh, no, he's got another he's got a baby." You know, you're not I hope you're not waking up like five times a night feeding babies and No, no, no, no. My wife is just she does a great job of that. You know, she she's very good. Yeah. You know, that doesn't mess up my sleep. That doesn't affect anything other than, you know, the issue that I went through, which that was just on my all myself. All right. So, sounds like the insomnia was an issue, but that's that's all that's fixed for now. That that that's fixed. Like I said, you know, I'm honestly I'm I'm looking forward to, you know, the next couple of months of training, you know, and pulling few things together, you know, all the things I wasn't able to use during that prep, you know, all the stuff that was triggering my making my sleep worse. I think I'm all over that now. Okay? you know, so I can I can, you know, get back to a full steam, you know, and actually bring, you know, the physique that people want to see. I know once once I just got to do I just got to put it together. I know when I put it together, I know how the fans, you know, appreciate every time I, you know, whenever I show up real good, I know how much love I get, you know, and I also know how much hate and disrespect that I get when I when I when I meet because they expect I think they expect so much from me. They expect so much and I expect so much for myself. I was so disappointed, you know, so is everybody else. So, it's all I don't, you know, it's it's all right. They want to for, you know, they want to force their frustration out. They want to call me. Do they say do they say that it's all right? You know, that's part of the game. That's being a fan, you know. That's that's that's what sport is, you know, you get some people who support you and then you get some people who just pissed off and just want to say call you all cancer name, you know. So, I'm I'm I'm I'm prepared for that. I'm ready for that. That's the that's the that's what we do, you know. That's the name the name of the game. You just have to be you just have to mentally strong to be able to handle all that, you know, and I'm pretty good at in the past, you know, I would I would have let stuff like that affect me. But right now, you know, I I know how to switch that off, you know. I don't I don't got to read no comments, you know. I post something, I let it go. People can say whatever they want as long as I don't see it. I don't go there reading stuff, you know. I post whatever I want. Let people know what's going on with me. Let people know what's going down, what went down with the show. Let people know I'm feeling, how they want to react to it, it's up to them. And how I how I react to them reacting to me, it's up to me. True. I mean, the social media thing because you were big on social media before you even stepped on a pro stage. And now you That's where the pressure comes from, you know. Well, I mean, people expect more from you because you have millions of followers on Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube. You know, you're famous around the world. I've seen you on like Tosh.0. I've seen you on like TV, regular TV, not just bodybuilding stuff on on YouTube or whatever. So, when somebody's got that level of success, aside from the competitive sport, it creates some jealousy because everybody wants that. Everybody, you've been a contract contracted athlete for a while. People, they're kind of jealous of that. So, yeah, they're looking for any chance they can to pick on you. But like I said, you know this, as soon as you come back looking like the boogeyman, everyone's switched out. Everybody's gonna be a blessing fan all over again. Watch. And I know it's coming. You know, even even the greatest, they go through a time like this. You know, Ronnie Coleman, I'm not saying I'm Ronnie Coleman. Everyone have different journey. Like Ronnie Coleman, even as great as Ronnie Ronnie Ronnie was, he had this moment where it was like show to show, show to show and this not happen. Then he finally figured it out. Just pull the puzzles together and then everyone was and that that that was it. You know, even Samson Samson's way to the top. People only see just people just see Samson. People only see the winnings now. Samson had his, you know, he had his time as well where he was traveling head and there just trying to make the Olympia, you know, show to shows, you know, but now look at him, you know, he's killing it, you know. So, everybody have their own different journey, their own ways of figuring things out. I I just believe this is just my way of, you know, putting putting things together, you know, and I feel like I am so close. I am really really close, you know. The size is there. I just need to improve that quality, that density, you know, and that's why, you know, I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm a patient guy, man. I'm I have extreme I'm extremely patient. When I put it all together, everyone's going to think this is an overnight uh overnight attack, you know. So, we're probably we're probably looking at something later in the season, you know. But later in the season, we'll see how things goes with the with with my progress. Yeah. Because I mean, do you want to make it to the Olympia this year? I'm assuming. I mean, I would love to. And if it's not, it's all good. There's always an olymp olympia. There's always the next year. Yeah. I mean, you're still what? Are you 33? Yeah, I'm 33. I'll be 34 this year. You're a young guy. You're still a very young guy compared to a little bit of time. You know what I'm saying? So, so you're doing well. So, congratulations on the new baby on the way. Uh, glad you got the the leg training figured out. Uh, boss of Outlaw does a fantastic job. So looking forward to bigger and better things from blessing. Yes sir. Thanks Ron. I appreciate you man. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you blessing. Thanks everybody for watching Ron L report with this man the boogeyman. Blessing a wootie boom. See you next time. Yes.