 What's up guys, today got some more throwback training from the greats, this is Branch Warren's leg training, some excerpts from his 2006 DVD, Unchained, produced by MOC Video Productions, linked to their channel in the description. For those of you who don't know Branch Warren, he was known, as one of the hardest training, as one of the hardest training, as one of the hardest training, bodybuilders, of his generation, with some of the best, leg development, take a look at him, right here, this is the 2015 Arnold Classic, where he took second, to Dexter Jackson, but, he had a very, very, good career, started off, in 93, as the teenage, national champion, winning, light, heavyweight, and overall, by beating, the headweight, Jake Cutler, made his pro debut, in 2004, and, by 2005, he started winning shows, won, the Charlotte, Pro, and the Europa Super Show, 2007, he won, the New York, Pro, 2011, he won, Arnold Classic for the first time. That was in March. That summer, he tore his quadricep a full tear, had it reattached, and somehow, six months later, returned to the Arnold Classic and won it again in 2012. Also won the Grand Prix Australia, which became the Arnold Australia, a week or two after that. This year, 2015, he won the Atlantic City Pro. His Olympia record was pretty darn good too. Debut was in 2005, where he took eighth place, 2006, 12th place. 2009 was his best year, second place to Jay Cutler, Jay Cutler making his comeback and becoming the first man in Olympia history to lose the title and win it back. But Branch was a very solid second. 2010, he was third place. 2012, fifth place. 2013, ninth place. 2014 and 15 would be his last two Olympia appearances, and he took sixth place both of those times. You can see from this video the tremendous development he had in the legs. It was something else. Now, the leg workout I'm going to show you, I actually went through most of it with him. We did a workout in 2012 when he came to Stoughton. We were both working for Gaspar Nutrition at the time, and I was sort of going around with him on nutrition store appearances around my area, around Massachusetts and Connecticut. And I was able to train with him at my gym on a very hot late June night with the air conditioning busted in my gym. And it was the only workout in my life I really wanted to run for the hills, sneak out the back door, but I didn't do it. But I'll show you. This was very, very similar to what we did, but this is from his DVD. So he starts off with leg extensions. So he will warm up for a couple sets, and then he does one very long set. I counted the reps for you so you don't have to. They total 100 reps. So he starts out with a pretty heavy weight that he does for 50 reps. Yes, 50. Then his partner is going to cut it. He's going to do another 50 reps, 100 reps. That's his last set. That's how he warms up his quads for everything that's going to come after that. Just so intense. And when he trained, when he trained with me, he didn't, he didn't rest long at all. In fact, it was, I do my set, you do your set, just bam, bam, bam. Again, I was just getting nauseous and exhausted. It was, it was about nine o'clock at night. I think we started at 830. The leg workout took about an hour, hour and a half. It was just intense. And that's how the guy is. He was just one of the most intense human beings in the gym you would ever possibly meet. So of course he had some spectacular leg genetics, no doubt about that, but he worked damn hard to get those legs. Blood, sweat, and tears. This is at Metroflex gym. I did have the privilege in 2005 of training at that gym. It's a very bare bones, hardcore dungeon of a gym. Not very clean, no amenities. There's no steam room, sauna, racquetball court, nothing like that. There were barely just a few cardio machines. There's just a lot of heavy, heavy weight and a lot of people there training super hard, super heavy, very big, strong people in that place when I was there. Something else. So leg extension is how he kicked everything off. And then he goes to squats. Now I'm going to show you the last set, which is five plates for, what did he do on this? 15 deep reps. But let's take a look. This was, he warms up. He starts with one plate, two plate, three plate, four plates. This is the last set. And you'll see, he gets a full range of motion on everything. He goes all the way down. You see those supports there. They didn't, they didn't have power racks there. From what I recall, it was these squat stands like they use in powerlifting competitions, which are absolutely terrifying because there's no safety bar there. If you're doing it by yourself and you got stuck, you're, you're shit out of luck, but he's got two big, strong guys there spotting him, making sure if anything happened, if he got stuck, they would be right there to get him out of the hole. But man, that is a tough way. When I trained legs there with Ronnie, we didn't do back squats. We only did front squats and a full admission. When Branch did squats at my gym, when we trained together, my lower back was not feeling great. And I was a wussy and did hack squats while he did full barbell squats. This is after a full day of store appearances, two different store appearances. Both of them for about three hours each, you know, grabbing food and everything. But this guy, he was training his ass off even after all that at like nine o'clock at night. Leg press. I'm only showing you the final set. Now, I don't know how many plates this is, but you see those stick plates, the one on the end. And I think there's one in the closer to the, to the front there, the middle, those are a hundred pound plates. So I don't know how much weight this is. It's probably about 1500 pounds. Now the range of motion, admittedly not fantastic here, but it's constant tension. Yeah. These are not full reps, but he's getting reps and it's going to be a total of 37 reps. If he went all the way down, which I have no doubt that he could have done a few full range of motion reps, he probably wouldn't have got that many reps. So my thinking is he does this limited range of motion here, really focusing on the contraction, the top half of the rep so that he can have constant tension on the quads and bang out a lot of reps. Yeah. This, this guy is just a machine, man. It's, it's, it's something else to see this guy train. So that was it for quads. That's all he does for quads in this video. Now for hamstrings, he does three different types of leg curls, seated curl. You can see the hamstring development on this guy. He had full development of the quads and hams. They were both perfectly, perfectly proportioned. And he had massive calves as you can probably even see by this. Yeah. Fast, faster reps, but he's got constant tension. He's getting a good squeeze. He's been critiqued many, many times for the way he, his training style scene doesn't use a full range of motion. He does his rep too quickly, but proof is in the pudding. It worked for him. Next up, he does another leg curl. This is the lying leg curl. I'm only showing you one set of each of these things. He usually looks like he did about four work sets of everything from this DVD. When I trained with them, it was, it was about four work sets of everything. But again, focusing on, focusing on the hams here, does plenty of quadricep work. Unlike a lot of guys, I don't think he ever trained hamstrings separately from the quads. I think he always did legs all at once. And it worked well for him. The guy had phenomenal leg development and he would finish off with a single leg curl, a standing leg curl. We didn't do these in my gym because the gym I was training at, at the time, did not have that. We did have seated leg curl and a lying leg curl. We did not have this, so we didn't do it, but we did do calves. And a funny story, it was, we had a hotel reservation for the, for that night in Connecticut, but he was just wiped out from everything. And we could not find a hotel in our area at the time. It was a graduation weekend. Everyone was graduating from high school and a lot of people were in town. So he ended up having to sleep, sleep on the couch in my living room. We didn't have a spare bedroom at the time because my daughter was still younger and still living with us. But he slept at my house and we made him breakfast the next morning. And then we were off to the races to Connecticut for a couple more store, store appearances. And that was it. But Branch Warren, one of the hardest training bodybuilders I have ever seen in my life. That workout that I did with him was by, by far one of the toughest leg workouts of my life. It was up there with the one I did with Ronnie and the one I did with Dorian, where Dorian really trained me, not so much trained with me, but that's it. Branch Warren, so intense, such an intense guy. And of course, known for the leg development. If you want to try that leg workout, good luck. I wouldn't try using the same weights as Branch. He was a specimen, unlike, unlike just about anyone else I've ever seen in my many, many years covering the sport. So that's it. Hope you enjoyed it and we'll see you next time. Bye-bye now.