What's up everybody? Ron Harris here and joining me for live and turn this down is blasting. The finals are happening right now out in Anaheim, California for the California Pro. I'm going to go to live stream in a minute and put the banner up because I want to give credit to where the live stream is coming from. It is a free live stream on Integral TV YouTube channel. That is a YouTube channel from Integra Medical from Brazil. Big big supplement company that's putting out the bucks to show it to you live. Uh so I'm only a few minutes behind live. They're doing the posing routines now. So, let's jump to that. And here is Aaron Gowley is up. I skipped a couple guys who were not in the first call out uh or second call out just to get things moving here. Going to start with Aaron. And Rean is directly after Aaron. There he is. Okay. This is a big guy from Canada. He's about 270 pounds. Big, big dude. Big arms, chest, shoulders. Lot of muscle mass on this guy. And what do we got for comments so far, guys? Both guys look great. Rean has won the show. It's not over yet, Kelly. It hasn't happened yet. Rean won. Wrong. Harris strikes again. Well, I didn't say who would win. I said Rean would win. So, in that aspect, I wasn't wrong. I didn't like the fact that Rean had the terrible tan. I thought Cassan was in better condition. It's not done yet. Pump for the Kelly Pro watch party. Let's see who's bringing the best. 31 seconds. That was close. Rean edge him. Okay, so let's go jump ahead then. Jump ahead to Rean's routine. Okay, let's take a look at Rean. Well, they must have wrapped this up very, very quickly. You sure it's over? I guess it could be. I did see awards, but why did they only let a few people pose? So, Rean is going to pose here in a minute. Okay, so here's how we looked at the finals. Yeah, they put some more tan on him. Is that Rean? I can't even tell right here. Yeah, he definitely came back with a better tan for the night. They put some bronzer or something on him. Still not as dark as the other guys, but he looks a little bit better. Still not the the stage color I would have expected. You can see how confident he is. I think he knew he had it. Beautiful shape and symmetry. That's really why he wins. Yeah, I do nitpick on him. I do pick on things that could that could be better because, you know, he still has so much potential. You people talked about this guy's a future Mr. Olympia. I don't know about that, but he could be a top five Olympia guy with some improvements for sure. He's already been the top 10. you know, he's one of the he's definitely in the top 20 bodybuilders of the world at this point. Let's put it that way. I don't think anyone would really dispute that. Just needs a little more a little more improvement in certain areas to move up to that next level because right now he's not at the level of those top guys of a a Nick or a hottie or a Derek or a Samson, but he could be. He's still a young guy. He's only 31 years old. Yeah, I did see that they had Rigan's on now. free live stream. Yeah, I put it up there. Um, when I show your comments, I can't show that, but that is where it is. It's on Integral TV. I'm not showing it live. It's already a couple I'm a few minutes behind. I'm like 10 minutes behind. What do I think is stopping Leando from cracking top two? I think he's good enough right now. I I could have had him in the top two. I think he could have even won. Open's over. Just watch Captain Ryan. Yeah. Well, I'm going to recap it here anyway because this is the first time I'm watching it. So, it was third Leandro, just like I said. Fourth, Bruno, fifth Florian. Yeah, Leandro was very, very good. He's someone to watch. So, they had I don't understand why they didn't let everyone pose. So, let's see. Let's take a look at Sas on S do Texas. Okay. S can do any show he wants. He has zero lines on his chest. They're talking about I'm not sure who you're talking about. Well, let's look at Sassan. Sassan brought a great package today. I'm It's It's upset upsetting to me that the poor guy keeps getting second place. How How frustrating to get second place at three shows in a row. Detroit, Fibo, and now today in Cali. Yeah. Rean, has Rean have his arms improved at all? I don't think so. I don't think so. Imagine if Rean had Nick Walker biceps. Somebody will do that. We'll make that picture and I think he would look fantastic with with better arms and legs. Rian doesn't have credit for not using sight of him. So everybody picks his lack of mass mascaras on him. Yeah, I I I give him credit. He could have filled up his arms with oil. They'd be big blobs. Didn't do that. So sure, let's give him credit. But Cissan is on screen now and he looked fantastic. Uh I I I don't know Muscle Machine. Did his name save him today or was it his shape and structure? Tyler Manion will go on uh Instagram and YouTube Monday morning, maybe Tuesday because Monday's a holiday here, Memorial Day. He'll explain everything and we'll find out. I'm not even sure if he's the who the head judge is today. Oh, the real Lee Priest. Re there's Lee. What's up, Lee over in Australia? It's probably like nine in the morning over where he is. Sassan look fantastic. Yeah, Regan's quads Lee. I agree. They're just not not where they need to be. They need to be like significantly larger than they are now. Susan's still on stage. I'd say Superet Man will make the Photoshop. Yeah, Superet Man does a good job with those blitz matchups between people. Name the priest my way. It's [\h__\h] basic name. Whose name? So, oh, you're in Italy. Okay. So, that's I'm gonna do the time six hours ahead from where I am. So, it is 10. Is it 1:00 am over there? 1 1 1:00 am in the morning. 1:16 a.m. So, what' they do on this? They went They had Regan pose. They had a couple guys pose. They went right to awards because this is the stream. Did they had to have let other guys pose? Okay. Yeah, they did. So, here's Patrick Moore. We'll get to the awards and everything in a minute, guys. Patrick Moore. Oh, he won unnamed. Yeah, I mean, you could make that argument. Yeah, I'll give Patrick Moore credit. His legs are a little better than when he turned pro back in 2017. They're still not as good as they need to be to match the upper body. What do you think SAS should compete? Well, let's see. He just got second. So, the next show is a week from today in Reno, Nevada. That is Allegian Sports Fest. Tonio Burton is is competing there. I don't know if he can beat Tonio. Tonio's Tonio's got a much Yeah. 1:15 a.m. Godly. Go to bed. Go to sleep. One of my favorite bodybuilders. Of course. How do I get discount for the Euro Muscle Show? Tick outs, please. It's on the bottom. If you're joking, they're paying me uh a sponsorship and I'm very very grateful for that because otherwise going on the views, I'm still a smaller channel. I don't make a ton of money from the views. So, the sponsorship that Euromus is providing me is very much appreciated. Uh if the bottom ticker bothers you, sorry about that. Super man is a crackhead. Everyone's a crackhead. I think they all pose their individual routines. Okay, let me jump ahead here. Let me look ahead. That's 20. So, we're at That's 34 minutes. Oh, okay. This is 34 minutes in. I see. So, I'm showing every I am showing everyone's routine. So, I was more like 40 minutes behind. That's about how far behind, which is a thousand years in internet time. I had SAS winning five poses, side poses. Just jump to the confirmation round then. What the heck? You know, I want to see I do want to see another couple people. That was Justin. I want to see the two. Let's see. Florian. Uh, so they should be the last three to pose. That's who I want to show. I thought they looked fantastic. Oh, there's Okay, there's Bruno. So, I just want to show the last three guys because they're all This is Florian Parson from France. Very, very good. Very good condition, especially not everyone, as you can see, not everyone brings that condition, even though they're all supposed to, but things happen with the human body. So, that's Florian. He ended up, I think, uh, put Le Oh boy. Got to go back a second for first prince at sass wing five poses side poses abside last. Where am I wrong? Well, that would be everything but the back poses. There's only seven ar seven poses. Put le arms on. That would be amazing. Put Lee's arms on anybody. It would be great. I wish I had Lee's arms for God's sake. Congrats to sponsorship. Thank you. It's a temporary one, but I'm I'm glad I'm grateful for it. Ryan got better at interacting with Sven channel. Your comments quicker than last time. Quicker than last time. Anything we say then last time is a reference to Greg Ducet who has 10 zillion subscribers. So Florian looked great. Lee priest again. I'm at night was a Milan. Now I'm in Tuskanyany and then going to Rome. I have to go see a pope. Good night. Good night Lee. Thanks for popping in. I appreciate it very much. Go see the pope. The first American pope ever by the way. It's pretty crazy. Floren Porson looked great. Heard Sass will be competing in Spain next. We can't confirm that. Yeah. I don't I don't I don't know if he could beat Antonio. So going to Legion Sportsfest in Reno, which would be if he stayed in California or wherever. It's like a 30 minute flight, but I don't know if he could beat Antonio Burton. Tonio is damn good. And he's he's won the Legion before. He's won this show before. He's won the New York Pro. He's been eighth at the Olympia. The guy that posed just before awards in purple against just one other guys quad sweep is great. Uh, well, I think you're talking about uh the last guy to pose is Leandro. But this is Bruno Santos from Brazil. He was in the top five. I know that thick guy. Only thing really holding him back is structure. He doesn't have the widest clavicles. And structure does count for a lot in bodybuilding. Wide wide shoulders and narrow hips. They've really helped the overall impact of a physique. And you know, he doesn't have that, but he's built a ton of muscle on the frame that he was given by God or whoever you believe in or whatever you believe in. Ton of muscle, mass, thick, and he brought brought the condition. He showed up shredded in shape. You know what? He couldn't have done anything more to to try to eek out a victory here today. Sass winning most poses, too. Stay safe, Lee. Patrick Moore should bring his hamstrings up. It's It's the whole leg. It's not just the hamstrings. It's the quads. It's the hams. I mean, he just needs to be bigger. He's got those long limbs. Really take front and side tricep. If you notice, Sass does not even have developed triceps. So, it's 52 Regan. Oh, Sass doesn't win front lat. Yeah, I I I agree that what hurts Sass is he's not as wide across the shoulders. That's just clavicle width. That's 100% genetic. And that's one of Regan's strong points. He's got a great bone structure and he's got great muscle bellies. So, it's a very pretty physique. So, that's Bruno still up there. Put Lee's arms on Lee. Tony will be tough to beat. Yeah, I I don't I don't know who's going to beat Tonio next week. Obviously, the list isn't out yet, but I'd be very very surprised if Tonio Burton doesn't win Legion Sports Fest next week and get his Olympia qualification. You can looking a little flat earlier. It needs a real tan. Oh, Bruno doesn't want to leave the stage. Everyone loves to hit those most most musculars at the end. That's like the the crowd favorite pose, I think. Bring a little flat and he's real tan. Agree. Agree. Well, I know Sergio. Sergio uh told me in interview that we did a few weeks ago. He is waiting for a show closer to the Olympia. So, expect to see him at something in August or September. I guess Walter Martin who's going to be in the Masters Olympia competing in Tokyo in the Masters Olympia this year. I'm going for SAS better condition. He's been pushing off for a long time. Reagan has a better god-given shape. C conditioning needs to be rewarded. Well, structure and shape go a long way. I mean, that's really what they were really the only things you could say Derek Lensford had over Nick Walker was structure and shape for winning the Pittsburgh. This is Leandro Perez from Italy from Brazil. Italy. It's actually his sponsor that's paying for this live stream. It's their channel. Uh, take a shot. This was on Integral TV YouTube channel if you want to watch the whole broadcast that they did today for both judging and finals. But Leandro a solid third place today. And I I I like this physique a lot. I think uh he wasn't too far off of either Sassan or Rean. Maybe a little more thickness in the lower lats. you. I'm being so nitpicky because this guy looks great. Didn't even know who this guy was until fairly recently. Took second place at the Arnold Classic, South America in Sapalo, Brazil to Gurvito. Really the only one that pushed him. Um it was it was not a tough win for Vito Vitali. But Leandro Leandro was right there with him. He was no slouch. Uh Toronto perhaps depending on Legion placing. Yeah, I I think even if he wins even if he wins Legion, he might very well go on to Toronto anyway. It's it's becoming fairly common now for guys to especially if the the show's just a week later. Even if you won and you got your Olympia qualification, there's nothing stopping him or anyone else from going on and doing another show, picking up another paycheck. Why not? Because you're taking away the qualification from someone else. Well, the Olympia is not supposed to be for everybody. That That's how I feel. It's supposed to be the best of the best, the elite. So why would anybody be concerned that someone is coming along and beating beating another person? Usually it's their favorite or one of their favorites. They get mad that someone came along and beat them and quote unquote stole their qualification, took it away. No, I mean, if they're going to be at the Olympia anyway, so this guy's still would have to try to beat him. Everyone at the Olympia is trying to win. Every bodybuilder on a pro stage is trying to be first place. So I I get it. Uh we want to see our favorites on the Olympia stage and you know like Sassan is a good example. What if he doesn't get his Olympic qualification this year? It could happen. I mean he could keep coming up second place second place and with the point system that was in that we had for a while that would have been enough to get him to the Olympia but that's gone. You have to win a show now. So I don't know what Cassan is going to do. I'm sure he'll figure out a show maybe over in Europe. There are no easy shows typically. There's always a couple good guys popping up like in the European shows. Nathan Dashra might pop up in a couple. Beirus Tobani might pop up in a couple, you know, guys that are very, very tough to beat. So, Sassan might get to Olympian, he might not. What were they doing with the guys here? Because these were not first call. Was this confirmation round they were doing? Yeah, let me skip ahead because confirmation round what they do is they don't start with the first call out, guys. So yeah, these were not the first call out guys. These were like second call out guys, third call out guys. Okay, so let's get back to this. All right, so this was the final confirmation round with the top five. You have Bruno Santos, Sasan Harat, Rian Grimes, Leando Perez, and Florian Por Parson. And this is where this is where it came down to really nitpicking still. Yeah, Rean's tan is still not dark enough. Gez, he looks green. Greenish yellow. It's It's not an appealing color. Everyone else up there has a beautiful color. Sassan in particular, Leandro, these guys all have that rich brown color that accentuates a physique that's super lean and defined. Rean's color hurt him today. He I know he got the win anyway, but when you're winning a show, you shouldn't have anything that people can really, especially your color. That's something that should never be an issue. You're winning a show with that. That's to me that's like I know it's not an amateur mistake. He's having a lot of problems getting color to stick to his skin or something. He's allergic to almonds and that's that's in a lot of tanning products and they tried a different tanning solution here. His wife put it on him. Still not dark enough. Still not the brown tint that we want to see. But Lord, look at that. Those back shots of his. They are something else. He definitely wins all. He kills everybody on the back shots. There's there's no question there. So, I try. Yeah, I guess I'd give him that. I don't know. Leandro, I like Leandro in that shot, too. Leandro is is somebody to watch, guys. I I see him winning a show very very soon. I don't know when or where. There are some pro shows in Brazil that that pop up or they don't pop up. They've been playing in schedule, but maybe he'll hit one of those pro shows in Brazil. I know they have like one after right after the Olympia. Can't recall who won it, but yeah, Rean looks really good there. That's a great shot for him. Accentuates his width, those massive shoulders of his, that X-frame, the shape and the symmetry, the proportions, they really all show through there. So, that was the final look the judges had at the top five guys. And I think from there, judges had confirmed and they made their final call. So, is this it? Is this awards right here or is Bruno getting a special award like a lifetime achievement award? Oh, nope. They brought back they did the same thing. And oh, so that must have been for fourth and fifth because at this point they knew they had Leandro solidly decided for third place. This was before fourth and fifth. They could not make up their mind. So, Bruno Santos from Brazil there. Number 12, Florian Porson. They both have purple trunks. Uh, on the right, Florian. Florian from France. Duking it out here for a for a to see who gets fourth and who gets fifth because they must have been tied or very very close in the judges minds. I bet they were tied. And this is this is how they made their final determination. One last round with just these two guys. So, Floren has a better structure. He's wider across the clavicles. Condition is a little better, too. Look at the glutes. Look at the back. It's crisper. Bruno's back looks a little blurry in comparison. You could also see the the the hamstring cords a little bit better. Side leg, side tricep, because I'm always looking at the whole physique. You're not just looking at the tricep and the shoulder. It was close. These two guys were definitely close, but I'm guessing they went with Florian. I'm guessing he edged them out because I would I would give these shots to Florian. I'm curious to see what the judges did cuz I know the top three. I don't recall who placed fourth and fifth. And this was Are they going to bring out S? No, Leandro alone. What the heck? Who' they compare Leandro with? Oh, Sass and Regan. Okay, well that's cool. That's cool. Glad they gave I'm glad they gave Leandro a look with the with what they probably already considered the top three guys. Who's winning? Well, we already know this is I'm like 40 30 40 minutes behind. It was Rean. Regan won. Lexi Regan's tan even darker. Oh my god, Richard. This tan is killing me today. Look at how professional and polished Sassan looks compared to him. It's just the tan. I think Sassan is leaner. He is definitely a little bit leaner than Rean, but the tan makes it seem like he's much much better conditioned. Leon looked huge. Leandro Oh, you call him Leon. Yeah, Leon is He's right up there. He's holding his own with those two guys. They're They're not It's not like a two-man show. I I think he was in the fight for the win. I think Sergio can deliver on stage after all this time. I don't like to give up on anybody, JBiz. So, I would say yes. Scan Leandro has great potential. Lower light improvement. It's little things, you know, and if they if they bring these little things up, it can make the difference. He's not lacking much at all, though. I mean, he was he's right there with these guys. Look how wide his back. He's he's got a wider back latch rear lat spread than Sassan does. K. What do you think Sassan emphasize? I I don't know what Sassan can do. He did everything he needed to do. Color's on point. Conditions on point. He's posing very well. Structure hurts him a little bit. You can't do anything about your structure. I don't think I don't think uh Cissan should have any regrets. He did everything he should. Someone said someone said 750k. That's for the Arnold Class of 2025. Glad they did away with the point system. I don't know. There was something exciting about it too though because you do get sometimes guys going to multiple shows and they're winning and winning and winning. Uh like Nathan Dash has done that where he's won two or three shows in the season. other guys have done that and you know if someone takes second like at four shows in a row, five shows to me they're good enough to win. They're good enough to be on the Olympic stage even though they didn't win. They they usually take second to guys who are end up in the top six or eight of the Olympia a lot of times. So they were good enough to to to be on the Olympic stage as far as I'm concerned. But who knows? They might bring it back. This the pose down going on right now before the awards. Great interview with Tonio. Thank you, Richard. He's a cool dude. I like Tonio. which Beirus would actually get to the states. Yeah, I think he's missed at least two. Is it three maybe? Poor Beirus. I mean, I've heard and I don't know if anyone can confirm, I guess only an Iran Iranians would know this, that he served in the Iranian military in their army or whatever. And that's why he's having an especially hard time getting a visa to the United States because it's it's a country that's has no diplomatic relations. We don't have a very good relationship with Iran. We haven't had a great relationship with them in in over 40 years. 45 years. Geez. So, um it it's it's not easy, especially if this guy was in their military. They'd be like, why are we letting him in? Even though he's probably been retired from the military for 10 years or more, maybe 15, I don't know. Yeah, they did Reian's time. Well, the tanning sponsor they used last year, last weekend at the New York Pro, and that didn't that didn't work out very well either. 100% right. 10 horrible early show. Patrick Moore is done. Well, he doesn't seem to be it doesn't seem to be looking good for him based on how he's been doing lately. Leandro is a great side try. Leandro is in shape with some folks. He is in shape. I just saw it. For the scores, yeah, those will be on ifbbro.com. They have a website uh where they put, you know, the schedule, the results, all kinds of things. Uh every time that's where we go to for the list. So like Monday, late late Monday, they'll probably come out with the list on that website. I know it's going to be posted on social media, too. But on their website for ipbro.com, that's where we'll see the list for Legion. Actually, a fan of Bruno. Guy's a cool look. He's thick as hell. Floren looks soft throughout the arms, chest, and shoulders. Well, it's like Derek Lensford. From the back, Derek is super hard and ripped and grainy, but from the front, he's got some some softer areas. Lando's flat. Lando has no striation and chest and glutius. Uh, well, I'd have to go back and look. US, US. Uh, I don't know what that means. Mike's right between people on stage. It was a pose down. Pose downs for everybody. Now they'll do the awards. Check. Cali pro scores. Yeah, they don't put the they don't put the scorecards up that quickly. It takes a few hours. Got such great aesthetics. That's why he won. Good transmission. El Carisero. something about meat kicker, right? So, this was the awards, I guess. And that'll then we'll be done. And again, this is not live. This was on uh this is the channel that streamed it for free, Integral TV, which is Integra America, uh big supplement company in Brazil. And the commentary was in Portuguese, which, you know, if you're Portuguese, that's great. If you speak Portuguese, I should say, but I don't. So, I wouldn't know what these guys are saying regardless. I don't know. Maybe there's some way, maybe there's some uh subtitles. Who else masturbating to this? I don't think anyone's masturbating to it. I mean, I mean, even if you're a gay man, would this be something you'd masturbate to? I mean, like, I wouldn't masturbate to women women's sports. I'd go to Pornhub like every like every normal person. Uh, machine. Yeah, Lord Crawford, that was that was wacky. I don't know why I even put that up. Okay, so I guess it was fifth place, Florian. He's the first one to get an award. Florian Porcelain. And they did they give him his check, too. Okay, that's usually you don't see usually don't see them getting the check on stage anymore. Only like the big novelty check for first place. Looks like they got him got him his medal and uh they paid him right there and then. Uh, Ria needs much work for the O. I agree. So, fifth place, Florian. So, that means uh Bruno was fourth. Yeah, GH my penis Wayne Growth. I don't think that's going to work, dude. Hopefully SAS push punches take for the O. So, fourth place there. Fourth place going to Bruno Santos. Congratulations, Bruno. So, Bruno and Leandro are both sponsored by Integral TV. No, Milos and Giles are not coming on the show later. No thanks. But that was a great episode. Well, I don't know if I want to use great. Maybe that's not the right word. It was one of the craziest episodes I've ever had. Uh, it's on this channel. It's two videos back. It was the power hour with Milos and Giles. Milis was a special guest and um man they got into it and it went on for oh good lord they were Milis was really getting upset and vocal and that went on for about an hour. Yeah. Third place Leandro Perez from Brazil. This guy has a bright future. He was second place to Good Vidito earlier in the season at Arnold Classic South America in S. Paulo Brazil. So keep an eye on Leandro Perez. You're going to be seeing more from this guy. He's going to be winning shows. He's gonna be winning shows very soon. I have no doubt in my mind. Uh Lee Priest once said, "Let's probably find a guy in World California touching himself while Lee was taking a shower." Well, it's really not that surprising. Check bed in cash. A bag of cash. That's crazy. Third place. And so the big pause is always for second and firsts. Second place Herati says as well. It's a matter of opinion. Some people loved him. Some people took Milos's side uh in all that and some other people took uh Charles's side. So the win went to no surprise. Rean Grimes Rean. So I'm just going to put up the results on screen. Sasson three was Leander. Typing in the dark here. Fourth was Bruno and fifth was God. Wake up. Wake up. Florian. Florian. Okay. Ed Banner. Okay. There we go. So th those are your results, guys. Rean rhymes punch his ticket to the Olympia. Sassan second place. Leandro third, Leando Perez, Bruno Santos fourth, Florian Porson from France. Fifth place, top five. Not bad. Not bad. What else we got? Favorite cheat meal. Who's favorite cheat meal? Uh, pizza. I love pizza. Pizza's my jam. We actually have a place in my town called Town Spa Pizza that it's probably the best known place for 50 miles around. A lot of people come here from they'll drive like an hour or two hours for this pizza. Town Spa Pizza in Sto. Good stuff. Congratulations, Rean. Tan needs to be fixed. Uh definitely needs to bring those quads up if he wants to get to the next level. But fantastic physique, beautiful shape, symmetry, structure, proportions. You know, he was a classic. He did classic very briefly in 2018. He won the New York Pro and he went and uh placed at the Olympia that year. classic physique. Biggest problem, Patrick Moore, his competition is better. I don't think that's the problem. I think it's he needed to fill out. He needed longer. Those long limbs of his needs to fill out. Rean looks good. Yeah, he won, man. He won. He needs a few more kilos to be up there in Olympia. Yeah. I don't know if it's really a size issue. It's He doesn't need like overall size. He just needs certain areas. More quads, more arms, a little more upper chest, and he'd be right there. He'd be right there. So, let's go to this again. Go to while we're talking because I know there's really not much point talking too much more. Right. There's Leandro. I just want to show Leandro for a second. He looked fantastic. He was right after Bruno. Trying to give some of these these two credit. They're gonna they're going to be doing better and better. Rean was a disaster at New York Pro. It was a disaster here too, Barry. It didn't get any better. His wife tried a different tanning solution. Uh they didn't use the spray tan as they had in New York, the the sponsors tan. Uh and it didn't come out any better. Kilos of Coke. Oh, he needs kilos of Coke. Okay. Not I thought you made more needed more muscle, but he's saying he needs more sweating. Uh Noah, I run a related question. You have any good gyms south of Boston? Well, that's Malden is north of Boston. Okay, so Southshore. I got you, Noah. Bayshore Athletic Club. That's where I've been going for the past six or eight, six, seven years. It's in Brainree, Mass. It's called Beayshore Athletic Club. We got a few pros training there. It's huge. There's like 12 squat racks, 15 different leg presses, 30 benches, two full sets of dumbbells up to 150. Uh, eight cable crossover cable stations or more. It's huge. So yeah, I got you know go to Basher Athletic Club and Brainree. Uh it's about like from Logan Airport. It's it's 20 minutes if that. What happened to Pro Tent? Oh, they use different companies at different shows. It's up to the promoter. The IFBB Pro League doesn't have like one official tanning sponsor for everybody. It's up to the promoter to to make a deal with the different companies. Are you natty or not? No, I'm not. I'm on TRT plus. I'm on 250 milligrams test week and 100 milligrams of Deca. So definitely I wouldn't say Navy Milo thinks he's a Conor McGregor of bodybuilding and ends up being the great. Did you guys see uh the remake of Roadhouse with Conor McGregor? I thought it was pretty cool. Uh what's the other guy's name anyway? It doesn't matter. Neos thinks he's the Conor McGregor. By the end of being the gray market version of Alex Jones is pointless. Thanks. No. Yeah, you won't be disappointed. Bure athletic club. It's it's a really it's a bodybuilder friendly gym. A lot of people train very hard there. You'll have a great time. Big Lenny love melatonin, too. Big Lenny looked like he had a weird disease. He was so dark. Yeah. So, Milana tan two is uh it's a drug as a peptide. I don't know. You take it and you it makes you it makes you tan all the time. And I I don't feel I don't think I'd be comfortable with that. I don't think that's healthy. Nick Walker still needs to sort veins on legs. I don't think he's going to do it at this point. They don't care about veins. Yeah. I mean, if it was an issue, they wouldn't let him. He wouldn't be winning shows and he has won shows. No, I I'm prescribed um an Astraol, but I stopped taking it. Uh I think it was leading I was having like minor muscle tails on tears on a fairly regular basis and I think that was one of the reasons why. So, I stopped taking it. My estrogen is not that high anyway. I I you know, it's it's an individual thing. Some people need it, some people don't. It's it's it's not like a blanket prescription that everyone needs was on T2. Reagan should pull out a Toronto Pro. Well, he's originally from the Toronto area. I'm sure he wants to go he wants to go and win in his hometown and proof he wants he's not he's not going to bring up those areas that we talked about that quickly. Anyway, what's up, Ryan? What's up? Thank you, Johnny. Appreciate that. Jake Gyllenhaal. Yeah, that's who the uh the star of Roadhouse was. It was made for Netflix, I believe. could never filled him for Roadhouse movie. I mean, Patrick was AI don't know. Actually, Jake's a really good actor. That That's just an iconic movie, the original Roadhouse. You can't You're never going to convince all the fans of that movie that this a remake is going to approach it as far as uh quality and you know, that was a classic. What are you going to do? Rean City already has 60 family members going to Toronto. Yeah, I remember the first year I went to Toronto Pro was 2017 and Bumpstead won and he had just made his pro debut went to Pittsburgh Pro a couple weeks before that. Um he had like a a busload of people there. There's a ton of people there for Bumpstead. Um who's the local guy? Mike. Mike. H 212 dude. His dad was a Bible passed away. He had a ton of people in the I mean, wouldn't you want to win a show in your own backyard if you could? 60. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, what the hell was his name? It's killing me because I know exactly who I'm thinking of. Oh, well, small village worth of family members behind him. Yeah. Like I said, I'm sure a lot of his family members aren't able to go to uh Vegas to see him compete or wherever. They weren't able to make it out to this uh or to New York Pro. So they can all go to Toronto. It's in their backyard. Friends, Greg 60s. That's So that's not a lot of family members. Watson. Yes. Zayn Watson. Thank you, Gregory. Gregory, you're from Canada, so I knew you would. Yeah, Zayn had he had like 60 or 80 people in that audience going nuts for him. It was crazy. Have I ever run Tremble like 20 times, 30 times? Yeah. I loved Trent. I wouldn't do it now. It's just too dangerous for me. I'm too old, you know? I'm testing DECA, a little bit of test, a little bit of DECA for my which I'm prescribed and I get blood work done with this company every 10 weeks to make sure everything's okay. But no, I'm unless I competed again. There's no reason no reason to use train ever again. I'm not going to. Bruno's quads. Yeah, Bruno's a thick dude, man. So, who was up there at this point? Nate Dandridge. Uh, is that Justin Muzel right there? Uh, it's that Foster guy. Um, Brian Foster, Patrick Moore, and Christa Dominico there on the end. Yeah, Gregory, when when you say bus load of people, it literally was a bus load of people. I think they all parked. They all met somewhere and parked and they took a bus. They took a bus to the Toronto Metro Convention Center and they were they had the roof coming off that place. It was so loud. Yeah. Zayn Watson. What happened to Zayn? I know he had some legalish legal troubles like a lot of people. Uh but then his dad passed away. But Zayn was a very very good 212. I remember at that show though, I think it was between him and Dura. What's Dura's real name? I can't even think of his real name. I just call him Dura. Uh but he was second place and he he could have won. Gregory will know. Greg, what's Dura's full name? It's not it's not Muhammad Dur or something. God, I love reading because he always manages to get to get to. Where does he get to? That's Justin Muzal from Germany in the middle. Three. Oh, that's Ryan Foster on the left right there. And that's the Mexican guy, the guy from Mexico, Jonathan Padilla on the right. We're looking at this was a confirmation round. This guys, this was over an hour ago. I'm not live. This isn't live. Not live. Hit a bus load of people, too. Gregory, you're killing me. You're teasing me with these like partial partial comment posts here. Greg is a great pro himself from Montreal. Yeah, Montreal. I'm sure I my weak ass attempt to pronounce that properly in the French way was bad. Get Olympia. Oh, I see. Oh, so this is over. Tyrus, the show's been over for like over an hour now. I'm just recapping. This was the confirmation round uh where they gave everyone one last chance. Yeah, there you go. He came up as Mammud Aldura. I just call him Dura. That's his Instagram and that's I think that's what people mostly know him as. He's got a ton of followers. He's got like 500 online coaching clients. He's killing it. Killing it. I think he's got a Bugatti, I think. Yeah. Dra D's cool dude. Great physique. He's He's coming back. I think he's doing Toronto. I think he's competing again next next month, few couple weeks from now. Yeah, I'm pretty sure he's getting ready to compete there. Isn't that the show he's doing? Probably. He lives in the Toronto area. Why wouldn't he do that show? Sass needs a little break. Get a granite fe. I thought his condition today was he didn't lose uncondition. And I don't think even if he had been a little more conditioned, I don't think it would have mattered. The judges were going with Rean. What I saw was structure and shape. Regan's got wider shoulders, narrower hips and waist. Sassan's got a shorter, thicker torso. His clavicles are a little more on the narrow side. And I think that's what hurt him. He's doing Oh, Dur's doing classic. Wow. I'm going to No, I'm not going to any shows I that I foresee right now. Unless I get a sponsor that sends me somewhere because unlike in all those years with MD covering shows, if I want to go to show now, I have to pay for everything and I don't like to pay for things myself. I like to have other people pay for them, you know? That's the best. I mean, I had a great thing going with MD. They flew me everywhere, paid for the hotels, some very nice hotels, like fivestar hotels sometimes. I felt bad. I was like, I don't need all this. I'm barely in my damn room. Dor's prepping for classic. Wow. I'm sure he's still going to look great. Yeah, man. I miss being at the shows, but like I said, I'm not going to I'm not making enough money to spend money. Uh, you know, if I got myself to these shows and even with the YouTube and everything, I wouldn't make enough money to turn a profit uh to pay for like my hotel and all that, I wouldn't I wouldn't make a profit beyond that. So, not going to do it. Got to make a profit or else it makes no sense. I can't lose money. Uh so that was uh the final comparison. The top five had one last chance. This is not live, guys. This happened over there were your final results. The show's already over. It's been over for about an hour and a half at this point. They got it done quick. They ripped right through it. I got to give them credit. They started pretty much on time. Yeah. Rean was too we've been talking about this brothers all day. His his tan was awful. It was awful at New York Pro. It's awful here. He he cannot figure out the right tanning product for his skin. He sweats it off. His skin like rejects the color cuz he started off New York with a good color and like 20 minutes in 15 minutes of the judging it was gone. It had sweated off his entire body. Except Shim Solo versus Lar wheels. Uh, exception for going to the show? Uh, what's the exception? What's the question, Quick Pump? I'm slow. You got to You got to help me out here. I try, but I'm slow sometimes. So, that was the top five. And then they they came back for awards right after this. Good times. Again guys, it's not live. These were that was the results. Uh this is where the stream came from. It was free on this channel, Integral TV on their YouTube channel, which is owned by Integra Medical, a huge supplement company out of Brazil. They are the sponsors of this gentleman on the left here, Bruno Santos, as well as Leandro Perez, who ended up in third. Bruno ended up in fourth and this gentleman here, Florian Porson from France, who has also competed in classic, he was the fifth place finisher. So those are your results. Ian had the same issue with color. He did. Branch Warren did years ago as well. I think Dennis Wolf had a little trouble with color. Branch figured his out. I don't know what he did. Uh for 10 the show. No, man. I mean, I can't I can't lose I'm not going to pay for a show and lose money. I just I can't go somewhere to work and end up spending more money than I make. Just that makes no sense. But yeah, the only perennial bodybuilding journalism magazine there, the current Yeah, I mean, I don't know who's left. I can't think of anyone else on YouTube. Giles, I have Giles on my show, but Giles should do his own YouTube channel. Remember when Rean went to Kuwait and got huge quick, but then dipped out quick? Yeah, it's a funny story. So, Rean did go. He was invited by the camel crew out to Kuwait. Bader Budai, the owner, invited him out there. You know, it's everything everything's paid for. They give you an apartment. They bring you hot meals like every two hours. They train. They have a great trainers there. They train train you twice a day. All you literally have to do is eat, sleep, and train. I'm sure they they give you all the gear. Reagan put on something like 30 pounds in less than three weeks and he was getting scared for his health. Um I'm sure they had him pushing larger doses than what he was accustomed to. This was the final look at the top three and he told them it was Christmas was coming up. Um he's in Islam Muslim country. They don't celebrate Christmas. So he's like I got to go back to uh I'm going back home for Christmas but I'll be back. He never came back. He was he was, you know, that was his way to get the hell out of there because he's he didn't want to keep doing that. He didn't want to keep pushing the gear and the food as hard as they had him. They had him eating like way more food than he than he had ever eaten before in his life. He was like sick to his stomach all the time from stuffing himself. I'm sure the gear was a lot higher than what he thought. So, he never went back. Disagree me. It's like telling a lion he can't have good rib steak. It's like trying to take a steak away from a lion. Yeah. Yeah. the magic mirror at Oxen Gym in Kuwait. Everyone looks great. But yeah, I mean I remember pictures of Rolley there where Rolley looked like AI or something. It didn't look like a human being could actually look like that. Really hope Rean would tie his team. I thought he was going to when he first came out I'm like looking looking and then when I saw him next to the other guys I'm like no this is it. It didn't get any better. I I him and his team they need to figure out what his coach is Stefan Keelbas of Outlaw. I'm not putting it on him. That's not the coach's responsibility. Rean's a grown man with a whole team of people behind him. Uh he's got to figure out his tanning situation. Uh well, you're not going to live forever, Sensil, but you'll live longer not using gear. That being said, if you have low tea, you'll be healthier with uh normal levels of testosterone than you would with low tea. But pushing a bunch of gear and being, you know, having five, 10 times the amount of testosterone you're supposed to have. No, that's very dangerous. He won't live forever that way. Think Rigan more complete. Look, Kulawa Skolina 17. Yeah, that's why he won. I think it was just the overall shape, structure. He had the mass. His condition was pretty good. The the tanning really messed him up. It made his condition look worse than what it was. Dorian had a terrible Yeah, Dorian. There were times when his his tan was not optimal either. In fact, the first show he won 1990 Night of Champions New York City, which later became New York Pro, many, you know, uh, 15 years later, um, he looked like green. He had this greenish tint to him. You say we'd have it better for this show than Cutler Casts, but yeah, but he didn't. He didn't have it better. It wasn't any better. this box 157. I think you mean BPC-157. No, if you have a bicep tear, uh, and it's recent, you need to go get it surgically reattached. That's the only thing that's going to help. BPC1, a peptide is not going to reattach a muscle. And if you have a tear that's been torn for a long time, it's too late. Yeah, I knew I knew what you meant. If it's been torn for more than a couple months, it's too late. It's already retracted. scar tissue is formed on everything and they can't reattach it. Now, I hope this is a recent injury. If it's recent, if it's a very minor tear, if it's what we call a strain, then these healing peptides like BPC-157, TB-500 could be useful. People have reported good results with using them to heal injuries. But if it's a full tear, you need to go to a surgeon, an orthopedic surgeon. Like, I've had my tricep reattached. I tore that off the bone. I have my quad reattached that tore off the bone no uh August 30th two 2023. So yeah, when a muscle's torn, you need to go have it surgically reattached. It's the only thing you can do. Kalan oxygen gym opinion is overrated. Well, it's not it doesn't have the luster. I don't see it anywhere near the amount of people uh going to auction gym as these two. Who would win classic for Barry Demay? Uh, Seabbum, based on current standards, I still think Seabbum would win. He had a thicker back than Barry. Barry's, you know, Seabbum didn't have the greatest back, but it was better than Barry's. He had better much better legs than Barry. Barry had good legs. Uh, Barry was a had a great physique, but I think Seabbum would have beaten Barry. I really do. That's just my humble opinion. But that being said, Barry Demay was fantastic in his day. I think he was third place at the 88 Olympia. He did very well. I don't know if he ever won a show. I don't think he ever won a show. You're a fan of Pat. It's not just condition. Kulawa, he needs to fill out. He's not big enough. He's he's got long arms and legs, which you know, it's a blessing in certain sports. Like he was a boxer. Long arms are very good to have as a boxer because you can keep your opponent very far away from you. But in bodybuilding, having very long arms or legs is not a good thing because it's more more to fill out. Like you see people with very short arms and legs a lot of times they can build mass, they can build big arms and legs much easier than somebody with long arms and legs. You see all the time very tall guys, guys who are 6'2 and up, very few of them have good legs. It's very hard for them to build thick legs because the length of the limb, just the proportions, their legs are so long. their legs, their legs would have to be enormous. Like 35 inch quads, thighs just to look big, which a shorter guy, someone who's like 5 foot five, you know, maybe 27 inch quad thighs look enormous on that guy. Big difference. So this was the awards and then I'm going to get out of here. So, fifth place went to Francis's Florian Po. Again, guys, this was on the Integral TV YouTube channel. They bought the rights to the live stream and streamed it for free. They just showed their ads throughout the whole thing. And there's their thing you can scan and all that good stuff. So, Florian Porson from France. Pson. I don't know. I can't pronounce French names. I talk I speak English and crappy Spanish. All right, so back to our program. I'm just trying to kill time before the fourth place gentleman comes out. Fourth place went to Brazil's Bruno Santos. Great job, Bruno. look fantastic. Little narrow across the clavicles is the only thing that hurts him. I'm trying to explain to you guys why he didn't do better because it's that's a structural thing. There's nothing he can do about his bone structure, but the guy's got a ton of thick muscle mass and I thought his condition was very good today. Fantastic quadriceps on him. I'm always uh giving extra credit for guys with awesome legs, awesome quads. I was always a fan of guys like Tom Plattz, Paul Deo, Tom Prince. Uh geez, there was a guy there was a an Arabic guy. What the heck was his name? Not Big Ramy. I know Big Ramy. Anyway, you know what I'm saying. I I give extra credit for Monster Quads. Third place, Brazil's Leandro Perez. Leandro and Bruno are both sponsored by Integra Medica. Integra America in Brazil who paid for they bought the rights and they streamed this for free for you fans. Imagine that. How cool was that? Looks good. Metal ceremony. Let's go. Bruno looks good. Patrick Moore. Maybe he should try acting. Why not? I mean, if the bodybuilding thing isn't paying your bills, I think he I think he'd do great in uh I think he'd do great. Spanish expansion crappy. Well, my vocabulary is not that great that I heard most of my life. Uh, married to this woman. It's from Cubans. Listening to Ren on the Cutler podcast. A nice guy. Come off content. Came off content and lacking brain desire to improve. Oh, content. Yeah, that's two different words. Yeah. I mean, people have said this. He makes so much money without competing uh from his sponsors. I mean, he's with Celsius, the energy drink. I can't recall who his supplement sponsor is at the moment, but he's does very well with his YouTube channel. Let's just say without competing, Rean makes a great living. A great living. Now, Sasan was second. Kulawa, he got second. So, yeah, maybe he doesn't have the eye of the tiger because he's already doing so well. I don't know. I don't want to speculate. I don't want to pretend I know what's going through Regan's mind and what what gets him up in the morning, what motivates him. I don't know. But he's doing very well. He just won a show now. He's on his way to the Olympia in October. So, good for him. He's killing it. You know, that's what we all want to do. We all want to get an Olympia stage. He's been there before. He's been top 10 in the Olympia in both classic and open already. He'll be going back to the Olympia in October. Welld deserved victor Rean. Yeah, congratulations Rean. I I don't have any problem with him beating Sass. Sass has a couple things he doesn't but the overall shape and structure and flow of the physique. Rean turn to Tony Montana. Say hello to my little friend. Yeah, I mean a lot of Cubans were upset that they picked an Italian actor to play to play Tony Montana. Congrats, Reagan. Uh this the his best friend Monoro. Uh, that actor is actually from Cuba. He's Cuban. That that that actor, I can't think of his name at the moment. But Manny, his best friend that he killed at the end, he killed near the ends of the movie. How many second place for son? Three. That's three now. Three second places. Geez. And there's no point system now. You got to win. You got to win. All right, I'm gonna stop sharing. Well, that's it, guys. That's it. It's over. Aside from horrible size, a lot of the criteria fans likes not surprising one. you that the you can you can improve body parts. You can never improve your structure. That's that's your bones. It is what it is. He's got a great structure, great shape to the to the muscles, those round full muscle bellies, you know. It's it's it's a gifted physique and he does work hard. Could he work harder? I don't know. I don't know. What's up, Leon? Good to see you here. Regency is more quad. His hamstrings are back great. Yeah, I agree. There's nothing wrong with his hamstrings. His quads need to grow. I'd want to see a little more arms. I mean, think of like a Nick Walker arms next to his arms need to his biceps in particular need to come up a little bit. Um, I want to see more upper chest from the back. He's he's all set. He's done. His back shots are killer. Killer. No question. Um, but with these improvements, he can move up. He can do better. He's still a young guy. There's still time. He's not done yet. I don't write anybody off. And he's I definitely would not would not write off a 31y old who's hasn't done he does hasn't done a ton of shows. It's not like he's been competing in 40 50 shows over 20 years. Quad Hson got great. What is your prediction? Top three. Mish Olympia. Well, we'll get we'll get to that when we get much closer to Olympia. Right now I would say in no particular order the three Olympia champs that are competing unless Brandon does it again. So that would be Heidi, Samson, and Derek. This year's Olympia is going to be epic. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, it's going to be amazing. I mean, I assume Brandon Curry will do it. So, we'll have four Mr. Olympians on stage. I don't know if that's ever happened before. Four Mr. Olympia champions competing and then throw Nick in there. Throw Martin in there. Andrew Jack. Can't leave Andrew out of the conversation. Uh, it's going to be a hell of a show. Hell of a show. All right, guys. I'm going to take off. It's been awesome having you. Appreciate so much. For those of you in the USA, enjoy the rest of your Memorial Day weekend. Final results here were Rean, Sassan, Leandro, Bruno, and Florian. Uh, great, great job, Rean. Great job, Sassan. I think Sassan should be very proud of himself. He did everything he needed to win today. It just the judges didn't see it quite his way. I'm sure it was close. When the scores come out, I bet we're going to see that it was very close. It was not a perfect score for Rean at all. I bet I bet Sassan got some solid first place votes. I bet it was a a couple points difference, if that. We'll find out when the scores come out. Let me check real quick just to make sure they're not up yet because I some I don't I do have the ability to put it up competitor list. Oh, results. Results would be in this tab. No, they do not have the results up yet. Not yet.BPro.com is where you can find those guys. So, that's it. Awesome. Thank you guys for watching. Appreciate it. See you right here next time. Peace.