Okay, ready. Hey everybody, welcome to Power Hour starring me, Ron Harris, and of course the inevitable [\h__\h] Tiles Thomas. What I call you Tiles Thomas? Giles Tiger Thomas all the way over in the UK. That's how excited I am about the Pittsburgh Pro coming up. Giles, 12 days, 12 days to go till the biggest show uh of the spring after the Arnold. It's going to be a very, very big deal. And um man, I I wanted to do this show today because we've gotten some updates from Nick Walker. He is looking way better than we anticipated. I'm starting to think he's going to push Derek Lunsford a lot harder than initially predicted. Um, tell me what you think because I'm going to bring up these pictures and I am so impressed. Let's see. I'm very very very impressed and u I'm really happy for him actually as well. And I've been I've been going back and forth with some of the trolls online. All the Nick haters um who've been Nick talk and Nick talker all that guys. So um yeah, he's looking superb and and I've been saying it for months. I think he's going to push I think he's really really going to push Derek. So I see this coming down to being uh Derek versus Nick. Yeah. Yeah. And I mean I if you asked me even um a week or two ago, I would have said there's no chance there's just absolutely no chance Nick could beat Derek. But I'm starting to think that in in a some type of scenario in some world it could possibly happen. What what what's it going to take? I I don't I don't know. I mean, if it did, it would make it would make probably for one of the most exciting Olympias ever, considering the fact you've got Samson, the current Mr. Olympia, who just got beat by Derek, you know, who arguably should have been fourth Olympia last year, not third. I had Martin ahead of him. I think a lot of us did. So, just imagine now if Nick went and beat Derek uh and what that would set up for the Olympia because we we're kind of looking at the Olympia as like a three-man show between Derek, Hadtie, and Samson. But then if Nick beats Derek, who Derek just beat Samson, it would set up the Olympia to be even more exciting because then you'd have four guys, you know, Hadi as well, you know, obviously Hadtie's going to be fresh. you'd have four guys that could potentially win the Olympia, which I don't think um I don't think I I'm trying to think of a time ever where there was that many kind of people, you know, coming into a show that would be that exciting. So, I'm really um I'm very impressed with the pictures. I think he looked absolutely superb. I'm really happy for him as well. Um, and I'll be very very happy when all these um all these these trolls really sort of you know shut their mouths because you know what's happened you like I said remember Jay Cutler in 2007208 and the hate that was directed towards him and he was the Mr. Olympia and then obviously 2009 happened after he regained the title after beating beaten by Dexter in 2008 and then you saw just how the fans just went just literally did a 180 and said oh we love him again now and I think the same is going to happen with Nick. So, and obviously there's the real the the true Nick Walker fans that really have stuck by him. Um, but um, yeah, I mean, imagine imagine like the comeback for him. Even though he's, you know, he won the New York Pro last year, it's the Olympia that really counts. Imagine now the swell of excitement and support and the and the the sort of the red faces that would have to sort of hold their hands up and say, "Shit, okay, then, you know, maybe I was wrong." But, um, yeah, I'd be very very excited to see this. I be um I think it's um yeah, but I think he looks absolutely fantastic and um I I I said it along. I've said it I've said it on Instagram several times. I've said I think he will push Derek. I I agree. I mean that those the back shots have improved. Look at that. I mean Derek's got the best back probably in the sport right now. There's there's no there's no uh argument about that, I don't think. But Nick's back is really good. It's it's it's improved quite a bit. You know, this is uh fasted right out of bed, two weeks, totally flat. Um his mom took the pictures because I messaged her and said, "Great." You know, I I think your son might have a chance now, honestly, because I I I didn't see it at all, but now But let me ask you about the legs, though, because that's what people love to knock on is uh the quads. Do you think they're that much of a liability? Not really. No, I think they look better. I think they look better. And plus, it's the angle and stuff like that. I mean, they Yes. I mean, from the front, from the side and the back, they look fantastic, I think. But from the front, yeah, there is a bit of, you know, he could do with a bit more, you know, whatever. But to be honest, I don't I mean, if I if I was looking at Nick's physique for the first ever time, I wouldn't think, oh, there's a glare and weakness, and I'd point it out because I think he looks pretty well balanced to me. Um Um, obviously, the main thing is he's if his waistline's nice and tight, um, then because with the amount of mass that guy carries on his height, I mean, I'm trying to think if there's ever what is he at, 5'8? Oh, no. He's not even he's not 5'8 because he's he's a little shorter than me and I'm 5'7 and a half. I'm gonna give him 5'7. And at the uh he gave it three weeks out it said 273 first thing out of bed. So he's probably still close to 270 at this point. It's just a massive human being. Look at that. So you had you had Shawn Ray who 5 foot seven at about 200 205 pounds and then you got Nick at say if it is 5 let's say just for the sake of argument he is 510 he's holding like 70 or 80 pounds more than someone like Sha Ray who pound for pound was you know one of the most developed thickest bodybuilders out there really you actually look at the amount of muscle he had on his frame he wasn't small he was a lighter lighter pro but he wasn't in he he was big he was big so someone like Nick, you know, it's crazy. So, I'm super impressed with him. I I you know, I really I want to take a look at Derek because I Derek obviously it he's running pretty much an experiment this year because nobody's ever done what he's proposed to do. Win the Arnold in the same year. He wants to win the Olympia the same year. That's been done. But he wants to win this new show, the Pittsburgh Pro. He's probably going to do the New York Pro. I think he's going to roll over in a few more days, stay on the East Coast and do New York Pro. Personally, maybe he won't. Maybe he'll be satisfied. I I don't I don't I think he'd be crazy to do that. I think he'd be crazy to do that. But um I think the only one who's ever done something like this was Flex Wheeler 96 because he did the Arnold Classic, got to second to Kevin, then he went and won the night of champions because that was the kind of the three seasons, wasn't it? And then he went and did the Olympia and he got um was it top five, wasn't it? Top six. So, um, but obviously he didn't win all three. He didn't win any of Well, he won the Night Champions. So, but, um, I'm I'm really I'm really prepared to to think that Derek might just win everything this year. I mean, for for I think he beat Samson quite quite I think he beat Samson quite handily. I think it was quite a clear win, you know, which I don't think any of us expected. I didn't expect to to see Derek Lunford coming in beating Samson, the current Mr. Lford. I just didn't see it happening. But, you know, it happened. you know, we saw with our own eyes how good he was. And thing is, think about how confident he's going to be feeling now. Think about how how good he how much how much he's bounced back after that disappointment at the Olympia. I mean, it's um I think it's so impressive the the the the testicular fortitude he had to come back from, you know, that disappointment with Olympia, the current Mr. Olympia, and there you are people saying you shouldn't even be top three, and there he is beating the current Mr. Olympia. I mean, this is this is an incredible story. Um, and I think a really good storyline, one of the most exciting storylines I've I've seen in a while really. And I'm really happy for Derek. So, um, I think he will win Pittsburgh. U, I think the only one that could potentially be is Nick, but if I was going to put money on it, I would say that Derek will win this. Um, and like I said, I think I think he's, um, he's probably be my number one to win the Olympia this year as well. Yeah. I mean, at this point out from the Arnold, we were saying Samson's probably going to win. He's the odds on favorite. He's Mr. Olympia, but how crazy would it be if Derek Lunford won? Wouldn't that be a shakeup? And and it happened. I mean, yeah, the odds are that Nick is not going to beat Derek. I mean, at this point, it's it's logical for uh on paper to say the only people that are capable of beating Derrick Lensford right now are probably Samson and Hottie. But, you know, we've both seen stranger things happen in this crazy world of bodybuilding. I'm not going to fall off my chair if if Nick beats him. be very very surprised. I'd be happy for Nick because Nick needs a a really solid win. He needs if he wins this, my god, it would put him back on the map in a major way if he ever was off the map. That that's the kind of um that's uh that that would be one of the greatest come that's like the comeback of Jay Cutler in 2009 because it wasn't just about him coming back and winning. It's about how he looked. Like I don't think anyone thought that Jay Cutler could look like that in 2009. And the to be but the only thing that makes me nervous is the fact that Derek was in Fibo the other weekend. That's the only thing because I've been to Fibo and I know how busy it is. I think that's the only thing that made me think oh [\h__\h] is he is he smart doing this you know like what three four weeks out from se just like four weeks out from you know a big contest because he's going to have to he's going to have to treat this like he did the Arnold Classic which I'm sure he is. I mean I'm not you know there's no there's no sort of getting it getting it twisted. I'm sure he's taken this very very seriously and I saw Chris Aceito made some comments and he had a look at Derek and Fibo and he said uh you just you don't know what's coming like so um so I'm sure Derek hasn't taken his foot off the pedal at all. I think he knows there's probably more riding on this show than there was the Arnold Classic going into the Arnold Classic for for Derek because you know he's he's put him he's putting really putting himself in the firing line by doing Pittsburgh now and not pulling out after winning the Arnold Classic, beating the current Mr. Olympia Samson. So, this is a real um this is a real like, you know, he can't afford to slip up here. So, he's going to have to be absolutely bang on for this because if Nick beats him, then what does that say about you know, like I said, it opens the show up then for to have four potential winners for the Olympian. I I'm I'm I'd have to really sit and think hard about the last time or whether that's ever happened where we've gone into an Olympia and thinking right there's four guys that realistically, you know, really statistically can win this. Um so if Nick if Nick beat Derek at the Pittsburgh show, I mean this will this will send shock waves. This will make this will make like I said this will sell the sell the tickets to Olympia. So um it'll sell it out. I mean it' be it would be a huge story line. I mean it would. So, I'm kind of I I I've got a feeling that Derek will win, but I think Derek is really sorry, Nick is really going to push Derek. I don't think this is going to be a walk in the park for for Derek at all. So, um I think it's going to be I think Nick's going to be a very very close second. And I think there's going to be certain poses where people are going to be like, "Actually, Nick looks even better than Derek here." So, this is um this this makes it super exciting for the Olympia. I know I keep looking further ahead, but let that that's the implications. If Nick uh pushes Derek here or obviously if he wins it, then yeah, it's going to make it super exciting. But I just hope Derek comes in as good as he was at the Arnold Classic. I mean, I don't know whether he can come in even better. Um I mean, bodybuilders can always look better. They can always look fuller and drier. I mean, I thought he nailed it absolutely perfectly at the Arnold Classic. Um, and he's not, like I said, he's not going to be doing anything to risk losing this because there's a lot more, you know, there's there's a lot at stake. It's like really like Samson choosing to do the Arnold. I mean, he had to win it really otherwise it was a it was a step back for him, you know, and even though he's still, you know, he's still theoretically the the current Mr. Olympia, you know, let's not forget that, but it has it has it has dropped his stock a little bit, you know, the Mr. Olympia's just been beaten. Like when Ronnie got beaten by Gunter, that that wasn't good for Ronnie, you know, even though he still even though he won the Olympia, like these things you like that's why sometimes you got to be careful what shows you do, you know, some somebody was, you know, they'll pick, you know, some like like the ones who kind of not struggle to qualify but have to qualify, you know, they will go and they'll go through the calendar and think realistically which show am I going to um qualify at? You know, it's like it's like I don't think Kriso's really got anything to benefit by doing this show um because I don't I don't He's not going to win it. So, um I don't know. Well, I was going to go to him eventually, but let's go to uh let's go to Martin for a second. Let's see. Stop sharing because Martin obviously Martin Fitzwwater was uh you know, huge huge talk after almost beating Derek. I mean, I actually thought he had Derek beat fair and square at the Olympia last year. I had him in third place. Me, too. But me, too. You know, this is we all judge. I know this is a guest posing. I'm going to show you guys right now at the Midwest Championships. And this happened last year where Nick Walker guest posed at the Pittsburgh before New York Pro a couple weeks and people thought he was way off and he had, you know, his physique had gone downhill. And we got a lot of that same talk from from this. Am I showing it? Let's see. Yeah. So, let's take a look. Good point. That's a good point. So, this was a guest posing uh couple weeks a week or so ago that people are still talking about. Yeah. Obviously, he's got no tan, so that's not helping the physique. But, uh, I don't know. I mean, I I He's bigger. Is he better? I don't I don't know if he's necessarily better than he was, uh, a few months ago when he when he won Prague, when he was uh, fourth at the Olympia. Uh, the back looks a little behind as far as condition from where I'd want to see it at that point. Big and thick, but I don't know. If he pulls the condition together to his normal to his normal standard condition this quickly, I'd be pretty surprised, but I'd also be very impressed because this this doesn't look like where he should be at that point. Uh Martin actually answered me on a comment because I said I think I think Martin's got some work to do this next three weeks. And I think he got a bit upset with me because he said, oh, he put like a a sort of sarcastic comment, you know, that like oh wrong with my condition is there or something like that. And obviously he wouldn't have responded if he wasn't upset about that. I wasn't trying to upset him. I actually said I think he can pull it round, but I think he's got some work to do. So I was kind of because I'll be honest, I've heard rumors that he's so much heavier than the Olympia and Prager. He's like 10 I can't remember it 10 15 pounds heavier or something. Personally, I know we only seeing half his body, but I I don't see it. I actually don't see it. And to be honest, if I was looking in that kind of condition 3 weeks out, I'd be I'd be worried. I would be worried. I mean you I mean like there's no I don't really see much detail in that radible bicep. This was actually not I mean I think I think Martin I just want I just want to make sure people saw that that wasn't what I was just showing wasn't current. He posted some stuff but it was from before Prague. Yeah. Okay. I don't see I don't see any real any real current updates. Yeah. I mean, we we've all seen these kind of like the things like this, these guest posings where they just get them to take the top off or or you see some progress videos and stuff and um they say, "Oh, I've made improvements. I'm this much heavier." And you don't really see it, but then they do hit the stage and they're all tanned up and they're literally peaked for that day. And then you're like, and in the in the first first split second, you can see where they're improved and you go, "Okay." Those kind of updates where you don't you can't actually see where they're improved. I mean to me I don't I don't see any improvement. Yeah. But um and I think he I think he did look a little bit behind on his prep, but I mean it was like a a top off probably just he probably wasn't pumped up or anything, you know. So yeah, we might see major improvements. you kind of I'm kind of expecting to see this kind of condition that he brought to the Olympia. Um because in Prague he was um at the the pre-judge he was off. I mean I stated that on the pre on the thing I actually had Bumpstead beating him. Yeah, I know. Yeah, you weren't the only one. Bumpstead was uh was was peaked perfectly and Martin did look but um I I don't have Martin coming in third. I've actually got Bonak in third for Pittsburgh to be honest with Mike. Okay, let's take a look at Bonak. Why not? Yeah, I mean Bonak's still uh he's still one of the best. He was fifth at the Arnold, I believe, right? Fifth. Yeah. And he's got uh you know, he's got Boss of Outlaw now working with him. He's got his legs back. You know, for a guy who's 42 years old, he's been a pro for well over a decade now. He's he's still holding it together very very well. gotta say, I don't know if you can hear me, but uh yeah, I I could see Bonak as high as third for sure. It's it's it's not out of the realm of possibility at all. He's very very good. Yeah. Can you hear me, Giles? Yeah. Well, Giles's audio is dropping here and there, but uh see what we got from Bonak. Yeah, there's my favorite shot. Yeah, I don't know if you heard everything I was just saying. I lost you there. Yeah, I was talking about Bonak as far as poss probably probably I I I Yeah, I didn't uh I think um I I think with William the way he's been coming back I think he's going to be better separation, better quality and um for me so personally I mean obviously Martin could get third. Yeah. Personally, I think um I think Bonak will take third. I think Bonak might take third here. Pure. Okay, good. Yeah, losing a lot of audio. So, I'm going to move on to another guy, uh, guy who's been making some very impressive updates. Uh, I did a video with George Farah, an interview few days ago. He's now coaching Creo, Michael Kizonzone Kzanic. And, uh, man, I am so impressed with this fresh fresh look that he has, the thin skin, the muscle detail. We don't see the clean deep separations that often anymore because guys are injecting in their arms and their shoulders constantly these days. Uh let me get let me put this up. Yeah, but that's this is I don't I don't think he has a chance of winning. I agree with you on that. But I think he might surprise people. I think a top five is very very likely. Michael, I like my stripey delts and you know I like conditioning and a guy this I I think it's so impressive for a guy this size to have that level of conditioning and separation I and stripiness in his shoulders, arms, everything. I mean there's no, you know, like it's guys now are just lazy. They're just they're doing they're injecting every day or whatever and they're just putting in their shoulders and their arms and they're putting whatever they're putting in whether it be deer or IGF or metaphor or SEO. I'm you know whatever. I think they're just going, "Oh, well, I'll just pin it in my shoulders." Nobody seems to notice. Makes me look wider, you know. Um but um you know, so to see this is really refreshing. I like to see the detail, the striations. I mean, the video of this as well is you can see everything flickering. And that's what this is my point. This is why I keep going on about it, you know? when you build this kind of level of muscle and level of development, why stick everything in it and just blur everything, you know, because some of these guys when they hit a readable bicep, it the there's no there's no three delt heads. It's just one big blob. Yes. And that really really annoys me. So, you know, I applaud I applaud Krzo for, you know, taking, you know, taking care and attention by not, you know, sticking all his gear or whatever he's doing into his shoulders because look how look how impressive that looks now. Um, you know, I mean, he's absolutely huge and I'm so glad now he's he's making his comeback after his shoulder injury. Um, he was I was backstage and he said that he went he sort of gestured as if to say, "Look at me. Look at me." Um, and he started hitting some poses and I got it on my I took a couple of photos and when I looked at the photos afterwards I looked at it and I was like something not what's happened to his chest. I when I looked at the photo I looked at the like his chest looked really flat like he's always had a pretty good chest and then um a few weeks later found out he'd had a shoulder injury and that's so obviously he must have been in agony trying to train and trying to work around it. So um so yeah so I'm really I think he looks absolutely fantastic. Um but um I don't I don't see Chris higher than fifth though. I mean fifth place at this show would still be very very good. I it would be nothing to be ashamed of. I mean look he's up against Mr. Olympia champion Derek. Bonak's been second at the Olympia. Nick's been third at the Olympia. Martin's been fourth at the Olympia. This would be a fifth place would be would be a a feat. I'd be I'd be proud if I were him. And he's going on to New York Pro. He's already committed to that a week later. Uh, obviously we pretty sure Derek won't be in that show. He'll be all set after theoretically winning Pittsburgh. So, yeah, I mean more more shows, more experience. Um, you know, the challenge has been keeping him full. And George George says he's got a plan to not do anything drastic at the last minute. Flatten out because KZO has has a has a history of looking sort of flat once he gets to the stage or having trouble maintaining his fullness. I said, look at the size and the fullness of this guy. Goodness gracious. Yeah. Anyway, can you hear me? So, I'm going to move on. Gonna move on to the next guy. Uh, let's take a look at who else I want to get to. Ah, Veto. Let's go to Good Veto because people sort of forgot about him. I'm sure the Brazilians haven't forgot about him, but uh, Veto. Veto won the Arnold Brazil convincingly the Arnold South America. Uh I don't think he was peaked 100% for that show. I think he was holding something back for Pittsburgh and um you know tons of muscle on this young guy. No monstrous legs. Love those quads. Upper body not quite as impressive but you know does does he have a chance at top five? Giles, can you hear me? Yeah, sorry. Yeah, I um I I've got him sixth place. I've got him sixth place. I don't I don't I don't see him um beating I I don't be to see him against Kriso, but I think I think Kris I think Kriso will beat him. Um, I I like I like Veto. He's making hammering away on that upper body to match those crazy legs. Um, I think he's improving. I think he's moving forward. He's qualified for the Olympia. He's got nothing to lose by doing this show, but I think um I think he's going to struggle against these guys. Yeah. But like I said, I I I applaud the fact that he's got the the intestinal fortitude to go up against these huge huge names because obviously at the Arnold South America in Brazil, he was the only really big name there. Uh he didn't have a lot of opposition. It was a fairly easy win. This is not going to be an easy show for him. This is going to be the toughest show, the toughest lineup he's ever stood in. Uh he did Detroit Pro last year. couple good guys in that Martin, but uh he's never been in a ever been in a show of this magnitude, this kind of lineup before. So, good for him for having having the guts to to step up and give it a try. Yeah, he's got a Do you know, I was just looking there at a video when he hit the thigh, he's got a look at that. He's got a lovely midsection for a big guy. Yeah. Yeah. He's also similar size. He's similar size, I think, to uh Walker. I want to say he's probably about the same height and close to the same weight. Both big big guys. Yeah, look at that. Yeah. Yeah. I I don't think he's I don't think he's carrying the same amount of size. I think he's he's not far off. He's I think he's a good couple of years behind, but um I mean, what is he still only like 27 or something? I mean, I think I think couple of years I think if he keeps improving and keeps pushing forward um I can see him I can see him being competitive with the likes of Nick Walker and Martin and Bonak and Derek. But right now, I think he's um I think he's going to get exposed for the absolute top top level that these top five top top five guys are. So, I think he'll um I think he'll get a solid sixth place, which is there's no shame in that in a lineup this good. Yeah. Yeah. And you know, he's he's a work in progress. He's a still a young guy. He's got plenty of mass. I see his prime happening in, you know, two or three years. I think two or three years from now, we could possibly see this guy winning Arnold Classic, top five in the Olympia. You know, these things take time. We we tend to rush these guys through and say, they need to be Mr. Olympia now, but you know, sometimes it takes a couple years to get to that level. We've seen guys who took their time climbing up the ladder in the ranks. And I mean, look at look at Samson five years ago. Nobody nobody saw Samson being where he is in the sport five years ago. Yeah, you did. Maybe you were one of the few who actually Good point. Yeah, very good point. So, good veto. We'll see what happens. All right. So, I guess it's uh we're going to do a full preview next week, but let's Do you want to do a a speculation? What do you think? I want I want to get your right now your top five. What you What you think might happen? Oh, happy to do that. Yeah. Uh Derek one. Okay. Nick two. I'm realize I'm taking a bit of a chance putting Bonak in third because likely, you know, statistically Martin should be third, but I've got a funny feeling possibly from based upon what we saw from that top off. I I can't even call it a proper guest posing. I've got a feeling I wouldn't be shocked. I want Bonak in third, Martin in fourth, but like I said, realize that that could be the other way around. But um just for the sake of being a little bit different as well. Fourth, Martin, fifth Kriso, sixth veto. I don't think I can really argue against any of that. Yeah. No, I I think if m if I had seen that that I think I'm a bit jaded by that um that thing that Martin did, that guest posing thing because it was I think I would have had him a solid third otherwise. But um I think because of that and I think and also with Bonak, you know, one thing really I was thinking about this a lot the other day like I I remember seeing Bonak at the Arnold amateur back in 2011 back in the heavyweights and and I and I've you know we followed this guy's career right as he's gone from 212 he's gone up to the Olympia he's won the Arnold Classic twice he's won multiple pro shows he's been second in the Olympia third in the Olympia you know he's been called out next to Phil Heath next to Ramy and he's you know he's beaten a lot of these guys and stuff but then I always feel like he's constantly underestimated and I feel like he doesn't get enough credit because I've seen like show I've seen sort of show predictions where he's ended up doing really really well and in like all the predictions and all the all the sort of the previews people are like oh Bona eighth place you're like what like he was third last year or second or he won a show last year and people always underestimate him and he always overdelivers. So um I just I feel like um I'm going to give him some love because I think um yeah I just I just think he I think he deserves a little bit more respect. I think Nate should put more respect on his name because, you know, look at this. Has he ever been out of condition? You know, his his condition, his separation, his back shots. Um, absolutely incredible. Um, you know, you you and me have seen him in the flesh. We've interviewed him, you know, up close and stuff. So, in the in person and everything, backstage at the Arnold and, you know, we've we've done it all. And I I think um I think people just um just because obviously Martin got fourth Olympia and and and William got seventh, people like, "Oh, automatically Martin's better." But to be honest, what I'm seeing right now, what we saw from um uh William at the the Detroit um I think Detroit Yeah, I think I think he I think he's I think he could beat Martin. So um because what I'm seeing from Bonak in the last couple of shows is more impressive much more impressive than what I saw in I know it was only a top off thing. I know it's hard to really analyze it and really speculate, but you know um Martin looked like he had he had some work to do and maybe can pull it in, but um from so from what I've seen so far, I think I think Bungak could take it. Yeah, I mean it could go the other way. If Martin looks a lot better than we think he's going to look, but you know, we you never know. And like like I said, I think I agree with you. I think even I have been very guilty of underestimating Bonak and not having him as high up in the prediction sometimes as it probably warranted for whatever reason. I don't know why. He's a fantastic bodybuilder. He's a veteran. He's like you said, you never you never have to worry. Oh no, is he going to be in shape? He's always in shape and he's got Boss of Outlaw on his team now. Great coach. So yeah. Did you um did you see gen did you see that Generation Iron Post where they were talking about where Martin supposedly allegedly Martin put his diet up? Um the diet looked really weird to me. Oh no, now you make me want to look at it. Yeah, it was weird. It was a good couple of weeks ago, but I was like that can't to me that can't be a bodybuilder a pro body a top pro bodybuilders pre-contest diet. I do not believe it. Um I think it's [\h__\h] I mean, maybe it's an offseason diet or something like that. But to me, it it sounded really really way out. I was thinking if that's what he's prepping on, then, you know, I'm not expecting him to look at his best because it just it just didn't look like a proper Maybe it was offseason. I don't know. I was I was kind of speed reading it anyway. You know what like when you're scrolling, you know, you get triggered by things. God, they make so many posts. I'll never I'll never find it, but that's okay. Yeah, it doesn't matter. probably surely you like I said he's a he's he's a great bodybuilder and he's um you know the thing is he's already qualified for the Olympia as well so you know he's got nothing to lose by doing these shows um so um but yeah but I hope he pulls it in because um I think he's awesome and also the the rematch between him and Nick Walkan now because at the New York Pro there was a few people you were there I mean there was a few people that thought actually uh Martin should have beaten Nick here you know so and obviously Martin has improved he's you know got fourth Olympia arguably taken a spot that probably Nick Walker was was predicted to take. You know, that kind of like that top five spot. You know, it's kind of edged him out now. But obviously Nick wasn't in the show. So, rightly so, Martin took that place and he looked awesome and maybe he would have beaten Nick anyway. So, um like I said, that's the thing about the sport. There's all these guys are all so close to each other. Like, like I said, like Derek and Samson have just proven, you know, there's um if no one predicted that Derek could have come in and beat Samson at the the Arnold. No one saw that coming. So, but it did. It happened and it was and it was he was the right man. He was he was the he was the rightful winner just like Samson was at the Olympia. He was the rightful winner at that. So it just shows you really that there's you know you think about the dominant years of Phil Heath, Dorian Yates, Ronnie Coleman. I mean, there was a few years where it was like a literally as soon as they walked out on stage, you're just literally trying to figure out second place and down, you know, like Jesus Christ, this guy is so far ahead of the pack, you know, like real dominant winners, but I don't think we've got any dominant winners because the end of the day, we've had a different winner, you know, Ramy, Hardy, um, Samson, Derek, you know, we've we've had four different winners just in the last five years. So, um it just shows you just how, you know, which which kind of makes it more exciting really. Um because these legacy dominant legacy winners, you know, like I said, after three years, we everyone just used to turn because we wanted to see a different champion. We're kind of bored of seeing the same guys winning winning even though they were winning clearly. So, um you know, but um you know, you seven different Olympia champs in the last eight years. [\h__\h] There you go. There you go. Yeah. It was uh it was Curry, Sean Rhoden. Yeah. Phil, let's see. Uh, Phil, Sean, Sean, Curry, 19. Uh, Ramy, Ramy. Yeah. Derek. Yeah. Wow. That's crazy. I know. I know. But it's good though because I remember that happened in 79 to 84. Frank Zayn, Arnold, Columbbo, Dickerson, Bonu, Haney. I mean, for five years it had a different winner every single year. And then obviously Lee Haney started his eighty year reign, you know. Um but and then Dorian, you know, six years and you know, it's kind of um but I think it makes it exciting because I mean Samson's gonna have a real fire under his ass. You've got Hadti who's just seen Samson get beat by by Derek. You got Derek who's on a high now because he's on a roll because he's just beat Samson. And you got Had who's took the time out from to not compete the Arnold Classic who's now going to be, you know, can thinking, God, these guys aren't fresh. I've had a year I haven't competed since the Olympia last year. So, he's going to be coming in all gun blazing and then obviously we've got what happening like what if Nick does beat Derek? I mean thing is I mean what if Derek comes I don't know what if Derek doesn't hit the mark and gets third or fourth or something. I mean it's unlikely to happen but you know like I said who saw Derek beating Samson? If you'd have said that before the show I reckon that Derek probably going to beat Samson at the Honor Classic. You could have said no you're crazy. That's not going to happen. The current Mr. Olympia is not going to is not going to risk coming in. you know, he's gonna be abs he's probably gonna be better than he was at Olympia. Um, so and obviously um and also Derek's really cutting into his kind of offseason here by doing these shows. I mean, that's why he kind of has to win this show. He's he's a this is a huge gamble on Derek's part because if he doesn't win this, you know, he's probably going to think, [\h__\h] I've just blown the Olympia because now I've I've lost momentum from winning the Arnold Classic and that kind of confidence and the, you know, the exposure and everything and the kind of just the momentum. So if he doesn't if he doesn't win this and doesn't you know and I mean he's I think he has to kind of win this quite clearly actually because he just beat the Mr. Olympia so he's kind of his his stock has never been higher. I think he's I think Derek Lunswood stock is higher now than after he won the Olympia. I agree agree because you know he's he's got a legitimate chance of getting his Olympia title back now which so far in 60 years of the Olympia only Jay Cutler in 2009 was the only Olympia champ that was ever able to do that. So true. True, true. Is only um um Missy Trescottton. She's the only one. She's she's done it as well. Ah, true, true. I was talking about Mr. Olympia. But let's move on to look at look at this. How did this come to be? Lee Priest and Ronnie Coleman together on the next Olympia All-Star tour. No, no, no. You didn't read the post. Delete the post. Oh, read the post. We are just the final post. No, read the post. Clean your ears out, Ron. Right. Do you know what I I No one read No one reads the bloody post. I put it I put it read it clearly. Come on. Tell you. Okay. So Ronnie's tour will be 3rd to 13th July. Lee's tour 12th to 20th July. Okay. So back to back. Yeah. Pretty much. Pretty much. In fact, in fact, literally this morning I've been on the phone all morning finalizing. Sorry, what? I was gonna say there's an overlap there. It looks like Lee's tour starts while Ronnie's tour is still going on. So they they might be together one day at the Euro Muscle Show. They're both going to be at your muscle show. Oh, that's what Well, I mean, to be honest, they um I mean this wake up, mate. Come on. I know you you've had a you've had a hard week. I can tell. No, because obviously we're um we're we're I mean um I'm looking to extend the Ronny Tour actually because it's it's it's really come together this one. Um, and uh, we're going to end it in in the muscle, sorry, uh, the the Euro muscle show in Amsterdam, and then we're going to fly Lee in and then we're going to go on a Lee Lee Priest tour. Probably I think at least four countries, maybe. I'm I'm hoping to get another one or two countries locked in. So, it's going to be two tours back toback, which I'm very excited about because July nice and hot. I mean, that I mean, the January tour with Lee Priest was a lot of fun, but bloody hell, it was cold. I mean, it was so bloody so weather was horrific. We had that um did you hear about the storms where everyone's phones went off and they were saying like a level storm and everything? Everything the whole country shut down for like a day. That was uh we were stuck up we were literally stuck in our hotel rooms up in Glasgow with Lee and um Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And all the Yeah. So we we had um we had a screening of his documentary and then we had to um at a church and then the church cancelled says no no we we've we're not opening. So we had to then find a projector and all that and screen and stuff. We had to did it do it in um Chris's gym, a muscle lab gym in Glasgow. But um but yeah, so I'm just I mean Ronny's nearly pulled together now and then I've literally got to just um you know figure out the the tour for uh thing and obviously I've got in fact I've just had another booking for Terrence as well. So I'm going to update that poster today. Get that on the Olympia Instagram. Um we've got another booking. He's Cuba Cuba. I can't say his last is Cen Keelan Keelin. you know, Cuba, the Open Pro, and his his wife, Megan Sylvester, she's um she won, was it Tampa? She won. I probably You're better. Tampa, Chicago. She she won she won a couple of pro shows last year, the Figure Pro. They're married. They run one of the Ultra Gym Ultraflex gyms in one Rotherham. So, he he called me this morning and he says, "Yep, it's a go." Um I want to book because he's got a thing for his um it's not for the gym. It's for his um for his clients. He's got like a hundred something clients and they're all going to come. So he's he's booked Terrence that for that. Um and then he's going to train with Terrence is going to train with him the next morning and then we're going to fly Terrence home back to Texas. But yeah, busy busy, mate. Really busy. We've been talking about uh the Open guys, but geez, Terrence Ruffin as far as your he's doing classic physique at the Pittsburgh and I don't see anybody beating this. I'm sorry. I don't I know Josema's gonna be there and there'll be some other big names. We'll do a classic. Oh, Kaiiki there from Brazil actually. He lives in Boston. You see, have have you seen how Kaiiki is looking? Because he always used men's physique for years and he's come ac um in Prague last year. We had a little chat and give him a hug and stuff because I we gave him one of his I mean this was um it was AG actually pushed me back in the day in the early days of Global Muscle. He said, "Oh go I want to get men's physique." you know me obviously back then there I was like men's physique don't because AG was the one who who pushed me to get other categories on in fairness you know it was him um and because he's been top five Olympian men's physique and he's fantastic a huge fan base anyway so I bumped into him and I said oh mate you're doing classic and he you could see his chest sticking I was like you could see his obviously his body wanted to grow and I'm so excited because he's got fantastic legs I just hope when he stands on stage that his physique really translates to classic because all these like updates I mean he looks he just he just looks He doesn't even look human. Looks incredible. So, I like him as a good kid as well. Look at legs. I mean, he's got I think to me, I mean, in these, look at that. I mean, all these updates, all these photos and videos we're seeing, he looks I I I I hope that when he's in his trunks, he's up on stage in the classic, I hope he really I hope the flow really, you know, like like Bumstead, you know, that just your eyes are just drawn to his physique or or even um you know, some of the others. But, um yeah, I think he looks fantastic. But I think that's that'll be the top three. Josema because I'm a big fan of that Jo that Spanish kid, the young kid. He's only like 24 23 isn't he? Um and then Kayiki and then you've got Terence Ruffin. So I mean that's going to be that in itself is going to make the the Pittsburgh show exciting. Just the classic let alone the open. I mean it's it's you know Manion did a of course it was gym show. It was going to bring out the big names. Everybody would love to do Jim's first men's open show, but the classic, this is probably the best classic lineup it's ever had as well because he's had classic in it, I think, the whole time, all these years. Yeah, this was Josema. This was No, it's gonna be It's gonna be This was four weeks ago. He was already in this condition. Kiki. Wow. He's He's phenomenal, isn't he? I I I wonder because he looks thick as well for a classic. I'm just wondering if he really wonder if he's going to struggle to make weight because he's been in really good condition for a good couple of months now. So, um, but it shows that he's taking he's taking his classic debut seriously. Um, I mean, imagine if he did say beat Terren or he beat like a Jo, top six Olympia guy, you know, top seven guy. It's um it would be a fantastic classic debut for him because thing is he's not going to get even if he does get beat by Josema or or Terrence, he's not going to get blown away by them because this kid is rock hard. He's symmetry. He's got good symmetry. He's got nice shape. Um he's um he's going to impress and I can't wait to see what he's going to look like. Yeah. So, I guess we'll take a real quick look at Jose because Yeah, Josema he is he's still 23. He just turned 23 after last year's Olympia actually. So, he's only Yeah, he doesn't turn 24 until October, I don't think. Uh again, incredible. I saw him in the flesh at the Empro. I saw him in the flesh at the Empro and I had a little picture with him backstage, but he's he's phenomenal. He's phenomenal. Yeah. Yeah. And again, he's consistent. He's always in great condition. Yeah. I think that's your top three. No offense to anybody else. European conditioning. European conditioning. We call it that real that real quality condition. Even when they're six weeks out, eight weeks out, you think, are they competing tomorrow? And then they're like, oh no, I've got five weeks to go and stuff. So, you know me, I'm AI'm a conditioning snob. Um, so for this kid, um, and he'S-23. I mean, you know, there's so, do you know what the classic class, there's so much talent. There's so much talent there right now. And there's so many new pros coming through because like some of these amateur shows, like they're stacked, the stages are stacked with classic guys. I mean, there's so many the numbers coming into the classics. So, obviously, that's going to produce like, you know, more several new superstars every single year. So all these guys that are consistently top three or top six of the Olympia like their their place is not guaranteed you know like you used to go to the open Olympia like 10 15 20 years ago and it was pretty much always the same top 10 guys just in slightly different order the top six guys. It was Dlette and Lee Priest and Kevin Flex Wheeler you know Chris Cormier you Dorian Ronny these guys and it was just kind of interchanging. there was not many new faces that really made an impact. But then you got guys coming out coming out of the woodwork that just um they got the potential to like he did like you know um you know top 10 top 10 top seven at the Olympia but um and he never misses the condition. Yeah. Six in his debut Olympia. He was still he was 22 years old when he took uh sixth place here last year to Bumstead and the rest of Look at him next to Bumstead there. I mean, Bumpster's not blowing him off the stage there, is he? No. No, not at all. You know, he's got he's got a little more work to do. Maybe a little more arms, but geez, structure, shape, condition. He's deadly. I mean, he's fantastic. Fantastic. I see Terrence Terrence to me is the the heavy favorite. I'm a huge Terrence Ruffin fan, especially with this new size that he has, but I wouldn't be one bit surprised if uh Kiki or or Jose might be able to slide past. They're all excellent. Yeah. Well, Terrence is doing um Pittsburgh. Ter Terrence is doing Pittsburgh and the New York Pro and then he's flying over to us the week after. So, um yeah, he's he's looking superb. And I honestly honestly I because I the thing with Terrence was he would always look amazing when you saw him at the Olympia by himself and then when the the rest of the lineup would come out, you could see that he lacked size. He did lack size. So, he took that year off. He's put the size on. Now, he's coming back. I mean, I think I think he's um I think he's one of the favorites to win the Olympia this year. I think he's uh Yeah, I really do. I really do. Um well, that's why I'm doing a tour with him because I think he's for me, he's I think him, Summerfield, I mean, there's two guys that really for me are the the main two guys that I think can win the Classic Olympia this year. Oh, I I totally see it coming down to Ruffin and Summerfield this year. I I I don't think anyone's going to be too shocked if it comes down to those two guys. If you want to talk about who's got more of quote unquote a classic look to me, Terrence does, you know, we can People argue all day long. What's classic? What how does I mean, you know, I mean, go ahead. And what's the two things that I like? It's conditioning and posing. And I mean, like Terrence is Terrence is absolutely smashing both at the moment, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's going to be a very, very interesting show. Pittsburgh Pro. We'll see what happens. We'll see what happens. So, next week uh next week we'll do the full preview as the list will be out, but I think this is uh we're getting we're getting very close. We're 12 days out from the show right now. Uh I heard there's no live stream, but I I I bet there's going to be one. Really? No. Come on. They have to. No, because I I know that No, I know because I know that um I know that they don't like it when pro league promoters don't do live streams. I've heard that they they'll get on to them and say, "Look, you know, this is this is kind of standard practice now for pro shows, you know, especially if you've got open guys and I know there's one or two promoters that haven't done that and they and they have been I don't know, tic told off, ticked off, whatever, just reminded I guess. But um but fair play. I bet I'm really happy for for Tyler because he's really put a lot of work into this show and he's really hit the ground running because like like the like he's built this it's going to be by the sounds of it, it's going to be a pretty big expo as well. So, I'm really really happy for him. I think he's um because he's you know he's uh you know I know he's promoted shows and stuff and obviously he is the vice president of the pro league and MPC but uh you know you think about his workload already and then trying to organize this on top um I think he's um I think this is really going to establish this as um um as one of the big of the biggest pro shows of the year now you got the Olympia you know over here we got Prague Romania we've got some fantastic shows around the year around the world um Texas uh Legion I mean there's some really really Back in the day it was the Iron Man Arnold, then it was a night, it was a Chicago or Houston, and then the night of champions, then it was the Olympia, then it was the Grand Prix tour, and then that was pretty much it till and then I mean I remember Dan Solomon and and um and Bob, they they didn't do that pro that weekly the radio show, Pro Body Weekly. They would pretty much after the Grand Prix or shut down for like four months and not even put an episode up because there was no shows to even talk about. That's right. So, you know, but now we've kind of got shows like filling the calendar. I mean, it's incredible. I mean, you think about the growth they've experienced since the split in 2017. I mean, it's it's incredible. And there's still like a lot of places around the world that have yet to really sort of jump on this. So, you can imagine where they're going to be in like another 5 10 years time. Um, so good on good on Tyler for sort of not just doing his running his position as vice president for the international side of the pro league and the MPC, but for actually putting on his own show in his own hometown, you know, putting his money where his mouth mouth is and putting the work in, you know, and uh and also it's good that the athletes are kind of um have really showed up because like say like Veto, he could have said, "I don't want to do it now. I'm not doing Pittsburgh. I've already qualified at the Arnold Brazil. There's no need for me to do it now." You got Kriso flying all the way over there. then they're doing the New York Pro, you know, coming all that way when he could just play it safe and maybe just do some European shows like Italy or Spain or something. You know, it's good that they're all kind of stepping up and showing up. And also, have you seen um there's a lot of names like Sam Sul and all these other names showing up to the expos while appearing at the expo. Yeah. So, this is going to be this is going to be like some like the Ernie I think it's going to be this kind of size like like and the buzz like the Ernie early Arnold Classics brought, you know? So, and obviously big prize money as well. So, good on him. I'm really happy for him and I think it's going to be a fantastic event. But I hope they do a live stream. Yeah. Oh, they will. And I bet it's going to be Gilko. I bet it's going to be an amazing live. Yeah, he'll the best of every he he'll have the best of everyone there. You watch. You'll see. I know. I mean, I I don't know where that these rumors start. I'm like, they're going to have a live stream. People relax. They I guarantee you. I good money. They're gonna have a live stream. It's going to be top-notch. I don't know if it'll be free. That remains to be seen. I can't watch it anyway because my son's competing the same day. Oh. [\h__\h] I'll be following along, you know, on updates on on social media. But yeah, Natural Massachusetts app the NPC Natural Massachusetts, same exact day as Pittsburgh Pro. Oh, nice. Nice. How's he doing? Right. Yeah, he's uh he's feeling the diet. He's been dieting for a good four months at this point. Uh he's down to 134 pounds. I don't know if you know what that is in pounds. Yeah. So, he's ready to eat, put it that way. But, uh exciting. It's very exciting to be able to guide him like this. something something I loved and enjoyed for so many years because he was like really resistant. He was never really into the whole bodybuilding thing and I know you were trying to encourage him to do so because it's great for young lads, young kids and stuff, especially your own kids. It's a it's a really good thing to get them into like you know like I think about the kind of things I avoided when I was a kid because I was just so obsessed with training and diet and training and eating and you know it's like it kind of really diverted me away from a lot of uh and it taught me things about discipline and nutrition and you know and health and I know ironic um but um it really did it taught me and I think um so obviously he must have just given in in the end and thought oh actually yeah I'm quite enjoying this I might I mean to do commit to doing a show when you're not when a few years ago you weren't that into it I think says a lot, you know. So, um Yeah. So, I think it'll be a good experience for the both of you, mate. Yeah. Oh, I'm I'm very very excited. I think I'm more excited than he is. So, look forward to that. All right. So, guys, we're going to wrap it up. It's been almost an hour and this is the power hour. So, I want to thank Eurom Muscle for their YouTube sponsorship, Eurom Muscle Show, where Joll and I will both be appearing, as you can see, July 12th and 13th in Amstadam in a country called the Netherlands. I still call it Holland because I'm old, but uh I do. I do. I get really confused. I don't know what to call it sometimes. I when I talk about like tours and stuff, I'm like, do I call it Amsterdam or the Netherlands or Holland or I don't know. I keep being they always correct me though. They say, "No, no, it's the Netherlands." I'm like, "Oh, whatever." The Netherlands. It sounds like a That sounds like something you'd see on the map in a JRR token. You know, here's Mordor. Here's the Netherlands. I just got all the Dutch people mad at me. Well, Wesley Wesley's not Wesley's not a Hobbit's size, is he? He's quite he's quite big, isn't he? He's like Yeah, he's more like um he's more like the the orcs, isn't he? The size and stuff. Oh, Gandalf's a tall dude. So, yeah, the White Wizard. Yeah, true. All right. Well, uh Giles, thank you so much. Uh keep working on those tours. I know you're you're doing the best the best bodybuilding tours in the world for the past few years. I' I've only had like I think it's it's weird though because the whole process from start to finish. It's always like there's so much work and like back and for and and it is stressful. It's very stressful but it's always counteracted by when you do the tour and it's just like every all the stress and all the the problems you've had completely get forgotten about because you have such fun on the tour. You come home and you collapse in a heap and you're like I'm exhausted and then the next day you're like right let's do it again. It's like, you know, it's just I love it. It's a real It's I'm I'm keep I Yeah, I some parts of it that I never quite get used to. Like you never you can because there's so many there's so many unpredictable things that can happen and so much uh you know, I mean, if you if you if you could see what goes on behind the scenes sometimes, I think some people would be quite shocked, I think. But like I said, all that really matters, it's um it's like you're on you prep for a contest. They don't see all the hard days and the down days and the doubtful days and stuff. They just see the the end result and they see you, you know, like with these tours, they see me like chilling with Ronnie and Andrew Jacked and, you know, they they kind of see the fun stuff and they probably they like I get messages, oh, you're so lucky. I'm so jealous and you got the best job in the world. And you just think, well, come and see me maybe three weeks before one of the tours, you know what I mean? But like I said, it that's the thing. It's I wouldn't do it if it wasn't worth it. So um because I get a lot of satisfaction out of it and you get and also you're spreading a lot of positivity as well and you're bringing you know like some people I say that once in the hungry and the kid was crying his dad was there and I said you're right and he says yeah he's overwhelmed he said he's like Ronny's his hero and it's like yeah stuff like that hits you right in the fields you know it gets you right in the and you just think yeah I need to keep doing these because these are these are worthwhile and they they you know they bring a lot of meaning a lot of joy to people so you know and um yeah it's a nice way to make a living I You're doing God's work, Giles. For those who believe in God, you're doing God's work. I'm like St. Giles. Really? Cool. Guys, uh, leave a leave a comment. Leave your predictions. I want to hear what you guys think for the top five, top six, Pittsburgh Pro. You can totally agree with Giles and I, or you can think we're complete morons and you can have completely different top five or six. That's what we care about. I'm gonna get some [\h__\h] though for putting Bonak third ahead of Martin because I'm I can feel I can already predict the comets that are coming because I do realize that was a bit of a what's bit of was it red herring? What's the what's the phrase amongst the pigeons but I honestly I mean I I you know obviously statistically Martin's better than right now he is higher than Bonak. But um don't be shocked if that happens. M you know it's it's we have to go out on a limb sometimes. We have to go with a a gut and we'll see what happens. You know, there's still almost two weeks to go. We'll see what happens because I I I was once wrong 23 years ago and I've I've never gone over it. I'm wrong so often. I get corrected constantly by the comments. My wife, my son, everybody's corrected all. It's okay. It is what it is. So, that's it, guys. Drop us a comment. Let let let's hear what you think. Uh agree with us, disagree. It's all good. We love we love the feedback. Giles, thank you so much for taking the time as always. The Wi-Fi settled down. It's looking and sounding perfect right now. Should we start again? We need we need to talk for like an hour on this before we start recording every time. I do. Do you think that would help though if I turned it on and just let it like literally just pull this up and then we'll just go I'll come and meet you in an hour or something because I think I'm starting to think maybe that's because I've got this fiber optic and they've dug the road up on my on my on my lane, you know, and we've got all this equipment installed and they've drilled holes in the walls and I'm thinking I've checked the speeds and the speeds are super fast. I'm thinking right finally we've got it nailed, you know, living in the countryside. It's there's no sacrifice. I'm living further out of town now, you know, so and uh still still having problems with it. So, oh well. Let's try that next time. I'll I'll send you a reminder one hour before. See what happens. All right. Well, that's it, guys. Thanks for watching Power Hour with me, Ron Harrison, Giles, Tiger Thomas. We will see you right here next time.