Hey everybody, welcome to Ron Line Report. Today's guest was a six-time champion in the classic physique division. Plays top three at the Arnold Classic two years in a row as a classic physique competitor. Last weekend, he made his debut at the Toronto Pro as a 212 bodybuilder and smashed it. Please welcome all the way from Texas, Courage Opara. What's up, Courage? Congratulations. Hello, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you. Yeah, I mean I I'm not I'd say I was surprised, but you know, I remember that was that was a that was a great intro. I like six pro. I'm like, holy crap, I I do have that much. Yeah. Well, that was good. And like I said, top three at the Arnold three times. Uh Olympia, you were top 10 twice in a row, I believe, as well. Yeah. Um, so, uh, before we get to the current stuff, I want to get people up to speed on your background a little bit because I remember a little bit of it, but not too much. You did have a unique childhood. You didn't, uh, you didn't have the typical childhood. Tell me a little bit about that. Uh, so, uh, basically in Africa, like I I was born in Nigeria. Um, going to a military school over there, it's considered like a the you basically higher up education. like the best kind you can get has to do with the military. So my parents are not military individuals but they were wealthy. So they were able to pay for me to go to a military school. So from I basically went to a military boarding school from age seven to like 13. So my formative years were with structure a lot of what I would call abuse now. Oh jeez. I mean marijuana pride but was it physical? Oh yeah, that's part of it. But it it was normal back then. Now it would be frowned upon. Well, it was frowned upon. I think there were there were news that came out a few years ago from with the invention of everyone having cameras now of people taking videos of said things and it blew up online. Someone passed away and there was a whole investigation into the school. It was a weird thing, but that was normal back then. And then so me being a kid, that's what I knew. And then I honestly it's not all bad. Obviously, there's the negative part of it, but it formed my personality and then how I think about things and my nature of how I am as a person, but that that's basically how I grew up. It was I mean, you you you learn discipline and structure at a young age. And I don't want to [\h__\h] on the youth of America, but they don't have a lot of those two things, structure. Yeah. That was that was that's normal. It's like high high excellence and extreme discipline to the point where it can be it can not be good, but it was normal back then. Yeah. Okay. And yeah, I mean the last time we spoke, I think we were just sort of becoming aware of uh or they were just starting to be more Nigerian people of Nigerian heritage, even though they weren't necessarily like Quint Beastwood, uh Samson Samson Da, Andrew Jack, uh who am I missing. Yeah. Yeah. And um yeah, it's add you to the list now, guys, if you want to know. It's a great country to be from if you want to be jacked. This is that that West African part like Ganaians as well. So we're talking about Bonac. Yeah. Like that that West African side is Ghana seems like East Africa's Ethiopia, Somalia. Very undernourished skinny people don't want to be there. More more of a marathon style jeans they have, I guess. Yeah. So, uh, every superhero has an origin story. Tell me, how did you become a bodybuilder? Uh, so I actually started training late, uh, freshman year of college. Oh, wow. And it was just I was I was I I I had a late it's not like I'm tall now, but I had a late growth spurt. I was like 53 120 in college at that point. Wow. And I I just started working out and 6 months later couple buddies were like, "Oh, you look awesome. Like what are you taking?" I'm like, "What is that?" Just I don't know what that meant. So a few years later, they they all wanted to do a show. I think they were 10 weeks out of the show and a couple buddies of mine were also competing as well and they were like, "Hey, you should jump in the show. You already look like you should get on stage." I'm like, they convinced me to do it. I'm like, "All right, I'll see how it goes." I was just going to hang out with my buddies and yeah, like just be with them. Um, so I went, it was a Phil Heat in 2015 and then I won the overall and they were like, "You're really good at this." So I was like, "All right." I I was indicted for the show. I just showed up and that's that's how it started. Yeah. So, you started off as a bodybuilder and then classic No, no, actually started as a men's physique. It was it was a thing back then because they were all doing men's physique and that's what I got introduced to. So, I I didn't I didn't know anything about you know at that point. I just my friends were doing it. Yeah. This is what they I just copied where they were posing and what they were doing and I just jumped on stage with them. We I remember this is a Texas Women's University's gym and that's where we spent majority of our time there and then I learned how to pose and from them and then I did my my own prep which I think looking back now it's not really it wasn't and then I did just did the show and that's how I started. So did you start competing in 2016? 2015 the the fall of 2015. Yeah. So that was right before classic was announced. Yep. The next that's that qualified me for nationals and then the nationals they were like classic the first classic that in Chicago and I bid that and that's why I got the pro card. Yeah. You were one of the first people to turn pro as a classic. Yeah. I was like 21. I was early early. So let's uh let's look at some of the uh some of the career highlights that I was able to find footage of. This was the very first Arnold Classic that featured Classic physique 2018, I believe. Am I right about that? Yeah. Yeah. And uh it was, you know, Arnold is an invitation only and they usually cap it out at 15 per division, but that year I think because it was a brand new thing, it was like 30 guys there. Yeah. It was just apply and get in at that point. Yeah. And you took second behind some guy named Brian Ansley. Oh, no. I took third. I took third. You took third. I'm sorry. third behind Bion and Arash Rabbar. Yes. Was very very good. The OGs. Yeah. And um yeah, here we're looking at that. So I'm just curious what what were you at the weight cap back then for classic? Whatever the because I know the weight cap is was increased a couple times. I can say from the very first time I started in classic, I've always had problems making weight. So even from the nationals, I had a huge problem making weight. And this as well, I had a problem making weight. Well, I made the weight, but I just struggled to make the weight. So, you must have been pretty pleased every time they because it it was it's been increased twice, I believe. Yes. Yeah. Uh my I think originally I was supposed to like 185 and then got up to like 188 then 192. So, yeah. So, that let you that that kept you in like I you there's like a a speculation that they increased it the last time to keep Bion from jumping to 212, but that makes sense. seriously doubt they were going to do that for one guy, but yeah, that that doesn't Yeah, I guess so. So, and just to let people know, the next year you came back and got third again behind uh the late George Peterson the third, the Bull and Steve Laurius. Yes. So, another smashing smashing Arnold Classic performance because those the Arnold is tough. It's not as it's not as tough typically as Olympia, but it's not that much easier, trust me. Yeah, it seems tougher now. Yeah. It's just it's a lot worse now. Well, they're paying they're paying better now. Thank goodness. Yeah, we got freaks of nature's around the world popping up. Well, you're one of them. So, here we go. This is 2022, the Texas Pro. Another one of your six pro wins. Uh at at this point, you look like you're definitely a little little larger than that 2018 footage. Yeah, I figured it out when I was getting older, like gym maturity. Like I said, I started training later. just time in the gym kind of that's usually how it goes. Yeah. So I mean just curious when you started training were you already sort of lean and sort of athletic looking or or not? Yeah, I played soccer all four years of high school and college as well. So I was just lean and small. I was like 120 I believe. And that sophomore year I blew up to like 5'8. Oh wow. And then that's when my weight started going up. I think I was 180 at that point. I thought I was that was the biggest thing since sliced bread. I thought I was a huge back there. Had a 180. Well, I mean, you went from So, you your height went from 53 to 5'8 after high school. Wow. After high school, yeah, I had a late late jump. I was really tiny. Were you like not eating enough before? I don't know what was going on. Maybe I played a lot of soccer. Maybe that was it because I I played any chance I could get until my knees gave out. Yeah. And this footage here, I wish it was better. This is a Unfortunately, I've not Have you seen any like really good 4K footage anywhere? No. Dang it. This is not I I know this isn't really doing you justice. This footage here, this was Yeah, I've seen a lot of footage, but I don't want to look at it. I looked better in my camera. I don't want to I don't want to disparage their stream, but this this this is let's put it this way. I wish every I wish Gilkco Productions did the stream for every Yeah. makes everyone look like superheroes in this. So, I'll go to At least you have one really good shot on your Instagram. Uh here it is. Yeah. I wish there were more of these. I want to see more body. I mean, that's that's where you can really see the the increase. The you're fuller, you're rounder, denser. I'm So, the last time you competed in classic was 2023. Yes, sir. Okay. So, what was your weight then? Uh, I made weight at 196. I was on stage at about 197, 198. Yeah. And what are we looking at here? What'd you weigh for this show? I made weight at 210. I believe I stepped on stage about 213. Nice. Okay. We had two days. So I made weight on a Friday when the show was on a Sunday. So I guess that's where the extra pound came from. All right. So then you uh you posted this and said two people, your wife and some other guy that was a pretty good classic guy, but now you're 212 Olympia champ Keon. They were the ones who convinced you. So tell me about this come to Jesus moment. Where were you divisions? Like I said, since I started competing in classic, even from the amateur days, uh the one amateur show I had, I uh I've always had a problem making weight. And then Ken and I buddies, we I we met first through social media. I think it was like 2017. And then we competed against each other at uh 2019 Arnold. Yeah. And then I think I believe I was third, he was fourth and then we were just started talking and then over time when he moved he started pushing me to move but I was winning shows and I like the classic to be honest. I I don't I'm not a big fan of I was never a big fan of like just being big if that makes sense. Yeah. So I was like I don't want to I don't want to be that big. I I like classic. Plus, I was also doing well and there was no incentive for me to move and I just I can't see myself looking like that. And but as the years kept going, I kept getting bigger and having a hard time making weight. He basically just was being blunt. The way he talks, he's he's matter of fact when he's being serious. So, he was being blunt and my wife was right there co-signing the whole time. is she's been she's she's been trying cuz she sees like whenever I get to like two weeks out of a show, it's no longer the it's it's no longer the like, hey, I like the way I'm looking, I'm going to coast or clean up for the show. it becomes the stress of like I need to make this weight and then I'm just like getting on the scale eight times a day and the panic and all that setting in even though I always make the weight but just the stress leading into making the weight she wasn't a big fan of. So I mean I'm guessing you probably knew that that wasn't your best look because you Oh yeah. Oh yeah. You were diet Were you dieting away like pure muscle mass at the very end? Oh yeah, absolutely. like I'll be ready to go in about two well ready to go about two weeks out or sell and it's like oh you have 10 more pounds to pull and we're just going to dehydrate the crap out of you the day before the show and then I never bounce back until 3 days after the show is done and I'm like oh there is like the roundness comes back is like I just look like a kid. Yeah. Everybody thinks like a a few sweet potatoes and uh oh no is going to fill them back out again, but it takes it takes it takes a while. It takes a long while. Yeah, it was a long time ago. So it it had to be So in that respect, I can understand it was an easy decision because your body really didn't want to get down to that weight. It was a very very unnaturally low weight for you. But at the same time, was it a struggle? Because classic physique, I hate to say it, but it's it's sort of more prestigious now than 212. It's got more popularity, more fame. Absolutely. Yeah. And it it it it has. But I I know I've I've also noticed that like forcing myself to make weight kills what gift I have to compete against those higher guys at the higher level. Like I do well at the local show like I said local like at the at the at the qualifying shows for the Olympia and then I get to the Olympia and I'm like I know that's not me how I look two weeks out and then it's like I have to shake myself to make weight and then that really gets exposed when you're standing next to a Terren or a Bruff or I mean or those guys and they look like really good. you you have to burn off muscle basically just to make the weight. But at that point I I was fighting it so hard to make the the switch. What we're looking at here is about two and a half years old I believe because it says 125 weeks in my skills. I believe that's probably the 2023 Arnold. Okay. So getting ready for that. So I never saw this s I never saw you look this round in full as a as a class of physique. Oh yeah. No, I was way above the weight. Way above the weight at that point. So, uh, how hard was it to make 212 this time? Was it was it not difficult at all? Um, it it wasn't, I guess, from my experience of making classic. I I think I was ready to go at about 216. So, I just had to just shrink down a little bit. But, I compared to where I was coming from, that was like easy money. Like, I did not stress at all. Just just ready to go. Yeah. you know, the prep, you know, you've got a great coach, Andrew Vu. He's he's one of the unsung heroes in the sport because he does not seek the limelight. He doesn't do a lot of interviews. Nope. You know, I mean, if if you bring up his name, a lot of people like, "Huh, who's that?" But, you know, anyone in the know knows he's been a top top coach for a long time. Yeah. He has, I believe, Ivy, Natalia, Coello. Yeah. Um Jessica Padilla, like a lot of top top level people. He just doesn't talk about it. He just keeps to himself. He keeps the client. He lets the client have the spotlight, which is kind of the way it should be. But who am I? Barely post. It's perfect. But um I'm curious how the prep was different. Was because he's prepped you several times before as a classic guy. Was there less cardio, higher carbs in general? What were the biggest differences? It was exact. I I think first of all when I after I pulled out from the 20 24 Arnold I just told him even when in the process of making weight uh getting ready for that show he was like dude just going to be hard to make the weight like it's not just we're just going to have to like starve you off. So eventually when I u made the when I pulled out of the show, we kind of had a conversation. That's when Keon, my wife, everyone, we like just talked about it and I and I this is dumb. I should switch. So we had a decision to switch and we had an 18-month offseason. I think that's what made the biggest change cuz I ate so much food. I've never eaten that much food in my life. It was not fun. It's like I'm not someone that eats now give me cookies. That's different. But but I had so much like just body eating meals all day every day for months. Like he like I'll complain and like just stay up and eat, you'll be fine. Like he's a he's a matter of fact and from my upbringing I like people that like just straight to the point just talk just be blunt. It's better that way for any race. So he just he doesn't oh cool you having problems suck it up. That's really how he is. So when I was complaining about the food, he was just just stay up, eat, I'll be going to bed at 1, just trying to get the last meal in, watching TV and just forcing it, taking a 40m minute 40m minute meal all the time. So that jumped my weight. Typically I my offseason about 220. That jumped my weight to like 248 I think I Wow. Wow. So when we started prep for Toronto, I was 245. Jeez. So it was still the same process. So I still did as much cardio as normal I normally did. And so it was actual my actual weight. I didn't have a big drop once prep started. It was just a typical slow drop until I got to 220 and that's when things changed. So it sounds like you might be one of those guys who prep is actually easier than offseason. Correct me if I'm wrong. Oh yeah, that was my first offseason ever. I've never had an offseason really. Nope. never do. Once the show is done, I'm like, "All right, back to two meals a day." Just like I my like and also I was already struggling making weight, so it doesn't make sense to have an offseason, per se. So, I just trained and ate the my normal I don't eat much anyway, so I just my normal meals and I just go with my day. It was never like take my meals with me everywhere, which I had to do the last two years, and like be on the clock with it. It was fun cuz I like the structure. It was just getting the food down. That was I could see cuz in the past I was watching podcast or listening to interviews of other people. They always talk about the the food part and I'm always like, "Oh, I never had that problem." But that's cuz I thought I thought I was I was eating, but apparently I wasn't. Did you say that you would eat like two meals a day normally? Like two, three meals. It was just like I I wake up in the morning. I don't like doing during prep. It's different. I'm talking about like an offseason. Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. I I just I just eat like breakfast pre-workout meal or post-workout meal, a shake in between there somewhere, and then just call it a day. Fair enough. Yeah. I mean, it worked for you though, clearly. I mean, like I said, I it I I'm guessing you were you couldn't really gain muscle because you're already having a hard time. Yeah. You're having a hard time making weight. So, it must have been frustrating all that time training so hard. Yeah, I I enjoy I think I enjoy being in the gym more than any other aspect when it comes to competitive bodybuilding. So, as long as I could be in the gym, I I don't doesn't matter to me. I could be starving or force was forcing food. It just I just enjoy being in the gym. So that part did not really stress me out or say that I wasn't pushing to make any progress. It's just as long as I was progressing in the gym, I could care what was going on. Okay, fair enough. So yeah, you mentioned the 23 Arnold Classic, which I think was that the one Ramon won. Ramon Dino um I can't. No, I think it's the one um Wesley won. Wesley. Yeah. Okay. 24. That's right. 2024. 203 and3 I did 2024. I had to pull that up. Yeah. So tell me about that. You you you told me before we started recording you you you were you had pneumonia and didn't know it. Yeah, I didn't know it. So, uh um Andrew is like uh he's a stickler for blood work every four weeks like like he pushes for that. Yeah. So, at about about the 8week mark point, I got blood work done and then my liver enzymes were through the roof. And he was like, "You okay?" He was like, "Yeah, I mean I feel run down and all the like did you go to the hospital?" Like, "Oh, it's crap. supposed to be. He's like, he's like, "No, it's not. Are you having a time?" Because I was complaining about, "Oh, cardio is getting hard." But I was thinking, "Oh, it's because he raised intensity to cardio or I'm doing longer cardio sessions." But I just, you know, how prep is. I just shut my brain off and just do what I'm told and kind of just it's the work that has to go into it. And I was also stressed about the weight. I wasn't paying attention to anything. I just I feel bad. I'll be fine. I get some carbs in my me. I'll be fine. But and he was like, "All right, just take a take a day off and have some food and see what happens." And nothing changed. I was like, "Yeah, you probably should go to a hospital." So I did and they were like after a couple tests and stuff, he was like, "Oh yeah, you you have money and stuff." And I'm like, "Oh, okay. I'll just get this over with. It's we got two more weeks and I'll go jump back on it." And at that point it was five weeks out and he was like, "Yeah, just stop." But you know how it is like I at that point I prepped for about 10 weeks or so. I was like, "I gotta finish this." But you have to be yelled at by my wife. I had to like, "All right, stop it." So, would would that have been your last uh classic show if you had done it? Yeah, that was my that was my that would have been my last one. At that point, I didn't think it was going to be my last one, but during that prep, it was it was a situation where my weight was just not moving, but I was getting better at a high body weight. and he can't well the signs are there like you should probably think about moving because you're stunning yourself which is just turned out to be true. So the 212 division you I was always a huge fan I mean I'm wearing a Jose shirt the Boston Mass. So, that was probably what people look at so far as the best era of 212 was when it was Kevin, Dave Henry, Jose, Eduardo, Flex Lewis, uh, a couple other guys I'm probably forgetting. Charles Dixon was a was really good. Um, but, you know, most of those guys are gone now. They've they've retired or whatever. We do have a good, of course, we still have a good group. We have Keon. We have Sean Clarita battling it out every year. Uh, Angel Calder and free us. Uh Kareth Bajor, I think he's moving open, so I don't know if we're going to see him anymore as a team. Oh, no, we will. He's just doing open for Texas, I think. Oh, for the hell of it. Yeah, you should do that. I'm not there yet. But um so what do what do you think what can be done or should be done uh to to bring that division up up a notch, you know, in everybody's eyes? Get the prize money up, the exposure up, because it it's it's a legitimate it's it's bodybuilding. It's Yeah. I I want to see it back where it was on on top of the top of the heap again. I believe there are a lot of guys like myself with that shape in classic that have a hard time making weight but are stuck I'm just going to speak for myself. They are stuck under that look as in I feel better here and will force themselves to be there. I I don't want to I I guess I look at things as correlation versus causation in a sense that there the the look that is classic that's getting rewarded at the top of the top. I feel like a certain height is more under 5'8 you're going to have a problem. Yeah, I agree. I agree. So I I just think that's kind of those guys that are under 5'8 if they can push the size a little bit while keeping that shape and moving up the classic and basically changing the the look I would say. Yeah. Having that classic look just in a bigger frame bigger muscle on T12 stage would probably make it a lot more exciting in that sense. I mean, you you'd be right there with Keon because Keon has some of the I think he's got the best shape in the sport right now out of everybody any division. Uh and he's 212, you know, he wouldn't he probably could have stayed classic. Wouldn't be as big, but you know, just just curious because you're he's a friend of yours. I just want your take. Do you feel he should go should go open? Absolutely. He's one of those rare people that you just look at it, you're like, you you don't need to do anything else. You were born for this. Like I feel like he's one of those people that looks at a weight and just grows like it doesn't he needs to do I again I might be biased. I ain't biased. I feel like if he did do an open if he was placed in that lineup at the Olympia, I think he's top five. That's just me. Oh yeah. No, I mean at this point right now I think he's top five easily. I mean he would have won the Toronto Pro just now. No offense to Cassan. He would have beat Cassan. Yeah, Keon's a different level. And he just keeps improving year after year. Soon as he met his wife to be it just changed everything for him and he just he's becoming to me I think he's he's going to be that guy. just honestly I feel like it should just then again maybe I am also hoping you should just be his last chair and just move on. I mean like I said you guys have a really good community there. You're in the Dallas area I assume. I mean it's it's crazy to me because you know years ago the only people in Dallas were Branch and Ronnie. Oh yeah that's different now. Johnny and Johnny Jackson. Now I I think I think Gasp moving their headquarters there and building that destination Dallas had a lot to do with it because you had guys moving like Martin a whole bunch of Keon there's a bunch of guys sort of moved there that I think GASP was a big part of why you guys went there. Oh yeah they I'm I'm sponsored by GAS but it's there are a lot of top guys that are all here that are sponsored by Gas as well. So being closer to the headquarters Yeah. They're they're a lot. Every time you go to that gym, there's someone there that's like you don't belong in any gym. That makes sense. Yeah. What state did you live in before? Texas. Oh, I've always lived in Texas. Oh, you Oh, you're a native. Okay. Always. All right. So, these people are all late to the game. You've been there for a while. Yeah. I can't live anywhere else. I'm used to this. I'm like, "Yeah, when I I I actually looked up because I want to see I want I I asked Siri, "Is Opar Is Opar a Nigerian name?" And your name means firstborn son? Yes. Well, that's the last name. Siri's good. Yeah, Siri's good. Courage means courage. Do you have any uh do you have any brothers or sisters with cool names, too? Yeah, my sister's Precious. My brother is Cosmos. Wow. Okay. Yeah. My my parents are not boring. Which is funny because they are the most quiet people you ever meet in your life. Yeah. But they gave their kids just crazy names. Yeah. Tell me, do do your parents really get the bodybuilding thing? Do they understand it? Oh, no. Absolutely not. Most parents don't. Yeah. And plus my again my parents are African generations of like education is one. My my sister is their nurse. My brother is a um he's a he works for IBM. He's a computer engineer. I have a degree in um physical therapy. So it's like they lean they lean more that direction, but body is like, "Okay, what is this? You're doing what? You're wearing underwear on stage." Physical physical therapy I do know because I've known people I know a couple pts and it's a very difficult program. I think I think it has like a 70% wash out. Only 30% or something. People that start the the degree program end up earning the degree. Oh, no. I didn't even finish. I didn't I didn't go through I'm a tech. It's a little different. I I can't bridge whenever I'm done competing, but that's a whole process in itself. Well, you're a professional athlete now. Whether you know at some point I'm going back. Yeah. I mean, you you're I didn't ask how old you were now. I'm third I'm 31 now, I think. Oh, boy. You're a baby. I turned 31 a month ago or two. Yeah, it's crazy. April. Uh May. May. Okay. My daughter turned 31 April 7th. So, yeah, you guys are about the same age. May six. Just a just a young. I mean, when I was when I was starting out following bodybuilding, 31 was Oh, boy. That's an old That's a That's an old man, you know. Yeah, I know. I remember Lee Haney when he was 31 at the when I when I met him in 1991. He was 31 years old and to me I was 21. To me he was like not an old man but this wise older guy and you know now I'm thinking 31 gez my kid's 31. So man you got a very very bright future. Um so Andrew handles that. Um does anyone handle your training or do you do all that on your own? Uh that's myself. uh just trying to and also having an exercise science background I guess. Doing that myself. Yeah. Well, you're you're doing a great job. So, uh what what is next for you? What are you done for the year or do we have something to look forward to soon? Oh, just the Olympia. I'm not done for the year. Just Yeah, just focusing on Again, I wasn't expecting to win the show. I didn't have any expectation whatsoever. I did I did go I'm going to see how I look see because I didn't think I was big enough to stand next to the T12 guys especially with um some of the guys that were top six at the Olympia I'm like okay these are the these are the guys to stand next to. So um I just wanted to see how I compared and based on how that went I would have made the next call. So this went well. So, I was like, "All right, I'm just going to focus on the Olympia after hearing um what Tyler told me to work my way work on." So, I for Does Dubai have a 212? Oh, yeah. Yeah, it is. Uh next week, I believe. Yeah. Did you Did you think about that one for a minute? Oh, no. No, no, no. Yeah, I'm not. It's It's a bit far. I agree. That's quite a quite a haul to get over there. Yeah. It's coming out of my pocket like Yeah. No, that's not in that case. Yeah. Didn't know didn't know if you had somebody spring. So between now and the Olympia, is there any aspect of your physique that you're I know you don't have much time for an offseason, but you got a little bit of time. Is there anything that you want to improve on before you get to that Olympia stage and stank Keon and Sean and Angel and those guys? Oh yeah, I just obviously I think after talking to Tyler, he gave me few pointers, fix a few things with the posing um that can help actually improve some of the things I thought were lacking in muscle. And I don't think I can put any significant amount of muscle in that time. Maybe we'll see. But also improve my back and conditioning. That's those are the two things. Yeah. I mean, because what you what did you say you you weighed in at like 212, right? You said no, 210. 210. 210. So, I mean, you don't have a lot of room to add muscle anyway without growing. I I could be more conditioned. I'll put it that way. I don't think I was I was as conditioned as I should be. Yeah. I mean, I used to have that conversation with I've had it with many people, but they were always saying, "I could be I remember like George Peterson would say, well, I can always be more condition." Like, dude, you you were you couldn't be much more ripped than you were. Trust me, I I'm not trying to break your uh break your theory here, but dude, you're shredded. There's there's no fat left on you. It's the athlete. It's the athlete mindset. Like, oh, we could be better. He doesn't matter. We can always be better. So, you found a good a great new home in 212. You know, you you're gonna be missed in classic. you were one of the guys like I remember seeing for the first time I think it was the 2018 yeah me and Giles were covering it and we're like wow who's this guy you know we had never heard of you before we were very very impressed so you know you were uh you were one of the better guys in there you didn't compete as much as maybe I would hope you would have as a classic guy I wanted to see you in every Olympian every Arnold of course because I'm a fan I'm greedy like that I want to see all the best guys in every single show it's not realistic um but Olympia coming up in October you have plenty of time and yeah, it was a stunning stunning debut. A lot of a lot of people switch divisions and it doesn't go doesn't go as well as they had planned. Yours went better than planned and uh yeah, you you did not look like you were lacking for size at all. You were right there with everybody. That's good. So, great job. Congratulations. And that's it. Uh I want everyone to follow you. Courage Opara on Instagram. Get this guy up there. He needs You got to have at least 100,000 followers by the time you I'll take I'll take it. I I need to up my content game. I'm I'm lagging in that in that that department. Start a YouTube channel, too, while you're at it. Okay. Yeah, I bought I bought a camera, so I'm ready to go. I watch it. Get some nerd to do all your editing. Unless you can do it, I say because I'm too lazy to do to learn how to edit. Yeah. So, congratulations on that and uh can't wait to see how you uh how you stand next to Olympia. you're going to fit right in, but it's going to be I I just want to see that 212 division grow and become better and better and better and more big names, more big personalities. That that's what it really needs. Like I I don't I don't I don't want to be the one like like a lot of the classic guys are friends. So, if we do talk um I I don't want to break anyone's knees for them, but I think that that's going to happen. I I have a huge feeling that's going to a lot of the a lot of the guys that are big names or smaller, they're seeing the changes happening. They were going to make that call as well and I did. All right. Well, thank you for the interview. Appreciate it very much. And guys, thanks for watching Ron Line Report with this man, former Classic Physique Champion, now 212 champion, Courage Opara. We'll see you next time.