Hey everybody, welcome to the Ron Line Report. Great guest today. A week ago, this man became the super heavyweight NPC and overall NPC national champion, joining the ranks of past overall champions like Lee Haney, Shawn Ray, Kevin Leone, just to name a couple. Please welcome Devon Barnes. Welcome. Welcome, Devon. >> Thank you. Thank you for having me. >> So, I want to get your story, but first of all, how's it feel? Because that is, you know, getting second place. Uh, that's a way to get a pro card, but this is the real deal. This is this is what people want. They want to get the overall title at the toughest show we have, which is the nationals. So, you just turned pro the hardest way a human being turn pro. How's it feel? >> Oh, it feels awesome, man. Uh it was definitely very affirming for me. Um especially whenever the scorecards came out and we got to see just how unanimous it was. Um fake first places. Um second and third place were a point apart. So there's a pretty substantial gap there. >> Um and so and of course going into the overall I mean I just really felt confident going in and they they seem to put me in the middle and keep me there. So it was definitive for them too. >> Right on. So uh yeah. Right before we started recording, I asked you, I saw some pics from last year, so I want to know how you did. You took [clears throat] third at the USA and eighth place at the North Americans. So, >> the other way around. Yeah. No, it was eighth at uh North Americans and third at USA. But yeah. >> Yeah. I mixed things up like that. But that was a great that was a great progression from one year to the next. >> Yes, sir. >> But let me let's get into it. How did you get into bodybuilding? Were you an athlete before? What what got you into weights and and and becoming a bodybuilder? >> Yeah. So, as far as weightlifting went, um, I started lifting weight when I was 10 years old. My older brother was a thinner guy and he wanted to put on muscle and I wanted to be just like him and so he got a little weight set for Christmas one year and I ended up using it more than he did. Um, [laughter] so kind of took a life of its own. of course started playing sports and so in middle school we started playing for the school lifting weights um and athletics and played football all the way until my freshman year in college at Texas State University uh where I was a preferred walk-on. >> Yeah. >> But uh came to a crossroads where I decided I wasn't going to pursue criminal law as a career. So I was like well I'm I'm not going to keep wasting money. So I backed out of school but I was like what's my motivation now to lift you know? Oh I've always wanted to be like the ripped guy. I wanted to have the six-pack. I was kind of a chunkier kid, so I was like, you know, I want to get really, really lean, really fit. Um, so I changed up my training style a bit uh back in like 2012. And then I had a friend of mine who lived in Huntsville, um, who he was starting to get into bodybuilding. And I actually ended up moving to Huntsville, you know, not long after that. And we kind of started doing that together. Uh, we lived together. We were training a lot together. And I was like, you know what? I think we can make this happen. transitioned to San Antonio. Um, and then like kind of hit the ground running and found a coach and went in for my first show back in 2017. >> Okay. Yeah. So, did did you follow the sport? Were there any people when you were starting out that really inspired or motivated you? >> Well, as many other people, I don't want to be cliche, but Ronnie Coleman was the first bodybuilder I ever saw. Um, back when there were still the magazines, I was AI was a little kid. I had to be six, maybe. And I was walking through a Walmart and you know at the checkout lines they had the magazines and I saw I remember his legs being huge and just spiderw webs of veins going through them and I was like that's awesome. I like that. Um so as I got into the sport a little bit more it was people like Dexter and then eventually like Kai Green. I just love the muscular density and his back was just second to none. Um and stuff like that. And I also love his posing how he did his posing. I'm not quite as eccentric of a poser but I do like the creativity of it. Nobody poses like Kai. That is a one-of-a-kind poser >> for sure. >> But uh yeah, I want to bring up uh the shots before we get too far into it. I want people to see what you look like here because you can see how you're filling out the t-shirt, but they need to see the whole physique. >> Right. Right. Right. >> And you had the Gilo footage, which is the best. >> Look at that. It's crystal clear. So, yeah. Uh I'm wondering, Devon, when did you know that you were gifted that you had something special uh for bodybuilding? a potential that most guys just don't have. >> You know, my whole life I've put on muscle very easily. I was a strong kid, too, coming up. Um, and so probably when I did my my first show, I was natural and I only did like 20 minutes of cardio a day going into that show and came in really, really lean. And I was like, "Okay, maybe." But I ended up in second place in classic physique in that show at 204 pounds at the time. >> Wow. >> Um to a guy who was he was enhanced and so I was like that won't happen to me again. Um so you know I had some PRs in the gym that I wanted to do naturally before I actually transitioned. But from that show to my second show being enhanced I uh put on 20 pounds of stage weight in six months. >> So that's when I was like oh we might have a knack for this. >> Yeah. I'll say. Yeah. So, yeah, it's interesting. You didn't you didn't win your first show, but you were at you at a serious disadvantage. I mean, >> did you know that uh you were going in as a natural in a non-ested show? Did you realize you might be at a slight disadvantage? >> I definitely knew I I would for sure. I figured people would be enhanced there, but I was just like, you know, I just want to see where I stack up, you know, without anything. That'll give me a good idea. Um, and you know, I I still at that time to be completely transparent, being a little oblivious to how things worked was like maybe I can have a natural career. Uh, learned a little bit more to realize like that's just not realistic if I want to compete in IFBB. So, >> yeah. I mean, there are natural pro organizations. Um, but the prestige and the money is it's just not the same. I mean, I couldn't I couldn't name one, >> you know, I respect the hell out of them, but I couldn't name two or three natural pros if you put a gun to my head. [snorts] >> Right. >> Yeah. As far as like a training style, look at all that weight. Geez. Did know you were a fan of Ronnie. Did you model your training after Ronnie or after anyone in particular or did you develop your own training style? >> I will say that I did develop my own training style because I've always been very like uh in tune with my body. But it was definitely Ronnie S coming in when I got into the bodybuilding world because again that was the first bodybuilder I knew of. So I was like this is how he's doing things and I'm going to do it. So, I remember having leg days that were like, I'm going to squat, deadlift, half squat, walking lunge, leg extension, leg curl all in one workout and do five sets of 10 to 15 on each movement and I would just be dead before I left the gym. So, I did things like that starting out when I was younger. Um, and it definitely put on some foundational muscle, but it was not sustainable. Um, >> six plates. >> Yeah. Goodness gracious. >> Yeah. >> Yes. >> Yeah. You know, there there's a different look to the body of guys that train very very heavy, a density to the muscles and uh you I agree. >> You definitely have that. Um did did you ever get in arguments with people that tried to get you to train in a different way, especially now we have space lifting? >> All the time. All the time. Like I've had people get on my page who are half my size try to tell me that you need to slow down your eccentric and you need to do XYZ. I'm like, "Dude, >> don't you love it?" [laughter] >> Like, "Okay." Like, I tell you what, I tell you what, I'll take I'll take your word for it. Whenever you surpass me, then I'll whatever you say, I will go. But until then, can you at least be open to the fact that maybe I'm on to something? Maybe you should have come in with some more curiosity about how I'm doing things, >> you know? So, >> I would say that's like a like a a bum coming out of the sidewalk and telling you how to get rich. Like, well, dude, come on. [laughter] you know. So, yeah. Like I'm talking about I walk around at 300 plus pounds doing pull-ups and stuff and people still want to try to tell me how to how to lift and I'm like, "Okay, well." >> So, yeah, that's I was going to ask uh you know, super heavyweight. That could be anything from 225 to 500 lb or 226. What What's your What was your offseason weight coming uh starting your prep for this show? And what did you end up on stage at? >> So, I started my prep at 317. O. >> Um, and then I came down to I checked in at 263. I was 257 in prejudgment and 254 at finals. >> Wow. How tall are you? >> I'm 6' 51 and 3/4 last time I had a height card check, but [laughter] they Oh, yeah. Just classic. They did check your height. You're right. >> They did. Yeah. So, back then that's what they got me at. And so, I was sitting right around six foot. If I was 5'11 3/4, I would just say six foot. But I'm nowhere. >> I know. But listen, you know, we live in this world right now where somebody's going to be like, "Is he six foot?" He's standing next to somebody else six foot. He's a hair shorter. Ah, whatever, man. >> Here we go. 317 pounds doing pull-ups. Wow. >> Yes, sir. >> That's, you know, I I rarely see people doing pull-ups at all anymore, even if they're 117 pounds. Um, but you know, you mentioned Kai Green and he was someone no matter how heavy he got, he always kept pull-ups in there and um, yeah, your back development I think is is testimony to the fact that you got to keep >> I stand by it. I had a one of the other competitors actually asked me after the show. He was like, "What do you do for your back and your back width?" And I was like, you know, I couldn't say anything that's overtly unique except for the fact that especially as a bigger guy. I do pull-ups religiously every back day, >> you know. So, and I usually do them to start the workout to just get, you know, warmed up. So, I go in, I do three sets of pretty much max rep just to get everything moving and then I move into my uh my primary movements. So, yeah, I think pull-ups is the key, man. I mean, you already got you don't need to add weight when you're 300 plus pounds, I'm sure, either, man. >> Right. >> So, yeah. What a what a victory here. But, uh, I want show some of these shots. Gilko does the best pictures, man. >> They're They're great. They're great. >> I actually feel bad for people that compete at shows that they're not shooting pictures and video at, but >> Yeah. And you still have What that What's that waist measure at at 25560 pounds a shot? Uh I it was 31 inches around. Um but when you think about just the front the front angle I mean my waist is probably only 11 in across maybe 12. So uh that's what makes the the that dynamic proportions from the front. My quads are actually just as wide if not wider per leg as my waist is. >> Well Lee Haney would approve of that of that waist measurement. I can tell you that right now. >> Yeah. Big fan of Lee Haney as well. I love those aesthetic bodybuilders. Trying to be like that when I grow up, you know. >> That's I mean, you're we're seeing more and more guys of that of that type. Uh like Andrew Jack Samson. They're they're huge, but they're very aesthetic. >> They still have the lines and the shape and everything. And >> you know, I could see you eventually filling into that mold. You know, you're just starting out. It's like starting all over now, basically. But what a great what a great starting point. >> Um and look at Yeah. Look at the look at the taper in the waist at at a guy that size. Incredible. So, uh, this was a post you made a couple days ago and I wanted to get into it because everyone out there goes through tough times and it's it's it's inspirational to hear how people have gone have gotten through them. So, I know you made a long post and I could just read it word for word, but uh, >> yeah, let's not do that. [laughter] >> Yeah. So, if you could sort of break down what uh, 2020 was was the roughest year it looks like for you. Yes, sir. So, in 2020, you know, obviously the gyms were shut down because of COVID, so I didn't have a job. I had to go find more work. Um, then when I found my new job, shortly after, my grandmother passed away. Then in October of that same year, my mom passed away from she had uh leukemia and COVID. And then in December, my little brother was killed um all in the same year. >> Wow. Um, on top of that, I had two of my elder siblings living with me who were needing some help and I also had a baby on the way. Um, and so just everything was falling down on my shoulders and I was the, you know, one who was responsible for all these things. You know, I was the one making funeral arrangements for my mom like of course trying to keep everybody else's emotional, you know, head above water. Um, and so, you know, I became the central [\h__\h] for my family and bodybuilding took a backseat, but also my mental and emotional health seemed to take a backseat um to just being able to provide. So, um, during that time period, you know, bodybuilding took a backseat, like I said, and I started eating just whatever I could get my hands on. I didn't really have a lot of time during the day. Plus, it was the stress and everything. Um, my estrogen during this window of time actually got to over 2,200. Um, I can still get the screen. I keep it on hand and on my phone because people don't believe it. But even the the lab company was like, "We had to retest this three times cuz this is absurd." >> Wow. >> So, just from cortisol spiking, it threw everything out of whack. Um, my test levels were under like 150. It was just a lot of things. So, anyway, uh, 2020 to 2022 were really, really bad. In 2022, I was like, "This is the worst I've ever been in. I don't like how I look. on like how I feel and I got to do something different. I got people looking up to me. I have people, you know, that I look to inspire. I still have clients that I'm trying to train. I need to live by example. >> Um, and I just started to clean up a little bit as far as portion control. And I lost about 10 pounds and probably put on a little bit of muscle in that year. But in 23 was when I found my coach and I was like, "Okay, I'm over the hump. Time to put the pedal to the floor." >> Yeah. I mean to to try to I mean I don't even know how you kept up training or anything during that cuz you know one death one death in the immediate family is is enough but you went through several of them in such a short time span and you know you had to stay strong you had to be you had to be keeping things together for everybody else during that time so that was a tremendous burden that you had to carry there. >> Yeah. >> Was there were there times when you wondered am I ever going to compete again or is this it? Oh, I definitely went through that, man. Because, you know, especially nowadays with some of the young athletes coming out, like I was like, am I falling behind? Am I going to have time to even come back and compete? Like, you know, once I saw my body get out, I was like, I I have to do so much recmp. There's so many health markers I'm going to have to correct and fix before I can even get started. Like, so many things went through my head. And unfortunately, my my friend at the time that actually got me into bodybuilding, me and him had a falling out too because, you know, several reasons I won't get into um because he'll probably see some of these things. But the bottom line is uh you know, I didn't feel that supported and he kind of started to doubt me too a little bit and I was just like, well man, he's always been in my corner so maybe maybe he's right. Maybe this just isn't going to be a thing. Maybe we're out of time. But um that's just not in my nature. So once I cleared my own head up, I was like, you know what? We're going to give it our best shot. And if it just isn't in the cards, you know, you know, God's got a plan for my life either way. And if it's not bodybuilding, it'll be something else. And it's all to his glory anyway. I'm making sure that I emphasize that on every opportunity I get, then like I'm trying to build this platform so that I can talk more about how God got me through these things and how he led me to this point. Yes, I had to put some, you know, elbow grease into it. I had to work through the faith, but he definitely allowed me to have the sustainability and the fortitude to get to this point. >> Yeah. You know what? I I don't want to change subject too much, but when you talk about having having faith used to be a normal thing, and now it's kind of like makes to a lot of people, it makes you a weirdo, an oddball. Like Derek Lungsford, our current Mr. Olympia, he gets a lot of heat because he professes his his Christian faith >> and people mock him for it. They they make fun of him. They insult him and I'm like, "What this? What bizarre world am I living in?" >> Yeah. How do we get to this place? Right. >> Yeah. So, I've had I've done a couple other podcasts and we've talked about Derek and I hope to meet him one day and get to have some fellowship with him. But this is the thing. I think what would have gone better for him as a fan of the sport, looking from the outside in, I do not know his internal lifestyle and walk by any stretch, is he did it and when the mocking happened, he backed off. And what happened was people started to feel like that was disingenuous, right? And I think had he just been like, I'm going to double down on it eventually, whether they like it or not, they respect you for it. To make another example, it's like Nick Walker is always Nick Walker. You know, call him cocky, call him whatever, but he doesn't change it. And what happens is he starts to develop a fan base around that being his personality. Phil Heath. He played the heel the whole his whole career. Well, when he's at the top, but he's still Heath and his nickname was the gift and people learned to love that he was him regardless, you know, and I think that that was maybe a misstep, but as I've said on other to other people, I'm like, listen, we also forget that Derek Lungford is a young man and I mean, we're the same age, like roughly I'm 31. Um, so he's around that age. I forget exactly. But when you're coming up >> Yeah. So there you go. when you're coming up as a young man trying to establish who you are and it's happening in the limelight because you're at the top of the of the industry, it's a lot more difficult because people are seeing you as you're making decisions back and forth and now they're making judgment calls. So, I think we need to give him some grace to to [snorts] most of these bodybuilders because most of us are fairly young and so we're still stepping into our manhood in different ways. Um, but I think if he would have just doubled down on it and you know what? I'm not going to change me. Period. >> People are going to be forced to accept it. >> That makes a lot of sense. So 31, you're the same age as my daughter. You You're the first generation really to grow up with social media >> from a young age. I mean, you probably when you were a kid, it was probably like MySpace and, you know, then [snorts] Facebook. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Probably as back as far back as you remember, at least you had internet and and all this stuff. So, uh, your generation of bodybuilders, you're in the line. you're in the in the limelight constantly. You have eyes on you all the time and you also have a pressure to to put yourself out there to put out video content, pictures constant. >> Um, you know, are you is that something you're always comfortable with or is it something you're still sort of adjusting to is is fitting that social media mold? >> Listen, I don't think I'm ever going to be comfortable with it, but it the industry necessitates it, right? I'm gonna do what's needed to grow the platform to build the career out of the sport. But if it was up to me, man, I just wouldn't care at all to post anything on the internet. That's just my emo. Uh, personally, you wouldn't be able to tell as of recent because I've been committing to posting more. Like, that's been a thing. But it's literally a discipline for me. It's not like a natural natural desire. So, definitely I understand the need for it, so I'm going to do it. But yeah, no, I'm not real big into it myself personally. Yeah, you know, I think the I'm 56 and the guys from that I was, you know, the Dorian era, uh, all those guys, there was no social media and so they sort of look down on the fact that, you know, these guys are always filming themselves and posting, you know, they don't understand that. A lot of them don't understand. You can't you can't just hide away all the time anymore. You're missing out. The business of bodybuilding now, it's it's everything is based around social media. So, if you hide away, people forget about you and you lose opportunities, you know. I don't know. Do you do you have I didn't check now. Do you have sponsors now? Are you starting to talk to people? >> I don't have any sponsorshipips at the moment. Um I've had a couple of conversations, but I think what I'm looking for given the the crossroads I'm at right now. I don't think a lot of people are seeing. Um and what I mean by that is I want somebody who sees my potential and wants to invest in me early because I'm a big loyalty person and if you do write by me beforehand, I'll stick with you forever. You know what I mean? Kind of deal. But obviously right now everything's a little bit more about making the money. So they need to see the proof in the pudding first and I don't have the big followings yet. I haven't had the big successes yet um as far as you know at the pro level. >> Yeah. >> Um so I'm kind of just feeling it out. I want to make sure that my values align with whoever I'm working with, but I do have a couple people in mind that I've been considering. Just depends on how that plays out for me. >> Yeah. Yeah. They're kind of like uh they wait at the finish line for the winners and the people with the big followings rather than there are companies I've seen that they do take people earlier on that they see the potential and they grow with the company. It's usually the it's usually not the biggest companies of companies that they want you to grow with them. So, but you'll figure it out. >> Yes, sir. >> So, you're watch you know you you won the show and everything. Did you, you know, you obviously you beat everybody in the show, so it's not like you had any glaring weak points, but did you ask for feedback from judges as far for what they want to see moving forward for your when you do make your pro debut? >> Well, you know, it's funny. I didn't get to get any feedback from anybody. I It was I was moving so fast and I got, you know, you know, I talked to Tyler briefly on stage and actually had a great opportunity to speak to Jim backstage. Um, and the and basically what I got was, "You looked really good. You're going you're going to do well at the pro level." And then they just kind of left it at that. And I should have probably asked, but I was kind of high on the moment. Plus, I'm talking to the president and vice president of the IFBB. So, my brain wasn't all the way on like I guess business like, "Hey, so what can I do better?" Like, okay, if you like me, cool. I I'll go talk to my coach and we'll figure out what the next steps are as far as physique goes. Um, so yeah, but yeah, I do have some plans for the next level, for the next step that I'm pretty excited about. So, we we're going to hit the ground pretty aggressively. >> So, obviously, a good coach will look at your physique and say, "This is what we need to do to get to the next level." You know, I'm I'm I've got a fairly decent eye for for physiques, and I don't see any like weak points like, "Ah, this guy really needs legs or he really needs a back or anything like that." you're in a you're in a good position because nothing seems to be lagging. You're very balanced, very proportionate. Uh I think, you know, for the pro level, more size is probably going to be in order uh to stand to stand next to these Nick Walkers and Andrew Jackson and Samson Dowas. So, what is the plan? What's the plan as far as uh I don't know if you've set a timeline or is the offseason starting soon? What what what have you and your coach put together as far as a a strategy? Well, when I was backstage and I talked to Jim and I'm I'm [snorts] announcing this when I get chances in publicly now is Jim said, "You looked really good. I would love to see you at the Pittsburgh on the Pittsburgh stage." >> So, that's a vote of confidence for sure. But also, when the president says, you know, we want to see you here, you go, "Yes, sir." Um, uh, but the funny thing was in the moment I was again so kind of out of it. I initially was planning on doing the Detroit Pro because I have family up there that I wanted to visit and I was like, "Yeah, I was planning on doing Detroit and Freddy, one of the promoters backstage, was like, "Or the Pittsburgh, right?" And I'm like, "You know what? Facts. We're gonna do that." Yeah, 100%. So, [clears throat] >> aren't they only a couple weeks apart or no? >> The Detroit's in March between the Arnolds and uh Pittsburgh is May 16th. >> Oh, so Pittsburgh I mean uh for Detroit, you'd have to get right back into prep like now. >> Yeah. I I would have that would have been the game plan was like that just stay tight and let's keep rolling. >> Um in light of doing Pittsburgh we are going to do a slight clean out phase for about 30 days 45 days um with keeping the injectables up pulling the orals out um getting some blood work done and then we're going to pretty much try to see if we can't take on a little bit of size in this rebound and then start cutting again. So >> So it's going to be a really not even an offseason, more like a rebound. >> Yeah, that's pretty much it. But I grow pretty quickly. I think we're going to surprise people. I believe we're going to be five or six pounds heavier at Pittsburgh. >> Yeah. You know, that that's an interesting point is we we have this mentality. It's probably an old school mentality that you need you need like six to 12 months for an offseason, you know, where you really bulk up and powerlift and all this. Have you made your best gains staying lean or have you made your best gains really bulking up and getting a lot heavier? >> I think for me, so it's a it's a misconception for me. A lot of my weight is water weight because I have a major estrogen dominance and I don't want to be on AIS aggressively all year. So I get a lot of water retention. Um, so like that 317, I think I dropped from that to like upper 290s in like the first two weeks of prep just from getting the AIS in and pulling estrogen down. So it was a lot of water weight. So I still think bulking up has been the best route for me. I'm comfortable. I'm kind of fat and happy. I'm training hard. Recovery is good. Um, my joints feel better. So, I like putting on some of the size, but we are going to keep it a little bit leaner moving forward, just a hair. Also, my my hormones are slowly recovering over, you know, the past couple years to where they're getting better. So, I'm not having as much of the estrogen dysregulation, >> so I shouldn't have so much bloating um this next time around. But, yeah, I'm not afraid to put on, you know, a little a little fluff to try to get big. >> Okay. I'm just curious. I I never get too detailed into doses, but the aromatase inhibitors, I'm curious, for someone that is that prone to estrogen levels being so high, do you have to go higher on the AIS than than maybe the average bodybuilder by a huge margin? [laughter] So, to put that in perspective, I don't mind saying um the the last few weeks into the show, I was running umex at one milligram every day. I was running 2.5 of electro every day. Um I was running Proviryon at 300 every day. Um and it was one other thing in cber I was running uh daily. So So that was just I mean not in for the whole prep or anything but those last few weeks just to keep the water off and keep them tight. Um, and it made a world of difference versus just running like an armedex or even switching to electro. I've had to run all of it together, but it help it worked for us. So, >> yeah. I mean, that's useful for a lot of people out there. Although, I think most people that think they're holding a lot of water, they're still fat. But in your case, you know, because clearly if you're dropping all that water weight that quickly, it really was water. It wasn't right. >> It wasn't fat that you mistook for water. >> Oh, here's another >> here's another angle of routine. who shot this coach. >> So, this is my posing routine at finals. Yeah. I think this is my co as or his um his girlfriend maybe from that angle. >> Yeah. >> But um yeah, >> so you know, like I said, I wanted to start bringing a little bit more creativity into the open division as far as posing is concerned. Like you said, nobody's Kai Green. I'm not trying to be that. But I used to teach dance actually and I like to bring some of this creativity into the sport of bodybuilding and also just musicality. I'm trying to pose to certain words that you'll hear if you ever listen to it all together. So, it was really good and this was an important one for me. It was the Hercules song, How Far uh what is it? Um, where I belong. And it's like we need proving to myself that you belong here. And and this show definitely did that for me. >> Yeah. The posing, although I have the music off, I mean, I could see the work and the and the the grace and the the transitions. everything is, you know, I I don't know if you ever seen I do a show with a guy Giles Thomas and we're both huge ad we're adamant that bodybuilders should put effort and time into posing because you spend all these thousands of hours in the gym and cardio and the diet and why would you want to just get up on stage and do some clunky three, four poses over and over again? >> Uh >> I agree with that personally. Yeah, >> it just looks sloppy to me. This this is posing. This is a routine. This is choreographed. This is practiced. You know, I I love to see really good posing because again, why would you why this is your only moment to really shine out there and show people who you are as a person. Why would you want to just pass that up? And you you don't I can see you're taking full advantage of it here. >> I also want to put a show on for the audience. You know, we have fans of the sport and I have family members who love to watch and I want to make it something they can really enjoy. You know, they see us all hit the same shots and comparisons and all of that jazz, but like this is the part that's fun for them if they're going to stick around through finals to get to see, you know. >> Yeah. Do do you think classic, which you actually started out in classic, do you think the fact that classic has been around now for nine years and those guys put generally a lot more effort into their posing presentation. Do you think that's sort of bled over into the open bodybuilding where we we are seeing some a lot more of the open guys try to make an effort to be better posers? I think it definitely impacted it because I think that as popular as classic got so quickly, you got to think what are the major contributing factors that make it different and the primary thing is the posing, >> you know. So, I'm assuming that once people saw that and also got to see that it's not so taboo to be graceful on stage, you know, that people were like, you know what, we can do this, too. And it makes a little more fun. Like everything else is so systematically done. It's so almost robotic in the sense of like you're going to come on stage, you're going to do your individual, you have to do your front, double, side, chest, whatever, whatever, whatever. This is the part where it gets to be your own expression. Like this is who I am on stage. >> Yeah. And you also made a good point. The audience wants to be entertained because we're sit sitting through so many routines. Bam, bam, bam. Um, you know, you can fall asleep watching some of these guys. So, and it's also good to see a guy that's, you know, 260 pounds ripped that can actually have a little bit of grace and and put some movement in. Have you tried doing any splits? That would be the next level. >> I don't think I'm ever going to go that route personally, you know, but I said I'll keep it fun for sure. >> Yeah, because I mean, seeing Andrew Jack at like almost 300 pounds do a split is geez. >> Super impressive for sure. >> Something else. So, yeah, the Pittsburgh you're gonna it's I don't know who's going to do it. We haven't heard, you know, we just got the Arnold list uh less than a week ago. So, Pittsburgh will be a good show. Um, you know, I I applaud you because you could easily say, "No, no, I'm not going to start." You could, there are many smaller shows you could have chosen where you'd have a a better chance of placing highly, but you know, I always say, "Well, who did he beat? Who was in the show?" >> Exactly. >> So, you're you're jumping right into the fire. So, >> well, so this is the thing, too. this whole weekend of the show, I kept getting this, you're so much bigger in person than like you look online. And the thing about it is while I was 257, which isn't a huge bodybuilder, when you have a small waist, when you have small joints genetically, like that weight carries more as far as how my structure will look next to other people, you know what I mean? And so I think cuz I know for sure Trey Trey was one of the guys um he ended up in sixth, but he came in probably 10 pounds heavier than me, but you definitely wouldn't have been able to tell that standing next to each other. And that's kind of the idea. All of this bodybuilding is an illusion at the end of the day. So if you have the right structure, shape, genetics, like the weight does matter at some level. You know, if I turn to the side next to a Samson and you see the leg thickness, the chest fullness, you might see a little bit, you know, contrast there. we both hitting a front double, you know, like. So, it's one of those things where it's like I want to go in and get a good idea for where I really stand and then what I need to do to beat those guys. I want the feedback from that level of show. >> Yeah. No, that that's that's the way to do it. I mean, ideally, if I could if I could tell everyone what to do, my my best advice, they I'd say exactly what you're doing, Devon, [laughter] because that that's it. Because like I said, if you jumped into I'm not going to name any of the smaller shows and piss anyone off, but you know, let's say you jumped into some smaller show and got top three right away, but you know, nobody's heard of anybody else in the lineup. Okay. Well, you don't know how you how you going to compare next to these guys, but you're going to have there's going to be some Olympians in your show. There's definitely going to be >> Oh, for sure. >> A big It's a big cash prize. It's gym show. It's in Pittsburgh. It's it's a very prestigious. It's only the second year. So, yeah. >> Right. got a lot of guts, man. I appla I I applaud you. >> Thank you. >> You don't have much uh you don't have much time for an off seasonason, but uh you're gonna get it done. Sounds >> absolutely. We're gonna make something happen. I mean, at the end of the day, I will be improved. I can guarantee you that. >> Yeah. I'm just curious as far as the nutrition, what kind of calories do you someone your size take in in the offseason and during a prep? >> Um usually between five and 6,000. Just depends, you know, how my body is growing. Uh, one of the things that I I I've done well is first of all, for me, eating 5,000 calories is relatively smooth and I just have an appetite. So, that doesn't really hurt me much. But, I also use a lot of sweet potato, which my body personally digests super well. I mean, it keeps me really tight, keeps me from having any bloating, and I can load in, you know, 16 ounces of sweet potato every meal and feel great. Um, and so my coach and I come to that conclusion. So I can drive those carbs up, you know, and that's a good complex carb. It's highly fibrous. Um, I have a slight protein deficiency. So I mean potassium deficiency. So potassium is, you know, sweet potatoes. Um, and I came across something called blood type diet and come to find out that for beef blood types, sweet potato, yams, um, and turkey versus chicken are all really good for you. And those are things I already was inclined to eat. So apparently it's all working together the right way. Yeah, I mean this I'll tell you not much has changed. Training hasn't changed much, but I think nutrition is where you guys your generation is really making a lot of a lot of leaps in terms of blood type and uh you know uh gluten allergies and things like that. Gut gut health. I never even heard gut health phrase years ago. That's that's a fairly new concept in bodybuilding. But yeah, all these all these years we were all walking around bloated and eating stuff we shouldn't have been eating, but we just we were eating what we were what we saw other people eating and didn't even question. >> Yeah, you're generation, you're you're making some progress. Bodybuilding is advancing. It's not it's not uh it's not rocket science, but it's definitely becoming more scientific in [snorts] a good way. >> Sure. >> Right. >> So maybe >> Well, some of the ways are good, but >> not everything. Yeah. I mean, some of the chemical stuff I think people are going way overboard these days. Um, >> because like I said, I I there's guys in my gym who I'm not going to ask you, but I'm sure they're using more than you and they're half your size. Some of them look like >> Yeah, that definitely happens because, you know, if you don't have the genetics and you don't have the work ethic and you're not going to die, like then you're just hurting yourself for no reason, you know? So, I definitely don't agree with that. And then look, I'm all for science-based lifting within reason, but we have to keep this in mind. You're supposed to still progress and get better at the movements. I'm all down for a slow eccentric, but how much load can you add to something that you're doing a 4ount eccentric on? Not much. So, when do we cross over into getting to more rhythmically lifting with more load, but still being able to replicate the same stretch and contraction? We should be aiming to get better at the movements so that we don't stay at what I consider and I'm gonna hurt some feelings maybe, but the elementary for slow eentric like you have to evolve that. That's a good starting point though, you know, but you got to get better at adding load at some point >> and you have to get the loads up there because, you know, I see these kids with the cuffs and the weight this is much on the cable stack and they're trying to build a back. You know, you know, and I see them making posts like barbell rows don't work and te- bar rows don't work and dumbbells and deadlifts. You got to do this cable thing and you know, they have a back as thin as piece of paper. So, right, >> you got to do >> There's a line somewhere for sure. >> Exactly. Uh, but man, I I I wish you the best. Uh, I congratulate you. It was a very convincing victory and again national overall champion. To me, that's the that's the toughest way to turn pro in this world right now. And I many ways to turn pro now. Many many avenues that didn't exist, but that was the first one. Well, actually the World Championships was the first one, but uh you're going back to the the Lee Hanees, the Shawn Rays, Vince Taylor. >> You know, this is a very a prestigious legacy of champions with your title. So, very very big congratulations. It's it's an honor to to be the national champion. >> Absolutely. I'm I'm definitely very honored for that. Before we take off, I do want to uh make a quick little plug here. My shirts here, these are my brand actually. It's embrace the impact. I want to encourage people to embrace the impact. My my business brand, IMD fitness, stands for impact, momentum, destiny. I think each one of us comes to a point of impact in our lives where we establish who we are and the why we're doing what we do. If we can carry that momentum, it'll lead us right into our destiny. So, embrace that impact. Don't run from it. lean into it and let it mold you into the person you're going to be. And finally, I know this isn't this page in mo p per se, but if you don't know Jesus, I want to encourage you to get to know him. If you have any questions or concerns or thoughts about that, feel free to DM me directly. IMD fitness is my page. Um I would love to have that conversation with you. >> Awesome, man. Well, last question is that what is that? A 4X, a 5X that shirt. >> This one is uh this is just a 3X, so it's kind of snug. >> Yeah. You know, you're you're a big dude, so I didn't know it could have been a 5X for all. Yeah. Yeah. >> All right. Well, I wish you the very best, Devon. Uh, it's been great speaking with you. Congratulations again. And guys, check out his page there. And these shirts look pretty cool. And, uh, pick one up. Still still time. It's, uh, still got a few days before Christmas. Hurry up. >> Right. Let me know something. All right. >> All right. So, thank you so much, Devon. And watch everyone. I want to thank you for watching Ron Line Report with this guy, Devon Barnes, your NPC Nationals super heavyweight and overall champion for 2025. We'll see you next